08-02-2021||India||China bolstering Tibet military infrastructure||New Delhi There is mounting evidence that China has sped up work to build and expand military and civilian facilities in Tibet and surrounding areas that will enhance its military posture along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) amid the standoff with India in the Ladakh sector. These new developments come on the back of China more than doubling the total number of airbases, air defence positions, and heliports near the LAC during 2017-20, as detailed in a report issued last year by Stratfor, a leading security and intelligence consultancy based in the US. There is also growing evidence of the build-up of People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and civilian facilities in sectors other than Ladakh, such as along the disputed border in Bhutan and Arunachal Pradesh. In these areas, China has embarked on an extensive campaign of building villages in disputed regions with the intention of settling thousands of people in hitherto uninhabited areas. The latest open source satellite imagery suggests China has improved connectivity between key cities and military hubs in Tibet to reduce time taken to move troops and logistics towards the frontier.China has made several improvements to military facilities at Lhasa Gonggar airport, the main airport for the capital of the Tibet Autonomous region, including renovating a surface-to-air missile site, a site for an air defence system, a suspected support site for the air force and new hardened shelters to protect combat jets. It has also improved the Lhasa heliport, which houses Z-20 attack helicopters. At the same time, the Hotan airbase in Xinjiang, part of the PLA western theatre command and crucial for air operations in Ladakh sector of the LAC, has undergone a rapid upgrade in the last few months. According to satellite imagery posted by the Twitter user who uses the handle @detresfa_, the new “infrastructure upgrades [are] aimed directly at boosting military capabilities of the site”. The upgrades include new runways and ammunition storage and auxiliary support facilities that would help increase sorties rates, reduce congestion in case more aircraft are assigned to the airbase and quicker turnaround times for aircraft operating from the airbase during a potential conflict. The Hotan airbase has J-11 and J-20 combat jets, electronic warfare aircraft, airborne early warning and control aircraft and drones. The latest imagery suggests five new munitions bunkers are being built at the airbase. In March last year, China began laying tracks for the 825-km railway line linking Hotan and Ruaqiang, which is expected to link up with the Golmud-Korla railway line and the Qinghai–Tibet railway line, and enhance mobility between key military bases. “Given the current military tensions with India, the rail connectivity would smoothen logistics for the Chinese army across the Tibetan Plateau and Xinjiang desert. This would allow for rapid deployments along with heavier equipment moving to the frontline much faster,” @detresfa_ said in a tweet. While Chinese authorities have pointed to the socio-economic benefits of such railway projects, experts believe they have a strong military dimension too. At the same time, China has ramped up upgrades of military infrastructure at places such as Golmud, the third largest city on the Tibetan Plateau. Over the past few months, Golmud has served as a key staging post for Chinese troops and heavy equipment being moved towards the LAC, thanks to its large railway terminal and airbase. The latest imagery shows Chinese authorities are now building a large heliport at Golmud, with more than 60 hangars. According to last year’s Stratfor report, China built 13 new military positions, including airbases and air defence units, near the LAC after the 2017 standoff at Doklam. Work on four heliports began after the current tensions in Ladakh emerged in the open in May 2020. China has also created a surface-to-air missile site on the banks of Mansarovar Lake in Tibet, and developed two new air defence positions that cover sensitive stretches of the disputed border in Doklam and Sikkim sectors. It is also working on what appears to be a major military logistics hub at Xigatse in Tibet. Strategic affairs expert Brahma Chellaney said the Chinese upgrades of military and dual-use infrastructure had begun around the time of the Doklam standoff of 2017 and picked up steam last year. “In the talks held so far, China has been taking India round and round about the bush. Its intention is to buy time and consolidate its hold on the land it has encroached upon, and bring India under increased military pressure,” he said. China’s tactics had led external affairs minister S Jaishankar to say that the bilateral relationship is very disturbed and there was no clarity of where things are headed, Chellaney pointed out. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-bolstering-tibet-military-infrastructure-101612808993838.html
08-02-2021||India||Zero tolerance for lawyers who spoil image of profession: HC||Chennai: The Madras high court on Monday came down heavily on advocates indulging in illegal activities such as land-grabbing and spoiling the image of the profession while hearing a writ petition against a group of people that included lawyers who allegedly tried to take over a property by force.“When it comes to the conduct of the advocates, there will be zero tolerance shown by this Court and this Court has to ensure that the activities of some of the advocates do not spoil the image of the entire profession,” justice Anand Venketash said.He observed that it was the third time in a month that it was brought to the court’s notice that “advocates (were) indulging themselves in criminal activities by forming part of an unlawful assembly and making attempts to grab properties”. The court said that stringent action was taken in the past by suspending advocates when the issue was prevalent and it was subsequently brought under control. “It looks like the lockdown period (due to Covid-19), has again revived this despicable practice and once again some advocates are indulging in illegal activities of grabbing properties,” the court said, vowing to bring it under control again.The petitioner, PS Kirubakaran, approached the court as the plea said police protection wasn’t given to the property due to the presence of advocates despite a disruption in law and order. In its interim order on Monday, the court directed the police authority to provide protection to the property. The court said that advocates’ participation was evident from photographs submitted and called for the advocates to be identified. “This report will form the basis for this Court to give a complaint before the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Pondicherry against the concerned advocates,” the court stated. The matter has now been posted for March 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zero-tolerance-for-lawyers-who-spoil-image-of-profession-hc-101612808993322.html
08-02-2021||India||Sasikala announces return to TN politics||Chennai: Spelling more trouble for the already jittery All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), expelled general secretary V K Sasaikla, a close aide to the late party supremo J Jayalalithaa, returned to Chennai with fanfare on Monday, announced her return to politics and urged the party cadre to unite to take on common foe M.K. Stalin’s Dravida Munnetra Kaqzhagam (DMK) in upcoming assembly elections. Sasikala, who last month finished serving a four-year prison term in Bengaluru after her conviction in a disproportionate assets case and was treated for Covid-19, read aloud from notes she had prepared on a stopover in the Tamil Nadu town of Vaniyambadi. “My intention is that everyone must work in unity and not let the common enemy capture the throne,” she told reporters and hundreds of supporters who greeted her, referring to the DMK. “The party has faced several struggles and risen like a phoenix in the past,” she said referring to the work done by founder MG Ramachandran and his successor Jayalalithaa, who died in December 2016. Sasikala’s release from prison and her return to Chennai ahead of the assembly elections adds an intriguing new factor to the political dynamics of Tamil Nadu, where the DMK and the Congress are preparing to take on the AIADMK and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), While she was in prison, the AIADMK expelled her from the party, and said she wouldn’t be taken back into the party’s fold. Sasikala left Bengaluru on Monday morning and received a rousing reception on her way by car to Chennai. She made several pit stops to greet thousands of her supporters and cadre of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) a breakaway faction of the AIADMK formed by her nephew TTV Dhinakaran. Supporters played music, drones carried banners greeting her and her car was garlanded.Sasikala isn’t a political novice although she has never contested or campaigned in elections and the Representation of People’s Act, 1951 bars her from contesting or holding any constitutional post for the next six years. In her three-decade-long association with Jayalalithaa, Sasikala cultivated her own constituency within the AIADMK, particularly among the Thevar community, which remains a loyal vote bank of the party.She quoted a song from MGR’s 1977 Tamil film to say that she is enslaved by the people’s affection but will not yield to oppression. Clad in a green saree-- a colour Jayalalithaa often wore-- Sasikala sat inside her car, bearing an AIADMK flag undeterred by police complaints by AIADMK leaders against her, for using the party flag. Sasikala switched two cars during her journey- one reportedly belonging to an AIADMK functionary. Responding to a question by reporter, AIADMK spokesperson and minister D Jayakumar said: “There will be a few betrayers; it is negligible. It will not affect the party.” AIADMK has announced multiple times that it won’t take Sasikala back nor will it merge with AMMK.Sasaikala briefly held the reins of the AIADMK, between Jayalalithaa’s death and her imprisonment in the disproportionate assets case in February 2017. Her former loyalists-- chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami and his deputy O Paneerselvam -- turned against her at different points of time and buried their own factional rivalries to unite against Sasikala.Since her release, Dhinakaran has insisted that Sasikala remains the general secretary and her supporters will help her reclaim the AIADMK. Dhinakaran, who is an independent MLA, led the AMMK in the 2019 parliamentary polls with a 4% vote share.AIADMK ministers have filed two complaints with the director general of police’s office against Sasikala for using the party flag and of her supposed plans to disrupt law and order. On Sunday night, the government took ownership of six properties belonging to J Ilavarasi and VN Sudhakaran, Sasikala’s relatives and co-accused in the disproportionate assets case. Security has bee tightened at the AIADMK headquarters in Chennai, Jayalalithaa’s Veda Nilayam residence which the government has converted into a memorial and her burial place on the Marina beach is closed to the public to keep Sasikala from places associated with Jayalalithaa. AIADMK on Monday night expelled seven party functionaries for ‘anti-party activities’. They reportedly participated in welcome rallies and Sasikala had even travelled in car belonging to one of the members, D Dakshinamurthy from Thiruvallur district.“AIADMK has overreacted,” said political commentator Sriram Seshadri. “They should have let Sasikala pitch for herself first. Or they could have said that she is welcome to work like any other cadre for the party. That would have put her in a spot and public perception of Palaniswami would have been elevated. But now their fear has been exposed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sasikala-announces-return-to-tn-politics-101612808873263.html
08-02-2021||India||Odisha to build memorial to honour fallen Covid warriors||The Odisha government said Monday that it will construct Covid Warrior Memorial at a public park in Bhubaneswar in recognition of the sacrifice and services of Covid warriors.“Covid-19 is once in a century pandemic. In order to keep it in the memory of people as well as to recognise the sacrifice and services rendered by the Covid warriors who have lost their lives fighting the pandemic, the government has decided to construct a Covid Warrior Memorial,” wrote additional chief secretary of health department, PK Mohapatra said.According to the decision, the state government would build the Covid memorial at the Biju Patnaik Park in Bhubaneswar. More than 60 Covid warriors including health workers in Odisha have succumbed to coronavirus. 19.The state government plans to inaugurate the memorial on August 15 this year.Last year, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik had announced that the martyr status would be accorded to all health personnel and other support services who succumbed to Covid19. The state government also announced ₹50 lakh ex-gratia to all health personnel (private and public) and members of all other support services who died of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-build-memorial-to-honour-fallen-covid-warriors-101612808570530.html
08-02-2021||India||AAP asks Sachin Tendulkar to tweet in favour of protesting farmers||AAP leader Preeti Sharma Menon has written a letter to cricket icon Sachin Tendulkar asking him to tweet in favour of protesting farmers as demanded by a young man who reportedly protested outside the former India captains residence here on Monday.Sharma Menon said the man, Ranjeet Bagal, came all the way from Pandharpur in Solapur district, around 400km from Mumbai, to request Tendulkar to put out at least one tweet in support of the farmers protesting against the Centre's new agriculture laws near Delhi for more than two months now.In a photo shared by the AAP, Bagal can be seen holding in his hands a poster which questions Tendulkar when he will tweet in support of farmers.The poster also bears the name of the Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, a farmer organisation led by former MP Raju Shetti.Preeti Sharma Menon has endorsed Ranjeet's request and has written an open letter to Sachin Tendulkar, imploring him to tweet in favour of our farmers who are protesting, a statement from the AAP said.Several celebrities, including Tendulkar, and legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar, recently rallied around the central government on social media using hashtags #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda following tweets by American pop singer Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg who had backed the agitating farmers. PTI ENM RSY RSY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-asks-sachin-tendulkar-to-tweet-in-favour-of-protesting-farmers-101612807104274.html
08-02-2021||India||Studies hint at faster glacial retreat||New Delhi: The Chamoli glacial breach and the disaster it has unleashed may be, in a manner of speaking, just the tip of the iceberg. Latest scientific research suggests that the retreat of glaciers in the entire Himalayan region, except some parts of the Karakoram range, has gathered pace. This, scientists say, will lead to more frequent disasters induced by glacier melt.A report modelled on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC) assessment reports, “Assessment of Climate Change over the Indian Region”, flagged last year that the Himalayas and the Tibetan plateau recorded a warming of 0.2 degrees Celsius per decadeduring 1951–2014. In some of the higher reaches, the warming was at the rate of 0.5 degrees Celsius per decade -- a much higher-than-average warming experienced over the entire country. The Hindu Kush Himalayan (HKH) region --which covers 3,500 km across Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, China, India, Myanmar, Nepal and Pakistan--experienced a temperature rise of about 1.3 degree Celsius between 1951 and 2014 compared to average temperature rise of around 0.7 degrees Celsius during 1901 to 2018 over the country, the report by the Union ministry of earth sciences said. This, the report added, has led to several areas of HKH recording a steep decline in snowfall, and led to a retreat of glaciers in recent decades. The Karakoram Himalayas -- which are the northwestern extension of the Himalayas and cover Gilgit-Baltistan, Ladakh, and parts of China -- however, have experienced higher winter snowfall and therefore far less glacial retreat, the report said.“There is now consensus that most glaciers in the Himalayas are retreating with the pace accelerating from the beginning of 21st century. As several studies have shown, warming is much higher in the upper reaches of Himalayas, with loss of glaciers, glacial lake formations have increased. These lakes can burst and there can be flash floods. There are a number of mechanisms through which such floods can happen in association with landslides and avalanches. We have also monitored glacial lake formations in the Alaknanda basin and the Nanda Devi glacier. Our team is likely to have some conclusions on the Chamoli disaster soon,” said Professor Anil Kulkarni, distinguished scientist at the Divecha Centre for Climate Change.Two other reports underlined that more Chamoli-like disasters were likely. One was the IPCC special report on Oceans and Cryosphere in a Changing Climate, in September 2019, and the Hindu Kush Himalaya Assessment by International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development (Icimod), in February 2019. The IPCC report said glacier retreat and snow cover changes have contributed to localised declines in agricultural yields in some high mountain regions, including the Hindu Kush Himalayas and the tropical Andes. Changes in the frequency and intensity of extreme rain events vary according to season and region. For example, across the Himalayan-Tibetan Plateau mountains, the frequency and intensity of extreme rainfall events is projected to increase throughout the 21st century, particularly during the summer monsoon. It predicted a transition towards more episodic and intense monsoon rain in the Himalayas. The report also said that, in the Himalayas alone, up to two-thirds of the current and planned hydropower projects are located in the path of potential glacier floods.The Icimod report, while warning that glaciers have thinned and retreated, said the glacier volume in HKH is likely to decline by 36% in a 1.5-degree global warming scenario, and by 64% by the end of century if current emissions continue. Accelerated warming is likely to cause complete disappearance of debris free lower elevation glaciers and will increase volume losses from glaciers at high elevation gradually.“Since the 1990s, glacial lakes show a clear increase both in number and in area. Several glacial lakes in the extended HKH are potentially hazardous — and as glaciers continue to retreat, the risk of dangerous glacial lake outburst floods (GLOFs) may increase further,” the report said.“Rapid retreat of glaciers result in formation of glacial lakes. Therefore, with warming there is increased risks of glacial lake outburst floods (GLOFs) in the future… We find that there are limited number of hydrometeorological monitoring stations in the higher altitude. There is an urgent need to strengthen our network in these locations thereby providing continuous monitoring of our weather and river flow conditions. At the same time there is a need for greater awareness of the communities and infrastructure developers to understand the risks and take appropriate actions,” said Mandira Shrestha, water resources and disaster specialist at Icimod, Kathmandu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/studies-hint-at-faster-glacial-retreat-101612808574596.html
08-02-2021||India||Breach, avalanche? Cause of flood divides scientists||New Delhi: There was no consensus till Monday evening on what exactly may have triggered the disastrous flash flood in the Rishiganga valley on Sunday. At least 26 people have died and 171 were still missing till the time of going to print.US-based scientists who looked at satellite images suggested it was caused by a landslide onto a glacier which led to debris flooding the river, while Dan Shugar of the University of Calgary suggested a landslide triggered an ice avalanche. Not everyone agrees. Jimmy Kansal, deputy director, The Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment of the Defence Research and Development Organisation, said: “There was no landslide or avalanche. There could be a glacial lake which led to the breach, but we are still investigating that.”The glacial lake theory (which means the flooding was what is called a glacial lake outburst flood, or Glof) is supported by scientists at the Divecha Centre for Climate Change at Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, who say they have found clues to the origin of the flash floods. The team has concluded that release of water from an underground glacial lake led to flash floods and inundation in the valley.Glacial lakes are typically formed when a glacier retreats, with the water collecting in the area where the glacier used to be, and dammed by the moraine (or material such as rocks left behind by the glacier). There are also instances of glacial lakes being damned by ice. When the dam bursts, it causes a Glof, resulting in flooding downstream, which is exactly what happened in this case. The team at Divecha Centre used a tool to map the depression in the bedrock below the north Nanda Devi glacier and said the data suggests a depression of 25 ha upstream of the glacier terminus.This underground lake has a capacity to store 4.5 million cubic metres of water. The lower part of the ablation zone (zone of the glacier which has melted or calved and formed a lake), the scientists added, receives a significant amount of water from a tributary glacier located at the northern side of the Nanda Devi glacier. “If this depression filled with water develops appropriate hydrostatic pressure, it can accelerate the lower part of the ablation zone, possibly releasing water from the underground lake. It could be the potential reason for the flash flood,” a note prepared by the IISc team said.“This is a new tool developed in IISc by our team which can be very useful to study such disasters. The tool is based on Laminar flow equation and surface slope; known as Himalayan Glacier Thickness Mapper (Highthim). The tool was used successfully to map depressions below South Lhonak lake in Sikkim and further estimate the future expansion of the lake,” said Professor Anil Kulkarni, distinguished scientist, Divecha Center for Climate Change.Responding to the US-based scientists who said the floods may have been triggered by a landslide, Kulkarni said “It appears to me that they looked at the adjacent valley. Initial reports suggest that flash flood was caused due to breaking of Nanda Devi glacier. The observation was widely published by numerous news media and also supported by reconnaissance survey carried out by the Indian Air Force. We went deeper to see what happened under the surface.”But the landslide theory has other subscribers. Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said that scientists of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) have revealed to him that the Chamoli tragedy was caused by a mix of snow and rock avalanche and that satellite images have shown no glacier breakage.A glacial break usually means a piece of the glacier breaking off as a large piece of ice (quite simply, an iceberg). That does not seem to have happened in this case. Rawat spoke to reporters on Monday after chairing a meeting of senior government functionaries, senior officers of Army, ITBP and ISRO scientists. Rawat said ISRO scientists told him that a few days back there was snowfall in the affected area. “And from one trigger point due to rockfall at the top, it all slid downwards. Due to all this, lakhs of tonnes of snow came gushing down which led to the tragedy. The ISRO scientists said the satellite imagery doesn’t show any glacier breakage and that this area is not avalanche-prone.” Pradeep Srivastava, scientist at Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology Dehradun said that preliminary data suggests the Chamoli tragedy was not caused by any glacial outburst, but due to sliding of the rock mass exposed on the top of the glacier and an avalanche. “Due to freezing and thawing, a rock mass broke away and slid down. Data suggests a 0.2km-long rock mass broke away and slid down, adding to the debris accumulated on the glacier. This created a melting layer near debris. An avalanche was evident from the huge clouds of dust that came down with the flowing muck and debris,” he said. Srivastava added that on February 6 there was snow in the area and on February 7, the average temperature was 5 to 6 degrees Celsius, enough to melt the snow. “Satellite imagery is showing snow on February 6 and no snow on the slopes on February 7. So it seems that it was mix of snow avalanche and rock avalanche which led to the disaster,” he concluded As for the water, it can “can come from surface snow, from big cavities in glaciers or that trapped in cervices. Besides water also melts due to pressure from the base of the glacier”. Srivastava said a team from Wadia Institute is inspecting the area to find out “what exactly happened.” Interestingly, the breach of dams, especially moraine ones, has been known to be caused by rockslides, avalanches, rain, or a glacier break that causes a large piece of ice to fall into the glacial lake -- so it is possible that both theories hold in this case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breach-avalanche-cause-of-flood-divides-scientists-101612808514904.html
08-02-2021||India||Survivors recall striking rarity of floods in winter||The first sign of trouble at NTPC Limited’s hydropower project in Tapovan on Sunday morning was a power failure that forced all machines to come to a halt . Exactly five minutes later, 27-year-old Manish Kumar, a workman at the site, heard people shout “baadh, baadh (flood, flood)”. Even as he was thinking about the improbability of a flood striking in winters, he noticed something that resembled dense smoke.Kumar was standing right outside the entrance of a tunnel that would later emerge to be a trap for many of his friends and colleagues.Without another thought, Kumar sprinted up the unpaved and slushy path that led uphill. He didn’t turn around until he was at a safe spot up the hill. Two others who were right behind him weren’t as lucky.“Those who turned around to see the situation were washed away. People behind me were shouting for help, but they couldn’t have been helped,” said Kumar on Monday afternoon as he waited in hope for his roommate, Mahendra, to be rescued from the tunnel.Sunday was supposed to be a holiday for most workers. Many of them would visit the Joshimath market, about 25 km away, to shop, eat , or simply walk around. But there were quite a few who were called in to put in an extra day of work. Kumar and Mahendra were among such workers.While the workers at the hydropower plants along the stretch of the Dhauli Ganga river, anticipate trouble during the monsoons, they let their guard down in the winter months.So, when the tragedy struck, none of was prepared.“There was a group of workers sitting on an excavator and a truck right next to the dam. When the water and debris came gushing down, most were immediately swept away, but two of them managed to escape,” said Harinder Singh, a welder who watched the tragedy unfold from a safe distance on his day off.“Both of them managed to catch hold of thick cables dangling near them. As the water rose up, the two men climbed higher and swung themselves onto the hill nearby. They both survived,” said Singh.Then there were a few workers who tried to save themselves by holding each other to form chains.“There were seven-eight of them holding on to each other. In about 30 seconds, each of them was swept away,” said Manish Pant, who too survived, thanks to his weekly off.The Tapovan hydropower plant was totally destroyed. Many workers have left for their homes, while others have stayed on hoping to see their friends rescued or to help recover their bodies.Those working that day included engineers overseeing operations, specialists and casual labourers hired for odd-jobs and to do the heavy lifting.Downstream up the Tapovan site is Raini village where at least six residents are believed to have died. One of them was 76-year-old Amrita Devi, who was tending to her apple trees along with her grandson and daughter-in-law, Godambari Devi, near a 90-metre0long bridge when the tragedy struck.“There was a very loud and scary noise. I turned around to see water and debris gushing towards us. It was as if the mountains were crumbling,” Godambari said.As her 15-year-old son sprinted to safety, Godambari turned towards her mother-in-law to warn her. “I had just stretched out my hand towards her when the strong wind accompanying the flood threw me away. The next moment, I saw my mother-in-law covered by the debris from all sides,” she said.By the time Godambari regained her senses, there was no sign of the hydropower plant towering above her moments ago. Also missing was the bridge that connected the Niti Valley, near the Indo-China border, to the rest of India. A pillar with a few broken rods at one end of the bridge was all that remained. Raini village was the first point where the severity of the flash floods was first noticed on Sunday. “Since the river gets very narrow here, the impact was much higher,” said Shobha Rana, the village chief.Residents of Raini village, which played an important role during the Chipko Movement in 1973, blamed the “ched-chaad” (meddling) with the environment for the tragedy. “When you dig all around and use gunpowder to shake the mountains, this is what happens. No one in these villages was infected by Coronavirus, but a man-made tragedy has left six villagers dead,” said Rajni Bhandari, the Chamoli Zilla Parishad president. Devaki Devi, a homemaker, blamed the demolition of a Kali temple in the village during the construction of the power project last year for the flash floods. “We’ll have to rebuild the temple.” While the flow of water to the river has returned to normal, it has completely changed the lay of the land. “There was a boulder the size of a large truck in the river below,” said Birju Singh, a restaurant owner in Hailang, about 30 km downstream from Tapovan “I can’t find it today.” .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/survivors-recall-striking-rarity-of-floods-in-winter-101612808454545.html
08-02-2021||India||Rescuers struggle to reach trapped men||: Luck played a part in the timely rescue of 12 workers from one end of the 1.7km-long tunnel of NTPC Limited’s hydropower project in Uttarakhand’s Tapovan in the immediate aftermath of the flash flood on Sunday. The rescuers toiled for at least four hours to remove the waist-deep slush from the tunnel’s exit; then an engineer employed at the project alerted the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) about an escape door located about 300 feet away from the exit that could serve as an extraction point for the workers. Thereafter, it took ITBP men just about 90 minutes to rescue the dozen workers, three of whom were unconscious, and all of suffering from hypothermia. Importantly, all were alive. But as the sun set over the snow-capped mountain peaks, so did the luck of the rescuers. When it came to saving workers -- at least 37 of them -- trapped at the other end of the tunnel, the rescuers continued to labour till well into the day on Monday, in an effort to reach them. “We believe the workers are trapped at least 200 metres inside the tunnel. The only choice we have is to use an earth mover to remove the slush, one scoop at a time. We have been able to move 50 metres (into the tunnel) so far (until Monday afternoon). Unlike the other end of the tunnel, there is no safety valve on this side,” said Benudhar Nayak, commandant of ITBP first Batallion, who is overseeing the operations along with teams of NDRF and the Indian Army. About 8km from this spot, in Raini village, another group of rescuers is removing slush in front of a smaller hydropower project that was completely washed away by the flash flood, but their progress has been slow. “There is no rescue going on here. We are just hoping to recover bodies that may be trapped in the gates of the power plant,” said Sumit Kalkhudiya, an Indian Army officer.That the floods happened on a Sunday helped save lives. On Sundays, just about half the staff work at the two project sites. At the Tapovan site, about 150 workers were on duty and at Raini site, about 50. At Tapovan, around 50 men were working in the tunnel; the others were deployed elsewhere. But when the water and debris came gushing down the Dhauli Ganga river around 10.45am, all workers, in the tunnel and out of it, were all under water level. As the flash flood roared, many workers tried to run up the hill. Some succeeded. Others were washed away within seconds. And some others were trapped in the tunnel. THE TUNNEL According to rescuers and workers, the 1.7 km-long slanting tunnel under construction is about 20 feet high and 15 feet wide. “Inside, the main tunnel is joined by another tunnel about 300 metres long,” said Harinder Singh, a welder at the project who helplessly watched from the road above as many of his friends and colleagues were washed away or trapped inside. When the flood hit, the tunnel was quickly filled with water, mud and debris. The rescuers, who arrived at the scene a little after noon, and began by focusing on the tunnel’s exit as it was down the slope and had much less slush than at the entrance. At that time, the rescuers weren’t sure how many workers were trapped at that end. “Since this end of the tunnel was difficult to access with our machines, we used wooden planks and steel sheets to reach the entrance. Then we used basic tools to keep removing the slush. We weren’t making much progress when an engineer walked up to us and mentioned an escape door, about 8 by 8 feet, on the side of the tunnel,” said Nayak. The rescue was briefly halted as villagers used whistle to warn about the water level rising again, but the operation resumed soon. THE BREAKTHROUGH “In the next 45 minutes, we were able to locate the escape door amid the slush, broke it open, and removed the iron mesh,” Nayak added. The rescuers found the workers trapped just about 30-40 feet away from the valve. “Many of them had lost their shoes, and three of them were waist deep in the slush, but they had all held on to iron grills inside,” said Kalam Singh Negi, head constable with ITBP. The rescuers threw ropes to the trapped workers, but they were so weak, tired and affected by the cold that they couldn’t grab them. “One of our officers then entered the tunnel to tie each of them with ropes before we pulled them out,” said Negi. By the time the last of the men inside was brought out, it was 5.45pm on Sunday. Three of the rescued men were unconscious. The others were suffering from hypothermia. Some raised their arms to celebrate their rescue. “They were all shivering. Some of them begged us for hot water. We washed them with warm water, gave them necessary injections, dressed them in ITBP uniforms and used our phones to help them make video calls to their families,” said Maneesh Chandra, an ITBP constable. BACK TO DESPAIR The other end of the tunnel, meanwhile, remained inaccessible despite the use of earth movers. Initially, three earth movers of various types worked to remove the slush at the entrance of the tunnel, but once the entrance was breached, the progress slowed since only one machine could work at once. ITBP officers estimated that the workers trapped on this side were about 200 metres into the tunnel. The workers, however, estimated that they were trapped at least 500 metres inside. “At the rate the work is going on, it could take up to a week to rescue them. It is so cold even out in the sun, I don’t know if my brother will make it,” said Joginder Tamta, whose brother, a worker at the site, is trapped inside. The two are from Chamoli.Every now and then, Tamta dialled his brother’s phone number. “Often it is switched off. But sometimes the number comes across as busy. That is the only thing that has kept me hopeful,” said Tamta, squatting in anticipation a few hundred metres from the rescue site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rescuers-struggle-to-reach-trapped-men-101612808393950.html
08-02-2021||India||Govt planning to bring privilege notice against TMC MP Mahua Moitra for allegation raised against former CJI||The government is mulling a breach of privilege notice against Trinamool Congress (TMC) member of Parliament Mahua Moitra for making allegations against a former Chief Justice of India.Sources in the government said remarks of TMC MP will not be taken lightly and will be acted upon.A senior minister in the government said her remarks were against the rules.He said that Article 121 has rules on restriction on the discussion in Parliament and provides that no discussion shall take place in Parliament with respect to the conduct of any judge of Supreme Court or of High Court in the discharge of his duties except upon the motion for presenting an address to the President praying for the removal of the judge as hereinafter provided.Moitra, who was taking part in the motion of thanks on the President's Address on Monday, did not take any name but was apparently referring to former CJI Ranjan Gogoi, who is now a member of Rajya Sabha."The judiciary is no longer sacred, it stopped being scared the day a sitting Chief Justice of the country was accused of sexual harassment, presided over his own trail to clear himself and then proceeded to accept nomination to the upper house within three months of retirement with Z plus security cover," she said.Rule 352 (5) of rules of procedure and conduct of business in Lok Sabha can also be invoked against her which states that "this can reflect upon the conduct of persons and authorities unless the discussion is based on a substantive motion drawn in proper terms".The word persons or higher authority means persons whose conduct can only be discussed on a substantive motion drawn in proper terms under the constitution.Sources said that the government is deliberating on actions that can be taken against the member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-planning-to-bring-privilege-notice-against-tmc-mp-mahua-moitra-101612805188092.html
08-02-2021||India||Second suspect arrested for rape and murder of 8-year-old Kolkata girl||A 43-year-old man, who was allegedly involved in the rape and murder of an eight-year-old girl in north Kolkata on the night of February 3, was arrested by the detective department of the Kolkata police on Monday afternoon.The second accused has been identified as Ranvir Tanti alias Raghubir, a resident of Balia in the Begusarai district of Bihar, said Murlidhar Sharma, joint commissioner of police (crime).The security guard of the north Kolkata building where the minor was found murdered on the morning of February 4 was arrested by the detective department on Friday. Investigation revealed that he had an accomplice.The girl came to a house located close to the site of the crime in the Jorabagan area. She was allegedly raped and tortured before being killed with a knife.“Based on scientific evidence gathered by the forensic team and investigation by the detective department, Ram Kumar, the security guard, was detained. He was arrested after a long interrogation,” Sharma said after the first arrest.The accused men have been charged under several sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 302 (murder), and section six of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO).The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) tried to organize an agitation in the area on February 4, demanding justice. A local BJP leader also got involved in a scuffle with residents who alleged that the party was trying to politicise the crime.On Friday afternoon, Agnimitra Paul, president of the BJP’s state women’s front, met the mother of the victim.Police said on Thursday that the victim had gone to see her maternal uncle and was playing in the lane in front of his house on Wednesday evening. She was last seen around 8:30 pm that night.Her body was found in the staircase on the third floor of the adjacent building on Thursday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-suspect-arrested-for-rape-and-murder-of-8-year-old-kolkata-girl-101612806116531.html
08-02-2021||India||BJP rath yatra route changed in Bengal’s Murshidabad to avoid tension||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday was forced to change the route of its rath yatra, a grand pre-election roadshow christened Parivartan Yatra (journey for change), in Bengal’s Murshidabad district when the police raised objection to the deviation made in the route approved by the administration the night before.BJP workers held agitation for almost two hours in Murshidabad’s Beldanga area on Monday morning soon after the police stopped the roadshow which was flagged off near an ashram of the Bharat Sevashram Sangh, a Bengal-based Hindu social welfare organization.The party subsequently agreed to follow the route marked by the police and the roadshow ended for the day at Berhampore town, the district’s administrative headquarter.The BJP announced that it will continue with the roadshow on Tuesday although chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to address an election rally at the Berhampore stadium grounds. The route will be decided on Tuesday morning.The BJP wanted Monday’s roadshow to pass through Beldanga, Nowda and Hariharpara. Additional superintendent of police Bimal Pal rushed to Beldanga with a huge force and stopped it, saying the administration had given permission for the vehicles to follow NH-34 and not the district roads passing through Beldanga, Nowda and Hariharpara.“There could be communal tension if the roadshow passed through these regions as there is a high concentration of Muslims. The administration did not want any trouble,” a senior district police officer said on condition of anonymity.Bengal’s Muslim population stood at 27.01 % during the 2011 census and is projected to have increased to around 30 % now. The highest Muslim population is in Murshidabad (66.28%).President of the BJP’s Murshidabad south organizational district, Gourishankar Ghosh, said, “We informed the administration about the route chosen for the yatra well in advance. No one objected at that time. It is not our intention to create communal tension. We followed the route selected by the police.”TMC’s district unit president Abu Taher Khan said, “The BJP has no organizational strength in this district. It is trying to create tension by holding these roadshows. I have asked our workers not to fall for any provocation.”The roadshow was flagged off by BJP national president J P Nadda at Nabadwip in Nadia district on February 6. It is part of the BJP’s outreach programme ahead of the assembly polls to be held in April-May. It entered Murshidabad on Sunday. Four more roadshows will be held in the state this month. One of these will be attended by Union home minister Amit Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-rath-yatra-route-changed-in-bengal-s-murshidabad-to-avoid-tension-101612805171518.html
08-02-2021||India||No proposal for JNU name change, says union minister Ramesh Pokhriyal||There is no proposal for changing the name of the Jawaharlal Nehru University, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said on Monday.BJP general secretary C T Ravi had proposed last year a name change of the JNU after Swami Vivekananda."No sir," Nishank said in response to a question in the Lok Sabha whether the government had any proposal for changing the name of the university in Delhi.In November, Ravi had tweeted: "It is Swami Vivekananda who stood for the "Idea of Bharat". His philosophy & values signify the "Strength of Bharat". It is only right that Jawaharlal Nehru University be renamed as Swami Vivekananda University. Life of Bharat's patriotic Saint will inspire generations to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-proposal-for-jnu-name-change-says-union-minister-ramesh-pokhriyal-101612803340315.html
08-02-2021||India||Minimum temperature recorded for January warmest in 62 years: IMD||The minimum temperature recorded in the country in January was the warmest for the month in 62 years, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday.South India was particularly warm. The month was the warmest in 121 years, with 22.33 degrees Celsius in south India, followed by 22.14 degrees Celsius in 1919 and 21.93 degrees Celsius in 2020 as the second and third warmest months.Central India was the warmest (14.82 degrees Celsius) in the last 38 years after 1982 (14.92 degrees Celsius), while 1958 with 15.06 degrees Celsius was the warmest in the 1901-2021 period.However, the maximum temperatures in January were below normal, the IMD said.An analysis for 1901-2021 shows that the all-India average minimum temperature in January 2021 was 14.78 degrees Celsius. The January of 1958 recorded a similar monthly minimum temperature.The January of 1919 recorded 15 degrees Celsius and it remains the warmest January so far."So January 2021 has also become the warmest in 62 years after 1958," the IMD said.The spatial temperature pattern over India shows that the average monthly maximum temperatures in January 2021 were below normal by two to four degrees Celsius across the Indo-Gangetic plain.Pockets over south Punjab and north Haryana, Bihar recorded temperatures three-four notches below normal, while it was above normal over the eastern parts of central India and the northeastern states.The monthly average minimum temperatures were below normal by one or two notches only over a smaller area of the country covering Saurashtra and Kutch, Kashmir and parts of west Rajasthan, while it was warmer over most parts of India, the IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minimum-temperature-recorded-for-january-warmest-in-62-years-imd-101612803103786.html
08-02-2021||India||Vijay Mallya granted access to 1.1 million pounds by UK court-held funds, for legal, living expenses||Embattled liquor tycoon Vijay Mallya was granted access to around 1.1 million pounds from court-held funds to meet his living expenses and legal costs by the High Court in London on Monday.Deputy Insolvency and Companies Court Judge Nigel Barnett presided over a remote hearing to rule over the level of access to the funds held with the Court Funds Office (CFO), as part of bankruptcy proceedings brought by a consortium of Indian banks led by the State Bank of India (SBI) in pursuit of unpaid loans.By the latest order, the former Kingfisher Airlines chief has been given permission to withdraw funds from court to meet his living expenses through to August and to meet his incurred and future legal costs in relation to opposing the bankruptcy petition."On balance, Mallya has been successful on two aspects and the petitioning creditors [Indian banks] have been largely successful in defending the greatest part of the application," Judge Barnett noted, during the hearing which related to the question of costs associated with the "validation application".The expenditure incurred from the CFO could face further scrutiny at a later date on the conclusion of the Indian banks’ bankruptcy petition, being represented in the UK court by the law firm TLT LLP.Mallya remains on bail in Britain, having lost a separate legal battle against extradition to India to face charges of fraud and money laundering.The High Court was informed last month that the 65-year-old businessman had applied for "another route" to stay in the UK, which most likely refers to asylum and such an application would have to be addressed confidentially before UK Home Secretary Priti Patel can sign off on extradition.Meanwhile, he has been fighting the bankruptcy petition in the High Court and had sought access to funds to meet his considerable and mounting legal costs, both in the UK and India.His lawyers argued that he should have access to court-held funds accrued from the sale of a French luxury property Le Grand Jardin last year because he has no other source of income, having lost two consultancy contracts last year.The banks’ lawyers had countered that there was evidence that Mallya did have other assets that he could utilise to meet the very significant costs he was seeking to have validated and paid, including "two yachts that he has put into storage in Southampton, debts owed to him by family trusts, and cars in storage in France".The bankruptcy proceedings remain ongoing as part of the Indian banks’ efforts to recoup around 1.145 billion pounds in unpaid loans related to the now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines.The SBI-led consortium of 13 Indian banks, which also includes Bank of Baroda, Corporation bank, Federal Bank Ltd, IDBI Bank, Indian Overseas Bank, Jammu & Kashmir Bank, Punjab & Sind Bank, Punjab National Bank, State Bank of Mysore, UCO Bank, United Bank of India and JM Financial Asset Reconstruction Co. Pvt Ltd, had initiated the proceedings against Mallya in December 2018. There have been a series of hearings in the case and related cost matters since then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijay-mallya-granted-access-to-1-1-million-pounds-by-uk-court-held-funds-for-legal-living-expenses-101612802882004.html
08-02-2021||India||Abrupt snowslide, not glacier burst, might have caused the calamity: CM Rawat says quoting scientists||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat Monday quoted scientists to say that the areas where avalanches struck on Sunday was not prone to such activities, and the calamity might have been caused by an "abrupt sliding down" of millions of tonnes of snow from a hill, rather than due to a glacier burst.He also appealed to people to not make the tragedy an occasion for building an "anti-development narrative", as he left for the flood-hit areas of Chamoli for an on-the-spot assessment of relief and rescue operations.He made the statement on the cause of the tragedy after holding a meeting here with ISRO scientists and officials of the Army and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) on finding out the exact reason for the calamity that has left at least 20 dead and over 150 missing.He said ISRO officials showed him pictures in which no glacier is visible at the place where the burst started, but only a naked hill can be seen.Something is visible on the top of it, he said, adding it might have been the trigger point from where the huge amount of snow slid down, causing the flashflood in the Rishiganga and Dhauli Ganga rivers."According to the scientists, the area where the calamity struck is not prone to avalanches and apparently it was not caused by a glacier burst as initial reports suggested," he said."It was due to millions of metric tonnes of snow sliding down abruptly from a trigger point on the top of a naked hill," Rawat said.The area had received snowfall in the days leading up to Sunday when the disaster struck.Before he left for the flood-affected areas, he tweeted, "I am leaving for disaster site and will spend night in the region itself. Our relief & rescue operations is continuing in full swing & we are getting help from all quarters. I request everyone to not use this natural disaster as a reason to build anti-development narrative."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abrupt-snowslide-not-glacier-burst-might-have-caused-the-calamity-cm-rawat-says-quoting-scientists-101612802482257.html
08-02-2021||India||Last active case recovers, Daman and Diu becomes free of Covid-19||The union territory of Daman, Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli became free of Covid-19 on Monday after the only active case of the coronavirus disease recovered, PTI reported.The news agency quoted health officials to report that the number of active cases of Covid-19 has now dropped to zero in Daman, Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli.The UT, which recorded 3,370 positive cases, saw 3,368 people recover. Two patients died, the officials said.The union territory, along with a few other states and UTs, has led a remarkable turnaround in India’s Covid-19 trajectory. It has been witnessing gradual decrease in the number of fatalities linked to Covid-19, and in Januay-end, reported a single death in a week, according to the Union health ministry.In the first week of February, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Daman and Diu & Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Mizoram, Nagaland, Lakshadweep, Ladakh, Sikkim, Manipur, Puducherry, Goa, Odisha and Assam did not report Covid-19-linked death, the health ministry said.Meanwhile, Covid-19 vaccination drive is going strong in the country with 60 lakh people getting inoculated till Monday evening. Lauding the milestone, the health ministry said that India reached the mark in 24 days, the fastest in the world.The United States took 26 days to reach this mark, whereas the United Kingdom achieved it in 46 days, it underlined.Ten states accounted for 75.12 per cent of the total beneficiaries vaccinated on Monday.India on Monday reported 84 fatalities due to the coronavirus disease. This is the 10th day in a row that India has recorded less than 150 daily Covid-19 deaths, the health ministry said. The number of active cases shrunk to 1,48,609 which is 1.37 per cent of the total infections, it added.Seventeen states and union territories did not report any Covid-19 deaths in the 24 hour period till Monday 8 am, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/last-active-case-recovers-daman-and-diu-becomes-free-of-covid19-101612802309907.html
08-02-2021||India||Mumbai crime branch busts CDR racket, two held||The Mumbai crime branch on Sunday arrested two members of a gang that used to run private detective agencies in Mumbai, Delhi, Odisha and Karnataka and illegally sold call data records (CDR), SDR, mobile locations and bank statements after charging hefty amounts.The arrested accused identified as Shailesh Manjrekar, 39, and Rajendra Sahu, 26, are both residents of Prem Nagar locality in Goregaon (east). Police are on the lookout for seven more people wanted in the case. Four of them run detective agencies in Delhi, Odisha and Karnataka.According to the police, Manjrekar runs a detective agency known as ‘Accent Confidential and Investigation Private Limited’ since several years and he purportedly used to provide call data records, mobile locations and bank statements illegally to his clients. The call data records, mobile locations and bank statements can be accessed only by authorised persons and by state or central government agencies who conduct investigations in criminal cases.Accessing someone’s personal data like call details, mobile locations and bank statements is illegal, but the accused used to illegally obtain all the details and sell the same to their clients, said the police officer.The police learnt about the racket through a reliable source and verified and identified the accused before laying a trap in Goregaon where Manjrekar was coming to handover call data records to one of his clients, the officer added. As soon as he arrived in a car, the police team nabbed him. After carrying out searches, police found several documents including bank details and call data records from his vehicle, added the officer.The accused have links with other people who too run detective agencies in Delhi, Karnataka and some other states and take their help to procure the details as per requirement of their clients.The police suspect that mobile company personnel and some government officers, entitled to get access to CDRs and other details, are also involved in the racket, added the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-crime-branch-busts-cdr-racket-two-held-101612802238867.html
08-02-2021||India||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar appeals to firm to complete PMCH facility within 5 years||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar made an emotional appeal to the firm executing the renovation of the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) to complete the work in five years, instead of seven, as he laid the foundation stone of the country’s largest and the world’s second largest hospital project on Monday.The state’s oldest and among the five oldest medical institutions in India, established in 1925, is being converted into a 5,462-bed hospital, from an existing 1,754-bed unit, at a project cost of ₹5,540 crore. The annual intake of MBBS medicos will also increase from existing 150 to 250.The hospital would have the facility to cater to an air ambulance as it would have a helipad on the rooftop of the 9-storied hospital building. It will also be connected through the 21-km long Ganga Path, which is under construction along the Ganges between Digha and Deedarganj, as well as an elevated corridor on the Ashok Rajpath, to make it accessible in quick time.Kumar also asked the health department to constitute a committee of experts to monitor the progress of the construction work. The CM said he would personally undertake surprise inspections to see if the work was being done expeditiously.Kumar said he had nurtured a dream for 14 years and wanted the PMCH to be renovated as one of the best centres in medical science. He also recalled fond memories of his student days, when as an engineering student he used to visit the PMCH.The CM said he wanted the PMCH to be among the best in medical science, both in terms of research and treatment, so that people did not have to go outside the state for medical treatment.The CM took the opportunity to shower praise on the states’ medical professionals for keeping Covid-19 under control in Bihar where the mortality rate has been far lower than the national average and vaccination was taking place at a rapid rate.Kumar said while mortality rate due to the deadly coronavirus is 1.44% in the country, its 0.50% in Bihar.He said it was a matter of pride that Bihar had the highest vaccination percentage in the country.Addressing the event, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said since the hospital is part of his Patna Sahib Lok Sabha constituency it was his duty to extend all cooperation to it.He said the Centre as well as the NDA government in the state were committed to development of Bihar. State health minister Mangal Pandey earlier said that the PMCH, in terms of hospital infrastructure, would be second to a facility in Taiwan, which had 10,000 beds.Deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad and principal secretary, health, Pratyaya Amrit also spoke on the occasion among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-appeals-to-firm-to-complete-pmch-facility-within-5-years-101612801294864.html
08-02-2021||India||Pakistani intruder shot dead along international border in-J-K‘s Samba||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Monday shot dead a Pakistani intruder along the international border in Jammu and Kashmir’s Samba sectorA BSF spokesman said that at around 9.45 am, troopers observed a Pakistani intruder heading towards a fence in Chak Faquira border post in Samba sector.“Despite repeated warnings, the intruder kept moving under suspicious circumstances and approached a border fence in an aggressive manner and was fired upon by BSF troops,” he said.He had entered approximately 40 meters inside Indian territory when he was shot.The BSF later retrieved the body of the intruder.Another Pakistani intruder was killed in the same area on November 23 last year.A tunnel around six to eight years old was also detected in this area recently.A search operation in the area is in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistani-intruder-shot-dead-along-international-border-in-j-k-s-samba-101612801362469.html
08-02-2021||India||Supreme Court stays release of Kerala cyanide killer Jolly Joseph||The Supreme Court on Monday stayed the release of Jolly Amma Joseph, arrested for murdering six members of her family in a span of 14 years. All the crimes took place in Koodathayi in Kozhikode district of Kerala.Joseph used cyanide to kill all the people, after which the series of killings were called "Kerala cyanide murders".The order to stay here release was granted by a bench of justices Mohan M Shantanagoudar and Vineet Saran.The first in the family to die in 2002 was Joseph’s mother-in-law Annamma, a retired teacher. She was followed by Joseph’s father-in-law, Tom Thomas, in 2008. In 2011, their son and Joseph’s husband, Roy Thomas, also died to be followed by the death of Roy’s maternal uncle, Mathew, who died in 2014.The police said that Joseph has confessed to her role in all the crimes.In her confession, Joseph reportedly said the first killing of Annamma Thomas, her mother-in-law, was executed after giving her pesticide-laced food. And in all other cases, she said cyanide was used.The final nail in the coffin came after one of the sons of late Tom Thomas, Roji Thomas who is settled in the US, raised a suspicion about the mysterious deaths and filed a police complaint.Joseph (48) was arrested in October, 2019, along with two other people, including her friend M Mathew who arranged cyanide and Praju Kumar, a jewellery employee, who supplied the poisonous substance.The Kerala high court had granted her bail in August last year, but the Kerala government moved Supreme Court against the order.While granting bail to Joseph, the high court had said that the case against her is based on extra judicial confession made after so many years of the alleged murders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-stays-release-of-kerala-cyanide-killer-jolly-joseph-101612801271927.html
08-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: 26 bodies recovered in Tapovan so far, says DGP||Twenty-six bodies have been recovered in Tapovan so far and 171 persons are missing after a glacial break in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district triggered an avalanche and massive flooding of Alaknanda and Dhauliganga rivers on Sunday morning, said state director general of Police Ashok Kumar on Monday.Taking to Twitter, Kumar informed that 35 people are supposed to be in the Tunnel where the rescue operation is still going on."Final number of dead body recovered in Tapovan till 8 p.m. on 8th February is 26. 171 people still remain missing out of which around 35 are supposed to be in the Tunnel where rescue operation is still going on," the DGP tweeted.Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat held a meeting with ITBP, NDRF, SDRF, Uttarakhand Police & other agencies in Joshimath on rescue efforts in Tapovan."All four forces are working in coordination. The rescue operation is underway," he said.Rescue operations continued throughout the day even on the second day of the disaster in Chamoli district on Sunday.Rawat directed the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) to release ₹20 crore funds to carry out rescue and relief operations in the state.A glacier broke in the Tapovan-Reni area of Chamoli District of Uttarakhand on Sunday, which led to massive flooding in Dhauliganga and Alaknanda rivers and damaged houses and the nearby Rishiganga power project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-glacier-burst-26-bodies-recovered-in-tapovan-so-far-says-dgp-101612800515646.html
08-02-2021||India||India facing an undeclared emergency, alleges TMC MP Mahua Moitra||In the context of the farmers' protest and the stir over the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Mahua Moitra on Monday alleged that the country is today facing a state of "undeclared emergency."Speaking in the Lok Sabha, Moitra said, "The coward is brave, only when he is armed with power and authority. You (Central Government) are not courageous but a coward. The farm laws were tabled without scrutiny. From farmers and students to old ladies of Shaheen Shaheen Bagh, all are called terrorists. India is today facing an undeclared emergency."Slamming the Centre over he CAA, she said, "The Citizenship Amendment Act was passed in 2019 in this House on the pretext of granting citizenship to persecuted Hindus and other minorities in neighbouring countries.""At the same time, it threw into abusive insecurity millions of Indians who had been living in this land for generations. But the rules by which this act will be implemented were not yet prepared by December 2020, according to the Ministry of Home Affairs," said MoitraThe TMC MP questioned the Central Government over the delay in the framework for implementation of CAA. "The deadline has yet again been extended till April 2021. If indeed this govt cared so much for those persecuted in the neighbouring countries, why does it miss the deadline to notify these rules?" she said.She criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central Government for allegedly slapping sedition charges against journalists and condemned the Ministry of External Affairs' response in apparent reference to the tweets of teenage climate activist Greta Thunberg and American pop singer Rihanna.Moitra accused the Central Government of exploiting Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's legacy for political mileage."The central government has tried in every way to hijack Netaji's legacy and weave it into its own narrow narrative of courage," said Moitra.BJP and TMC have locked horns as the Assembly elections in West Bengal are slated to take place this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-facing-an-undeclared-emergency-alleges-tmc-mp-mahua-moitra-101612800799380.html
08-02-2021||India||Sasikala ready to disrupt political equations, says party 'must work in unity'||In further trouble for the already jittery AIADMK-led Tamil Nadu government, their former interim general secretary and close aide of late supremo J Jayalalithaa, VK Sasikala, whom they had expelled while she was in prison, returned to Chennai with fanfare ready for a political battle.Sasikala announced on Monday that she will be part of the state politics. Referring to the DMK, she urged the party to work together to defeat their common rival while she read from her notes from inside her car at Tamil Nadu’s Vaniyambadi town.“My intention is that everyone must work in unity and not let the common enemy capture the throne,” she told reporters and hundreds of cadre. “The party has faced several struggles and risen like a phoenix in the past,” she said referring to the work of ADMK (later renamed AIADMK) founder MG Ramachandran and his successor Jayalalithaa.Also read: ISRO experts revealed mix of rockfall, snow avalanche caused Chamoli tragedy - CMSasikala left Bengaluru on Monday morning and received a rousing reception along the road route before she reached Chennai. Sasikala made several pit stops to greet thousands of her supporters and cadre of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) - a breakaway faction formed by her nephew TTV Dhinakaran. Though the AIADMK ran a series of actions to deviate attention from Sasikala, there was music, pomp, banners up in the sky carried by drones and a crane to garland her car.With symbolism fully on display, Sasikala returned a free woman signalling that she is ready to disrupt the electoral equations in a state headed to polls in April-May. Sasikala isn’t a political novice, though she has never contested or campaigned and the Representation of People’s Act 1951 bars her from contesting or holding any constitutional post for the next six years. In her three-decade-long association with Jayalalithaa, Sasikala cultivated her own constituency within the AIADMK, particularly among the Thevar community which remains AIADMK’s loyal vote bank.She quoted a song from MGR’s 1977 Tamil film to say that she is enslaved by people’s affection but will not yield to oppression. Clad in a green saree, a colour Jayalalithaa often wore, Sasikala sat inside her car bearing an AIADMK flag undeterred by police complaints against her using the flag.Sasikala switched two cars during her journey - one reportedly belonging to an AIADMK functionary. Responding to a question by reporters on this, AIADMK spokesperson and minister D Jayakumar said, “There will be a few betrayers, it is negligible. It will not affect the party.” The AIADMK has announced several times that it won’t take Sasikala back nor will they merge with the AMMK.Sasikala briefly held the reins of the AIADMK, between Jayalalithaa’s death in December 2016 and her imprisonment in the disproportionate assets case in February 2017. Her former loyalists - chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami and his deputy O Paneerselvam, who turned against her at different points and merged their factions - will be most affected with her plans.Since her release, Dhinakaran has insisted that Sasikala remains the general secretary and her supporters will help her reclaim the AIADMK. Dhinakaran who is an independent MLA led the AMMK in the 2019 parliamentary polls with a 4 per cent vote share.Political analysts say that the AIADMK leadership should have waited for Sasikala to make the first move before exposing their paranoia. “The AIADMK has overreacted,” said political commentator Sriram Seshadri. “They should have let Sasikala pitch for herself first. Or they could have said that she is welcome to work like any other cadre for the party. That would have put her in a spot and public perception of Palaniswami would have elevated. But now, their fear has been exposed. We assessed that she will wait and act after the elections but with AIADMK’s pre-emptive complaints and closure of memorials, it seems like a show of who is one up. Sasikala has played it well by travelling in an AIADMK member’s car. And a divided AIADMK will ultimately benefit the DMK.” AIADMK’s ally BJP is also watching the developments from a distance. “The AIADMK and the AMMK are at each other's throats, creating unnecessary confusion,” a BJP leader said.Sasikala completed her four-year prison term in Bengaluru on January 27 but remained in the city’s Victoria hospital for Covid-19 treatment. Since last Thursday, AIADMK ministers have filed two complaints with the DGP office against Sasikala using the party flag and of her supposed ploy to disrupt law and order.On Sunday night, the government took ownership of six properties belonging to J Ilavarasi and VN Sudhakaran, Sasikala's relatives and co-accused in the case, as per the Supreme Court’s judgement from 2017. To prevent Sasikala from entering key locations there is a tight security at the AIADMK headquarters in Chennai. Jayalalithaa’s ‘Veda Nilayam’ residence, which the government converted into a memorial is also under strict watch while her burial place on the Marina beach is closed to the public. “They are scared... people know the reasons why this was done,” said Sasikala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sasikala-ready-to-disrupt-political-equations-calls-for-a-united-party-to-defe-101612800330782.html
08-02-2021||India||Asked by govt to block 1,178 accounts, Twitter says tweets must continue to flow||Twitter, which has been asked by the government of India in a fresh order to take down 1,178 accounts that may “foment trouble”, said on Monday that it engaging with the Centre from a position of respect.In a statement to HT, the company also said that "safety of our employees is a top priority for us at Twitter".A spokesperson of Twitter said that the company has asked for a meeting with Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. "We have reached out to the honourable minister for a formal dialogue. An acknowledgement to the receipt of the non-compliance notice has also been formally communicated," the spokesperson said."We review every report we receive from the government as expeditiously as possible, and take appropriate action regarding such reports while making sure we hold firm to our fundamental values and commitment to protecting the public conversation. An update is shared through our established channels of communication with the government," the spokesperson further said in the statement."We strongly believe that the open and free exchange of information has a positive global impact, and that the tweets must continue to flow," the statement further said.The directions have been issued under the Section 69 (A) of the information technology act that allows the government to take action against posts and accounts that may pose a threat to public order.The government's fresh order came days after the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology had asked the social media platform to block 257 accounts which were tweeting about farm laws which can impact public order. The government had called these tweets "misinformation".It has also warned Twitter of penal action in case of failure to comply with its directive. Twitter had blocked those accounts for few hours before unilaterally unblocking them.The lifting of the local ban came in the backdrop of widespread outrage against Twitter for censoring free speech.The IT ministry had also expressed its displeasure over Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey recently liking several tweets made by foreign-based celebrities in support of farmer protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asked-by-govt-to-block-1-178-accounts-twitter-says-tweets-must-continue-to-flow-101612799586901.html
08-02-2021||India||Man lynched by villagers in Assam over alleged illicit affair; 6 detained||A man in his 40s was lynched by a group of villagers in Karbi Anglong district of Assam over an alleged illicit affair early on Monday, police said.According to the police, the incident happened at a village under Bakalia police station around 1 am when the victim was found in a ‘compromising position’ with a woman by her son. Police did not say how old the son is.“The victim who was in his mid-40s and belonged to the same area, was attacked by the woman’s son and other villagers who had gathered at the site. He died due to injuries sustained in the assault,” said Debojit Deuri, superintendent of police, Karbi Anglong.“The woman, who’s separated from her husband, was in a relationship with the victim. But it was not approved by her family and fellow villagers had warned them earlier to discontinue their affair,” he added.Police have detained six persons including the woman’s son in connection with the incident. They have reportedly confessed their involvement in the incident and would be arrested soon. Efforts are on to nab the others involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-lynched-by-villagers-in-assam-over-alleged-illicit-affair-6-detained-101612799395378.html
08-02-2021||India||Jagan plans commercial, residential hubs in land allotted to UAE’s Lulu Group||Multi-storeyed commercial plazas and residential complexes will come up in prime land in Visakhapatnam, which was originally allotted to UAE-based Lulu Group International for the development of an international convention centre and a five-star hotel.The decision was taken at a high-level meeting held by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office in Amaravati on Monday.An official release from the chief minister’s office said the previous Telugu Desam Party government had given 13.59 acres of land on the beach road to the Lulu Group for a 33-year lease at a nominal price. The present government will now construct commercial plazas and residential complexes in the area, which would become prestigious projects for the port city.National Buildings Construction Corporation Ltd (NBCC) and AP Industrial Infrastructure Corporation submitted the details of the proposals to the chief minister stating that the commercial and residential complexes would fetch revenue of at least ₹1,450 crore net income to the government.In February 2018, the Lulu Group signed the agreement with the state government for developing an international convention centre, a five-star hotel and a mall at the leased site. The foundation stone for the international convention centre was laid by Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu in the presence of then Union ministers Suresh Prabhu, P Ashok Gajapati Raju and Lulu group chairman M Yusuf Ali.In October 2019, the Jagan Mohan Reddy government terminated the project on the ground that it was not viable.Subsequently, the Lulu Group announced that it would not invest in any new projects in Andhra Pradesh. The company said it had planned to invest ₹2,200 crore on the projects to provide global exposure to Visakhapatnam as a convention and shopping hub that would provide employment to over 7,000 local youth.Monday’s meeting also discussed the issue of completion of all abandoned work in Amaravati, the present capital of Andhra Pradesh. Several official and ministers’ quarters, state government employees and bungalows meant for judges and other higher officials, which were in final stages of completion, have been abandoned after Jagan took over as the chief minister.The chief minister instructed the officials to complete all the pending work of various buildings in a phased manner.He also instructed that the Krishna river bund be expanded into a four-lane road so as to provide easy access to the villages in Amaravati. The officials estimated that it would cost ₹150 crore to expand the river bund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-plans-commercial-residential-hubs-in-land-allotted-to-uae-s-lulu-group-101612799521266.html
08-02-2021||India||Read full text of Twitter's statement on govt order to block more accounts||Twitter on Monday said that it is cooperating with the central government which has asked the social media cooany to take down more accounts which may pose threat to law and order.The IT ministry had, in a fresh order, had identified 1,178 such accounts and asked Twitter to ban them. The direction was given under Section 69 (A) of the IT Act that allows the government to take action against posts and accounts that may pose a threat to public order.In a statement to HT, Twitter said it is concerned about the safety of its employees and has reached out to electronics and information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad.Here is the full text of Twitter's statement:Safety of our employees is a top priority for us at Twitter. We continue to be engaged with the Government of India from a position of respect and have reached out to the Honourable Minister for a formal dialogue. An acknowledgement to the receipt of the non-compliance notice has also been formally communicated.We review every report we receive from the government as expeditiously as possible, and take appropriate action regarding such reports while making sure we hold firm to our fundamental values and commitment to protecting the public conversation. An update is shared through our established channels of communication with the Government.We strongly believe that the open and free exchange of information has a positive global impact, and that the tweets must continue to flow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-asked-by-govt-to-block-more-accounts-says-open-exchange-of-information-101612799605400.html
08-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi says Cong's 'Join Social Media' campaign will counter online hate||The Congress on Monday launched a 'Join Congress Social Media' campaign with an aim to have five lakh online "warriors" who, former party chief Rahul Gandhi said, will counter hate and "defend the idea of India".The country needs non-violent warriors to fight for truth, compassion and harmony, Gandhi said in a video message that was streamed at the launch of the campaign.Launching the campaign along with AICC social media head Rohan Gupta and party spokesperson Pawan Khera, AICC in-charge (Administration) Pawan Kumar Bansal said the aim is to have five lakh social media "warriors".In his video message, Gandhi said, "As a young person you know what is going on. Nothing is hidden from you, in your schools, colleges and universities, you can see the oppression, you can see the attack on the idea of India.""Look outside Delhi, you can see what is happening to the farmers. The backbone of this war on the nation is a troll army. Thousands of people who spread hatred and anger and are paid to do so. We also need warriors to defend liberal values, to defend the ideas of compassion, peace, harmony and affection," the former Congress chief said."Come, join this army. This is not an army of hatred, this is not an army of violence, this is an army of truth and this is an army that will defend the idea of India. We are building this platform for you to give you the tools to fight this battle and win it," Gandhi said.Gupta, in his remarks, alleged that the Modi government is scared of social media and "we are giving a platform to the youth to raise their voice".He said people can join through website, toll-free number or by WhatsApp.Gupta said the party will take this campaign to people for a month and invite them to join. Then there will be a basic interview in all states and "we will give responsibilities accordingly", he said.He said people can work at different levels -- district, state and national -- and they will be given responsibilities accordingly.After a month of interviews those who do well will be given training, Gupta added.In his remarks, Khera said when the BJP came to power in 2014, many criticised the Congress for not being on social media, and when the party became active on social media, many said it is not on the ground, but now "we are on both".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-says-cong-s-join-social-media-campaign-will-counter-online-hate-101612798507578.html
08-02-2021||India||Manipur village bags ₹10 lakh reward for voluntarily destroying poppy plants||Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh handed over a cash reward of ₹10 lakh to a village in Ukhrul district at a gathering held at the Secretariat in Imphal on Monday.Local MLA Khasim Vashum, Chief Secretary Dr Rajesh Kumar and DGP LM Khaute were also present at the gathering.The cash reward was given to Peh (Paoyi) village authority for voluntarily destroying poppy plants grown in their village as part of the state government’s ‘war on drugs’ campaign.Lauding the villagers for their resolve to destroy the poppy plantation, the chief minister said that the state government has been putting in best possible efforts to curb drug abuse and trafficking in Manipur.He assured that a market shed with an estimated cost of around ₹10 lakh and a Primary Health Centre would be constructed in the village soon.Apart from this, a water supply scheme would also be constructed under the Jal Jeevan Mission. He further added that the government would consider development of a cultural heritage site as suggested by the villagers.Emphasising that the government is ready to provide assistance to villagers as an alternative to poppy plantation, he asked the villagers to consult the concerned officials regarding the suitability of other crops in their village. He also urged them to create awareness of the government's War on Drugs Campaign to their neighbouring villages.Appreciating the government’s move, Peh villagers also assured that they would extend full support and cooperation to the government's on-going War on Drugs Campaign.A team of officials from the Horticulture, Agriculture and Fishery departments visited the Peh village on Saturday to find out suitable alternative livelihood activity for the villagers.In her address on the opening day of the on-going budget session of the Manipur Assembly on February 3, Governor Dr Najma Heptulla informed that large quantities of contraband drugs like heroin powder and WY (world is yours) tablets were seized and over 2,800 acres of poppy plantation destroyed besides 258 drug-related cases being registered during the year. She added that nearly 357 people had been arrested too in this connection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-village-bags-rs-10-lakh-reward-for-voluntarily-destroying-poppy-plants-101612798044435.html
08-02-2021||India||Punjab is defending & supporting gangster Mukhtar Ansari, UP govt tells SC||The Uttar Pradesh government told the Supreme Court on Monday that the Punjab government has "vociferously defended" gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, who is in district jail Rupnagar in connection with an alleged extortion case, and he is “enjoying” in the prison there.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Uttar Pradesh, told a bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy that trial in several cases of heinous offences involving Ansari, a BSP MLA from Mau constituency, is held up in the state and Punjab government is “supporting a gangster”.“The state (Punjab) says Mukhtar Ansari is suffering from depression. Ansari says he belongs to a family of freedom fighter. The point is there are several cases of heinous offences lodged against him (in Uttar Pradesh). He is a gangster. He is happy in jail in Punjab," Mehta said, adding, "Why should state of Punjab support Mukhtar Ansari".The apex court was hearing a plea filed by Uttar Pradesh seeking a direction to state of Punjab and Rupnagar jail authority to immediately hand over the custody of Ansari to district jail Banda.It has also sought a direction to transfer the criminal proceedings and trial in the extortion case in Punjab to the special court in Allahabad.Ansari is lodged in district jail Rupnagar in Punjab since January 2019.During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, Mehta said, “Mukhtar Ansari is being vociferously defended by Punjab.”“He is enjoying in Punjab jail. Serious cases of murder and other offences are being held up (in Uttar Pradesh). The state (of Punjab) is supporting a gangster,” Mehta said.The counsel appearing for Ansari said that he has also filed a petition seeking transfer of case from Uttar Pradesh to Punjab and that plea should also be heard along with this matter.The solicitor general said, “It is only a delay tactic. This is question of very serious significance. In one state, he is facing trial for serious offences”.The bench said that it would hear the matter on February 24.In its affidavit filed in the apex court, Punjab has referred to the medical condition of Ansari and said that he had been undergoing treatment at jail hospital as well as other hospitals from time to time since January 2019.While referring to the medical condition and advice of doctors, it has said that custody of Ansari “could not be handed over to the state of Uttar Pradesh due to the specific advice of the medical officers/medical board/specialists” from time to time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-is-defending-supporting-gangster-mukhtar-ansari-up-govt-tells-sc-101612798015100.html
08-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kerala CM urges PM to rethink ESZ notification as shutdown halts Wayanad and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kerala CM urges PM to reconsider ESZ notification as shutdown halts WayanadThe shutdown called by the Congress-led United Democratic Front against the Union Environment Ministry’s draft notification on the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) crippled normal life in Wayanad (north Kerala) district on Monday even as chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan rushed a letter to the Prime Minister requesting him to reconsider the draft. Read more'Country doesn't run on trust': Rakesh Tikait on PM's 'MSP will stay' promiseFarmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Monday reiterated that a law is needed on minimum support price (MSP) for crops, dismissing the promise made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Parliament earlier. Read moreBihar CM Nitish Kumar welcomes PM Modi’s assurance on MSPBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday welcomed the assurance given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the floor of the Rajya Sabha that the system of MSPs (minimum support price) will not be tinkered with while bringing in agriculture reforms. Read moreIndian minister’s remarks on transgressing LAC ‘unwitting confession’: ChinaIndian minister VK Singh’s statement that India has transgressed the Line of Actual (LAC) more times than China is an “unwitting confession”, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Monday. Read more'A bit sore': Ishant gives update on his fitness after return from injuryIndia pacer Ishant Sharma had to miss out on the Australia tour as he was rehabilitating from the side strain that had ruled him out of the Indian Premier League midway into the season. Read moreMarrying Salman was my only goal, says Somy Ali about moving to Mumbai at 16Former actor Somy Ali, who in her short career in Bollywood worked with the likes of Saif Ali Khan and Suniel Shetty, has said that the only reason she came to India was to marry Salman Khan. Read moreCouple carries lost doggo for 10 km, reunites her with owners. Video is heart-meltingHeart-melting, tear-jerking and wholesome- these are the few adjectives to describe the wonderful rescue story shared by Twitter user Joy. The video shared in the post features the rescue story of a doggo that got lost in the Wicklow mountains in Ireland. After watching the clip you may find yourself reaching for some tissues. Read moreWatch: Snake inside petrol pump pipe, captured on cameraA snake was captured on camera in Odisha's Mayurbhanj. The reptile, reportedly a cobra, got stuck inside a pipe at a petrol pump. It was subsequently rescued and released into the wild, as per reports. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kerala-cm-urges-pm-to-reconsider-esz-notification-as-shutdown-halts-wayanad-and-all-the-latest-news-101612795481285.html
08-02-2021||India||11 including 9 cops injured as mob attacks police station in Assam||Eleven people including nine policemen were injured after a mob attacked a police station in West Karbi Anglong district of Assam around midnight on Sunday.Police said the incident took place in Jengkha during a cultural evening to mark the 72nd village defence party (VDP) foundation day celebrations in the area.“During the event some local youths got drunk and created a ruckus in the area. Based on a complaint, the leader of the group was brought to the police station,” said Ramandeep Kaur, superintendent of police, West Karbi Anglong.“Soon the other youths started pelting stones on the police station which was nearby. They vandalized government property, vehicles and injured nine police personnel,” she added.Kaur said that the mob cut off electricity to the police station. Police resorted to firing in the air and to bring the violence under control. Two persons who sustained minor injuries are stable and out of danger.Six of the injured policemen are still in hospital. Police have arrested one person in connection with the incident and are on the lookout for others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-including-9-cops-injured-as-mob-attacks-police-station-in-assam-101612795813894.html
08-02-2021||India||Kerala CM writes to PM Modi on ESZ notification, shutdown halts life in Wayanad||The shutdown called by the Congress-led United Democratic Front against the Union Environment Ministry’s draft notification on the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) crippled normal life in Wayanad (north Kerala) district on Monday even as chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan rushed a letter to the Prime Minister requesting him to reconsider the draft.Life came to a standstill in the district as shops, business establishments and offices remained closed and vehicles kept off the roads. The UDF said it will strengthen the stir if the draft notification was not withdrawn immediately. The agitation was peaceful. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi represents the parliamentary constituency.The issue also figured in Parliament and Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar assured members from the state that the government will take a final decision only after consulting all concerned including the state government. He said the ministry had released a draft after examining many reports including that of the state government.In the letter to PM Modi, the CM said declaring 118.59 sq km around the Wayanad wildlife sanctuary as ESZ will displace many families living in fringe areas of forests. He wanted the ministry to amend the draft and exclude some of the densely-populated hamlets.People living in fringe areas of the forest say many human settlements will come under the zone and the new announcement will cripple their lives. Last week workers of the ruling Left Democratic Front and UDF had burnt copies of the draft notification and staged demonstrations. The Diocese of Sultan Bathery also threatened to hit the streets, where a majority of people living in notified areas are Christians.According to the draft notification published by the ministry last week, the ESZ will cover an area of 118.59 km which includes 8.89 km of Tirunelly reserve forest of north Wayanad and 17.67 km of the Chedelaythu range in south Wayanad. Rich in biodiversity, the 344 sq km Wayanad wildlife sanctuary is a favourite habitat of elephants and tigers. Green activists have been questioning the fast depleting canopy of Wayanad, also a favourite get-away of tourists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-writes-to-pm-modi-on-esz-notification-shutdown-halts-life-in-wayanad-101612795834312.html
08-02-2021||India||Indian Navy employed the maximum percentage of women among three services||The Indian Navy has the maximum percentage of women in its workforce among the three services at 6.5 per cent, according to details provided by the government in Rajya Sabha on Monday.The percentage of women in the Army and the Indian Air Force is 0.56 and 1.08 respectively.In a written reply to a question, Minister of state for defence Shripad Naik said 6,807 women are employed in the Army while the number of men serving the force is 12,18,036."There has been an increase in the number of women personnel in the armed forces (excluding medical, dental and nursing cadres) during the year 2020 compared to the figures in the year 2019," he said.The minister said the Indian Air Force has 1.08 per cent women officers excluding those serving in the medical and dental wings. The number of women and men in the IAF is 1,607 and 1,46,727 respectively.In case of the Indian Navy, the percentage of women officers is 6.5. The number of women serving the Navy is 704 while the strength of men in the force is 10,108, according to the details furnished by the minister.The figure is in respect of women officers only as women are inducted at officer level at present, the reply mentioned, referring to the Navy."In addition to the provision of permanent commission to women officers in Judge Advocate General and Army Education Corps, the government of India has recently announced Grant of permanent commission to women officers in all other Arms/services in which they are eligible for commission," Naik said.Further, the government of India has sanctioned 1700 women in the Military Police Corps in a phased manner, he added."The Indian Air Force undertakes various induction publicity measures to encourage youth including women to join IAF," he said.Naik said women have been employed as officers in Indian Navy since 1992 wherein only three streams were available to them namely law, education and logistics.However, over a period of time, a number of other avenues have been opened for women which include positions like observers for maritime reconnaissance aircraft, pilots and avenues in the naval armament inspectorate, he said.Replying to a separate question, Naik said the number of suicide cases in the Army has been going down due to a large number of measures initiated by the force."The number of suicide cases in the Army has been going down due to a large number of measures initiated by the Army including conduct and implementation of recommendations of studies by Defence Institute of Psychological Research. Instances of fratricide are also not on the rise," he added.He said the steps taken by the Army include employment of trained psychological counselors, improvement in the quality of living, food and clothing, training in stress management and provision of recreational facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-navy-employed-the-maximum-percentage-of-women-among-three-services-101612795768523.html
08-02-2021||India||Farm laws: Cong MP slams govt over push back against tweets by foreign celebs||Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury questioned if the country was so weak as to feel threatened by an 18-year-old girl and treat her as an enemy for tweeting in support of protests against farm laws. He was speaking in the Lok Sabha or Lower House of Parliament.Chowdhury was speaking about climate activist Greta Thunberg who had recently tweeted her support for the protesting farmers at the Delhi borders. He also said that celebrities like Sachin Tendulkar and Lata Mangeshkar were being misled."Celebrities like Sachin Tendulkar and Lata Mangeshkar being misled. Is our country so weak that an 18-year-old-girl is being considered an enemy for speaking in favour of the protesting farmers?" he said.International pop icon Rihanna sought to draw attention towards the farmers' stir by posting a news article along with her tweet with a caption, "Why aren't we talking about this?!"Several global personalities - including Thunberg and Meena Harris, the niece of US vice-president Kamala Harris - also reacted to it showing their support to the protesters.The Indian government was swift in their push back, with the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) calling the criticism of India's farm laws by foreign personalities "unfortunate"."Before rushing to comment on such matters, we urge that facts be ascertained and proper understanding of issues at hand be undertaken," the MEA said in a statement.Home Minister Amit Shah had tweeted, "No propaganda can deter India's unity! No propaganda can stop India to attain new heights! Propaganda can not decide India's fate... only 'Progress' can. India stands united and together to achieve progress," on Wednesday following Rihanna's tweet.Soon afterwards, several Indian celebrities like Sachin Tendulkar, Virat Kohli, Akshay Kumar and others took to Twitter to talk about the issue with #IndiaAgainstPropaganda and #IndiaTogether hashtags used originally by the MEA.Thousands of farmers have been protesting against the Centre's farm laws that were passed back in September, for several weeks now. The Centre have made it clear that they would not roll back the laws while the farmers have refused to accept anything less than a complete rollback.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital against the three farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-cong-mp-slams-govt-over-push-back-against-tweets-by-foreign-celebs-101612792544794.html
08-02-2021||India||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar welcomes PM Modi’s assurance on MSP||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday welcomed the assurance given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the floor of the Rajya Sabha that the system of MSPs (minimum support price) will not be tinkered with while bringing in agriculture reforms.“It is good that the government has made it clear that MSPs are there to stay...these laws have been brought for the betterment of farmers. Bihar is not affected by the controversy since we abolished APMCs long back,” Kumar said on the sidelines of a government event.Reiterating his stand that the new laws are in the “interests of the farmers", the Bihar CM expressed hope that misgivings over the legislations that have arisen in some states would be addressed by the Centre.“A positive thing is that the Centre has shown the willingness to talk to those who have reservations about the new laws. I am sure it will be able to convince people that it has brought the laws with good intentions,” he added.Kumar maintained that the controversy around the new farm laws will have no impact in Bihar. “The Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) were done away with more than a decade ago and a viable alternative system put in place. This alternative system of procurement has given the farmers an opportunity to sell their produce wherever they want, and it is working fine,” Kumar said.He, however, noted that the system of APMCs was very much in place in states like Punjab and Haryana which have been on the boil ever since the three laws were passed by Parliament.CABINET EXPANSIONThe suspense over the Bihar cabinet continues. Two days after BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said that the expansion would take place before the assembly’s budget session, chief minister Nitish Kumar once again passed the buck to the saffron party by saying the list was yet to come.“When we get a list of prospective names (for ministerial berths), it (expansion) will take place,” the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-welcomes-pm-modi-s-assurance-on-msp-101612794818617.html
08-02-2021||India||Over ₹2.06 lakh crore GST compensation to states due for Apr-Nov||The Centre has released ₹84,000 crore till date to states under the special borrowing window to meet GST shortfall, while the provisional GST compensation due for April-November 2020 stands at over ₹2.06 lakh crore, Parliament was informed on Monday.Minister of state for finance Anurag Singh Thakur, in a written reply in the Lok Sabha, said GST compensation of ₹40,000 crore has been released to all states/Union Territories to meet partly the bi-monthly compensation for period April-May 2020 as the GST Compensation Fund was not adequate to meet the full compensation for the period.The balance GST compensation for the period April-May 2020 and for the full period June-November'20 is pending to all states/UTs due to inadequate amount in the GST Compensation Fund during the current fiscal."In order to meet the shortfall in GST Compensation to be paid to States, under the special window, ₹1.1 lakh crore will be borrowed by Government of India in appropriate tranches."The amount so borrowed will be passed on the States as loan on back-to-back basis to help the States to meet the resource gap due to non-release of compensation due to inadequate balance in the Compensation Fund... Central Government has released 14 installments of Rs. 6000 crore each to the States," Thakur said.A total of ₹84,000 crore has been released to the states under the special borrowing window.The provisional GST compensation due for fiscal 2020-21 (April-November) stands at ₹2,06,461 crore.The GST compensation released from July 2017 till date to all states together stands at ₹3.37 lakh crore.In response to a separate question on whether the government has received complaints against persons and companies regarding issuance of fake invoices to get benefit of Input Tax Credit (ITC), Thakur said 3,852 fake invoice cases have been booked during July 2017 to December 2020.The quantum of ITC availed by fake invoicing cumulatively stood at ₹35,620 crore, while 404 arrests have been made in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business/over-rs-2-06-lakh-crore-gst-compensation-to-states-due-for-aprnov-101612794747359.html
08-02-2021||India||Chirag Paswan taunts JD (U), says he is still part of NDA||Thumbing his nose at the Janata Dal (United) which does not consider the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) a member of the NDA, LJP national president and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan insisted once again that he has full faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi and is very much a part of the ruling alliance at the Centre.Paswan, who had been touring different parts of Bihar to meet families of those killed in different incidents, was talking to reporters in Jehanabad on Sunday. The LJP president, after a gap of nearly three months, also renewed his attack on chief minister Nitish Kumar on the law-and-order front.“I have full faith in Prime Minister Modi. I was with the NDA yesterday and I am with the NDA even today,” he said while replying to a query on his absence from the NDA meeting held before the budget session of Parliament. “I was invited but skipped the meeting because of health reasons,” he said.The JD (U) and Manjhi-led HAM-S had strongly objected to the invite extended to Paswan resulting in withdrawal of invitation.JD (U) general secretary K C Tyagi said his party’s stand on the LJP has not changed.“The LJP had worked against the NDA’s official candidates in the Assembly elections. It did not work merely against the JD (U) but also against candidates of the BJP and two other allies, Vikassheel Insaan Party and Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular). This caused a lot of harm to the NDA. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had himself said (during the polls) the NDA in Bihar is working under chief minister Nitish Kumar’s leadership and this includes VIP and HAM. Therefore, we do not consider the LJP a part of the NDA,” Tyagi said.Resentment within the NDA over the decision to invite Paswan to the meeting prompted its top leaders to dissuade him from attending the meeting, people familiar with the developments said.BJP’s other alliance partner, HAM-S also objected to Paswan’s claim. “He is not a part of the NDA for us. The LJP stabbed the NDA in the back during the polls. So, on what basis is he claiming to be the part of the NDA?” said HAM-S spokesperson Danish Rizwan.The LJP had walked out of the NDA in Bihar last year due to its opposition to Nitish Kumar and contested the state Assembly polls on its own. It put up candidates in all the seats where the JD(U) was in the fray while largely spared the BJP except in a few seats. Though the LJP could win only one seat in the Bihar polls, it inflicted serious damage on the JD(U), which saw its tally fall to 43 from 71. Paswan’s intransigence triggered a backlash from Kumar’s party, with some of its leaders questioning if the LJP could still be in the NDA at the Centre.During his weekend tour of the state, Chirag Paswan renewed his attack on Nitish Kumar for the spurt in crime. He had recently written to the chief minister supporting the demand for a CBI inquiry into the killing of IndiGo station manager in the state capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chirag-paswan-taunts-jd-u-says-he-is-still-part-of-nda-101612794210733.html
08-02-2021||India||Don't link farmers' agitation with one religion or community: Sukhbir Singh Badal to PM Modi||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to link the farmers' agitation with any one religion or community and said farmers from Uttar Pradesh to Kerala were united on one platform against the three agricultural laws.Speaking to the reporters after addressing ward-level meetings in connection with the forthcoming municipal elections, the SAD president appealed to the Prime Minister to talk on the agenda and focus on giving justice to farmers instead of linking the agitation with any one community."We should all be clear that the farmer is fighting for the welfare of the 'anna daata' at large and we should not try to divide this struggle by trying to limit it to one religion or community. This will not serve any purpose except alienating the government amongst the farming community," Badal said, according to a release issued by the SAD.Many farmers, mainly from Punjab, are protesting for over 70 days on the borders of Delhi against the three newly enacted farm laws.India is very proud of the contribution of Sikhs towards nation-building, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Rajya Sabha on Monday while replying to the motion of thanks on President's address."This country is proud of every Sikh. What have they not done for this country? Whatever respect we give them will always be less. I have been fortunate to spend crucial years of my life in Punjab. The language used by some against them and the attempt to mislead them will never benefit the nation," said the Prime Minister.Badal also condemned the state police for not proceeding against Gidderbaha legislator Amarinder Singh Raja Warring even after it was clearly mentioned in the suicide note of contractor Karan Kataria that Raja Warring and the latter's brother in law Dimpy Vinayak were both demanding money from the contractor, read the release."It was shocking that even after the death of the contractor who shot himself and his family members the police was not booking Raja Warring in the case. SAD will provide all necessary assistance to the victim's family and ensure justice is done in the matter", he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-link-farmers-agitation-with-one-religion-or-community-sukhbir-singh-badal-to-pm-modi-101612793160987.html
08-02-2021||India||BJP MP Locket Chatterjee says Bengal govt renaming central schemes for electoral gains||Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Member of Parliament Locket Chatterjee criticised the Trinamool Congress-led West Bengal government, saying it is fooling citizens of Bengal by claiming the credit for the schemes originally launched by the Centre.The Hooghly MP made these remarks while speaking in the Lok Sabha.Chatterjee alleged that central schemes were renamed by the Trinamool Congress for electoral benefit as Assembly polls are due in the state in next few months. Chatterjee said, “The Trinamool Congress government has renamed the health schemes and schemes aimed at helping out the farmers of Bengal. The Trinamool Congress has also stopped implementation of Centre’s schemes because they cannot ensure the steady flow of ‘cut money’ from these schemes.”The BJP MP said that the Trinamool Congress MPs are ready to reach Ghazipur border in order to address the woes of farmers but they cannot tend to the demands of farmers in West Bengal. Chatterjee attacked the Trinamool Congress government saying that farmers in West Bengal are demanding the implementation of Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme. The BJP MP also said that the recent farm laws passed by the Centre are aimed at benefiting the farmers and Trinamool Congress politicians are spreading misinformation about the schemes.Earlier on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also attacked the Mamata Banerjee-led government in West Bengal claiming that the chief minister has not implemented projects which would ensure growth and development of Bengal. He also pointed out that the state government is reluctant to implement Centre’s health and agricultural schemes in the state.“Under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, over 10 crore small farmers have received ₹1.15 lakh crore in their accounts. But farmers of Bengal could not because the state did not implement it. Now that the farmers have made up their mind to teach Mamata Didi a lesson, the state government has grudgingly agreed to join the scheme,” the Prime Minister said while addressing a BJP rally in Haldia.The Bharatiya Janata Party and the Trinamool Congress are pitched against each other in an electoral battle as Bengal heads towards elections later this year. Observers have expressed their concerns over the polling process as violence between cadres of both parties led to loss of lives of several people over the past couple of years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-locket-chatterjee-says-wb-govt-renaming-central-schemes-for-poll-gains-101612792540967.html
08-02-2021||India||VK Sasikala says she will be involved in active politics on her return to TN||Expelled AIADMK leader V K Sasikala on Monday said she will involve herself in active politics following her return to Tamil Nadu after completing a four year prison term in Bengaluru in a corruption case.In her first comments days after being discharged from a hospital in the Karnataka capital where she was treated for Covid-19, Sasikala said she was indebted to the people of Tamil Nadu but asserted she will not be cowed down by "oppression."Asked if she would visit the AIADMK headquarters in Chennai, she said "please wait and see.""Sure, for party workers," was her response when reporters asked if she would engage in active politics, months ahead of the scheduled Assembly polls in the state.She was on her way to Chennai from Bengaluru and briefly addressed supporters here."I am bound by love, to the Tamil ethos and the principles I have embarked upon. But I can never be enslaved by oppression," she told her loyalists.Earlier, she returned to Tamil Nadu to a grand reception, days after completing her jail term in Bengaluru in the ₹66.6 crore disproportionate assets case, amid indications of a confrontation with the ruling party which she once controlled. Asked by reporters about the AIADMK ministers filing police complaint against her use of the ruling party flag on her car, she said "I think it shows their apprehension."Responding to late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa's memorial in Chennai being closed for maintenance, she said "the people of Tamil Nadu know very well what all this means."Asked about supporters' demand to "wrest control of the AIADMK," she said "I will meet you all soon. Will speak in detail then."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sasikala-says-she-will-be-involved-in-active-politics-101612792016013.html
08-02-2021||India||China conveys condolences to bereaved families of Uttarakhand's flood victims||China on Monday conveyed its condolences and sympathy to the families of the bereaved and the injured in the glacier burst in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district.A portion of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district on Sunday, triggering an avalanche and a deluge in the Alaknanda river system that washed away hydroelectric stations, leaving at 11 people dead and over 200 missing who are feared dead.“We have noted that northern India had a massive flood. We want to express our condolences to the victims and sympathy to the bereaved families and the injured," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin told a media briefing here.“We hope the missing people will be rescued at an early date," he said in response to a question.The sudden flood in the middle of the day in the Dhauli Ganga, Rishi Ganga and Alaknanda rivers -- all intricately linked tributaries of the Ganga -- triggered widespread panic and large-scale devastation in the high mountain areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-conveys-condolences-to-bereaved-families-of-uttarakhand-s-flood-victims-101612791226274.html
08-02-2021||India||Navy sailor Suraj Dubey cremated with full state honors in Jharkhand’s Palamu||Indian Navy sailor Suraj Kumar Dubey who died in Mumbai on Friday night after being set ablaze by kidnappers in Maharashtra’s Palghar, was cremated with full state honours at his native village Purbadiha in Jharkhand’s Palamu district on Monday.The army and navy personnel gave a gun salute to the sailor. Jharkhand minister Mithilesh Thakur also attended the funeral.The navy man was found with severe burn injuries in the jungles of Gholvad in Palghar and died while being taken to a hospital in Mumbai.In his dying declaration, Dubey had reportedly claimed that the armed men had demanded a ransom of ₹10 lakh from him. However, his elder brother Niraj Kumar Dubey said that they did not get any ransom call between January 30 and February 5.Dubey was on leave from January 1 to February 1. He had taken a flight to Hyderabad from Ranchi at 8 am on January 30. After reaching Hyderabad, he spoke to his family members. He then boarded another flight for Chennai from where he was scheduled to take a train to Coimbatore to rejoin duty.Dubey disappeared without trace after landing in Chennai at 9 pm that night. His mobile phone was switched off and his family then contacted INS Agrani where he was deployed as leading seaman and finally filed a missing complaint with Chainpur police station in Palamu.Local leaders including Palamu MP VD Ram and former Speaker of Jharkhand assembly Inder Singh Namdhari have demanded a CBI inquiry into Dubey’s death but minister Mithilesh Thakur said the sailor’s death should not be politicised.“There should not be any politics on the death of an Indian Navy sailor. The state government will provide a financial assistance of ₹10 to the bereaved family and sanction pension for the family members.”“Not only Jharkhand but the entire country is grieving the untimely demise of an Indian sailor. The government will ensure that exemplary action is taken against those involved in this heinous crime. The government will also strive for speedy delivery of justice for this son of Palamu,” the minister said.Dubey’s family members alleged there was a conspiracy behind his death and suspect two of his colleagues were involved in the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-sailor-suraj-dubey-cremated-with-full-state-honors-in-jharkhand-s-palamu-101612791050159.html
08-02-2021||India||'Country doesn't run on trust': Rakesh Tikait on PM's 'MSP will stay' promise||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Monday reiterated that a law is needed on minimum support price (MSP) for crops, dismissing the promise made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Parliament earlier."Prime Minister said 'MSP hai, tha aur rahega' today but he did not say that a law will be formed on MSP... the country does not run on trust. It runs on the constitution and law," said Tikait, the spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU).Watch: ‘MSP was, is & will be there,’ says PM Modi; Tikait respondsHe had earlier said that business over hunger will not be allowed in the country."There will not be business over hunger in the country. If hunger goes up, price of crops will be decided accordingly. Those wanting business over hunger will be driven out of the country," Tikait said after PM Modi's reply to President's motion of thanks in the Rajya Sabha.The MSP has emerged as one of the core issue of the farmers, who have been protesting near Delhi against newly-enacted three farm laws since November last year.The farmers say that the new laws will diminish their bargaining power and put them on the mercy of big corporate houses. Their leaders have been demanding a law on the MSP to ensure it is protected.The government has called these laws "historic" for farmers and assured that MSP will stay. On Monday, PM Modi said in the Rajya Sabha, "MSP was there. MSP is there. MSP will remain in the future. Affordable ration for the poor will continue. Mandis will be modernised."Reacting to the PM's speech, another farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar, who is also member of Samkyukta Kisan Morcha, said that the government has already said "hundreds of times" that the MSP will not go anywhere and it will remain."If the government is claiming that MSP will remain, why doesn't it provide a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for our crops," Kohar said.The Centre has held 11 rounds of talks with the farmers but the impasse is still continuing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/country-doesn-t-run-on-trust-rakesh-tikait-on-pm-s-msp-will-stay-remark-101612791053571.html
08-02-2021||India||CM Jagan Reddy’s sister Sharmila preps to launch new regional party in Telangana||The stage is set for the launch of a new regional party in Telangana soon by Y S Sharmila, who is the sister of YSR Congress party president and Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, people familiar with the development said.A senior leader of the YSRC in Telangana confirmed that Sharmila had called a meeting with about 30-35 close confidants at her residence in Lotus Pond in Hyderabad on Tuesday to discuss her plans.“There has been talk that she is interested in launching a new political party in Telangana. May be, she will throw some light on the same. We are expecting that there will be some clarity whether she really wants to launch a new political party or has any other plan of action,” the YSRC leader said.A poster with a big picture of Sharmila, along with her father late Y S Rajasekhar Reddy (former chief minister of combined Andhra Pradesh), calling upon the followers of YSR to come to Lotus Pond at 10 am on Tuesday, has been in circulation on social media since Monday morning.The poster has a slogan: “YSR Samkshemam Sharmilamma Thone Sadhyam” (YSR’s welfare schemes are possible only with Sharmila) and a small map of Telangana at the right hand corner with images of YSR, Jagan, Sharmila and her mother Vijayalakshmi.For the last few days, there have been speculations on social media groups of the YSRC about Sharmila’s plans to launch a new political outfit exclusively in Telangana, independent of her brother Jagan’s party, which is currently in power in Andhra Pradesh.However, there has been neither denial nor confirmation from Sharmila’s camp. The leader quoted above said there had indeed been talk about her plans to launch a new political outfit. “It is still not known why she has chosen to launch a new political party in Telangana and what her strategies are. She might give some clarity at Tuesday’s meeting,” the leader said.Interestingly, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, at the state executive committee of his Telangana Rashtra Samithi, made an interesting comment, apparently referring to the speculations over Sharmila’s plans to launch a new political party in the state.Without naming Sharmila, KCR said there was talk of a new regional party being floated in the state, but it was not so easy to run a political party in the present circumstances.“It requires a lot of strain to launch and run a political party. We have seen the launch of quite a few regional parties in the past in Telangana, whether it was that of former MPs Ale Narendra, Vijayashanti and Devender Goud. They have all hit the dust within no time,” the TRS president said.KCR said even if a new regional party was launched, it would not survive for long and would wind up within no time. “The TRS in the only party after the TDP which has managed to sustain and survive,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-jagan-reddy-s-sister-sharmila-preps-to-launch-new-regional-party-in-telangana-101612790620202.html
08-02-2021||India||SC refuses to hear plea on removal of disparity in pension benefits of armed forces||The Supreme Court Monday refused to entertain a PIL seeking removal of disparity in pension benefits to the armed forces personnel under the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Defence.A bench comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, however, permitted the 'Humara Desh Humare Jawan Trust' to approach the Delhi High Court with its plea.The trust, in its PIL filed through lawyer Ajay Agrawal, has said that the central government's contributory hybrid pension scheme of 2005 was not made applicable to armed forces like the Army under the MoD.However, the para military forces -- BSF CISF CRPF ITBP, NSG, SSB and Assam Rifles, which are under the MHA, have been treated unequally and have been put under hybrid pension scheme, the plea said."If you want you can withdraw this and go to the High Court. If you want to argue, we will hear you. What do you want," the bench told Agrawal at the outset of the brief hearing conducted via video conferencing.When the bench said it was dismissing the petition, Agrawal sought liberty to move the high court."We are giving you liberty to go to the high court, " it said.The trust had filed the plea seeking removal of disparity in pension benefits to the armed forces personnel under the MHA and MoD in October 2020.The plea contended that the new contributory pension scheme was launched by the Centre and took effect from January 1, 2004. Through a notification on January 1, 2004, the government made the pension scheme contributory -- to be deducted from the salary of the employee, it said.“Central government is applying a hybrid pension scheme which is a mixture of old and new pension schemes to the personnel of Armed forces which came under the MHA and who joined the service after January 1, 2004. “But it is specifically provided that this new contributory pension scheme is not applicable to the armed forces of Union of India,” said the plea.The PIL stated that for the forces which come under MHA such as BSF CISF CRPF ITBP, NSG, SSB and Assam Rifles, a clarification was issued on August 6, 2004, that all these are Armed Forces of the Union under the ministry.It said that each and every personnel of Armed forces which comes under the MHA wants to get pension under the old scheme but the central government has denied it, "therefore discriminating with the armed forces under the Ministry of Defence while both the forces are Armed Forces of the Union".Even after several representations nothing has been done by the government, the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refuses-to-hear-plea-on-removal-of-disparity-in-pension-benefits-of-armed-forces-101612789733107.html
08-02-2021||India||Two BJP MLAs meet Mamata Banerjee, spark speculations of ‘homecoming’||With turncoats from Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) boosting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the assembly election in April-May, two legislators from the saffron camp met chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday afternoon, sparking speculations of their return to the party.The MLAs, Sunil Singh from Noapara and Biswajit Das from Bongaon North in North 24 Parganas district, were welcomed into the BJP at the party’s headquarters in Delhi in June 2019, a month after the BJP set a record by winning 18 of Bengal’s 42 Lok Sabha seats.Singh and Das met Banerjee at her chamber in the state assembly where she had gone to attend the ongoing budget session. Das was even seen touching Banerjee’s feet to seek her blessings.Urban development minister Firhad Hakim and food and supplies minister Jyoti Priyo Mullick were present at the 20-minute closed-door meeting.Mullick’s presence drew attention as he is also the president of the TMC’s North 24 Pargans district unit and earlier succeeded in bringing back many deserters.Significantly, Singh is the brother-in-law of Arjun Singh, the BJP’s heavyweight Lok Sabha from Barrackpore, who left the TMC prior to the Lok Sabha polls and wrested the seat by defeating the ruling party’s then sitting MP Dinesh Trivedi.Sunil Singh did not comment on the meeting and left the assembly after flashing a victory sign.“How can I comment on why he met the chief minister? I can say something if he returns to the TMC. The party will take appropriate action if something like that happens,” Arjun Singh told HT.Das was brought into the BJP by the party’s then national secretary Mukul Roy whose son Subhranshu, an MLA from the same district, also switched camps. Roy is now the BJP’s national vice-president.Das claimed that he met Banerjee to discuss some pending development projects in his constituency. “I met her because she is the leader of the ruling party,” said Das.Mukul Roy tried to avoid the issue. “Das touched Banerjee’s feet out of respect. After all, she is a senior leader,” he said.The ministers present at the meeting did not comment on what transpired. “Wait and watch,” a senior TMC leader from North 24 Parganas said on condition of anonymity.By the evening, the BJP leadership held a closed-door meeting with Das and Singh at the party's new election office in Kolkata. The meeting was held in the chamber of BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and attended by Mukul Roy and Arjun Singh.The two MLAs were summoned to the BJP office shortly after they left the assembly, a party leader said on condition of anonymity. While Vijayvargiya was holding the meeting, two TMC MLAs and actor Rudranil Ghosh, who joined the BJP with former minister Rajib Banerjee on January 31, were being felicitated on another floor of the building.Sunil Singh and Biswait Das were taken to the felicitation ceremony and were given seats alongside the newcomers."Please do not see this as a damage control exercise since no damage was done," a senior BJP state committee member said who did not wish to be named.Though the TMC earlier accused the BJP of engineering defections, the ruling party took a strong stand after former minister Suvendu Adhikari joined the BJP on December 19 along with six sitting MLAs of the TMC, three MLAs from the Left and Congress, a TMC Lok Sabha member and at least 20 district leaders and former legislators.Calling them “gaddar” (traitors), the chief minister said at several election rallies after the mass defection that the TMC was going through a cleansing process with “rotten elements” joining the saffron camp.Banerjee and senior TMC leaders intensified the rhetoric after former forest minister Rajib Banerjee joined the BJP in Delhi on January 31 along with two sitting MLAs, the outgoing mayor of Howrah town and a former legislator.Targeting the TMC, Rajib Banerjee said on Monday that the ruling party is not getting candidates for the coming polls and making offers to people at random.“You (journalists) may get offers too,” Banerjee quipped.Last week, the TMC inducted Srijan Roy, a brother-in-law of Mukul Roy and who joined the BJP in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-bjp-mlas-meet-mamata-banerjee-spark-speculations-of-homecoming-101612788710065.html
08-02-2021||India||Kerala CPI (M) leader’s remark on dialectical materialism triggers debate||The Communist Party of India (Marxist’s) senior leader M V Govindan’s remarks that dialectical materialism (foundation of the Communist ideology) was not practical in India in the present context has triggered a debate with the junior partner CPI rejecting his contention.Addressing a meeting of the Kerala School Teachers’ Association in Kannur on Saturday, Govindan, also the party central committee member, said since the mind-set of a majority of people was still feudalistic it was impractical to implement dialectical materialism in a society that was not even ready to accept materialism.He also said a majority of people still holds on to different types of beliefs so it was not possible to go ahead unmindful of the ground reality and think of implementing the ideology of dialectical materialism. The party can only work within the framework of democracy that comprises believers and irreligious people, he said. His statement came in the wake of the opposition raking up the Sabarimala issue and the way the government handled the agitation of believers two years ago. He stretched dialectical materialism to emphasise his point that the party was not against believers.Former chief minister Oommen Chandy had written a letter to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan last week asking him to approach the Supreme Court to speed up the verdict on the contentious temple issue and withdraw its earlier affidavit that favoured entry of women of all ages to the shrine. In the letter, Chandy said the government’s affidavit created much confusion which ultimately led to the five-bench verdict in 2018 that triggered widespread violence in the state. The ruling party was on the defensive after both Congress and BJP raked it up.After his speech whipped up a controversy, Govindan later clarified that he never said dialectical materialism was outdated but only pointed out practical difficulties in implementing it in the present context. Party Politburo member S Ramachandran Pillai also said a portion of his speech was blown out of proportion by opponents to create a controversy. “Dialectical materialism is the guiding principle of Communism. His words were blown out of proportion,” he said.CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran said there was no existence of the Communist ideology without dialectical materialism and he would not believe that a senior leader like M V Govindan would make such a comment. (Dialectical materialism is a philosophy of science, history and nature developed in Europe based on the writings of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels. Dialectics emphasizes importance of real world conditions in terms of class, labour and socio-economic interactions).The opposition Congress and BJP welcomed the senior leader’s admission saying Communists realise their blunders only late. “Finally realisation dawned upon a person who was an expert in taking party classes of budding Communists,” said Congress leader K Sudhakaran adding the party should tender an apology to the working class. “It was a self-goal. The submission of the senior leader shows the party has become redundant in its last resort also,” said BJP state president K Surendran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cpi-m-leader-s-remark-on-dialectical-materialism-triggers-debate-101612788290177.html
08-02-2021||India||'All hope was lost': Uttarakhand workers recall hours spent trapped in tunnel||One of the 16 people rescued by a team of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) from a tunnel on Sunday has said that the group had lost all hope, but are lucky to be alive."We were inside the tunnel when someone shouted 'move out'. But before we could leave, water entered tunnel at high speed and we got stuck. We held tunnel crown until water level subsided," the labourer told news agency ANI.We had lost hope but ITBP saved us, he added.The ITBP, along with other rescue forces like National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), the army and Uttarakhand Police, has been engaged in pulling people out from under the debris caused by sudden rush of water following a glacier bust yesterday in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand.The flash flood caused by it led to sudden swelling of water level in Dhauliganga and other tributaries of the Ganga river and destroyed a small hydeoelectric power station.More bodies were recovered on Monday, which took the death toll to 18. The state government officials said that the death toll could go up further.Two power projects - NTPC’s Tapovan-Vishnugad project and the Rishiganga hydel project - were extensively damaged with scores of labourers caught in tunnels as the waters came rushing in.A group of workers trapped in a tunnel in the Tapovan area were rescued by the ITBP team on Sunday."Our teams worked overnight to rescue about 30 workers who are trapped in the tunnel. Specialised equipment for such operations has been deployed. We are hopeful we will able to rescue everyone," ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said today.Pandey said nearly 300 ITBP personnel are currently deployed at the site.The rescuers are now trying to enter another tunnel where more workers are believed to be trapped. Teams of the NDRF had reached the spot late on Sunday night and were seen using shovels to clear the tunnel's approach. The force also used canine squads to help rescuers detect traces of life under the debris.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-hope-was-lost-uttarakhand-workers-recall-hours-spent-trapped-in-tunnel-101612787805567.html
08-02-2021||India||Telangana Cong MP A Revanth Reddy begins padayatra to protest against farm laws||Congress MP from Telangana Anumula Revanth Reddy, who has been facing intense competition within the party and stiff opposition from seniors on becoming the Pradesh Congress Committee chief, has chosen the time-tested method of undertaking a “padayatra” (foot march) to prove his popularity.Reddy, who addressed an impressive rally at Atchampet in Nagarkurnool district on Sunday night to protest against the controversial farm laws of the Centre, made an announcement that he would immediately launch a padayatra up to Hyderabad, about 130 km away, to highlight the plight of farmers. He called his walkathon ---“Rajiv Rythu Barosa Yatra.”The Congress MP, who represents Malkajgiri parliamentary constituency, called upon farmers to intensify their agitation till the Centre withdrew the laws and said he would represent their voice in Parliament.“My padayatra will be an eye-opener even to the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government in the state, which is hand-in-glove with the Centre in implementing the controversial laws in the state,” Reddy, who is presently the working president of the Telangana PCC, said amidst thunderous applause from the people.On the first day, Reddy, who represents Malkajgiri parliamentary constituency in Hyderabad, walked for nine kilometres along with former MP Mallu Ravi and Congress legislator from Mulugu Dhanasari Anasuya alias Sitakka, besides hundreds of farmers. He made a night halt at a makeshift tent erected on the road side on the Atchampet-Hyderabad highway.On Monday morning, Reddy continued his walk for a distance of nearly 25 km up to Chintapalli. Along the route, he went into the fields and interacted with farmers on the roadside to understand their problems.The Congress MP has chosen to follow the footsteps of former chief ministers of combined Andhra Pradesh Y S Rajasekhar Reddy and N Chandrababu Naidu, and chief minister of Andhra Pradesh Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy who undertook marathon foot marches to come to power.Reddy, a firebrand leader in the Congress with a huge following among the people of Telangana has been the frontrunner for the PCC chief’s post. However, he has been facing stiff competition from the other leaders including former ministers T Jeevan Reddy and Komatireddy Venkat Reddy.Seniors in the Congress like V Hanumantha Rao, Ponnala Lakshmaiah and T Jayaprakash Reddy are strongly resisting Revanth Reddy’s lobbying for the PCC chief’s post. Hanumantha Rao even threatened to resign from the party if Revanth Reddy was made the PCC chief.Mallu Ravi, who accompanied the Congress MP on his padayatra, said a majority of Congress leaders and cadre in the state were in favour of making Revanth Reddy the PCC chief.“We made a representation to the high command to this effect. He has a huge following among the people, which is evident from the turnout at the Achampet rally. If the Congress has to come to power in the state, Revanth Reddy has to be made the PCC chief,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-cong-mp-a-revanth-reddy-begins-padayatra-to-protest-against-farm-laws-101612786348303.html
08-02-2021||India||Elgar Parishad case: Bombay HC dismisses Gautam Navlakha's bail appeal||The Bombay High Court on Monday dismissed a statutory bail appeal of activist Gautam Navlakha, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, saying it sees no reason to interfere with a special court's "well reasoned order" which earlier refused him bail.A bench of Justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik said the 34 days that Navlakha spent under house arrest in 2018 could not be counted as the period spent in custody for consideration of the statutory bail.The civil rights activist was arrested by the Pune police on August 28, 2018, but not taken in custody.Between August 28 and October 1, 2018, Navlakha was kept under house arrest.He also spent 11 days in the NIA's custody from April 14 to April 25 last year, after he surrendered following re- registration of an FIR against him in January 2020.Since then, he has remained in judicial custody and is lodged at the Taloja jail in neighbouring Navi Mumbai.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is conducting a probe into the case.Navlakha approached the HC last year, challenging the special NIA court's order of July 12, 2020 that rejected his plea for statutory bail.He had sought statutory or default bail on the ground that he had been in custody for over 90 days, but the prosecution failed to file a charge sheet in the case within this period.His counsel, senior advocate Kapil Sibal, had argued that Navlakha already spent 93 days in custody, including 34 days of house arrest between August 28 and October 1, 2018, and the HC must count house arrest as the period of custody.Additional Solicitor General SV Raju, appearing for the NIA, had opposed the application, contending the special court had rightfully held that Navlakha's house arrest did not constitute detention.He had said that during such house arrest, Navlakha was not accessible for interrogation as he would have been if in regular custody.On October 1, 2018, the Delhi High Court quashed Navlakha's house arrest, holding it illegal.It had also quashed a transit remand, thus preventing the Pune police from taking Navlakha to the Maharashtra district from Delhi for questioning.Raju referred to the Delhi HC's order quashing Navlakha's arrest to point out that after the order, the activist had gone ahead and filed an anticipatory bail application, which showed the house arrest was not custody as per Section 167(2) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC).On Monday, the Bombay HC said while there was no doubt Navlakha's house arrest was a form of detention, the question before the court was whether the period of such house arrest was to be included in the period of custody, in which case he would qualify for default bail under CrPC Section 167(2).However, in its judgement, the Bombay HC answered the above question in negative."It is not possible for us to fathom a situation where detention of the appellant, though held to be illegal and unlawful, should still be construed as an authorised detention for the purpose of Section 167 (2) of the CrPC," the HC said.It said for a person to be eligible for default bail, one's entire period of 90 days of custody must be authorised by a magistrate's remand order in accordance with the CrPC.However, since the 34 days of Navlakha's house arrest had been held as illegal by the Delhi High Court, that period could not be counted as a period of custody authorised by a magistrate's court, the Bombay HC said on Monday."In our view sans any valid authorisation/order of the magistrate detaining the appellant, the incumbent will not be entitled to a default bail," the high court said."Resultantly we hold that the period from 28.08.2018 to 01.10.2018 has to be excluded from computing the period of 90 days, as the said custody has been held to be unsustainable in law by the High Court of Delhi," it said.Thus, the bench dismissed Navlakha's appeal, saying it saw "no reason to interfere with the well reasoned order" of the special NIA court.According to police, some activists made inflammatory speeches and provocative statements at the Elgar Parishad meet held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which triggered violence the next day at Koregaon Bhima village in the district.The police has also alleged that the event was backed by some banned Maoist groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elgar-parishad-case-hc-dismisses-gautam-navlakha-s-bail-appeal-101612786185711.html
08-02-2021||India||Fadnavis slams Maharashtra home minister for ordering probe into celebrities' tweets on farmers' stir||Former Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Devendra Fadnavis slammed state Home Minister, Anil Deshmukh for ordering a probe into celebrities' tweets on the ongoing farmers' protests."Disgusting and highly deplorable! Where is your Marathi pride now? Where is your Maharashtra dharma? We will never find such 'ratnas' (gems) in the entire nation who order probe against Bharat Ratnas who always stand strong in one voice for our nation. Has this Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) Government lost all its senses?" Fadnavis said in a tweet."Actually, now it seems necessary to probe the mental state and stability of the ones who made such demand and of people who ordered a probe against our Bharat Ratnas," he added.Congress leader Sachin Sawant today informed that Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has given orders to the Intelligence Department to probe the row over tweets by celebrities on the farmers' issue. He also hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleging that national heroes were being intimidated by the ruling party.Celebrities like Sachin Tendulkar, Akshay Kumar, Sunil Shetty and Lata Mangeshkar among several others had tweeted calling for unity in the country after international pop star Rihanna, teenage climate activist Greta Thunberg and others extended their support to farmers protesting at the borders of India's capital against the three new agriculture laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fadnavis-slams-maharashtra-home-minister-for-ordering-probe-into-celebrities-tweets-on-farmers-stir-101612784774726.html
08-02-2021||India||ONGC to usher in India's first geothermal field development project at Ladakh||State-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) on Monday said it will implement India's maiden geothermal field development project in Ladakh that will use the heat generated by the Earth's core to generate clean energy."A memorandum of understanding (MoU) to formalise this has been inked by ONGC Energy Centre (OEC) with the Union Territory of Ladakh and Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council, Leh on February 6," the company said in a statement.This project of ONGC will put India on geothermal power map of the world.Geothermal energy is clean and is available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Geothermal power plants have average availabilities of 90 per cent or higher, compared with about 75 per cent for coal plants."Geothermal resource development can revolutionise farming in Ladakh, which is now totally dependent for supply of fresh vegetables, fruits from outside the UT round the year. Further, direct heat energy applications make it most relevant to Ladakh," the statement said.ONGC has planned this field development in Ladakh in three phases.Phase-I involves exploratory-cum-production drilling of wells up to 500 metres depth and setting up of a pilot plant of up to 1 megawatt (MW) power capacity. Phase-II would involve a deeper and lateral exploration of the geothermal reservoir by drilling of an optimal number of wells and setting up of a higher capacity demo plant and preparing a detailed project report.Phase-III would involve commercial development of the geothermal plant."Puga and Chumathang in Eastern Ladakh happen to be the most promising geothermal fields in India. These areas were discovered in the 1970s and initial exploratory efforts were made in 1980s by the Geological Survey of India (GSI)."But, development efforts to exploit geothermal energy by the government as well as private agencies did not materialise for some reasons. After the creation of UT Ladakh, efforts were taken up earnestly by ONGC Energy Centre, culminating in this MoU," the statement said.Geothermal energy is an energy source that is stored in the form of heat beneath the earth's surface, which is clean, renewable, sustainable, carbon-free, continuous, uninterrupted and environment-friendly.It is the only renewable energy available 24x7 to mankind not requiring storage and unaffected by day-night or seasonality variance.India has seven geothermal provinces and a number of geothermal springs.Geothermal resources in India have been mapped by GSI and broad estimate suggests that there could be 10 gigawatt (GW) geothermal power potential, as per the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE).ONGC, with its mission of 'retaining a dominant position in the Indian petroleum sector and enhancing India's energy availability and recognising the fact that petroleum resources are dwindling worldwide', has taken steps to look at all forms of alternative energy.It founded ONGC Energy Centre Trust (OECT), under the Indian Trust Act, on August 8, 2005, with a mandate to undertake or assist in programmes/projects of fundamental and applied research. It will help in improving and developing commercially viable energy mediums and sources beyond hydrocarbons, especially in clean and/or renewable energy options.The Ministry of New & Renewable Energy has provided a letter of support to OEC vide letter dated April 9, 2020, for the Ladakh Geothermal Project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ongc-to-usher-in-india-s-first-geothermal-field-development-project-at-ladakh-101612785278059.html
08-02-2021||India||After PM's invite, farmer leaders say ready for talks, ask govt to choose date||Farmer unions agitating against the three agri laws on Monday asked the government to fix a date for the next round of talks, soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged them to end their stir and invited them to resume the dialogue.They, however, objected to Prime Minister Modi's remarks in Rajya Sabha that a new "breed" of agitators called "andolan jivi" has emerged in the country, and said that agitation has an important role in a democracy.Farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka, who is a senior member of the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha which is spearheading the ongoing stir, said they are ready for the next round of talks and the government should tell them the date and time of the meeting."We have never refused to hold talks with the government. Whenever it has called us for dialogue, we held discussions with Union ministers. We are ready for talks with them (government)," Kakka told PTI.Eleven rounds of talks have been held over the contentious farm laws but the impasse continues as the farmer unions remain firm on their demands -- the repeal of the three laws and legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price (MSP).In the last round of talks, the government had offered to suspend the laws for 12-18 months, but the farmer unions rejected it.Thousands of agitating farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- for over 70 days.While replying in Rajya Sabha on Monday to a debate on the President's address, PM Modi assured the farmers that Mandis will be modernised, saying "Not just this, MSP was there, it is there and will remain.""We urge those sitting on the agitation that even though it is their right to agitate, the way the old people are sitting there, is not right.""They (agitators) should be taken back. They should end the agitation and we will together find a solution as all doors are open for dialogue. From this House, I again invite them for dialogue," Modi said while appealing to farmers to end their agitation.Farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar, who is also a member of Samkyukta Kisan Morcha, said that the government has already said "hundreds of times" that the MSP will not go anywhere and it will remain in place."If the government is claiming that MSP will remain, why doesn't it provide a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for our crops," Kohar told PTI.He said that the farmer unions are ready to resume talks with the government, but there should be a formal invitation."Any issue can be resolved through proper dialogue. We are ready in-principle to resume talks," the farmer leader.In his speech, Modi slammed the mushrooming of a new breed of 'andolan-jivi' -- professional protestors -- who are seen at every agitation. These "parasites feast on every agitation," he said."Agitation has an important role in democracy. People have a right to oppose the government's wrong policies," Kakka said, referring to the remarks by the prime minister.Sukhdev Singh, Punjab general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Ekta Ugrahan, sought to know why the government is not ensuring a legal guarantee on MSP for crops and alleged that it is trying to divert the issue.Farmer leader Baldev Singh also said that government should repeal these farm laws and provide a legal guarantee on MSP for farmers' crops.Earlier in the day, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said business over hunger will not be allowed in the country."There will not be any business over hunger in the country. If hunger goes up, the price of crops will be decided accordingly. Those who wish to do business over hunger will be driven out of the country," Tikait told reporters at the Ghazipur protest site.To press their demands, protesting unions held a nationwide 'chakka jam' last week, during which national and state highways were blocked in Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-pm-s-invite-farmer-leaders-say-ready-for-talks-ask-govt-to-choose-date-101612784514167.html
08-02-2021||India||Experts from Geological Survey of India to assess Uttarakhand glacial burst||The Geological Survey of India (GSI) is planning to constitute a team of experts for the assessment of glacier burst in Uttarakhand's Chamoli using physical mapping and satellite images.Addressing a press conference, Ranjeet Rath, Director General (DG), GSI said that it is too early to predict the cause of the unfortunate incident as there are natural factors that trigger such a situation."One of our officers is already in Dehradun. We are also planning to constitute a team of experts who will visit the site and undertake a physical recce and use the data that is available through satellite images. We will do an assessment," he said.He also said that it is too early to predict the cause of the unfortunate incident as there are natural factors that could have triggered such a situation."Post this devastation, we will again constitute a committee as it is too early to predict regarding the cause of incident. Prima facie, it is glacial calving at the highest altitude in Rishiganga and Dhauliganga area and upper reaches of that," Rath said."Since the outburst has happened in the upper Himalayan region which has a very fragile ecosystem and continuously rising terrain, which is also being affected by glacial ecology. Hence, we can only tell the definite reason once the report is made," he added.The GSI DG said more measures will be taken in the future for the construction of dams, roads, and other infrastructure in the area."We learn from such events and will take more measures for the construction of dams, roads, and other infrastructure. We will map such areas in terms of landslides and habitation," Rath said.A glacier burst in the Tapovan-Reni area of Chamoli District of Uttarakhand on Sunday led to massive flooding in Dhauliganga and Alaknanda rivers and damaged houses and the nearby Rishiganga power project.Around 203 people are missing and 11 dead bodies have been recovered as of now, according to Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat.Indian Air Force (IAF) has sent a second wave of Mi-17 and Chinook helicopters from Dehradun for Joshimath with the rescue and relief teams on board.Meanwhile, Tapovan Hydro-Electric Power Dam, also known as Rishi Ganga Project was completely washed off following a glacier burst in the Chamoli district, stated the IAF's initial report as Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH) deployed at Joshimath has undertaken recce of affected areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-from-geological-survey-of-india-to-assess-uttarakhand-glacial-burst-101612784927340.html
08-02-2021||India||Tripura: Sacked teachers move high court after permission to protest denied||Sacked school teachers in Tripura on Monday moved the high court after the police denied them permission to hold a sit-in demonstration. Over 8,000 school teachers have been protesting against their termination since December 7, 2020. After the police forced them to stop their protest, the teachers sought permission to hold a sit-in for the second time. But they were denied. “A writ petition has been filed in the high court against the police for violating the teachers’ right to protest,” said Purushottam Roy Barman, the counsel who filed the petition on behalf of the teachers. Also Read | Light rain, thunderstorm likely over northeast India todayA total of 10,323 teachers were terminated following an order of the high court in 2014. The Supreme Court upheld the order in 2017. Of the 10,323, some were absorbed in different departments, while over 8,000 of them were appointed on adhoc basis—their tenure expired on March 31 last year. The teachers have been conducting a series of protests for a permanent solution to their crisis. Chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb, in September, assured them of help within two months. After not getting any response from the government after the expiry of the deadline, the teachers have been conducting a sit-in demonstration in Agartala since December 7, 2020. As their protest entered its 51st day on January 28,2021, the police forced them to vacate the protest site and detained over 100 of them. The incident prompted the remaining teachers to gather in front of the chief minister’s residence from where the police tried to disperse them using tear gas and water cannons and lathi charge. The clash left 87 people injured, including 70 teachers and 17 police personnel. Satyajit Dey, a leader of the sacked teacher’s group, said, “The writ petition has been filed on Monday. We will share details about our petition later.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-sacked-teachers-move-high-court-after-permission-to-protest-denied-101612784812876.html
08-02-2021||India||UK delegation visits Serum institute, talks held on enhancing relationship||A delegation from the United Kingdom, led by secretary of state for international trade and president of the board of trade, Elizabeth Truss, visited the Serum Institute of India (SII) on Monday. Truss met the CEO of Serum Institute Adar Poonawala during the visit."It was an honour to have the Secretary of State for International Trade, UK, @trusslizand a delegation visit our headquarters@SerumInstIndia. We discussed how to further enhance the existing relationship between India and the UK on manufacturing and innovation in the healthcare space,” tweeted Poonawala.It was an honour to have the Secretary of State for International Trade, UK, @trussliz and a delegation visit our headquarters @SerumInstIndia. We discussed how to further enhance the existing relationship between India & UK on manufacturing & innovation in the healthcare space. pic.twitter.com/IY1mPJaoeOTruss is on a four-day visit to India for talks with her counterpart Piyush Goyal towards an “enhanced trade partnership”.Talking about the visit, the Member of Parliament from South West Norfolk had earlier told Livemint that SII will produce more than a billion doses of the UK developed Oxford vaccine, helping to save lives in the country and beyond.“I am visiting the Serum Institute during my time in India, which is producing more than a billion doses of the UK-developed Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine. This will save lives across India and beyond its borders,” Truss had said.After concluding her visit to the Pune facility, Truss tweeted that SII will also be producing 1.3 billion doses for the COVAX alliance. The UK has committed £548 million as aid to the alliance which aims to help distribute one billion doses of coronavirus vaccines to 92 developing countries in this year.Met @adarpoonawalla at world's largest vaccine producer @SerumInstIndia on 🇬🇧 🇮🇳 collaboration and trade.They have made 100 million doses of the Oxford-AZ vaccine. Also making some of the 1.3bn doses as part of COVAX to help vaccinate the 🌎. The 🇬🇧 is co-funding £548m. pic.twitter.com/ghIhvLua1xTruss emphasised on India and UK’s vaccine collaboration, adding that the ties between the two countries can only get stronger from here on. “From supplying each other with goods to collaborating over vaccines, our partnership can only get stronger from now on,” Truss said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-delegation-visits-serum-institute-talks-held-on-enhancing-relationship-101612783730487.html
08-02-2021||India||'Within touching distance of pre-Covid numbers': Puri on rising domestic aviation operations||Union minister for civil aviation Hardeep Singh Puri on Monday said that the aviation industry will soon be back to pre-Covid numbers as he shared the number of passengers who flew on February 7. Puri said around 2.87 lakh passengers flew on 2,230 flights yesterday, which he added is the highest since the domestic operations resumed on May 25 last year."India flies high. 2,87,210 passengers flew on 2,230 flights on 7 Feb 2021. This is the highest since resumption of domestic operations on 25 May 2020. We are now within touching distance of Pre-Covid numbers," Puri tweeted.India flies high. ✈️ 2,87,210 passengers flew on 2,230 flights on 7 Feb 2021. This is the highest since resumption of domestic operations on 25 May 2020.We are now within touching distance of Pre-COVID numbers. pic.twitter.com/7QyBWs2NRVThis comes in the backdrop of the International Air Transport Association's report that said 2020 was the worst year for the aviation industry. As per the report, the air traffic demand witnessed the sharpest decline of 65.9 per cent globally."Optimism that the arrival and initial distribution of vaccines would lead to a prompt and orderly restoration in global air travel have been dashed in the face of new outbreaks and new mutations of the disease. The world is more locked down today than at virtually any point in the past 12 months and passengers face a bewildering array of rapidly changing and globally uncoordinated travel restrictions,” said Alexandre de Juniac, IATA’s Director General and CEO."In the domestic air passenger traffic market, Australia topped with recording the sharpest fall in air traffic demand that plummeted by 69.5 per cent in 2020 in comparison to 2019. India ranked third with a fall of 55.6 per cent in the domestic air traffic demand in 2020.Also Read | List of countries worst hit in aviation by Covid, India 3rd in domestic trafficThe capacity of domestic air travel was increased to 80 per cent of their pre-Covid capacity from the previous 70 per cent by the government in December last year. Domestic air travel had resumed in May, 2020 however the initial air travel capacity was limited to 33 per cent of their pre-Covid levels to contain the spread of coronavirus through travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/within-touching-distance-of-pre-covid-numbers-puri-on-rising-domestic-aviation-operations-101612781159707.html
08-02-2021||India||India, EU discuss possibility of opening new areas in trade cooperation||In its first high-level dialogue on bilateral trade and investment, India and the European Union exchanged views on the possibility of opening new areas of cooperation, especially on the resilience of global value chains and regulatory mechanisms besides key market access issues.India hosted the first India-EU high-level dialogue (HLD) on February 5 through virtual mode. The HLD was co-chaired by Union Minister of Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal and European Commission Executive Vice-President and Trade Commissioner, Valdis Dombrovskis.The dialogue has been established as part of the commitment made during the 15th India-EU Leaders' virtual Summit held on July 15, 2020, to provide ministerial-level guidance to the bilateral trade and investment relations.According to an official statement by the European Commission, Dombrovskis and Goyal discussed trade and investment issues with an emphasis on the socio-economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic as well as vaccine production and distribution mechanisms, including value chain linkages.Amid the pandemic which has claimed over 2.30 million lives, India, the world's largest vaccine producer, in recent weeks have supplied Covid-19 vaccines to several countries including Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh.During the discussion, Dombrovskis and Goyal also exchanged views of various important policy developments and market access issues. They also reviewed a selection of key market access issues to identify prospects for resolving them.India is an important trade and investment partner for the EU. As per the pre-Covid-19 data, India represents a sizable and dynamic market, with an annual GDP growth rate of around 6%.The EU is India's largest trading partner, accounting for Euro 80 billion worth of trade in goods in 2019 or 11.1% of total Indian trade, on par with the USA and ahead of China (10.7%).During the interaction, while the EU side provided an update on the ongoing review of the Generalised Scheme of Preferences, which expires end of 2023, and on the work towards EU Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism under the European Green Deal, India informed about the latest "Make in India" and "Self-Reliant India" initiatives.Regarding reforms in the World Trade Organisation, the EU and India discussed their views on the "state of play of WTO reforms and their cooperation in the WTO"."The two sides recalled their continued attachment to the rules-based multilateral trading system. They reiterated their commitment to cooperate to preserve, strengthen and reform the WTO, and to work together to make the twelfth WTO Ministerial Conference a success," the Commission said.During the interaction, the EU side proposed to hold a regular structured dialogue between the EU and India on WTO reform.Ahead of the Leaders' Meeting, the Co-Chairs has asked the experts to look into the feasibility of resuming work on trade and investment agreements, new areas of cooperation (regulatory aspects and resilient value chains) and to enhance collaboration on WTO reform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-eu-discuss-possibility-of-opening-new-areas-in-trade-cooperation-101612783479852.html
08-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: DRDO conducts aerial survey in Uttarakhand and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Prima facie looks like hanging glacier broke away from main structure': DRDO team in UttarakhandA team of specialists from the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), which reached Uttarakhand early on Monday morning, conducted an aerial survey of the areas in Chamoli district. Read More‘Are we fools?’: Congress says ‘no substance’ in PM Modi’s Rajya Sabha speechCongress on Monday criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech in Rajya Sabha, accusing him of ‘overlooking’ the party’s proposal on what lacks in the contentious three farm laws. Read MoreChina charges Aus journo with spying, 6 months after her detentionAn Australian journalist who worked for China’s national broadcaster for years has been formally charged with supplying state secrets abroad. Read MoreMG ZS EV 2021 facelift launched at Rs.20.99 lakh, gets new battery pack withinMG ZS EV 2021 facelift 2021 was officially launched in India on Monday at a starting price of Rs,20.99 lakh (ex showroom). Read MoreIshant Sharma joins elite list of Indian pacers with 300 Test wicketsIshant Sharma has been one of India cricket's silent warriors for over a decade now and on Monday he brought up a huge personal milestone, becoming the 6th Indian bowler to pick up 300 Test wickets. Read MoreMia Khalifa asks why Priyanka Chopra is silent on farmers' protests: 'Is Mrs Jonas going to chime in at any point?'Internet personality Mia Khalifa has asked why 'Mrs Jonas', perhaps a reference to Priyanka Chopra Jonas, has remained silent about the ongoing farmers' protests. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-drdo-conducts-aerial-survey-in-uttarakhand-and-all-the-latest-news-101612782228578.html
08-02-2021||India||India, UK discusses ways to promote trade, investments||India and the UK have held discussions on promoting bilateral trade and investments between the two countries, an official statement said on Monday.The talks were held between Minister for Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal, and UK Secretary of State for International Trade Elizabeth Truss MP on February 6.Both the ministers agreed to deepen trade cooperation between the two countries through an Enhanced Trade Partnership (ETP)."They also reviewed progress in removing market access barriers on both sides and ongoing cooperation in response to Covid-19," the commerce ministry said.It added that the two sides reviewed the ongoing engagements between the two sides for an ETP to develop a roadmap that would lead to a potential comprehensive FTA (free trade agreement), including considerations on an interim pact on a preferential basis."In a significant step forward, the ministers agreed that this partnership would formally be launched during the visit of the UK Prime Minister to India, later this year," it said.The two countries also expressed commitment to relaunch the UK-India CEO Forum and agreed on the Forum's meeting at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-uk-discusses-ways-to-promote-trade-investments-101612781926249.html
08-02-2021||India||200,000 Kashmir trout ova dispatched to Sikkim||The trout farm at Kokernag in south Kashmir, one of the largest in Asia, has dispatched two lakh trout ova to Sikkim for rearing, officials said.The department of fisheries supplied a consignment of 200,000 eyed ova of rainbow trout to Sikkim on Saturday through the Directorate of Cold Water Research Centre, Bhimtal (ICAR).“The rainbow trout is a cold water fish which could be reared for commercial purposes under natural conditions between 0-20 degree celsius, easily accepts pelleted feed, has fast growth rate and is resistant to diseases,” said chief trout farming project officer at Kokernag, Mohammad Muzaffar Bazaz.“This is the reason that the directorate of Bhimtal recommends Kashmir trout more than any other place where it is produced,” he said.This is the second time this year that the Kashmir trout has spread to other parts of the country. In the second week of January, 500,000 trout ova were dispatched to Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Uttarakhand for rearing.Brown and rainbow trouts are cold water fish that were introduced in Kashmir over 100 years ago.The farm at Kokernag uses scientific methods and modification in feed formulation along with technical knowhow of the staff for raising the fish from green ova to table sized fish and then produce brood used for seed production.“The techniques and equipment used for rearing trout fish are unique,” said another official, Syed Manzoor Ahmad.Spread over 20 hectares, the farm was set up in 1985 with support from the European Economic Committee. It started with a single hatchery which has now been upgraded to three hatcheries that supply millions of eyed ova and seeds to beneficiaries, including private fish farmers.Kashmir has two types of fisheries - warm and cold water. “For trout culture, the temperature shouldn’t exceed 20 degrees Celsius. Brown trouts are in abundance in the upper reaches,” Bazaz said.Kashmir is also known as an anglers’ paradise. Tourists, particularly foreigners, head for high-altitude water bodies as brown trout is found in high-altitude lakes and streams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200000-kashmir-trout-ova-dispatched-to-sikkim-101612781360950.html
08-02-2021||India||MoS Home Affairs says could not meet development targets in J&K due to Covid||Minister of State for Home Affairs G Kishan Reddy on Monday said speedy developmental work has been underway in the newly-constituted Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir in the last two years, but the set target could not be achieved due to Covid-19 pandemic.Asserting that "revolutionary and historical decisions" have been taken for the development of the Union territory, the minister said in Rajya Sabha that Kashmir will be connected by train by December 2022 and an elevated light rail system is also being planned in the region.He said 100% piped water connection to 80.16 lakh rural households will be provided by September 2022 in the region."Since the last two years, speedy development is happening in Jammu and Kashmir, when compared to the last 70 years. Both the Centre and the J&K government are trying to develop the region and will do more. Due to coronavirus, we could not reach the set target," Reddy said in reply to a debate on J&K Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill in Rajya Sabha.After his reply, the Upper House passed the bill which seeks to replace an ordinance issued in January with an aim to merge the Jammu and Kashmir cadre of IAS, IPS and IFS with the Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram, and Union Territory cadre, also known as AGMUT cadre.The MoS asserted that all major projects are on track in Jammu and Kashmir, and bottlenecks have been removed.Highlighting the major steps taken in the region, Reddy said the foremost is the municipal polls in rural and urban bodies.The District Development Council polls were completed successfully. There was 74% voters' participation in rural bodies elections, while 98% in block development council polls that were held post independence for the first time, he said.Not only elections were held, local bodies were strengthened giving them the responsibility of midday meal scheme, Anganwadi programme and MGNREGA, he said, adding that grievances boxes were also installed in panchayats.The minister further said gazetted officers have been asked to visit villages for two days as part of 'Back to Villages' programme to review development activities and address grievances of villages. Similarly in urban areas, 'My town and My pride' programme is being implemented.Stating that about 54% of work has been completed under the PM's Development package for J&K, he said about 20 projects, including central and UT projects, have been executed. Eight more projects are likely to be completed by the end of the financial year, he said.Among other steps taken, Reddy said the 359-metre-high Chenab bridge work is underway and will be completed by next year.In the power sector too, he said the government has started many works and an action plan has been made for creating additional capacity of nearly 3,498 mega watt (MW) by 2055.In the last two years alone, projects above 300 MW were revived and put on track. About 330 MW new projects will be kickstarted and an MoU was signed by NHPC in January this year. Four projects worth ₹34,882 crore will also be launched, he said.That apart, J&K has achieved 100% electrification, including in border villages. About 3.57 lakh beneficiaries have been covered under the 'Saubhagya' scheme, the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mos-home-affairs-says-could-not-meet-development-targets-in-j-k-due-to-covid-101612781004706.html
08-02-2021||India||'Prima facie looks like hanging glacier broke away from main structure': DRDO team in Uttarakhand||A team of specialists from the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), which reached Uttarakhand early on Monday morning, conducted an aerial survey of the areas in Chamoli district which were devastated by flash flood triggered by glacier burst yesterday. The team said that it has collected data which will be analysed to understand the reason behind the natural disaster."Our team did an aerial survey of the glacier where incident took place in Chamoli. Prima facie it looks like a hanging glacier broke away from the main glacier and came down in the narrow valley," Dr LK Sinha, Director, Defence Geo-Informatics Research Establishment of the DRDO told news agency ANI.Also Read: Mindless rampage on Himalayas has to stop, says Chipko movement leader"In the valley it formed a lake which burst later and caused the damage. The data is being analysed by our scientists in detail and if required, they would again go to get more details," Dr Sinha further said.At least 18 bodies have been recovered by the rescuers so far.Sunday's violent surge below Nanda Devi, India's second-highest peak, swept away the small Rishiganga hydro electric project and damaged a bigger one further down the Dhauliganga river being built by state firm National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC).Videos on social media showed water surging through a small dam site, washing away construction equipment and bringing down small bridges.The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) is helping the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), its state counterpart, the army and Uttarakhand Police in searching for the missing people and rescuing the injured. The ITBP said that 13 villages have been cut off due to the incident."After bridge collapsed in Raini village during glacier burst, around 13 villages have been cut off near areas such as Malari and Ghansali," said Manoj Rawat, ADG, ITBP in Joshimath.Rawat also said that dropping of food supply is underway in two of the affected villages - Lata and Raini.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said around 203 people are missing since the glacier burst. Most of the missing were people working on the two power projects.Rescuers are trying to drill their way through a 2.5 km long tunnel at NTPC's Tapovan Vishnugad hydropower project site. It was 5 km downstream and NDRF and other rescuers believe 30 workers are trapped there.The NDRF said on Monday that the rescue operations may continue for 48 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hanging-glacier-broke-away-from-main-structure-in-uttarakhand-drdo-101612780539805.html
08-02-2021||India||Centre withdraws draft heritage bylaws for Odisha’s Jagannath temple||The Centre on Monday announced that it was withdrawing the draft heritage bylaws for Shri Jagannath Temple, Odisha, issued by the National Monuments Authority (NMA).The announcement was made after Union minister of culture and tourism Prahlad Singh Patel met delegations of the Bharatiya Janata Party, led by Dharmendra Pradhan, and the Biju Janata Dal, led by Pinaki Mishra, in New Delhi separately demanding its withdrawal."The bylaws were issued without the knowledge of the chairman of the National Monuments Authority. Any further work on this will be done after consultation with all stakeholders," Patel told the MPs of both the parties.The minister said that the proposals have been withdrawn with immediate effect.Earlier on Monday morning, chief minister Naveen Patnaik made a quick visit to the 12th century Jagannath temple in Puri where he opposed the draft bylaws."Nobody can stop the good works of the Lord Jagannath. I thank the people who have sacrificed their lands for the temple. Their sacrifices will not go waste,” said Patnaik after offering prayers.On Sunday, a controversy erupted after it Odisha officials found out about the proposed heritage bylaws for Jagannath temple, Ananta Basudeva temple and another structure. While the BJD called it an "insult to Lord Jagannath", the Sri Jagannath Temple administration requested for withdrawal of the draft notification “to protect the interest of the Lords, sevaks and devotees at large".“Recently, the state government acquired lands and properties for strengthening safety and security of the centuries old shrine for the project of Sri Jagannath Heritage Corridor that will provide pilgrims with facilities such as drinking water, toilets, cloak rooms and Queue Management System. These properties have been acquired by the state Government through negotiations and most of the people have come forward to contribute their lands and properties for the purpose of this project. Any regulation which has the potential to restrict development of facilities and amenities on lands voluntarily contributed by devotees of the Lord will hurt their sentiments,” Dr krishan Kumar, chief administrator of the temple administration wrote in his letter.Similarly, the endowment commissioner of Odisha made a similar request for Ananta Basudeva temple.Last month, the National Monuments Authority of Union culture ministry had come out with draft bylaw for the 12th century temple proposing the 100 metre area around the temple as ‘prohibited area’ under Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Amendment and Validation) Act, 2010 where no new construction of any kind, either by government or private agencies, would be permitted.It proposed a further 200 metre area as a ‘regulated area’ where construction is not prohibited, but has to be approved by the NMA.The NMA's proposed notification restricting any construction within 100 metre radius of the protected monument would have adversely affected the Naveen Patnaik government's beautification plans around the two iconic temples in Puri and Bhubaneswar. In Puri, the state government has a ₹3500 crore project lined up for development of the city as a world heritage city while in Bhubaneswar it has lined up ₹700 crore plan for beautification of the area around Lingaraj temple.The Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Amendment and Validation) Act 2010 mandates that monument-specific heritage bylaws be prepared to regulate construction activity near ASI-protected monuments. As heritage bylaws, no permission for construction activities should have been granted in protected, prohibited and regulated areas in which case there would have been no danger to the preservation of Indian cultural Heritage.The government in 2010 formed the National Monuments Authority under the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Amendment and Validation) Act, 2010, whose primary role was to prepare heritage byelaws for ASI listed structures. The draft heritage bylaws need to be approved by Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-withdraws-draft-heritage-bylaws-for-odisha-s-jagannath-temple-101612779167474.html
08-02-2021||India||Mindless rampage on Himalayas in name of development must stop: Chipko movement leader||The glacial burst near Chamoli district's Raini village, the cradle of the Chipko movement, should serve as a wake-up call to stop the rampage on the Himalayan ecological system in the name of development, said Magsaysay awardee Chandi Prasad Bhatt on Monday.According to the 87-year-old environmentalist, who was a Chipko movement leader, projects like the Rishi Ganga hydel project, which bore the brunt of Sunday's calamity, should not have been given environmental clearance.Bhatt said that in 2010 he had written to the then environment minister warning against the adverse effects of the project."Had my advice been heeded, the loss of lives and largescale damage to property at the project site could have been prevented. The mindless rampaging on the Himalayas in the name of development must stop," he said.A portion of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, triggering an avalanche and a deluge in the Alaknanda river system that washed away hydroelectric stations, leaving at least 10 people dead and 143 missing, who are feared dead.The sudden flood in the middle of the day in the Dhauli Ganga, Rishi Ganga and Alaknanda rivers -- all intricately linked tributaries of the Ganga -- triggered widespread panic and large-scale devastation in the high mountain areas.Two power projects -- NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project and the Rishi Ganga Hydel Project -- were extensively damaged with scores of labourers trapped in tunnels as the waters came rushing in.Pointing out that the Himalayas are too delicate to bear too much human intervention, Bhatt, who has also been honoured with the International Gandhi Peace Prize, said, "Sunday's avalanche was a wake-up call and so was the 2013 Kedarnath deluge in which thousands perished but authorities refuse to learn from natural calamities."A devastating natural disaster in the form of torrential rains of unseen magnitude had struck Kedarnath on 16-17 June in 2013.The banks of the Chorabari lake in Kedarnath collapsed due to a cloudburst that had resulted in a major flash flood causing widespread destruction in Uttarakhand and led to heavy losses to infrastructure, agriculture lands, human and animal lives."The Chipko movement had begun from Raini village after largescale devastation in the Rishi Ganga and Alakananda Valleys caused by a devastating flood in 1970. The flood awakened the locals to the need of saving the forests of Raini," said Bhatt who lives in Gopeshwar told PTI.The movement had resulted in a ban on cutting of trees in the catchment area of the Alaknanda river, he said.Women from Raini village of Uttarakhand had started the movement in the 1970s by clinging onto trees to prevent them from being cut. Though the movement was started to prevent the felling of trees, it went on to become an inspiration for environment conservation.Bhatt said environmental clearance to a 13 MW hydel project in a river close to its point of origin in a Himalayan glacier amounts to inviting calamities like this. Environmental clearance to projects like that on the Rishi Ganga without proper consideration could be highly detrimental to the delicate Himalayan ecological system. It also results in inordinate delay in clearance to infrastructural projects of public use, he said. Bhatt also underscored the need for updating the knowledge of the ecological system connected with places where rivers like the Ganga and its tributaries originate in the Himalayas. "On the points where the Ganga or its tributaries originate there are not only glaciers but also lakes of varying sizes, big and small, about which our knowledge is negligible. It needs to be augmented," he said."We need to identify such lakes and glaciers, show them on our maps and keep a tab on them. An effective mechanism of sharing basic information on their vulnerability with the local administration and the local populace should also be developed," Bhatt stressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mindless-rampage-on-himalayas-in-name-of-development-must-stop-chipko-movement-leader-101612777672133.html
08-02-2021||India||Ghulam Nabi Azad likely to be nominated to RS from Kerala||Senior Congress member and Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, whose tenure in the Upper House will be ending next month, is likely to be nominated from Kerala in April when three members from the state retire, a senior party leader, who did not want to be identified, said.He said the party high command was keen on the re-nomination of Azad who was elected to Rajya Sabha from Jammu and Kashmir in 2015.Going by the numbers in the state legislature, two seats will go to the ruling dispensation and one to the Opposition. Also Read | ‘Are we fools?’: Congress says ‘no substance’ in PM Modi’s Rajya Sabha speechThree members from Kerala who are retiring are senior Congress leader Vayalar Ravi, Muslim League’s Abdul Wahab and CPI(M)’s KK Ragesh. Wahab is likely to contest for an assembly seat in the upcoming election. The ruling CPI(M) will have to give a seat to the Kerala Congress (Mani) which went to the Left fold last year after its chairman Jose K Mani gave up his RS seat. Last year, AICC general secretary KC Venugopal, hailing from Kerala, was nominated to the Upper House from Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghulam-nabi-azad-likely-to-be-nominated-to-rs-from-kerala-101612779292768.html
08-02-2021||India||Bihar plans to set up 4 new universities, bills likely in Budget session||The Bihar government is set to establish four new universities – each varsity dealing with a specialised stream - and the bills for them are likely to be placed before the Bihar Legislative Assembly in the forthcoming Budget Session.“The work on the four bills is in advanced stage and they will soon be given final shape,” said a senior government functionary, who did not want to be quoted.One university will be exclusively for the medical stream, while another will be for engineering. Since 2010, all the medical and engineering colleges are under the Aryabhatt Knowledge University (AKU). AKU started functioning from 2010 with the objective of regulating all technical institutions by bringing them under one umbrella.AKU will be left with some specialized centres of excellence. At present, it has four autonomous centres – Centre for Geographical Studies, the Pataliputra School of Economics, Centre for River Studies and Centre for Journalism. There is a plan to set up three new centres for Philosophy, Stem Cell and astronomy. The objective is to make it a research university, said an official of the AKU.However, with engineering and medical institutions moving out of AKU, sources said it could face resource constraint and would have to entirely depend on the government grant.Prior to 2010, all the engineering and medical colleges were under different universities and they were all brought under one umbrella of AKU. A decade later, the government has now felt the need to have separate universities for medical and engineering.At present, Bihar has nine government and six private medical colleges. Besides, a plan is for afoot for opening 11 more. In addition, AIIMS, Patna and Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), Patna are autonomous institutions imparting medical education.In the engineering field, currently Bihar has around 50 colleges, including 38 government-run institutions. Once a separate university is formed, all the colleges will shift from AKU to the new university.Two other new universities in the pipeline are for art and culture and sports. The University for Art & Culture is to be located at Madhubani and will cover institutions dealing with music, dance, fine arts, theatre as well as contemporary visual performing arts, while the Sports university will be set up at Rajgir.In 2018, Bihar had carved out three new state universities from old universities at Patna, Purnea and Munger to take the total number of state-run universities in the state to 17, which include a Persian university, a Sanskrit university, an agriculture university, a veterinary university and an open university. The three state universities were created after two-and-half decades. Besides, Bihar also has a law university.Bihar has also added a number of central institutions in the last one and half decades--- IIM, IIT, NIT, National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology (NIELIT), two central universities, NIFT etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-plans-to-set-up-4-new-universities-bills-likely-in-budget-session-101612778172768.html
08-02-2021||India||Kerala BJP says Congress' promise to protect Sabarimala custom is 'poll stunt'||BJP State Vice President of Kerala KS Radhakrishnan on Monday said that Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee chief's promise of legislation to protect the custom of Sabarimala was just an election stunt.He also challenged the United Democratic Front (UDF) to disclose the number of leaders in the alliance who were implicated in the Sabarimala agitation."UDF now introduced the promise of legislation in line with Sabaramila traditions, it is just an election stunt. I have to ask one single question. How many Congressmen? How many Kerala Congressmen? How many men from the Muslim League have been booked by the police for participating in the Sabarimala agitation? Not a single legal proceeding has been initiated against anyone of the UDF leaders or workers," said BJP State Vice President talking to ANI."I would like to ask my UDF friends to reveal the names of the UDF leaders, either Congress, Muslim League, or Kerala Congress who have been implicated in the Sabarimala agitation," he added.Radhakrishnan termed UDF's move as sheer hypocrisy and opportunism and alleged it was just an exercise to get some votes.He alleged the move was just a plot to attract the majority community to UDF's fold for which it had made a hypocritical step of coming up with a meaningless promise.KPCC President Mullappally Ramachandran on Saturday had said that if UDF wins the upcoming Assembly elections in the state, it will make legislation in connection with women's entry in Sabarimala which will not hurt the rituals of the believers.Mullapally also challenged Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to explain why the government is not ready to make legislation on the issue and said the argument of state government being legally unable to make legislation is factually incorrect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-bjp-says-congress-promise-to-protect-sabarimala-custom-is-poll-stunt-101612777695386.html
08-02-2021||India||Ghulam Nabi Azad raises doubts over govt's intention to give statehood to J&K||Questioning the ruling NDA on whether it wanted permanent UT status for Jammu and Kashmir, Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad on Monday batted for restoration of its statehood, saying development had halted, there was an increase in unemployment and industries were closing, making survival difficult in the region.The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said, "I want to ask Home Minister Amit Shah if the present cadre was working well then what was the need to merge it? You had promised that the statehood will be restored....But bringing this bill creates suspicion that GoI wants to keep J&K permanently a union territory."Opposing the Statutory Resolution and Legislative Business (Bill for Consideration and Passing) - the Jammu and Kashmir (Amendment) Bill 2021 as the first speaker, Azad said it was perhaps his last speech in the House and he didn't want to use harsh language but contrary to the government's tall promises behind converting J&K into UT, development had been stalled, industry couldn't enter and unemployment was on the rise.Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy had earlier moved a motion for considering the bill and a statutory resolution on the draft law in Rajya Sabha.The senior Congress leader said Article 370 had only two conditions — outsiders couldn't buy land or work there which had been in place since the time of Raja Hari Singh.Saying that only small chunks of land were there due to the region being mountainous and full of forests, he said on scrapping of Article 370 many MPs were elated to buy land but he had told them that land was too costly there and "even I couldn't afford to buy" it.The earlier law ensured locals had jobs but now no new industries were coming up and even existing firms were shutting operations, he said, adding seven districts out of 10 in Jammu province had no industry and no proper rail connectivity."No new industry is coming up at present... Of the 12,997 industries in Jammu, only 5,890 are functional, while 7,160 i.e. 60% are closed... development remains stalled... It is only on TV and not on roads," he said.The condition of national highways is dilapidated and ceasefire violations have risen causing severe damage to land and property, he said and added that water supply was in shambles, while power tariff had risen abnormally to ₹350 per unit from ₹90 per unit.Tourism had taken a toll on account of months-long curfew earlier and then due to Covid-19 pandemic, schools, colleges and universities were closed and no salaries were being given to teachers.Had there been elected representatives they could have taken responsibility and addressed the issues, he said.Drawing Home Minister Amit Shah's attention towards PhD and MPhil qualified 3,000 teachers, he said they were living from hand to mouth, barely being given ₹3,000 a month and were on probation for 7 years. He said no where does this happen."Give attention to such issues ...probation happens for six months...Had there been Assembly they should have gone there with their plight but they are forced to come to me...they can't afford milk for infants on such a meagre salary," Azad said.He said likewise 15,000 medical assistants and pharmacists were jobless."Give statehood and conduct elections," Azad demanded and said it is a border region and both the enemies -- Pakistan and China -- are sitting on our heads, and under the circumstance the government should strive to win the hearts of locals and strengthen its hands.He said people of Kashmir had always been with India and recalled how Kashmiris, including women and children, resisted Pakistan's bid to capture the region in 1948, till the Indian Army reached there.Azad also said that though it was Muslim-majority state, the executive remained largely Hindus and urged the government not make "Kashmir a guinea pig for experiments."While participating in the debate, BJP's Dushyant Gautam said that political parties in the state were exploiting the people under the guise of Article 370.AIADMK's A Navaneethakrishnan said the state requires more all India services cadre officers to implement the development schemes in the Union Territory."It is for a good purpose ... these amendments has been brought on. I welcome it and support this bill," he said, adding that considering it is a border state, with threats from Pakistan and China, J&K should remain under the direct control of the Union Government.Manoj Kumar Jha of RJD wanted to know whether the changes proposed under the bill were temporary or permanent in nature. He also wanted to know from the government whether there had been any increase in fresh recruitment in militancy in the valley after the change of J&K's status.Ashok Siddharth of BSP also supported the bill, however, said earlier 50% of the state cadre KAS officials were elevated to IAS cadre but after this, their elevation would be reduced to only 33% and this should be looked into.Sushil Kumar Gupta of AAP said the government should take steps to normalise the situation in J&K and restore its full statehood as promised earlier.Shamsher Singh Manhas of BJP said UTs of J&K and Ladakh have several development schemes which are getting implemented."This is the only area where three AIIMS have been granted. One each for Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh. It has also got one IIT and IIM," he said, adding a new ring road for Jammu is also being constructed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghulam-nabi-azad-raises-doubts-over-govt-s-intention-to-give-statehood-to-jk-101612778543841.html
08-02-2021||India||Sent names of 2.5 lakh Bengal farmers to Centre for PM Kisan scheme: Mamata||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi slammed the TMC dispensation for not implementing central schemes in West Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday told the Assembly that her government has sent to the Centre names of 2.5 lakh farmers who are eligible for benefits under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana.She sought to know why the Union government has not disbursed any cash benefit to the beneficiaries as yet.Banerjee told the House that the state government had received a list of six lakh applicants from the Centre for verification, of which 2.5 lakh names have been sent to the Centre for financial assistance under the central welfare programme.She also said that her government would float 19 industrial projects in the state, entailing an investment of ₹72,200 crore, and create 3.29 lakh employment opportunities.The CM was responding to questions raised by the members of the House during a debate on a vote-on-account that she had presented on February 5.With state elections round the corner, Banerjee had presented a vote-on-account for ₹2.99 lakh crore in the Assembly and made a slew of announcements, including a hike in the annual aid of farmers.The chief minister has increased the annual financial assistance, under the state government's 'Krishak Bandhu' scheme, to ₹6,000 from ₹5,000, keeping in mind the interest of farmers.She said that benefits of the central scheme should be made available to the sharecroppers, along with support provided by the state to all cultivators, irrespective of their landholdings.Under the PM Kisan scheme, ₹6,000 per year in three equal instalments is provided to small and marginal farmer families having a combined landholding of up to two hectares.Addressing a rally in Haldia on Sunday, the prime minister had assailed the state government for not implementing central schemes like Ayushman Bharat and PM Kisan Samman Nidhi.He asserted that once the BJP forms its government in the state, it will take steps to implement all such stalled programmes at the very first cabinet meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sent-names-of-2-5-lakh-bengal-farmers-to-centre-for-pm-kisan-scheme-mamata-101612778372833.html
08-02-2021||India||Rajnath Singh says Rafale induction ceremony cost exchequer over ₹41 lakh||The induction ceremony of the first five Rafale jets at the Ambala Air Force base on September 10 last cost the exchequer a little over of ₹41 lakh including ₹9.18 lakh GST, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said in Rajya Sabha on Monday."The first five Rafale aircraft of IAF were formally inducted into IAF on September 10. The arrangements for this event were made mostly through local resources of IAF. The total expenditure on the event was ₹41.32 lakh including ₹9.18 lakh of GST," he said.Singh said all new variant of aircraft are traditionally inducted into the Indian Air Force through a "befitting ceremony"The Rafale induction ceremony was attended by French Defence Minister Florence Parly and the top echelon of the French aerospace major Dassault Aviation, the manufacturer of the aircraft.The first batch of the five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29, nearly four years after India signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to procure 36 of the aircraft at a cost of ₹59,000 crore.The formal induction ceremony of the fleet had taken place nearly six weeks later.A second batch of three Rafale jets arrived in India on November 3 while a third batch of another three jets joined the IAF on January 27.The Rafale jets are India's first major acquisition of fighter planes in 23 year after the Sukhoi jets were imported from Russia.The fleet has been carrying out sorties in eastern Ladakh where Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in a standoff for the last nine months. The first squadron of the Rafale jets is stationed at the Ambala air base while the second one will be based at the Hasimara base in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-says-rafale-induction-ceremony-cost-exchequer-over-rs-41-lakh-101612775615421.html
08-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand disaster: JPVL closes Vishnuprayag hydropower project as a precaution||Jaiprakash Power Ventures Ltd (JPVL) has said it has closed its Vishnuprayag Hydro Electric Project (VHEP) as a precaution in view of flash foods in the Chamoli district of Uttarakhand.In a statement, the company has stated that it has closed the power plant in view of flash floods on Sunday."On February 7 (Sunday), an unusual event took place in the river basin of Dhauli Ganga in District Chamoli (Uttarakhand) between 9.30 am and 11 am."Unfortunately, a glacier plunged into the Raine village of the district Chamoli, causing river to rise rapidly, leading to swollen river level for some time which caused damage to life, property and projects falling in direct contact of flow of the river," the company said in the statement.JPVL has a 400-megawatt Vishnuprayag Hydro Electric Project with its barrage over the Alaknanda river, and the project's tail race tunnel discharging water in river Dhauli Ganga, it stated.As a responsible corporate operating in Uttarakhand for over 30 years, the company said, "They are saddened by this tragedy caused due to events beyond the control of all and an act of nature."The company explained that "sudden development of the 'Force Majeure' event led to the closure of the power generation."The river water gushed in through the tail race tunnel of the project bringing with it the slush."We are analysing all aspects and assessing the time to bring back the project to its pre-closure status (operations were stopped at 11 am on February 7 due to this tragic glacier event)."We remain confident that VHEP will resume operations after completing the cleaning and checking all aspects in a few days," it added.The company also said JPVL is providing full assistance and assurance to the district authorities in relief operations and will continue to provide all humanitarian aid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-disaster-jpvl-closes-vishnuprayag-hydropower-project-as-a-precaution-101612776687996.html
08-02-2021||India||‘Are we fools?’: Congress says ‘no substance’ in PM Modi’s Rajya Sabha speech||Congress on Monday criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech in Rajya Sabha, accusing him of ‘overlooking’ the party’s proposal on what lacks in the contentious three farm laws. Speaking to the media after PM Modi’s address in the Upper House, Congress MP Mallikarjun Kharge wondered if ‘all of us are fools?’“There was no substance in PM Modi’s speech in Rajya Sabha. He overlooked Congress’ proposal on what lacks in the three farm laws and rejected concerns of farmers, graduates and scientists saying nobody knows anything. Are we all fools?” Kharge was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.There was no substance in PM Modi's speech in Rajya Sabha. He overlooked Congress' proposal on what lacks in 3 farm laws and rejected concerns of farmers, graduates & scientists saying nobody knows anything. Are we all fools?: Congress MP Mallikarjun Kharge pic.twitter.com/unTHvNFhhAPM Modi’s comments on farm laws on Monday came during his response to the Motion of Thanks to President Ram Nath Kovind’s address, in the Upper House. The speech had several jibes against Opposition parties, including the Congress, which have thrown their weight behind farmers protesting against the legislations on the outskirts of Delhi.In his speech, the Prime Minister attacked his predecessor, Dr. Manmohan Singh, who was also present in the House, saying that those who are doing a 'U-Turn' on the farm laws will agree at least with Singh. “Manmohan ji is here, I’d read out his quote. Those taking a U-Turn on farm laws will perhaps agree with him,” he said.Also Read | 'To remove all those handicaps,' PM Modi quotes Manmohan Singh on farm reforms“There are other rigidities because of the marketing regime set up in the 1930s which prevent our farmers from selling their produce where they get the highest rate of return. It is our intention to remove all those handicaps which come in the way of India realising its vast potential at one large common market,” the Prime Minister quoted Singh as saying.During his address, PM Modi also reiterated that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) ‘hai, tha aur rahega (it is there, it was there, it will be there).’ A legal assurance for MSP is one of the two major demands of the farmers, besides a total repeal of the laws.Also Read | Praising Ghulam Nabi Azad, PM Modi slips in 'G-23' taunt at CongressThe Prime Minister’s speech also featured an attack on people he referred to as ‘aandolan jeevis’ (professional agitators), who, he said, are seen at every agitation. "We have to identify them," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-we-fools-congress-says-no-substance-in-pm-modi-s-rajya-sabha-speech-101612775848846.html
08-02-2021||India||'Will be here again with huge mandate': Mamata Banerjee defends state budget||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday, defending the state budget presented by her last week in the absence of finance minister Amit Mitra as he is under medical supervision, asked what the problem is if the state budget is an advertisement for the upcoming elections. She further assured that the Trinamool Congress will be back in the state with a huge mandate."Some are saying that the state budget is advertisement ahead of polls. Even if it is an advertisement, what's the problem? Some are saying we are here for a few days. We will be here again with a huge mandate," the West Bengal chief minister said in the state Assembly, as reported by news agency ANI.The TMC chief is at loggerheads with the BJP that is eyeing the eastern state in the upcoming Assembly elections.Also Read | 'Tired of aunt-nephew regime': PM Modi on those joining BJP in BengalBanerjee presented the vote on account on Friday and announced old age pension for all above the age of 60 years and widows aged over 18. The pension for both has been increased from ₹750 to ₹1,000 per month last year.The state government has decided to make full contribution to the provident fund of the unorganized worker. The government has decided to waive off the beneficiary contribution to the subscription of provident fund. "Under Bina Mulya Samajik Suraksha Yojana, any enrolled unorganised worker can avail all the available benefits without spending a single rupee," as per the state budget.In the backdrop of the major farmers' protest, the chief minister has also announced financial assistance to each farming family under the 'Krishak Bandhu Scheme' and the assured income under the scheme will be increased from ₹5,000 to ₹6,000. "We have again requested the Central Government to immediately release and distribute the financial assistance under the Kissan Nidhi Samman Yojana to all the farmers of the State," Banerjee said during her speech.Also Read | Mamata announces job creation, hike in farm aid ahead of electionsFree rations for those impacted by the coronavirus pandemic will continue after June 2021 with ₹1,500 crore earmarked for that. Many such ambitious schemes were announced by the TMC leader.Opposition parties said the budget announced by the chief minister this year is a marketing gimmick to woo the votes in her favour. CPM leader Sujan Chakraborty said it was "laughable" to see Banerjee announce her aspirational budget ahead of the expiration of her tenure, reported PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-be-here-again-with-huge-mandate-mamata-banerjee-defends-state-budget-101612772205070.html
08-02-2021||India||After Congress complaint that celebs tweeted over farm laws under pressure from BJP, Maharashtra govt order probe||The Maharashtra government said on Monday that it will order a probe into the tweets by celebrities against international pop icon Rihanna over the issue of ongoing agitation in opposition to Centre's farm laws.The decision has been taken on a complaint by the Congress party, which is a part of the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance in the state.A delegation of the Congress party met Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh earlier in the day claiming that Indian celebrities reacted to Rihanna's tweet under pressure from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Also Read: PM Modi cautions against 'new FDI'Deshmukh assured Congress delegation that the intelligence department of the Maharashtra Police will investigate into tweets by Indian celebrities."If BJP is intimidating our national heroes, they should be provided security. We spoke to home minister Anil Deshmukh and he said it is a serious matter. He has given orders to the intelligence department to probe into this," said Sachin Sawant, spokesperson of the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC).The Congress had also claimed that there was a certain pattern behind the tweets by sportspersons and cricketers."There was a series of tweets after MEA's response to Rihanna's tweet. If a person, be it a celebrity, opine on their own, it's fine but there's a scope of suspicion that BJP could be behind this. We have cited common words like 'amicable' in these tweets," Sawant added.Many famous personalities and sports icons like Sachin Tendulkar, Virat Kohli, Ajinkya Rahane, and film personalities like Lata Mangeshkar and Akshay Kumar had posted tweets countering Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg.The tweets from these celebrities came after a statement from the ministry of external affairs (MEA) which called the criticism of India's farm laws by foreign personalities "unfortunate"."Parliament of India, after a full debate and discussion, passed reformist legislation relating to the agricultural sector. These reforms give expanded market access and provided greater flexibility to farmers," the ministry said in a statement."Before rushing to comment on such matters, we urge that facts be ascertained and proper understanding of issues at hand be undertaken," the MEA had further said in the statement.The foreign ministry had used two hashtags - #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda - while posting the statement on Twitter. Soon, it turned into a social media movement with many central ministers and celebrities using the hashtags to popularise the underlying message that there is an international conspiracy going on to weaken India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-to-probe-if-indian-celebs-tweeted-over-farm-laws-under-pressure-101612774887099.html
08-02-2021||India||Decline in Covid cases in J&K in January, trend continues in February: Govt data||Covid-19 cases in Jammu-Kashmir are dropping fast and death ratio in both the divisions of the Union Territory, Kashmir and Jammu, has also come down.Government’s Covid-19 data since March 2020 shows that in January, J&K reported 53 deaths and 3,535 cases, a sharp decline from 189 deaths and 10,747 cases in December. In terms of percentage, the month saw 71% dip in deaths and 67% decline in cases in comparison to December. In the first week of February, J&K recorded eight deaths and 403 cases. The numbers were 20 and 1,205 respectively for the corresponding period in January.Dr Javaid Malik, Professor, and head of department, chest medicine, SKIMS Medical College, Bemina, said Covid-19 cases have drastically come down in J&K. “We shouldn’t lower our guard because it can flare up again if we don’t follow proper guidelines.” It was also for the first time in the past 8 months that the monthly death count has gone below hundred. Last time it was so in June with 73 deaths and 5,051 cases.Also Read | 1 in 5 adults exposed to Covid-19: Key points of ICMR’s nationwide sero survey“We are in control...The daily numbers have gone down considerably. We are registering zero daily deaths quite often now,” said director heath, Kashmir, Samir Mattoo.January also recorded the lowest average daily cases since June. While there were 114 cases daily on an average in January, the number was 346 in December, 514 in November, 632 in October, 1,245 in September, 559 in August, 414 in July and 168 in June.On an average, less than two daily deaths were recorded in January, six in December, seven in November, 10 were reported in October against 16 in September.Dr Salim Khan, head of department, social and preventive medicine, Government Medical College (GMC) Srinagar said that the trend indicates that Covid-19 is declining in J&K. “The ratio of positive cases in the tests has been currently 2-3%. In GMC and its associated hospital, we used to report 3 to 5 deaths daily, now there are one or two Covid deaths in a week. Once the vaccination process is completed, we should be able to conquer this disease,” said Khan who is also the district nodal officer for Srinagar which has the highest caseload as well as deaths in J&K.Baramulla Covid care centre can also boast of fewer cases. Only three months ago, it had nearly 100 Covid cases. “We have very few cases now. The centre is almost empty,” said Dr Masood, superintendent, Baramulla Medical College hospital.The total active cases in J&K dropped to 709 on February 1 which accounts for 0.56 % of the overall 124,550 cases. As many as 1,222 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 722 in Jammu till February 7.Dr Amjid, a senior doctor at Government Medical College Baramulla, said, “The situation has completely changed on ground...It seems like we are heading towards herd immunity.”Over one-fourth of Kashmir’s healthcare providers have antibodies against Covid-19, a sero-survey has revealed.Recently, the sero prevalence of SARS CoV-2 specific IgG antibodies among healthcare providers of Kashmir division showed 27.3% with antibodies.The study was conducted in January by Government Medical College Srinagar in collaboration with the directorate of health services, Kashmir, and JK National Health Mission among healthcare providers of Kashmir division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decline-in-covid-cases-in-j-k-in-january-trend-continues-in-february-govt-data-101612774672435.html
08-02-2021||India||Significant reduction of heavy metal pollution during Covid-19 in Ganga: Study||New Delhi [India], February 8 (ANI): A new study by a team of scientists from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur shows a significant reduction of heavy metal pollution during the COVID-19 pandemic in the Ganga water, informed the Ministry of Science and Technology on Monday.The scientists analysed daily geochemical record of the Ganga river and showed that reduced industrial discharge during 51 days of mandated nationwide lockdown decreased the dissolved heavy metal concentrations by a minimum of 50 per cent.In contrast, inputs from agricultural runoff and domestic sewage like nitrate and phosphate remained almost the same as these sources were not impacted by the nationwide confinement.The research was supported by the Indo-US Science and Technology Forum (IUSSTF), a bilateral organisation under the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India and US Department of States. It was published by 'Environmental Science and Technology Letters'. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/significant-reduction-of-heavy-metal-pollution-during-covid-19-in-ganga-study-101612773415336.html
08-02-2021||India||'We didn't think MSP was ending,' says Rakesh Tikait after PM Modi's speech||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, on Monday, said that if the central government could form a law assuring the minimum support price (MSP), it would be beneficial for all the farmers of the country. He also mentioned that the farmers are being “looted” by the traders because of the absence of such a law.“When did we say that MSP is ending? We said that a law should be formed on MSP. If such a law is formed, all the farmers of the country will be benefitted. Right now, there is no law on MSP and the farmers are looted by traders,” the leader of the BKU was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read: No ‘ghar wapsi’ till farm laws are repealed, says Rakesh TikaitTikait’s comments after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, earlier on Monday, assured that the minimum support price scheme will continue in the future in India and the mandis in the nation would be modernised, during his speech in the Upper House of Parliament. “MSP was there. MSP is there. MSP will remain in the future. Affordable ration for the poor will continue. Mandis will be modernised," PM Modi said.Watch | ‘India emerged as pharmacy of the world during Covid’: PM ModiPM Modi also said that the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government has been making changes in the agriculture sector since 2014, aimed at improving the lives of the farmers. “NDA's other schemes also help farmers. For example- the PMGSY (Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana). When the road connectivity improves, it enables the produce of the farmers to reach distant places. There are efforts like Kisan Rail too. The need of the hour is to improve the lives of the small farmers,” he said.Alongside repeal of the three farm laws, assurance on MSP has been one of the major demands by the farmers and unions protesting at the Delhi borders. Despite the central government’s offer to suspend the farm laws for a period of 18 months during the tenth round of talks, the farmers have rigidly pressed for the complete repeal of the three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-didn-t-think-msp-was-ending-says-rakesh-tikait-after-pm-modi-speech-101612773691002.html
08-02-2021||India||The Hindustan Times Trailblazer Award 2021 presented by Ambience: Dr VS Priya||Life wasn’t rosy for Dr VS Priya. Born as Jinu Sasidharan in Thrissur, Kerala, this Ayurvedic doctor sensed her true gender identity early on, but continued to endure the mockery, until it became a matter of life and death. And that’s when she decided to, with the support of her parents, undergo a gender reassignment surgery early last year, making her Kerala’s first transgender Ayurvedic doctor. “It has been challenging,” she admits, adding, “We’re not made to feel like humans.” Ask Priya about her courageous transition, she shares, “It has been taxing one being a trans-woman, and it is for any person who is queer. We are constantly shunned from revealing our own identity. We are just breathing machines. Even while growing up, I felt different from others but I didn’t understand what it meant.” Recalling her childhood memories of being ‘different’, for Priya, it also meant constant bullying, mocking and feeling frustrated. As she didn’t have many acquaintances to share her feelings during her teenage years, Priya started penning down her thoughts in a journal which her parents unexpectedly discovered soon, who then without giving a second thought took her to a psychiatrist. “They [parents] were taken aback and disappointed to read the diary where I had written about my attractions and infatuations and feelings that I was going through. But the psychiatrist ruled out any possibilities of mental illness after examining me,” says Priya whose parents were relieved, but soon began curbing her freedom. “They thought it was a fault in my upbringing,” she shares. After harrowing time finishing school, it was the year to enter college where Priya was firm to masquerade her identity, learn ‘boy’ mannerisms to lead a normal life. “I thought I needed a change and break. I couldn’t lead the same life, the same way. I learnt mannerisms, I started controlling myself. I started to mask myself as a boy. I started studying Bachelor of Ayurveda, Medicine and Surgery (BAMS) from Vaidyaratnam Ayurveda College, Ollur, Thrissur, and even during entrance coaching, I used to be in my room preparing myself to be another person when I enter college. I controlled and behaved like a boy and thought about gestures and became very conscious of my movements as a ‘boy’ and I became successful, I made friends and I had the freedom to enjoy.”After completing her graduation in 2008, Priya went ahead for further studies and pursued KVG Ayurveda Medical College, Dakshina Kannada in Karnataka where she continued to cover-up her personality but the pent up feelings from over the years started taking a toll on her. Priya says, “I diverted my mind and kept focusing on my education and profession. I joined several hospitals, worked at different places constantly to keep my mind occupied so that I don’t have any time for myself but I felt tired of hiding my identity. It again started feeling not like a human anymore. I was just breathing, working and sleeping. There was nothing beyond it.” Soon, she joined Sitaram Ayurveda Hospital, which was close by her place where felt settled and at peace. “Now at least I had the time for myself and work on myself,” she shares.With a motive and strong determination, Priya slowly started bringing gender sensitization topic during conversations with the peers at work to bring a mindset change. But first, she needed herself to come terms with it. “I had to overcome my male ego that I built up to survive college life. It was a big risk that I had undertaken. I wasn’t just risking my profession but also my family and the social status. But the only two options I had were— to live or to die and I felt that if I had to live, I wanted to live peacefully.” All this prepared and pushed her to kick start her research about the transition process. “I started researching about transition because I was ready to take an action to survive. And by the time I was ready to tell my parents, I was 100% ready and strong-minded to tell my mother. Although, they knew about the issues regarding the identity during the childhood, so this was like a second time to make the reveal but I was prepared now and I was in the position to answer all questions. I realised that my parents needed more care and it wasn’t a time to debate or quarrel with them, rather have a calm conversation.” And the reactions? “My mother was shocked but accepted happily as I wasn’t an immature kid any longer. I had my plans. My parents loved me more than anything. My parents love me irrespective of the gender identity. They love me as their kid. That’s what parents should do. Moreover, it wasn’t an impulsive decision I was taking. I had devoted plenty of time in my research,” she adds. Professionally too, she ensured informing her patients in advance. “I explained my regular patients the processes I was going through and asked them not to panic if they see a ‘lady doctor’ on their next visit”, she further shares.Apart from multiple surgeries and therapies and numerous consultations with experts, Priya also decided to change her name Jinu Sasidharan given at birth. She says, “I liked Janaki which is synonymous with Sita but my cousin suggested that now it’s time for happy and loving new beginnings. So, I opted for Priya, and I always wanted a very feminine name and wanted to be loved.”How did the lockdown help her with the transition? “Transition is a synchronised process; it is not all about the surgeries. I wanted a gradual change. I told my doctors Dr Arjun Ashokan and Suja P Sukumar that I want to grow as a woman. The lockdown gave me time to build confidence towards my goal, as I had enough time for rest and recovery. I feel like a human being now. I feel I am living ,” says Priya, who is glad that society is gradually becoming more aware.”Adding further she states, “Earlier we were only mocked upon, even in movies; these characters were shown to be mocked, like some comedy characters. If there’s a child born with special needs, families accept wholeheartedly and bear the expenses for therapy. But for us, it is different and that time, it becomes about social status. But fortunately, things are changing now though people need to be educated more. It should start from school level to spread awareness,” she concludes.Interact with author/sanchita_kalra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-hindustan-times-trailblazer-award-2021-presented-by-ambience-dr-vs-priya-101612773952386.html
08-02-2021||India||Expert team to assess Uttarakhand glacial burst using satellite images: Official||The Geological Survey of India on Monday said that it was soon to predict the cause of the glacial burst in Uttarakhand that led to flash floods in the state’s Chamoli district. An official was quoted as saying by news agency ANI that post the devastation, another committee will be constituted to assess the incident, adding, prima facie, “it's glacial calving at highest altitude in Rishiganga and Dhauliganga area and upper reaches.”Follow latest updates on Uttarakhand flood hereThe official said one of the Geological Survey of India’s officers was already in Dehradun. “We're also planning to constitute a team of experts who will visit the site and undertake a physical recce and use the data that is available through satellite imageries. We'll do an assessment,” he told ANI.One of our officers is already in Dehradun. We're also planning to constitute a team of experts who will visit the site & undertake a physical recce & use the data that is available through satellite imageries. We'll do an assessment: DG, Geological Survey of India#Uttarakhand pic.twitter.com/lBLNYWrDSNA former glaciologist, at Dehradun-based Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, DP Dobhal told HT that it was difficult to say exactly what happened. “Locals have told me that water and debris were flowing at great speed for about 15 to 20 minutes this morning and then the flow reduced gradually. This indicates a lake outburst. It’s possible that water and debris accumulated in a lake in the glacial region of Rishi Ganga valley breached due to an avalanche.”He also pointed to the possibility of an avalanche that may have happened earlier, like the day before or very early Sunday morning. “The water filled up in the lake and breached. It may be very similar to what happened in 2013 with the Chorabari lake during the Kedarnath disaster. Only difference is that this time it’s in winter and that was during monsoons,” said Dobhal.Prof Anil Kulkarni of Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore, also suspected that the flooding may be linked to a glacial lake outburst flood (GLOF). “This is a classic case of climate change impact on the glacier. We have again and again highlighted that such disasters will become exceedingly common due to climate change as more and more glaciers retreat,” he explained.The joint rescue operations by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), the Indian Army, the National Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) forces are underway in the affected areas. Ten bodies have so far been recovered in Chamoli district following the glacier burst that damaged two dams, Rishi Ganga and Dhauli Ganga. Over 150 people are still feared missing, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expert-team-to-assess-uttarakhand-glacial-burst-using-satellite-images-official-101612772793161.html
08-02-2021||India||Take cognisance of suspension of internet during protest, activist Poonawalla urges CJI||Political activist and columnist Tehseen Poonawalla has written to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) S A Bobde urging him to take suo-motu cognisance of the “arbitrary suspension” of internet by the government whenever there is a protest.Under the present government India holds the "disgraceful record of most internet ban amongst democracies across the globe” Poonawalla said. “Your Lordships, it is with great distress I am writing to you, pleading to immediately take suo-motu cognisance of the arbitrary suspension of internet by the government whenever there is a protest. “Your Lordships, you will agree that the internet today is an integral part of our lives. From medical records to daily livelihood, the internet is firmly embedded in today's human life,” he said in the letter written to the CJI on Friday.He further said that the “present government and their supporters brand most dissent as anti-national, most dissenters as terrorists so that they can come down heavily and curb free speech while they themselves indulge in hate and provocative statements”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-cognisance-of-suspension-of-internet-during-protest-activist-poonawalla-urges-cji-101612771606182.html
08-02-2021||India||'To remove all those handicaps,' PM Modi quotes Manmohan Singh on farm reforms||Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Rajya Sabha address on Monday quoted former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, defending the farm reforms, as the latter was sitting in the House."I am quoting former PM Manmohan Singh ji as the opposition may not listen to me but may listen to what Manmohan Singh ji has said. 'There are other rigidities because of marketing regime set up in the 1930s which prevent our farmers from selling their produce where they get the highest rate of return. It is our intention to remove all those handicaps which come in the way of India realising its vast potential as one large common market,' Manmohan Singh has said. But now there is clear U-turn of the Congress," PM Modi said.On a lighter vein, he added that Congress should take pride in considering that what Manmohan Singh had said long ago, Modi has to do now."Farmers have their democratic rights to protest. But I am again saying this through this House that no roads are closed. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar is holding consultations with the farmers," PM Modi said.Talking about minimum support price system, PM Modi said, "The system will always be there in practice, as it is and as it has been in the past. We should not spread misinformation about this.""The country needs to move forward, not backward," PM Modi said, once again batting for the reforms. He said that the issues of small farmers have been raised by all governments, irrespective of whether something could be done on the ground or not. In this regard, he mentioned NCP leader Sharad Pawar and said that Pawar supported the reforms but was not on board on how the laws were passed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-remove-all-those-handicaps-pm-modi-quotes-manmohan-singh-on-farm-reforms-101612770593436.html
08-02-2021||India||Muslim community in Faizabad donates for Ayodhya Ram Temple||Members of the Muslim community on Sunday donated funds for the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya, at Ram Bhawan in Uttar Pradesh's Faizabad.Talking to ANI about the donation, Member, Muslim Rashtriya Manch, Ayodhya, Haji Saeed Ahmed said, "Lord Ram is everybody's and Ram Temple belongs to everyone. We all Muslims in large numbers will assist in the construction of the temple."He asserted that whatever Babur and Mughals did in Ayodhya was not right. Lord Ram and his teachings are worth appreciation."Lord Ram belonged to our Hindustan and we too belong to this nation. We belong to Lord Ram's dynasty we are all one. We are not from Iraq, Iran or Turkey. Hindus are our brothers. Lord Ram is our ancestor and we have a deep respect for him, he is just like a prophet for us," he added.Speaking on the occasion, Ram Bhawan President Shakti Singh told ANI, "Today through the 'Nidhi Samarpana Abhiyan', Muslim brothers of Faizabad have donated ₹5,100 for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. They have also told us that even in the future they shall participate in the temple's construction."Nidhi Samarpana Abhiyan is a fundraising drive being conducted for the construction of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya.Singh further stated that the initiative sets an example of peace and unity not only in the country but also in the world. Quoting the lines "Mazhab nahi sikhata aapas mein bair rakhna Hindi hain, hum-watan hain, Hindustan hamara" from the patriotic song 'Sare Jahan Se acha Hindustan Hamara', Singh said that the way people from all walks of life came forward to contribute towards the temple construction, is exemplary in its own way.Shabana Begum, a member of the Muslim community, said that she contributed to the Ram temple construction adding that she wants an end to violence and the establishment of peace."I am very happy to donate for this good cause and would like to appeal to all my Muslim brothers to come forward and actively contribute for temple construction," said Dr Syed Hafiz, Chairman, Sayed Mohammad Ishtiyak Mahila Mahavidyalaya, Nawabganj, Gonda.Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust is conducting a mass contact and contribution campaign for the construction of the grand temple in Ayodhya which began on January 15 and will go on till February 27.After the Supreme Court gave the verdict for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed Bhoomi Pujan for the temple on August 5, 2020, at the temple site in Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muslim-community-in-faizabad-donates-for-ayodhya-ram-temple-101612758623803.html
08-02-2021||India||PM Modi praises Ghulam Nabi Azad, slips in 'G-23' taunt at Congress||Prime Minister Narendra Modi marked out veteran Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad for special praise in Parliament while taking a swipe at the grand old party’s ongoing internal churning regarding the leadership issue and the letter controversy.Replying in the Rajya Sabha to a debate on the President’s budget session speech, PM Modi drew attention to Azad’s easy manner and his comments on his native Jammu and Kashmir and the recent local polls.“Ghulam Nabi ji always speaks decently, never uses foul language. We should learn this from him, I respect him for it. He praised elections held in J&K... I believe your party will take it in right spirit, and not make the mistake of doing opposite by listening to suggestions of G-23,” said the PM, referring the term for a group of 23 in the Congress who wrote to party chief Sonia Gandhi last year demanding changes in the organisation.Read more: ‘Working for small farmers’, says PM Modi amid farm stir, hit outs at ‘new FDI’Ghulam Nabi Azad, the leader of the opposition in the Rajya Sabha, was one of the signatories to that letter.Before Azad, the PM singled out another Congress leader, Partap Singh Bajwa and panned him."Bajwa sahab from Congress was also speaking. He was speaking in such detail that I thought he will reach Emergency (period) shortly and speak on it, he is just one step away from it. But he didn't go there. Congress disappoints this country a lot, you did that too," remarked PM Modi.Watch: PM Modi responds to ‘democracy under threat in India’ narrative||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/praising-ghulam-nabi-azad-pm-modi-slips-in-g-23-taunt-at-congress-101612770251069.html
08-02-2021||India||Explained: How glaciers can burst and send floods downstream?||The floods that slammed into two hydroelectric plants and damaged villages in northern India were set off by a break on a Himalayan glacier upstream. Here's a look at how glaciers and glacial lakes form and why they may sometimes break:HOW GLACIERS AND GLACIAL LAKES FORMGlaciers are found on every continent except Australia and some are hundreds of thousands of years old. A large cluster of glaciers are in the Himalayas, which are part of India’s long northern border. Sunday’s disaster occurred in the western part of the Himalayas.Glaciers are made of layers of compressed snow that move or “flow” due to gravity and the softness of ice relative to rock. A glacier's “tongue” can extend hundreds of kilometers (miles) from its high-altitude origins, and the end, or “snout," can advance or retreat based on snow accumulating or melting.“Ice may flow down mountain valleys, fan out across plains, or in some locations, spread out onto the sea,” according to the National Snow and Ice Data Center.Proglacial lakes, formed after glaciers retreat, are often bound by sediment and boulder formations. Additional water or pressure, or structural weakness, can cause both natural and manmade dams to burst, sending a mass of floodwater surging down the rivers and streams fed by the glacier.WHY DID THIS GLACIER BURST?It's not yet known what caused part of the Nanda Devi glacier to snap off Sunday morning, sending floodwater surging downstream toward power plants and villages in India’s northern state of Uttarakhand.Seismic activity and a buildup of water pressure can cause glaciers to burst, but one particular concern is climate change. High temperatures coupled with less snowfall can accelerate melting, which causes water to rise to potentially dangerous levels.“Most mountain glaciers around the world were much larger in the past and have been melting and shrinking dramatically due to climate change and global warming,” said Sarah Das, an associate scientist at Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute.CAN SUCH DISASTERS BE PREDICTED?Past deadly or highly destructive glacial floods have occurred in Peru and Nepal.But the remote locations of glaciers and a lack of monitoring mean we don't have a clear understanding of how often they occur and if they are increasing, Das said.“Given the overall pattern of warming, glacier retreat, and increase in infrastructure projects, though, it seems natural to hypothesize that these events will occur more frequently and will become overall more destructive if measures are not taken to mitigate these risks,” said Das.A number of imminent potentially deadly glacier burst and flood situations have been identified worldwide, including in the Himalayas and South American Andes.But while monitoring is possible, the remoteness of most glaciers presents challenges.“There are many glaciers and glacial dammed lakes across the Himalayas, but most are unmonitored,” Das said. “Many of these lakes are upstream of steep river valleys and have the potential to cause extreme flooding when they break. Where these floods reach inhabited regions and sensitive infrastructure, things will be catastrophic."A 2010 information page published by the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development called for more glacier monitoring in the Hindu Kush Himalayas to better understand “the real degree of glacial lake instability.”The region where the glacial burst occurred is prone to landslide and flash flooding, and environmentalists have cautioned against building in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-how-glaciers-can-burst-and-send-floods-downstream-101612768623165.html
08-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: BSF guns down intruder from Pakistan along J&K border and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BSF guns down Pakistani intruder along border in J&KThe Border Security Force (BSF) Monday gunned down a Pakistani intruder along the Indo-Pak international border in Samba sector. Read moreChamoli flood: Rescue ops on via 2nd tunnel at Tapovan, over 30 feared trappedThe Indian Army and the ITBP personnel carried out the clearing of the second tunnel with the help of Engineer Task Forces through Sunday night in order to carry out rescue operations in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district. Read morePLA shore up weaponry, stock up food as Xi asks it to be ‘combat ready’President Xi Jinping has directed the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to be “combat ready” during the upcoming Chinese New Year (CNY) holidays and prepare for information warfare as key to victory over enemy forces. Read more‘Throughout the series, he will get 1-2 hundreds’: Vaughan backs Kohli to end century drought against EnglandFormer England captain Michael Vaughan has rubbished the idea that Virat Kohli may be out of form or that he will go without a century for too long. Read moreDiljit Dosanjh responds to Kangana Ranaut's comments on TV interview: 'What is this drama?'Actor-singer Diljit Dosanjh has responded to actor Kangana Ranaut's latest barbs against him on a television interview. Read moreKajol adds a little edge to basic all-black look with quirky asymmetric jacketJust add a little edge to a classic black jacket and it becomes the most badass outfit. Kajol's latest sartorial pick is a testimony to this statement. Read moreGrandson's 'inverted mug' prank on grandma may leave you in splits. WatchThe Internet is a treasure trove of amusing prank videos. This Instagram video shared by Lance Stewart is one of them. It shows Stewart playing an innocent and hilarious prank on his grandma. Read more‘India emerged as pharmacy of the world during Covid’: PM Modi in Rajya SabhaPM Modi replied to the motion of thanks on the President’s address in the Rajya Sabha. PM Modi spoke on India’s battle against the Covid pandemic and said that the victory does not belong to any government but to the nation. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bsf-guns-down-intruder-from-pakistan-along-j-k-border-101612768572227.html
08-02-2021||India||Manipur: Hailstorm in some hill villages, residents hope for bountiful harvest||Some hill villages in Manipur, including Shirui where the state flower Shirui Lily (Lilium Mackliniae) grows, were swathed in a white carpet on Sunday afternoon after a sudden 30-minute hailstorm.The hailstorm at Shirui village, Ukhrul district, started at around 3pm, according to residents of Ukhrul town, 84km north of Imphal.There have been no reports of any untoward incidents of damage to life and property.The people in Ukhrul district believe that Sunday’s incident was a sign of blessing for a bountiful harvest this season.Also Read | Light rain, thunderstorm likely over northeast India today“We’ve a traditional belief that snowfall or hailstorm around this time (February) is a sign for a good harvest this season,” said Chingya, a resident of Tushen,a hill village 25km west of Ukhrul town, which witnessed the first ever hailstorm of such magnitude in the last 50 years. “My 72-year-old father witnesses such an incident in our village for the first time.”Recalling a similar incident that took place in 2015 in the hill station,Th Shaiza,a resident of Ukhrul town said,”Such rare weather phenomena are very significant for cultivation activities.”Echoing a similar sentiment, M Zimik,another resident of Ukhrul, said Sunday’s incident indicates that there will be a better climatic cycle for a bountiful harvest in their area as per their traditional beliefs.On Sunday, Ukhrul recorded a rainfall of 20.6mm, according to the directorate of environment climate change’s daily weather report.Along with Shirui and Tushen villages in Ukhrul district, some of the hill villages such as Oktan near Haochong in Manipur’s Noney district and some parts of Mao area including Mt Iso,the highest peak in Manipur in Senapati district, also witnessed low-intensity hailstorm on Sunday. The residents of Imphal also witnessed rainfall for about half-an-hour around 4.30pm on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-hailstorm-in-some-hill-villages-residents-hope-for-bountiful-harvest-101612769212474.html
08-02-2021||India||‘Credit to India, not govt’: In RS, PM Modi hails fight against Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday hailed India’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) in the Rajya Sabha. PM Modi’s remarks came during his response in the Upper House to the Motion of Thanks to President Ram Nath Kovind’s address; the President’s address on January 29 marked the commencement of the ongoing Budget session of Parliament.Click here for live coverage of Budget sessionThe Prime Minister noted how the whole world was sceptical of what would happen if India is unable to handle the pandemic. “People in our own country tried to spread fear. No one knows what an unknown enemy can do. This was an unprecedented crisis so nobody knew how to handle this unknown enemy. However, today the whole world recognises that India played a significant role in saving humanity,” PM Modi said.Also Read | 'Country needs to be saved from foreign destructive ideology': PM Modi in RSThe credit for this goes not to any government or an individual, but to India, he remarked. The Prime Minister also recalled a photo from last year of an old woman lighting an earthen lamp outside her small hut to pray for India’s well-being, noting that the woman was, however, mocked. “You might’ve seen on social media the photo of an old woman sitting outside her hut on footpath, lighting a diya and praying for the welfare of India. However, there are some who mocked her, made fun of her emotions,” PM Modi said.He also recalled days when smallpox and polio used to spread fear among people, adding how people had to toil to get vaccines for the two diseases. “If we go back to those days, we’ll realise that a country seen as a third world country has come up with a vaccine for the welfare of humanity that too in such a short span of time,” said PM Modi, lauding India’s scientists.Also Read | ‘Working for small farmers’, says PM Modi amid farm stir, hit outs at ‘new FDI’The Prime Minister also said that the country can be proud that the world’s largest vaccination drive against Covid-19 is being conducted here. “India emerged as a pharmacy during the pandemic. We distributed vaccines in 150 countries during this crisis,” PM Modi said adding that the world today proudly says that it is receiving vaccines developed in India.PM Modi also praised India’s federal structure, saying that both the Centre and states showed how they can work together in times of crises. He directed particular praise to state governments for their efforts.India’s Covid-19 caseload is the second-highest in the world, behind that of the United States, and ahead of Brazil’s. The country’s tally currently stands at 10,838,194 after 11,831 cases were registered in the preceding 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry on Monday. However, of these, more than 10.5 million or over 97% are recovered cases, as per the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/credit-to-india-not-govt-in-rs-pm-modi-hails-fight-against-covid19-101612768425817.html
08-02-2021||India||Sena need not lie about what happened in Balasaheb’s room: Sanjay Raut||The war of words between former allies Shiv Sena and Bharatiya Janata Party has escalated. After Union home minister Amit Shah denied any promises were made to Sena, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party has circulated a video clip of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis where he said “posts and responsibilities” will be shared equally. Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that the party is not helpless for power to lie on what transpired in the close door meeting between Shah and Uddhav Thackeray in Sena’s former chief late Bal Thackeray’s room.Shah, who visited Sindhudurg on Sunday, reiterated that he never promised Shiv Sena that it would share the chief ministership for an equal term. “They [Thackeray] say I had promised them about it in a closed-door meeting at Matoshree. I never do anything behind [closed] doors. Everything is done in daylight... Modiji and I had declared Devendraji [Fadnavis] as the next CM after the [2019] Assembly polls. Why did Thackeray, who used to share the dais with us, not object to it then?” he questioned.Also Read | Never promised sharing of CM’s post in Maharashtra to Shiv Sena, says Amit ShahShah, who was the BJP national president when the alliance between Sena-BJP was renegotiated ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, had also said that Thackeray compromised Bal Thackeray’s principles for power.Countering that charge, Raut told news agency ANI, “Our lives have been dedicated to that room (Bal Thackeray’s room). Nobody would believe that Uddhav Thackeray would come out and lie about what was discussed in that room. We are not helpless for power that Uddhav Thackery or anybody else would lie about what transpired in the room.” He added that he can understand the pain of the BJP for not being able to form the government in Maharashtra despite having 105 MLAs, power at the Centre, and control over central agencies.In an apparent swipe at the BJP leadership, Raut also tweeted a couplet in Hindi on Monday morning, “Toofan zyada ho to kashti doob jaati hai... Aur ghamand zyada ho toh hastiyaan doob jaati hai.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sena-need-not-lie-about-what-happened-in-balasaheb-s-room-sanjay-raut-101612768132568.html
08-02-2021||India||BSF guns down Pakistani intruder along border in J&K||The Border Security Force (BSF) Monday gunned down a Pakistani intruder along the Indo-Pak international border in Samba sector.A BSF spokesman said that at about 0945 hours (9.45am) , BSF troops observed a Pakistani intruder heading towards the fence near border pillar number 64 in BOP Chak Faquira in Samba sector. “Despite repeated warnings, the intruder kept moving suspiciously, approached the fencing in an aggressive manner and was fired upon by BSF troops,” he said. Also Read | J&K police book father of slain ‘terrorist’ for holding protestThe body of the man has been recovered.He had entered approximately 40 metres into Indian territory.A Pakistani intruder had been killed in the same area on November 23, 2020. A tunnel, around six to eight years old, was also detected in this area recently. A search of the area is in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-guns-down-pakistani-intruder-along-border-in-jk-101612768072222.html
08-02-2021||India||From 'FDI', 'naraz fufi ji' to swipe at Derek O'Brien: PM Modi's top quotes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's speech on Monday in reply to the motion of thanks on the President's address to the joint sitting of Parliament covered a wide array of issues but was not bereft of sarcasm and banter. Through the House, he again invited farmers to stop the protest and find a solution through negotiations.Here are PM Modi's top quotes:'Was he talking about West Bengal?'Talking about the speeches of the MPs that were delivered in the previous days, Prime Minister Narendra Modi mentioned Trinamool MP Derek O'Brien' speech which was punctuated with words like 'freedom of speech', 'intimidation' etc. "When I was listening to him, I was wondering if he is talking about Bengal or the country. He sees all this for 24 hours. So he might have said the same here too," PM Modi said.'Bajwa ji's speech disappointed me as Congress does'Referring to Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa's speech, PM Modi said, "It was such a detailed speech that I was thinking now he will speak about the Emergency period. But he didn't. His speech disappointed me as Congress does," PM Modi said.'MSP tha, hai aur rahega'Reiterating his commitment to the system of minimum support price, PM Modi said, "MSP was there, is there and will be there. We should not spread misinformation about this."'Be proud that Modi has to do what Manmohan Singh said'Quoting former PM Manmohan Singh on farm reforms where he had commented on empowering farmers to sell their produce in the market, PM Modi said, "Those who are not listening to what we are saying will hopefully listen to Manmohan ji's words. You should, in fact, be proud of the fact that Modi has to do what Manmohan Singh had said long ago."'These andolan jeevis are parjeevi'"A new class of people has emerged in recent times who can be seen in all agitations and protests. These are andolan jeevis. States will agree with me as they too are encountering the emergence of this section. They are actually parasites feasting on agitations and protests," PM Modi said.'Be wary of FDI'This FDI is not related to investment, but vested interest as PM Modi elaborated this as foreign destructive ideology. The country needs to save itself from this FDI, he said, referring to international attention to farmers' protest. He also referred to J&K, northeast in this thread and said the country if proud of its Sikhs though there are attempts to mislead them.'When fufi ji gets angry for not being invited to wedding'Talking about opposition's protest against farm laws, Prime Minister said, "A lot was discussed in the House but mostly it was on the protest, not on the solution...you can oppose the procedure but could have explained to farmers that it is high time for these farm reforms....but now they are saying they were not consulted before, like 'fufi ji' who gets angry for not being invited to the wedding..this happens in large families||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-fdi-naraz-fufi-ji-to-swipe-at-derek-o-brien-pm-modi-s-top-quotes-101612765669139.html
08-02-2021||India||Chamoli flood: Rescue ops on via 2nd tunnel at Tapovan, over 30 feared trapped||The Indian Army and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel carried out the clearing of the mouth of a second tunnel with the help of Engineer Task Forces through Sunday night in order to carry out rescue operations in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district where glacial burst led to flash floods. “Work continued throughout the night with earthmovers by installing generators and searchlights. Field Hospital providing medical aid at the incident site,” the army said on Monday.The rescue ops are now being conducted through the bigger tunnel in the Tapovan area which is 150m to 180m long. “There is a large amount of debris inside the tunnel. Approximately 80 metre inside the tunnel is cleared and accessible. It appears that approximately 100 Mtrs debris inside the tunnel is yet to be cleared,” the Indo-Tibetan Border Police said. Nearly 30 workers are believed to be trapped in this area.Also Read| Uttarakhand glacier burst: Scientists leave for Joshimath for surveillanceThe rescue ops in the other tunnel have concluded. Twelve workers were rescued from this tunnel after a part of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off at Joshimath in Chamoli, according to the ITBP.Union minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said it's a very difficult situation, but ITBP successfully rescued people from first tunnel and now they're working on second tunnel which is approximately 3km long. “NDRF and the military are also on it. By afternoon we can expect some positive results,” he said.He added that the Centre has been sending constant directions with Prime Minister Narendra Modi keeping track. Home Minister Amit Shah is also reviewing the situation every half an hour, Pokhriyal said.Also Read| Mapping the Chamoli tragedy: How glacial breach in Uttarakhand triggered floodsUttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat also posted an update on the situation saying, “Our brave-hearts worked throughout the night and have reached the mouth of tunnel...rescue operations are ongoing in full swing & we are hoping to save more lives. Unfortunately, rescue teams have also recovered 11 dead bodies so far. Our thoughts and prayers are with everyone.”. He told news agency ANI that around 203 people are missing.The ITBP, Indian Army, the SDRF and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) forces are engaged in the retrieval in the affected areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chamoli-flood-rescue-ops-on-via-2nd-tunnel-at-tapovan-over-30-feared-trapped-101612766486421.html
08-02-2021||India||‘Working for small farmers’, says PM Modi amid farm stir, hits out at ‘new FDI’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that the government is working to empower small farmers and amid the ongoing farm stir reiterated that minimum support prices (MSP) will continue and mandis will be modernised. “MSP was there. MSP is there. MSP will remain in the future,” he said in his reply to the motion of thanks on President Ram Nath Kovind's address in Rajya Sabha.The Prime Minister also hit out at those behind the farmer’s demonstration against the agricultural laws enacted in September last year, saying a new "breed" of agitators has emerged in the country who cannot live without an agitation and the country should be beware of them. He said the new FDI (Foreign Destructive Ideology) has emerged in the country and "we need to be wary of them to save the country from such ideology."Follow latest updates on Parliament proceedings hereModi said that since his government came to power in 2014, the Centre has initiated changes in the agriculture sector aimed at empowering farmers. “The crop insurance scheme was changed to make it more farmer friendly. The PM-KISAN scheme was also brought in. We are working for the small farmers,” he explained.During his address, Modi also thanked former prime minister HD Deve Gowda for bringing seriousness to the discussions relating to agriculture in the house. “His words have added great perspective to the debate. He himself has a strong association with the agriculture sector,” Modi said.The Prime Minister also spoke about other schemes of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA)-government that he said have benefited farmers. “For example- the PMGSY. When the road connectivity improves, it enables the produce of the farmers to reach distant places. There are efforts like Kisan Rail too,” he told the Parliament, adding that the need of the hour is to improve the lives of the small farmers.Modi alleged that some people are also trying to defame the Sikh community. “India is very proud of the contribution of Sikhs. This is a community that has done so much for the nation. The words and blessings of the Guru Sahibs are precious,” his said in his speech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/working-for-small-farmers-says-pm-modi-in-parliament-amid-farm-stir-101612765831253.html
08-02-2021||India||PM Modi announces ex gratia of ₹2 lakh to kin of those killed in Uttarakhand flood||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday announced an ex gratia of ₹2 lakh each for the next kin of those who lost their lives in the Uttarakhand flood tragedy that occurred earlier that day due to a glacier burst in Chamoli district of the state. The ex gratia to the next of kin of those who died in the tragedy will be given from the Prime Minister Relief Fund. The Prime Minister had also approved an amount of ₹50,000 for those who have been seriously injured in the tragedy."PM @narendramodi has approved an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the tragic avalanche caused by a Glacier breach in Chamoli, Uttarakhand. Rs. 50,000 would be given to those seriously injured," the official Twitter handle of Prime Minister's office said.PM @narendramodi has approved an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the tragic avalanche caused by a Glacier breach in Chamoli, Uttrakhand. Rs. 50,000 would be given to those seriously injured.The Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat also announced ₹4 lakh as compensation to the kin of the deceased.On Sunday afternoon, a glacier burst in Tapovan-Reni area of the Chamoli district caused massive flooding in Dhauliganga river and Alaknanda river. The water levels at the Dhauli Ganga river breached all records yesterday, according to the Central Water Commission officials.Also Read | What is glacial lake outburst flood? What happened in Uttarakhand's Chamoli?The glacier burst triggered an avalanche in the Alaknanda river destroying hydraulic projects over the water body. Total casualties due to the flood have been reported to be 10 with 143 people still missing, as reported by the news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-announces-ex-gratia-of-rs-2-lakh-to-kin-of-those-killed-in-uttarakhand-flood-101612761455035.html
08-02-2021||India||Farmer producer bodies to benefit UP, Bihar most: Radha Mohan Singh||The Centre’s decision to set up 10,000 farmer producer organisations (FPOs) in the country would be helpful to the small and marginal farmers, especially in farm driven economies like UP and Bihar, said BJP in-charge of Uttar Pradesh and former agriculture minister Radha Mohan Singh.A farmer producer organisation, formed by a group of farm producers, is a registered body with producers as shareholders of the organisation. It deals with business activities related to farm produce and works for the benefit of member producers.“These FPOs would also help introduce farmers to newer techniques of agriculture. That is why the Modi government is busy preparing a massive infrastructure that helps promote and sustain FPOs which will bring about a massive transformation in agriculture produce and farmer income,” said Singh, the national vice president of BJP.Singh said that the opposition politics would be exposed as it had become clear that they were supporting the farmers’ agitation for political gains. Thousands of farmers are encamped at borders around Delhi demanding repeal of new agricultural laws and seeking a guarantee on the minimum support prices for their crops.“I challenge the opposition to prove that these farm laws were against farmer interests. There was this canard on minimum support price (MSP) but statistics exposed the opposition claim. In 2013-14 the wheat farmers were paid ₹33,874 crore but in 2019-20 they were paid ₹62,802 crore. In 2020-21 the farmers were paid ₹75,060 for their produce,” he said.“The number of farmers too has grown. In 2019-20 purchase was made from 35.37 lakh farmers. Their numbers increased to ₹43.36 lakhs in 2020-21,” he said.He also gave a detailed account of paddy purchase, saying in 2019-20 paddy was purchased from 1.24 crore farmers whose numbers increased to ₹1.54 crore in 2020-21. Paddy farmers, he said, were paid ₹63,928 crore in 2013-14, ₹1,41,930 crore in 2019-20 and in 2020-21 purchase worth ₹1,72,752 crore is expected.“I have been an agriculture minister and know that the farm laws are in the interests of the farmers. I have statistics to prove that under the Modi government the farmers have benefited,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-producer-bodies-to-benefit-up-bihar-most-radha-mohan-singh-101612762506053.html
08-02-2021||India||Complete Ayodhya projects in time-bound manner: Yogi Adityanath||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath reviewed development projects in Ayodhya on Sunday and instructed officials to settle issues related with land acquisition and complete work in a time-bound manner.In Ayodhya to review development projects, the CM met president of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, at Mani Ram Das Ji Ki Chavni.Das is not well for the past several months.“According to PM Narendra Modi’s vision, commitment is to make Ayodhya a world-class destination,” the chief minister told media persons before leaving Ayodhya after the meeting.“After the bhumi pujan of Ram Mandir by PM Narendra Modi, flow of devotees and tourists in Ayodhya has increased. This shows there is a lot of potential in Ayodhya,” said the CM.“Spiritual and commercial development of Ayodhya will be carried out. Projects of various departments are being executed here,” pointed out the CM.Adityanath also informed that states want to open their guest houses and various akharas want to open dharamshalas in Ayodhya.The Ayodhya administration is acquiring land for the expansion of the airport which has been named as Sri Ram International Airport. The administration is also acquiring land for the new Ayodhya township.The CM also instructed officials to make arrangements for parking of vehicles at important places connecting various parikrama routes.The officials were told to ensure proper lighting facilities at all the ghats, roads, crossings, parikrama marg and other places.CM Adityanath instructed officials to communicate directly with shopkeepers who have been displaced due to widening of roads and other developmental projects and ensure their rehabilitation.He also instructed officials to make sure that drains do not fall into river Saryu.'Ram Ki Paidi' is to be developed on the lines of 'Hari ki Paidi' in Haridwar, the CM told officials and urged them to begin cruise service from Naya Ghat at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/complete-ayodhya-projects-in-time-bound-manner-yogi-adityanath-101612761792909.html
08-02-2021||NA||U'khand flood live updates: Disaster Management Centre says 197 people missing||Three more bodies were recovered in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand on Monday morning, taking the total death count so far to 10 in the glacier burst that damaged two dams, Rishi Ganga and Dhauli Ganga. About 153 people are still feared missing, said officials. The rescue operations continued overnight though the rise in water level partially halted the rescue operations at NTPC's 900-metre long Tapovan tunnel on Sunday evening. Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF, Uttarakhand's State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel, Indian Army have been pressed into the rescue operations. Specialised teams of Indian Air Force, Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) have reached the spot for surveillance, special reconnaissance. Navy's diving teams have been kept on standby for flash flood relief operations.Follow all the updates here:ITBP team to work overnight at Taovan tunnelThe ITBP team will carry on overnight rescue work at the Taovan tunnel, Joshimath. The work to take out debris and slush from the tunnel to continue overnight. CM Rawat holds meeting with agencies involved in rescue effortsUttarakhand: CM Trivendra Singh Rawat holds meeting with ITBP, NDRF, SDRF, Uttarakhand Police & other agencies in Joshimath on rescue efforts in Tapovan. He says, "All four forces are working in coordination. Rescue operation is underway." pic.twitter.com/PpnedympDtUttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said "All four forces are working in coordination. Rescue operation is underway," as he holds meeting with ITBP, NDRF, SDRF, Police and other agencies involved in rescue efforts, reports ANI.Uttarakhand disaster management centre says 197 people missingUttarakhand Disaster Management Centre says 197 people are still missing in the state after the floods, reports ANI.Police confirm 24 bodies have been recovered from different placesUttarakhand police have confirmed that a total of 24 bodies have been recovered from different places in the state, reports ANI.Rescue workers inside the tunnel at dam site to rescue 35 workers trapped inside'Hope the missing people will be rescued at an early date': China expresses condolences to flood victimsChina has expressed its condolences to the the victims of the flood."We have noted that northern India had a massive flood. We want to express our condolences to the victims and sympathy to the bereaved families and the injured," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said. “We hope the missing people will be rescued at an early date," he added, reports PTI.Watch | Rescue team inside Tapovan tunnel in Chamoli#WATCH | Uttarakhand: A joint team of ITBP, Army, SDRF, and NDRF inside the Tapovan tunnel in Chamoli for rescue operation. pic.twitter.com/VZ3SfCchK3A joint team of ITBP, Army, SDRF, and NDRF inside the Tapovan tunnel in Chamoli for rescue operation, reported by ANI.BRO chief engineer requests state government to install manual trolley at Reni village, JoshimathUttarakhand | A bridge was washed away here y'day. We're trying to restore road connectivity in the area. We've requested state govt to install a manual trolley here: AS Rathore, Chief Engineer, Shivalik BRO on relief operation at glacier burst affected Reni village, Joshimath pic.twitter.com/iltJO5FkioBRO chief engineer AS Rathore requested the state government to install a manual trolley at Reni village, Joshimath, to restore a washed away bridge and road connectivity, reports ANI.PM Modi assures full support, scientific study to minimise losses due to disaster to Uttarakhand MPsGoing forward, scientific studies will be conducted to understand cycle of natural calamities in this natural disaster prone state and best practices to be adopted to minimise loss of life and property due to these calamities, PM Modi's message to Uttarakhand MPs: SourcesPM Modi has assured the full support of the central government institutions to Uttarakhand. He also said that scientific studies would be conducted to adopt best practices to minimise damages caused by natural disasters, reports ANI, citing sources.'Had lost hope but ITBP saved us': Tapovan tunnel survivor shares experienceWere inside the tunnel when someone shouted 'move out'. Before we could leave, water entered tunnel at high speed and we got stuck. Held tunnel crown until water level subsided. Had lost hope but ITBP saved us: One of the people rescued from Tapovan tunnel yesterday #Uttarakhand https://t.co/DY5jHifCgZ pic.twitter.com/8a73nSDM5BA person rescued from the Tapovan tunnel said "Were inside the tunnel when someone shouted 'move out'. Before we could leave, water entered tunnel at high speed and we got stuck. Held tunnel crown until water level subsided. Had lost hope but ITBP saved us," reports ANI.CM Rawat to meet people at affected areas on Tuesday, assures relief efforts continuing in 'full swing'I am leaving for Joshimath and will be spending night there. Tomorrow I plan to visit the affected areas and will also meet people. Our relief and rescue operations are continuing in full swing and we are doing best to save lives. #Uttarakhand pic.twitter.com/zGyEY2BzjyUttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said he would meet with the people in affected areas on Tuesday and assured that the relief and rescue operations would continue in full swing.PM Modi, Home minister Amit Shah, JP Naddan discuss relief efforts with Uttarakhand MPs"Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP President JP Nadda, Home Minister Amit Shah interact with Uttarakhand MPs, discuss relief efforts and future course of action over Uttarakhand glacier disaster," reports ANI.Uttarakhand CM Rawat releases ₹20 crores from state disaster response fund for relief operationUttarkhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat conducts review meeting on disaster relief operation following glacier burst in Chamoli; releases ₹20 crores from State Disaster Response Fund for relief and rescue operation: CMO pic.twitter.com/kteHQRqoVLUttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat has released ₹20 crores from State Disaster Response Fund for relief and rescue operations, reports ANI.Helpline numbers for Jharkhand people stranded at Chamoli, UttarakhandJharkhand government shared helpline numbers for the people of the state stranded in Chamoli, Uttarakhand. Chief minister Hemant Soren tweeted a picture of the official announcement.Machines clearing heavy slush for Recce party to enter tunnel: ITBPITBP says "Recce party with victim locating camera and sniffer dog tried to enter but due to slush, but after 100 meters it was not possible to proceed ahead. Machines are now clearing the heavy slush ahead."Rescue ops intensified in Chamoli’s bigger tunnelWatch | SDRF's rescue operations at flash flood site in Chamoli#WATCH | Uttarakhand: State Disaster Management Force (SDRF) carries out rescue operation at the flash flood site in Chamoli. pic.twitter.com/1X0oqeArkKSDRF carries out rescue operations in flood affected sites, reported by ANI.Watch | ITBP provides relief materials to villages cut off by floods#WATCH | Uttarakhand: ITBP personnel provide support to the villages that have been cut off due to the flash floods in Chamoli. Five sorties carrying relief material have been sent.Visuals from Lata Helipad. pic.twitter.com/0GI4YjQKhsITBP provides support and relief material to villages cut off by the floods in Chamoli. Five sorties carrying relief material have been sent, reports ANI.ITBP arranges rations for locals8th Battalion Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) team is arranging rations to be moved to the designated places through the teams which has contacted the locals of all villages and set up a control room there for future assistance.'Rishiganga project at Raini completely washed away': Uttarakhand chief minister Rawat"Rishiganga project at Raini completely washed away. 5 kms from there is under construction Tapovan project. As of now, around 203 people missing, 11 bodies found. There was a subsidiary company at Tapovan with 24-25 people, no info on them till yesterday": Uttarakhand chief minister RawatRescue ops underway; more NDRF teams rushed l Latest UpdatesITBP deploys sniffer dogs at the Tapovan tunnel for rescue operationsUpdate on clearing of tunnels90 meters of stretch of debris in the tunnel cleared till now. Another 100 mtrs believed to be left to be cleared.Update on rescue operations in UttarakhandStarting from 0645 hrs today morning, 6 Mi 17 sorties, 1 ALH sortie and 01 Chinook sortie have been carried out till now. Transportation of required load from Dehradun to Joshimath, which includes 122 personnel, around 5T of load and 06 rescue canines, has been completed. An ALH was tasked for the reconnaissance of the affected area by 6 scientists of DRDO along with their specialised equipment. Further requirements are being coordinated with relevant authorities. ITBP deploys sniffer dogs at the Tapovan tunnel for rescue operations.Rescue operation by ITBP under progressDue to the large amount of debris inside the tunnel, the rescue operation is tougher for the ITBP personnel. Approximately 80 meters inside the tunnel is cleared and accessible but it appears that approximately 100 meters debris inside the tunnel yet to be cleared.'Very difficult situation, expect positive results by afternoon': Union minister Pokhriyal Nishank in Uttarakhand"It's a very difficult situation, but ITBP successfully rescued people from 1st tunnel & now they're working on 2nd tunnel which is approx 3 km long. NDRF & military are also on it. By afternoon we can expect some positive results": Union minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank in Uttarakhand||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/u-khand-glacier-burst-live-updates-hindustan-times-february-8-101612761173325.html
08-02-2021||India||'Country needs to be saved from foreign destructive ideology': PM Modi in RS||Giving his reply to the debate on Motion of Thanks on President Ram Nath Kovind’s address, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday touched upon several issues including Covid-19, farmers' protest and international attention to it."It would have been better had all listened to the significant speech that the President delivered. But the message was so significant that even if it was not attended, the message was delivered," PM Modi said, opening his speech."There were many apprehensions over India's Covid-19 situation. And it was natural because nobody has thought a challenge like Covid-19 would befall. Countries could not help each other — the situation was like that. But we overcame it and the credit does not go to any government. But it goes to the people. What is wrong in taking pride in how India handled Covid-19 situation?" PM Modi said.LIVE: 'MSP tha, hai aur rahega,' PM again assures farmers protesting farm laws"There are so many issues for opposition politics. But why to make fun of this pride that India can take in itsCovid-19 approach," PM Modi said.Congratulating state governments, PM Modi said Covid-19 gave an opportunity to enshrine the values of cooperating federalism."A lot has been said about India's democracy in this House. I do not agree to all these. I was listening to Derek O Brien's speech which was full of big words like intimidation etc. I was wondering whether he was speaking of West Bengal. Possible as he is seeing what is happening in West Bengal round the clock," PM Modi said.Quoting Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, PM Modi said India's democracy is a human institution; it's neither narrow nor self-centred, not aggressive. "India is the biggest democracy in the world, we love to parrot this. But we have to teach our youth that India is the mother of democracy," PM Modi said."Challenges are there as there is nothing without challenges in the world. But the point is whether we want to be part of the challenge or its solution," PM Modi added."A lot of discussions took place on farmers' protest. But most of it was concentrated on the protest and not the solution. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomarji raised some valid questions in the House. But I think those questions will never find answers," the Prime Minister said.Explaining the situation of the small-scale farmers in India, PM Modi said the regular government schemes of loan waiver does not benefit India's small farmers as they don't have a loan. PM Modi referred to his government's projects of Kisan credit card, pension yojana, Kisan rail, Kisan udaan etc which are aimed at helping small-scale farmers."Every government has raised the issue of small-scale farmers, irrespective of whatever they could do or could not. Sharad Pawarji and Congress too talked about farm laws. But now there is a complete U-turn. You could have cornered us on the process but at the same time, you could have also explained to the farmers that it time to change," PM Modi said.As he was speaking on farmers' protest, he referred to former PM Manmohan Singh and quoted from the latter's speech where Singh pitched for enabling farmers to sell their produce. "Take pride in the fact that Modi has to do what Manmohan Singh had said long ago," PM Modi said in a lighter vein."Some people are trying to create unrest in India. We should not forget what happened with Punjab. In 1984, Punjab suffered the most. What happened in J&K, northeast hurt India. Sikhs are being misled. The country is proud of the Sikhs," PM Modi said referring to the recent international support to farmers' protest.Terming this as a new FDI, which if foreign destructive ideology, PM Modi said, "The country needs to be saved from this FDI."Thanking the House for healthy debates, PM Modi said, "I don't mind what all was said to me but I am happy that at least I came to some use; you are relieved now unburdening all pent-up anger on me. Modi hai toh mauka lijiye," he said concluding his speech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/had-all-of-us-listened-to-prez-speech-pm-modi-s-swipe-at-opposition-101612760709929.html
08-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: Toll climbs to 18, 202 still missing||Eighteen bodies have been recovered so far in affected areas of Chamoli district, with 202 people still missing, including 25 to 35 workers inside Tapovan dam tunnel where rescue operation is underway, said officials Praveen Alok, media in-charge of state disaster response force confirmed that 18 bodies were recovered till 12pm from Rishiganga and Dhauliganga downstream. He said the missing 202 include 5 people from Reni village, 11 from Tapovan Rithwik Company, 2 each from Karochi, and Ringi village, 46 from Rishiganga company, 21 from Om Maital, three from NHPC and 2 from Tapovan village. Another 25 to 35 workers are still trapped inside the Tapovan dam tunnel, where rescue operation is underway. Also Read | Not just climate change, Chamoli disaster was human-inducedSo far, 15 people have been rescued from Rishiganga dam site and 12 from NTPC’s Tapovan dam site. Alok added that 70 SDRF personnel, two teams of National Disaster Response Force , 425 personnel of Indo -Tibetan Border Police, one team of Seema Suraksha Bal and 125 army personnel are carrying out the rescue and relief operations in affected areas of Chamoli. A search operation is on to recover bodies downstream at Reni village, Tapovan, Joshimath, Ghochar, Karnprayag , Rudraprayag, Dharidevi and Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chamoli-glacier-burst-death-toll-rises-to-10-153-people-still-missing-101612759671783.html
08-02-2021||India||Amid impasse, govt asks Twitter to take down 1,178 accounts||Amid the impasse between the government and Twitter over the demand to block 257 accounts with posts related to the farmers’ protests, the ministry of electronics and information technology has asked the company to take down over 1,178 accounts that may “foment trouble”. The directions were sent to the microblogging site at least three days ago; officials familiar with the matter said. “Similar kinds of accounts, as the 257 flagged earlier, were identified,” an official said. “Some of these seem to bots, some propped by other countries. They all aim to foment trouble and unsettle the situation.”The directions have been issued under the section 69 (A) of the IT Act that allows the government to take action against posts and accounts that may pose a threat to public order. Hindustan Times could not independently verify if Twitter has taken action against the accounts yet. HT reached out to Twitter for a comment but did not receive one immediately. Also Read | Congressional India Caucus takes up farm protests with Indian envoyTwitter came under fire from the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (Meity) for “violating Indian law” by not taking down tweets related to “farmers’ genocide”. Meity sent Twitter a sternly worded notice, threatening the company with penal consequences if over 250 accounts and posts that were flagged by the government weren’t blocked. The firm, which blocked the accounts on Monday, restored them shortly after, stating that they constituted “free speech” and were “newsworthy”. The lifting of the local ban came in the backdrop of widespread outrage against Twitter for censoring free speech. The accounts are still accessible.The official mentioned above stated that the government was keeping its options open. “The law is the law,” the official stated. “We have respect for democratic processes, so we are exercising restraint. We don’t want to take harsh measures.” A second official stated that the accounts were flagged by security agencies as “accounts of Khalistan sympathisers or backed by Pakistan and operating from foreign territories and causing threat to public order in view of the ongoing farmers protests in some parts of India”. “Many of these accounts were also automated bots that were used for sharing and amplifying misinformation and provocative contents on farmers protests. However, Twitter has not yet complied with this order,” the official stated. “It is also pertinent to note that a few days ago, CEO of Twitter Jack Dorsey had liked several tweets made by foreign based celebrities in support of farmer protests,” the second official added. “In view of this, defiance of government orders by Twitter raises several questions. Further, Twitter has not yet challenged any of these orders in any court of India either. Logically any company is free to appeal against any government order if it feels it cannot comply with that order.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-impasse-govt-asks-twitter-to-take-down-1-178-accounts-101612759551353.html
08-02-2021||India||India's daily Covid-19 toll remains below 100 for 3rd day, new cases 11,831||For the past three days, India's daily Covid-19 toll has remained below 100, with 84 deaths recorded in the last 24 hours. On Sunday, India reported the lowest toll as the figure dipped to 78. On Saturday, the toll was 95. With the number of deaths declining every day, the present death rate is 1.43%.On Monday, India reported 11,831 new Covid-19 infections taking the total tally to 10,838,184. Active cases dipped further below 1.5 lakh and settled at 1,48,609 which is 1.37 per cent of total cases. Compared to yesterday's figure, the number of daily cases fell 2 per cent on Monday as 12,059 cases of Covid-19 were recorded on Sunday.Though the Covid-19 curve is being flattened across the country, Kerala's figures are still on the high. In the last 24 hours, Kerala reported 6,075 new cases, including a UK returnee.Maharashtra recorded 2,673 fresh cases and 30 deaths in the last 24 hours.The vaccination drive, which began on January 16, is going on full swing as frontline workers are also being inoculated. The administration of the second dose of the vaccine will begin from February 13. The Centre has asked states to complete first-round vaccination of all healthcare staff by February 20.India's vaccination rate was highest in the world as India reached five million-ark in the shortest time in the world. Now, India has become the third topmost country in the world in terms of the Covid-19 vaccine doses administered, after the US and the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-toll-remains-below-100-for-3rd-day-new-cases-11831-101612758030889.html
08-02-2021||India||Rise in jellyfish numbers, coral bleaching among impacts on India’s coastline||The Union ministry of earth sciences (MoES) has informed the Lok Sabha that there is a substantial increase in the population of jellyfish due to increasing sea temperature in the Arabian Sea. The proliferation of jellyfish has also resulted in the overfeeding of sardine larvae, leading to a considerable reduction in sardine fishery.The MoES, on information from Centre for Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI), also said on Friday that frequent coral bleaching events occurred at Gulf of Mannar and Andaman and Nicobar Islands which are mostly coinciding with El Nino events indicative of increase in sea surface temperature. El Niño and the Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).ENSO has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods and drought. El Niño has a warming influence on global temperatures, while La Niña has the opposite effect.Also Read | Climate change may have influenced emergence of coronavirus, says studyDuring 2021-2026, MoES will continue its study of marine living resources including physical processes, bio-geochemistry and biological response to varying ecosystem processes in Arabian Sea and bio-inventorisation of various marine species, the reply added.The fishing community has also been impacted by these changes in the past five years. “Fishermen along Arabian Sea have been impacted by a massive increase in jellyfish numbers. In fact, they have created a business opportunity out of it. In some ports like Okha and Jakhau in Kutch, fishermen have started processing jellyfish and exporting to China where its eaten. They sell it to exporters for Rs5 per kg. Fishermen have also been noticing a big fall in the catch of pomfret and some prawn varieties. Their reduction is very worrying and we are not sure what is the reason,” said Bharat Patel, general secretary of Machchimar Adhikar Sangharsh Sangathan, which represents the fishing community in Gujarat.According to a paper led by Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services published in Springer’s Ecological Processes journal, oceanic warming often result in higher jellyfish densities. Rising temperatures in global seas may trigger the success of some jellyfish species and change species distributions. It also states that jellyfish swarms and beach strandings have increased which has led to adverse impacts on aquatic ecology and human enterprises like clogging of fishing nets and disruption of tourism.Also Read | Government may tweak policy for infra projects in forest areasIn reply to another question on climate change impacts in India raised in Lok Sabha, MoES has said, “Extreme climatic events or disaster weather events have increased significantly across India during the 21st century. An increase in various extreme weather and climate events such as heavy rainfall, floods, droughts, cyclones, heat waves and cold waves have been observed in the country in line with the increase in the extreme events observed over various parts of the globe.”Based on the available climate records with MoES, surface air temperature over India has risen by about 0.7 degree C during 1901–2018 period which is also accompanied by an increase in moisture content. The sea surface temperatures in the tropical Indian Ocean have also increased by about 1 degree C during 1951–2015.Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi are among states reporting increased number of heat waves and Haryana, J&K and Uttar Pradesh have reported increase in number of cold waves during the recent years, according to MoES.Future projections based on modelling of various climate change scenarios indicate significant changes in the mean and extremes of several key climatic parameters over the Indian subcontinent and the adjoining areas like land temperature, monsoon, Indian Ocean temperature and sea level, tropical cyclones and the Himalayan cryosphere.Among other measures, India Meteorological Department (IMD) in collaboration with local health departments has started heat wave warnings. National Disaster Management Authority and IMD are working with 23 states prone to high temperatures and heat waves to develop heat action plans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rise-in-jellyfish-numbers-coral-bleaching-among-impacts-on-india-s-coastline-101612758173985.html
08-02-2021||India||Light rain, thunderstorm likely over northeast India today||Light rain with thunderstorm is likely across the northeastern states today.The remnant trough (area of low pressure) associated with the Western Disturbance is very likely to move away eastwards during 24 hours. Under its influence, rainfall accompanied with isolated thunderstorms and lightning is likely over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during the next 24 hours, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).After the passage of the above trough in westerlies, dense fog in isolated pockets is very likely over Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura in the morning hours of February 8 and 9.Also Read | Delhi had seven cold wave days in January this year, maximum since 2008There was shallow fog in some parts of northwest India on Monday. Visibility recorded at 5.30am at Amritsar, Delhi (Palam), Kailashahar was less than 200 metres each, and at Safdarjung it was 500 metres.Following a suspected glacial lake outburst flood and flooding in Rishiganga river, IMD in its special report for Uttarakhand, said dry weather is likely to prevail over the state on February 8. However, under the influence of an approaching Western Disturbance, light rainfall or snowfall is likely over the northern part of Uttarakhand during Tuesday evening to Wednesday forenoon. Due to inundation in the Rishiganga valley, over 170 people are missing, according to authorities and rescue teams||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-rain-thunderstorm-likely-over-northeast-india-today-101612758111400.html
08-02-2021||India||Three J&K districts to elect DDC chairpersons, their deputies today||Three important districts of Kashmir, Baramulla, Kupwara, and Budgam, will elect their district development council (DDC) chairpersons and deputy chairpersons today.Sajjad Lone’s Peoples Conference (PC), which was earlier a part of the Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) but left it, has three members in Baramulla and five in Kupwara. In Budgam, National Conference has the most members followed by the PDP and Peoples Movement, which are part of the alliance. So the alliance has an edge over its rivals if its elected members don’t opt for cross-voting.Baramulla will see a direct contest between alliance candidate Qurat and independent candidate Safeena Baig, wife of former MP Muzuffar Baig. Sources said that PC is likely to support Safeena for chairperson’s post and she may join the party if she gets elected. However, two votes each of Congress and Apni Party will decide the fate here.Also Read | BJP leaders elected DDC chairmen in Jammu, Kathua districtsIn Kupwara, PC has an edge as the party has five members and also the support of independent candidates. Kupwara district is considered Lone’s stronghold and the party won two seats from the district in the last assembly elections. Of the five districts which have elected their chairpersons last week, newly launched party Apni Party won in Srinagar and Shopian, PAGD won in Kulgam while the two districts of Jammu were secured by the BJP.The NC termed the chairperson elections as a mockery of the system. “Shopian DDC election, even Srinagar for that matter, aren’t really a surprise. These people have been buying & selling elected representatives since 1984. Practice makes perfect!,” tweeted NC vice president Omar Abdullah soon after the results were declared.Meanwhile, NC spokesperson Imran Nabi Dar termed Apni party as Kings’ party supported by the Centre. “King’s party which won only 2 DDC seats in Shopian distt, engineered defections post elections and are now heading the DDC Council there. Similarly in Srinagar, the party won just 3 seats and managed to take control of the district. Is ko bolte hai democracy is aisi ki taisi,” Dar tweeted.However, Apni party spokesman Altaf Bukhari said that DDC members are joining them as they trust them more than other parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-j-k-districts-to-elect-ddc-chairpersons-their-deputies-today-101612757691626.html
08-02-2021||India||What is glacial lake outburst flood? What happened in Uttarakhand's Chamoli?||Experts are uncertain about what caused the massive glacier burst at Chamoli in Uttarakhand on Sunday but the incident brought focus to the dangers of climate change the state is sitting on. In 2013, the state was devastated by a cloudburst which led to severe flood and landslides.What is glacial lake outburst flood?What happened at Chamoli is being seen as GLOF — a breach in a glacier which is not very unusual. When glaciers retreat, they leave a space which becomes a glacial lake being filled with water. When such a lake breaches, it is known as glacial lake outburst flood. It is yet to be investigated what triggered the breach — whether there was an avalanche in the area recently or whether the lake breach was the result of construction, anthropological activities, climate change etc.Uttarakhand glacier burst: Day after tragedy, multi-agency rescue operations onSunday's deluge was believed to be caused by Nandadevi glacier breach. Nandadevi is the second highest mountain after Kanchenjunga.What happened today at #Uttarakhand was the Glacial Lake Outburst Flood or GLOF. Here is the representation.Development pressure or climate change triggers such GLOFs.@icimod pic.twitter.com/8mPi3wwkFzWhat is an avalanche?An avalanche is falling masses of snow and ice which gathers pace as it comes down the slope. But an avalanche is unlikely to result in the rise of water of that magnitude what Chamoli witnessed on Sunday.CloudburstWhat happened in Uttarakhand in 2013 was a multi-day cloudburst. It is a sudden, very heavy rainfall accompanies by a thunderstorm. But it generally happens in monsoon.In fact, the season in which such a disaster was witnessed has surprised experts as there is no immediate trigger that can be pointed to as the reason why water level rose to that level washing away two hydro projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-glacial-lake-outburst-flood-what-happened-in-uttarakhand-s-chamoli-101612755090832.html
08-02-2021||India||Congress, not AIMIM, is BJP’s B-team in Gujarat: Owaisi||Even as the upcoming Gujarat local body polls have become a veritable multi-cornered contest, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday scoffed at accusations of his party being the B-team of the BJP, asserting that the Congress was playing this part since he had only recently entered the state. Addressing an election rally in Bharuch district, Owaisi wondered why his party was being accused of being the B-team of the BJP “whereas it is because of the Congress that the BJP has been winning Gujarat for three decades.”He also asserted that the two were like “mama-bhanja (uncle and nephew),” to buttress his argument that his party had entered Gujarat only now.Also Read | Govt should have fixed nails in Ladakh to stop China: OwaisiContesting as an alliance partner of Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) of regional tribal satrap Chhotubhai Vasava, the AIMIM has fielded its candidates on 21 seats in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation election and some seats in the Modasa municipality. In Bharuch taluka (tehsil) and district panchayats, candidates will stand for election, according to the domination of tribals or Muslims in the area.Speaking of the AIMIM’s larger alliance of the backward classes and the Muslims, Owaisi said his party aspired to represent the “Muslims, backwards and tribals” who had long been neglected by the Congress party. Conceding that “the AIMIM may not win but will emerge as a strong and credible voice” of these classes.The AIMIM leader pointed to the tribal regions around the Statue of Unity in the Narmada and Bharuch districts and wondered at the silence of the Congress for the alleged exploitation of the tribals there whose lands had been “surreptitiously acquired” by the state government. When contacted, AIMIM Gujarat chief and former 2007 Congress MLA Sabir Kabuliwala told Hindustan Times, “The Muslims have always voted for the Congress but they got nothing.”Asked what the Muslims would get now since the AIMIM might never get to rule in Gujarat, he said, “We will take up the issues of the minorities, tribals and backwards.” When asked how they would become the voice when they were contesting on only a handful seats, Kabuliwala shot back, “Why? This is just the beginning. We will be there in the State Assembly (in 2022) too.”Asked if he was not aware that any communal polarisation in Gujarat straightaway helped the BJP, he asserted, “There is no polarisation. If a certain party could engineer communal riots and speak only for one community, what is wrong if we raise the issues of the Muslims as well as other backward classes and tribals?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-not-aimim-is-bjp-s-b-team-in-gujarat-owaisi-101612756431442.html
08-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: 15 rescued from NTPC tunnel, says Chamoli Police||As operations continue in Uttarakhand to rescue people after Sunday’s glacier burst, the state’s Chamoli Police on Monday said that it was using a JCB machine to enter a National Thermal Power Corporation’s (NTPC) tunnel near the Tapovan area to rescue workers trapped inside. The police further said that 15 people had been rescued and 14 bodies recovered thus far.Also Read | Uttarakhand glacier burst: Day after tragedy, multi-agency rescue operations on“Relief and rescue operations continue for people trapped inside the tunnel. Efforts underway to enter the tunnel with the help of JCB machine and clear the way. Total 15 people have been rescued and 14 bodies recovered from various places thus far,” Chamoli Police tweeted on its official Twitter handle.टनल में फंसे लोगों के लिए राहत एवं बचाव कार्य जारी। जेसीबी की मदद से टनल के अंदर पहुंच कर रास्ता खोलने का प्रयास किया जा रहा है।अब तक कुल 15 व्यक्तियों को रेस्क्यू किया गया है एवं 14 शव अलग-अलग स्थानों से बरामद किये गये हैं।#tapovanrescue #Chamoli #Uttarakhand_Disaster pic.twitter.com/szSaxJfEy7Earlier, the rescue operations at the 900-metre-long had to be halted due to rise in water level.Also Read | Uttarakhand glacier burst: Heavy damage to two hydel projects at the epicentreMeanwhile, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), another agency involved in the rescue operations, said that it had deployed 300 of its personnel to clear the tunnel. “We’ve intensified search operations at the second tunnel. Our information is that around 30 people are trapped there. Around 300 ITBP jawans are deployed to clear the tunnel. Local administration says that around 170 people are missing,” news agency ANI quoted Vivek Pandey, the spokesperson of the force, as saying.“ITBP rescued 12 people from a tunnel yesterday, these 30 are trapped in a different tunnel. Rescue operations underway in different areas. More teams will be sent there if required, we’re focusing on rescuing people from the tunnel first,” the spokesperson further said.ITBP rescued 12 people from a tunnel yesterday, these 30 are trapped in a different tunnel. Rescue operation is underway in different areas. More teams will be sent there if it is required, we are focussing on rescuing people from the tunnel first: Vivek Pandey, ITBP SpokespersonIn scenes reminiscent of the 2013 flash floods in the hilly northern state, a glacier breach in Chamoli unleashed massive flash floods here, inflicting damage to life and property. A multi-agency rescue operation has been launched, involving the army, the air force, state police, ITBP and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF). The Centre is in contact with the state government and monitoring developments closely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-glacier-burst-15-rescued-from-ntpc-tunnel-says-chamoli-police-101612755196751.html
08-02-2021||India||Mapping the Chamoli tragedy: How glacial breach in Uttarakhand triggered floods||A glacial breach in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district on Sunday triggered an avalanche and flash floods in the Alaknanda river system. The rescue teams recovered seven bodies while as many as 170 people were reported missing and feared dead. A total of 12 people were evacuated from the flood-hit area.The Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment (SASE) of the Defence Research and Development Organisation is still investigating the matter and has not yet zeroed in on the exact reason for the flooding as yet. “Our team is there. We do not suspect an avalanche. There may be glacial lake formations, but we cannot say with certainty now. We are investigating the entire region,” said Jimmy Kansal, joint director at SASE.Also Read| Uttarakhand glacier burst: Day after tragedy, multi-agency rescue operations onSequence of events*A glacial breach likely caused an avalanche and breached a lake uphill of Raini village in Chamoli district, located on the boundary of the Nanda Devi biosphere reserve, experts say.*The breach led to water surge in Dhauliganga river and its tributary Rishiganga early in the morning.*Around 10:30am, a police constable at the Joshimath police post informed authorities about the surge of water near Raini village and an alert was sounded for downstream areas.*Evacuations began soon after.Power plants destroyedRishi Ganga: The Rishi Ganga hydel plant on the Rishiganga river was the first to be hit by the breach in the district. An upstream dam – Rishi Ganga – constructed to divert water was washed away.Tapovan: The second major project affected by the flooding was the NTPC Tapovan hydel plant on the Dhauliganga river. As many as 148 workers are missing from the NTPC projectImpact ZoneOfficials say high river flow was noticed up to 100 km from Raini village. Experts said 4,000 cusec of additional water was there in the rivers. Apart from Raini and the two projects, no other village saw any impact.Possible causesSudden outburst of a glacial lake with debris shows that degradation of the forest cover in upper reaches and faster melting of snow due to climate change, experts said. Warmer January and February could have resulted in the formation of the glacial lake. The back-to-back dams (Rishi Ganga and Tapovan dams were within 10 kms of each other) block natural flow of rivers that helps in disbursing heavy debris.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mapping-the-chamoli-tragedy-how-glacial-breach-in-uttarakhand-triggered-floods-101612754577694.html
08-02-2021||India||Need Covid-19 vaccination details? CoWIN info now available on Aarogya Setu app||As the Covid-19 vaccination drive began in India on January 16, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the most important factor in this vaccination drive is identification and monitoring of those who need to be vaccinated and for that purpose CoWin application was created to maintain the database of the immunisation campaign.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The vaccination information on the digital platform, which immediately generates a digital vaccination certificate soon after a person is administered the jab, can now also be accessed using the Aarogya Setu mobile application. “Need information on COVID19 Vaccination. COWIN details are live on Aarogya Setu. Access Vaccination Information, view COWIN Dashboard and download your Vaccination Certificates if you have recd at least one dose of COVID19 Vaccination. @GoI_MeitY @NITIAayog @NICMeity,” Aarogya Setu’s Twitter handle said in a post on Sunday.Need information on COVID19 Vaccination. COWIN details are live on Aarogya Setu. Access Vaccination Information, view COWIN Dashboard and download your Vaccination Certificates if you have recd at least one dose of COVID19 Vaccination.@GoI_MeitY @NITIAayog @NICMeityThe health and frontline workers to be inoculated are being identified with the help of Aadhaar. The Prime Minister had earlier stressed on the significance of ensuring that real time data related to vaccination gets uploaded on Co-Win as the certificate issued by the application also acts as a reminder for the second dose, after which, a final certificate is given. CoWIN also helps in monitoring the movement of vials and their availability at all centres.In the first week of February, nearly seven million front-line workers, including armed forces and police personnel, municipal workers and disaster management volunteers were registered to receive vaccine shots on a priority basis.“After health care workers, the Co-WIN database is now also being populated with details of front-line workers. The process will be the same as it is currently being followed to register health-care workers for vaccination,” said a senior official from the ministry of health and family welfare told HT.How does the CoWin app work?To receive the vaccine, one must register on the app using their mobile number or Aadhaar number or any other identity documents. The person then needs to visit the vaccination centre on the scheduled date and time and get the inoculation done, following which he gets a certificate.What does the Aarogya Setu do?The portal aims to help people identify Bluetooth contacts of Covid-19 positive users and issues alerts for helping people stay safe. It has all details about the application including how it works, Covid-19 updates and why one should use Aarogya Setu.The app is now being maintained and supported by the National Informatics Centre (NIC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-covid-19-vaccination-details-cowin-info-now-available-on-aarogya-setu-app-101612752526345.html
08-02-2021||NA||LIVE: Tewari appeals for discussion on Chinese aggression at Ladakh in Lok Sabha||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday replied to the Motion of Thanks on President Ram Nath Kovind’s address, in the Rajya Sabha, day seven of the ongoing Budget session of Parliament. Usually, Prime Ministers speak in both the Houses of Parliament – Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha. However, with the Opposition protesting refusing to end protests in the Lok Sabha over the contentious farm laws, the PM’s reply, only in the Rajya Sabha, marked a departure from the norm.Also Read | PM Modi expected to reply to President's address on MondayIn a collective show of strength, more than a dozen Opposition parties had boycotted the President’s address on January 29, which marks the commencement of the Budget session. While debate on Motion of Thanks happened rather smoothly in the Rajya Sabha, with the Centre and the Opposition agreeing to discuss the issue in the Upper House for a total of 15 hours, no discussion could take place in the Lok Sabha or the Lower House. According to an official statement, the first six sittings of the Rajya Sabha in the ongoing session were productive, registering a productivity of 82.10%.The first half of the Budget session will end on February 13. The second and final half will take place from March 8-April 8.Follow all the updates here:Independent MLA Navneet Rana raises issue of sanitiser being given during vaccinationIndependent MLA Navneet Rana said that the Maharashtra government has not taken steps to ensure children get adequate medical treatment in rural areas. She raised the issue of 2 kids who were administered hand sanitiser drops instead of oral polio vaccine drops at a Primary Health Centre at Kapsi-Kopari, an interior village, under Ghatanji tehsil of Maharashtra's Yavatmal districtUday Pratap Singh says there are ploy to disturb national peaceThe Madhya Pradesh lawmaker says that middlemen and people engaged in corruption in mandis are against the farm laws. He said people who protested in JNU against CAA and NRC and participated in Shaheen Bagh protests are the ones who have hijacked agitation against farm laws. Hoshangabad's MP Uday Pratap Singh says govt has taken definitive steps to curb spread of CovidBJP MP Uday P Singh also said that the PM under his governance ensured people were lifted from poverty and implemented developmental projects to ensure rural as well as urban development across the nation. Apni Party MP Anupriya Patel praises govt for handling of Covid crisisThe Mirzapur lawmaker said that the government under PM Modi ensured quick development of two vaccines and used the Covid-19 crisis as an opportunity to develop the medical infrastructure sector of the country. Tewari urges to hold discussions on Galwan Valley clashesCongress MP Manish Tewari says that the government should hold discussions regarding the clashes in East Ladakh. He said that previously whenever there was any attack on India's sovereignty parties in power as well as in Opposition have held extensive discussions in the parliament regarding solving the crisis. Tewari also urged the PM to hold discussions regarding the Galwan Valley clashes. Congress MP Manish Tewari says treatment of farmers shows state of nationCongress MP Manish Tewari says farmers have been mistreated and the treatment of farmers reflects a lot of the state of the nation.BJD MP says govt should implement recommendations of Swaminathan commissionBJD MP Pinaki Mishra said the Central govt should implement recommendations of the Swaminathan commission and resume talks with farmers. He also said that the concertina wires and barricades might not help the discussion process but at the same time also criticised unruly elements which created unrest during the Jan 26 tractor rally.BJD MP Pinaki Mishra says ministers should get vaccinatedBJD MP Pinaki Mishra said that in every nation heads of states have gotten themselves vaccinated against Covid-19. He said US President Joe Biden, UK PM Boris Johnson had gotten themselves vaccinated and urged top ministers to get vaccinated. Farmers' protests being staged by middlemen, show flaw in laws, says Rajiv Ranjan SinghRajiv Ranjan Singh says farmers protest is being staged by middlemen and people who run the mandis, and he dared opposition MPs to show flaw in laws.JD(U) MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh says PM Modi took tough decision to implement Covid-19 lockdownThe JD(U) MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh said that PM Modi took a tough decision to implement lockdown. He also said that several opposition MPs whose names he did not want to take, did not even try to help stranded labourers. He said opposition MPs should understand that amid pandemic all should stand together despite political leanings.'Why government missing deadlines to notify citizenship rules ?' asks TMC MP Mahua MoitraCitizenship Amendment Act was passed in 2019 in this House on the pretext of granting citizenship to persecuted Hindus & other minorities in neighbouring countries: Mahua Moitra, TMC MP in Lok Sabha pic.twitter.com/bblPdpjvoHTMC MP Mahua Moitra says "Citizenship Amendment Act was passed in 2019 in this House on the pretext of granting citizenship to persecuted Hindus & other minorities in neighbouring countries. At the same time, it threw into abusive insecurity millions of Indians who had been living in this land for generations. But the rules by which this act will be implemented were not yet prepared by December 2020, according to the Ministry of Home Affairs. The deadline has yet again been extended till April 2021. If indeed this govt cared so much for those persecuted in the neighbouring countries, why does it miss the deadline to notify these rules?" reports ANI.Shiv Sena MP says even during lockdown farmers ensured we do not sleep hungryShiv Sena MP Prataprao Jadhav said that farmers are the soul of the nation. They have made sure that during lockdown we do not sleep hungry. He said there should be investigation into violence during the Jan 26 tractor rally. He said the national flag should be respected but farmers should not be treated (or called) terrorists.BJP MP Locket Chatterjee says TMC govt mishandling Central govt schemesThe BJP MP from Bengal says that the Trinamool Congress politicians change the names of central schemes and do not credit the Central government for extending these schemes to the people of Bengal. She also alleged that the Trinamool Congress govt is mismanaging the funds sent by Centre. BJP MP Locket Chatterjee says there was no political reason behind the awarding Bharat Ratna to former president Pranab MukherjeeBJP MP Locket Chatterjee while extending her condolences towards those who lost their lives in pandemic also extended her condolences towards former president of India Pranab Mukherjee. She also said that there was no political reason behind awarding Bharat Ratna to Pranab Mukherjee. She highlighted that PM Modi and the former president had deep respect for each other and democratic institutions.Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Choudhury demands standalone discussion on farm lawsThe Congress leader from Bengal said that discussions on the President's Motion of Thanks would entail discussions on several topics concerning the nation. Choudhury expressed concerns that this would not allow for a detailed discussion on the farmers' agitation. He said that it is hard for opposition MPs to remain silent when farmers' are agitating amid cold wave conditions. Singh urges parliamentarians to uphold democratic processesDefence minister Rajnath Singh says every political party should uphold democratic processes. He was speaking in connection to the repeated sloganeering by the opposition politicians demanding repeal of farm laws. Lok Sabha has reconvened. You've been sent here to help the people of your constituencies: Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla before adjourning sessionLok Sabha adjourned till 5 pm amid ruckus by Opposition in the House. https://t.co/DYyUAvmZMXA visibly disappointed Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla was seen requesting opposition parliamentarians to stop sloganeering and use the valuable time of the parliament to ask questions about govt policies rather than continuing with protests. The Lok Sabha speaker has adjourned the proceedings till 5pm.Union minister Prakash Javadekar says despite pandemic students were not affected due to availability of online materialUnion minister Prakash Javadekar said that despite the pandemic students were still able to access study materials over the internet. He also said that Tata Sky, YouTube, JioTV and many other websites and TV channels helped students continue with their studies despite the challenges presented by the pandemic.Lok Sabha reconvenesLok Sabha has reconvened amid slogans demanding withdrawal of farm laws from opposition MPs. BJP MP gives notice in LS on 'poor condition' of NH-19BJP MP Sushil Kumar Singh has given Zero hour notice in Lok Sabha over, 'poor condition of NH-19 (National Highway).'RS passes J&K Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill, adjournedRajya Sabha passes the Jammu and Kashmir reorganisation (Amendment) Bill 2021, adjourned till tomorrow.Congress, CPM gives notice in Lok Sabha on farm lawsCongress MPs Manish Tewari, Jasbir Gill and CPM MP AM Arif give adjournment Motion Notice in Lok Sabha and demand the repealing of three farm laws.Existence of land almost negligent in J&K: AzadExistence of land is almost negligent in Jammu and Kashmir, that's why Maharaja Hari Singh added that provision for land: Azad in Rajya Sabha.Have not been able to buy land in J&K, says Cong's AzadMost areas in Jammu and Kashmir are forests and mountains. When it was made UT, many MPs said they'll buy land there. I said I've not been able to do so and asked them if they know cost of land in Jammu and Srinagar. Price of land in these cities is ₹40-50 crore per acre: Ghulam Nabi Azad, CongressTMC MPs walked out as PM Modi began his addressTMC MPs walked out as PM Modi began his reply in Rajya Sabha to the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address.'Modi hai, Mauka lijiye,' PM concludes speech in Rajya SabhaPM Modi concludes his speech in Rajya Sabha; says, "Modi hai, mauka lijiye."India needs to be wary of new FDI or 'Foreign Destructive Interference': PM Modi‘India needs to beware of new FDI or Foreign Destructive Ideology’, says PM Modi in Rajya Sabha.New class of people, called 'Aandolankari' coming up, says PM ModiPM takes dig at people seen in every agitation; says that a new class of people is coming up. This class, he says, is 'Anadolankari,' and everyone needs to be expose such people.Country extremely proud of our Sikh brothers: PM ModiCountry is extremely proud of our Sikh brothers. What have they not done for the country? People trying to mislead them should realise doing this will not benefit anyone: PM ModiMSP tha, hai aur rahega: PM Modi in Rajya SabhaOn MSP, PM Modi again assures farmers that it will stay. 'MSP tha, hai aur rahega, says PM Modi in Rajya Sabha.Need to explain to farmers that farm laws benefit them, says PM ModiWe need to collectively convince the farmers that the farm laws will be beneficial to them. I'm doing this, you do this as well. Let all abuses come my way, you can take credit for good things: PM ModiNeed to improve the lives of small farmers: PM ModiNDA's other schemes also help farmers. For example- the PMGSY. When the road connectivity improves, it enables the produce of the farmers to reach distant places. There are efforts like Kisan Rail too. The need of the hour is to improve the lives of the small farmers: PM ModiInitiated changes in agriculture to empower farmers: PM ModiSince 2014, we have initiated changes in the agriculture sector aimed at empowering the farmer. The crop insurance scheme was changed to make it more farmer friendly. The PM-KISAN scheme was also brought in. We are working for the small farmers: PM ModiThank ex-PM Deve Gowda for discussions related to agriculture: PM ModiI would like to appreciate the contribution of Shri HD Devegowda ji on the discussions relating to agriculture in the house. His words have added great perspective to the debate. He himself has a strong association with the agriculture sector: PM ModiNeed to defeat poverty if we have to progress, says PM Modi"We will have to rid ourselves of poverty if we have to progress. We will have to do a lot more besides what we’ve already done. Once a poor person gets confidence, he will himself be empowered to do this," says PM Modi.India has seen days when there was a large threat of polio, small pox: PM ModiIndia has seen days when there was a large threat of polio, small pox. Nobody knew whether India will get a vaccine or how many people will get it: PM Modi in Rajya Sabha.Covid-19 period strengthened our federal structure: PM ModiCovid-19 period has added new strength to our federal structure and the spirit of cooperative federalism: PM Modi in Rajya SabhaSome people mocked those who lit lamps during Covid-19: PM Modi"You might've seen on social media-an old woman sitting outside her hut on footpath, with a lit earthen lamp, praying for welfare of India. We're mocking her! If somebody who never went to school thinks they can serve India by lighting lamps, they can do it. It's being mocked," says PM Modi.'Third world countries' developing vaccines for humanity: PM ModiNations labelled as 'third world countries' are developing vaccines for humanity. Largest vaccination drive against Covid-19 underway in India. World proudly says it has received vaccines from India: PM ModiCredit of winning war against Covid-19 goes to India, says PM ModiCredit of winning war against Covid-19 goes not to the govt or individual, but to India: PM Modi in Rajya SabhaPresident's address was still delivered, says PM ModiIn a dig at Opposition parties which boycotted President's address, PM Modi says that the message was 'still delivered.'50 MPs expressed their views for more than 13 hours: PM ModiIn Rajya Sabha, over 50 MPs expressed their views for over 13 hours, they expressed their invaluable views. So, I express my gratitude to all the MPs: PM ModiIndia is a land of opportunities: PM Modi"India is a land of opportunities in real sense, opportunities are waiting for us. India can't afford to miss opportunities," says PM Modi.PM Modi responds to Motion of thanks in Rajya SabhaWhole world is witnessing a severe crisis (Covid-19), who would’ve thought humanity will have to go through something like this: PM Narendra Modi in Rajya Sabha.Congress' Tagore gives notice in Lok Sabha on UttarakhandCongress MP Manickam Tagore has given adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over flash floods in Uttarakhand.India will get all its Rafale aircraft from France by April 2022: Rajnath Singh11 Rafale aircraft have arrived in India. By this March, India will have 17 Rafale aircraft. By April 2022, all Rafale aircraft (the entire batch) will come to India: Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, in Rajya SabhaBJD MP gives Zero Hour notice in Rajya SabhaBJD MP Prashanta Nanda gives Zero Hour Notice in Rajya Sabha and demanded to provide mobile connectivity in villages and left-wing extremism (LWE) areas in Odisha.Will ask HM for details on Uttarakhand tragedy, says RS chairmanVice President Venkaiah Naidu, the Rajya Sabha chairman, says that he will ask home minister Amit Shah for details on Uttarakhand disaster once the home ministry has full report.Shiv Sena gives notice to discuss TRP scamShiv Sena's Priyanka Chaturvedi gives suspension of business notice under rule 267 in Rajya Sabha to discuss the investigation of TRP scam.PM to respond in Rajya Sabha at around 10:30 am, says PMOAt around 10:30 AM today in the Rajya Sabha, PM Narendra Modi will reply to the Motion of Thanks on the President’s address: Prime Minister's Office (PMO)CPI gives notice over Uttarakhand flash floodsCPI MP Binoy Viswam has given suspension of business notice under rule 267 in Rajya Sabha over the flash floods in Chamoli, Uttrakhand.PM Modi likely to speak at 10:30 am in Rajya SabhaPrime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to reply to the debate on Motion of Thanks on President Ram Nath Kovind’s address, in the Rajya Sabha at 10:30 am on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-budget-session-live-updates-february-8-2021-101612752147781.html
08-02-2021||India||Zero Covid-19 cases in 32 Uttar Pradesh districts||As many as 32 Uttar Pradesh districts have reported zero coronavirus cases, according to the state health department. The Covid-19 death toll in the state rose to 8,687 on Sunday with one more fatality, the lowest in many months of the pandemic, while 113 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 6,01,385.The only death was reported on Sunday was from Bahraich while the state’s active case count was 3,880. Across UP, 670 patients were discharged from hospitals after recovery. This was six times more than the number of fresh cases reported in the past 24 hours.Lucknow reported 18 fresh cases while 406 patients were discharged from hospitals after recovery, which brought the number of active cases in Lucknow to 700. Kanpur logged five fresh cases, Prayagraj eight, Ghaziabad nine, Gautam Buddh Nagar two, Meerut two and Varanasi nine.“Lucknow has reported 81,549 cases till now, out of which 79,667 have recovered with a recovery rate of 97.69%. In all, 1,182 deaths have been reported here,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, Secretary General, Association of International Doctors.Fresh cases in Lucknow were reported from Gomti Nagar (2), Gudamba (2) and Rae Bareli road (4).At present, Kasganj had zero active Covid cases. The district reported 1,957 cases and six deaths since the pandemic started. Hamirpur, Mahoba, Shravasti, Hathras, Kaushambi and Baghpat had only two active cases at present, according to the data from the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zero-covid-19-cases-in-32-uttar-pradesh-districts-101612752224422.html
08-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: Day after tragedy, multi-agency rescue operations on||The rescue operations at Uttarakhand's Chamoli, where a massive glacier burst led to an avalanche in which at least 10 died and over hundreds went missing, went overnight though the rise in water level partially halted the rescue operations at NTPC's 900-metre long Tapovan tunnel on Sunday evening. Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF, Uttarkhand's State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel, Indian Army have been pressed into the rescue operations. Specialised teams of Indian Air Force, Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) have reached the spot for surveillance, special reconnaissance. Navy's diving teams have been kept on standby for flash flood relief operations.Here are the top 10 updates from Joshimath rescue operations:> At least eight bodies have been recovered from the National Thermal Power Corporation Limited (NTPC) site in the Tapovan area, informed SS Deswal, Director General, ITBP.> Nearly 180 sheep and goats were believed to have been swept away in the flash flood. Five locals, including three shepherds and two women who were cutting grass, lost their lives.Also Read: Uttarakhand glacier bursts: Panic and memories of 2013 floods> According to IAF initial recce report, Tapovan hydro-electric power dam, also known as Rishi Ganga Pour Project, got completely washed away.> At least four hydropower projects in the area have been damaged, including NTPC's Tapovan Vishnugad hydropower plant.> Two bridges at the entrance of Malari valley have also been washed away.> At around 8pm on Sunday, there was a sudden surge in the water level in Dhauli Ganga which halted the rescue operations at Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project.> But reports of any fresh flood striking Chamoli again were dismissed as rumours. Uttarakhand Police and chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday alerted people against rumours.> The Army deployed around 400 personnel in rescue operations besides two medical teams to affected areas. One engineering task force of the Army was deployed in Ringi village in Joshimath and a control room has been set up.> Those who have been rescued on Sunday by ITBP personnel were given first aid and then shifted to ITBP hospital in Joshimath. Their condition is stable.> In Tapovan, ITBP rescue work in going in two tunnels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-glacier-burst-day-after-tragedy-multi-agency-rescue-operations-on-101612749969252.html
08-02-2021||India||Tracing the Ganga's intricate waterweb||Originating from Vasudhara Tal, perhaps the largest glacial lake in Uttarakhand, the Dhauli Ganga flows in a meandering course, which takes it through the Nanda Devi National Park.Known for its spectacularly beautiful route and white water rafting, the river turned into a deathly torrent on Sunday after a part of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off and collapsed into it.Dhauli Ganga, which merges with Alaknanda, is one of the several tributaries of the Ganga, as the holy river flows down from the Himalayas and snakes its way through the plains. The tributaries intersect, flow into one another or meander away passing through several towns from five states.In Uttarakhand, the Ganga and its tributaries pass through important tourist places like Rishikesh, Hardiwar, Rudraprayag and Karnaprayag.Sunday's collapse of the glacier led to rippling flash floods in the Dhauli Ganga and the Rishi Ganga and also impacted the Alaknanda.This also brought spotlight on the 2013 flash floods in the hill states that wiped out settlements and killed over 5,000 people.Dhauli Ganga is joined by Rishi Ganga river at Raini where the disaster at the power project dam took place.The river takes a V turn and continues to flow in the opposite direction, toward north, as Dhauli Ganga for another 30-odd kilometres, through Tapovan, until it is joined by Alaknanda river at Vishnuprayag near Joshimath.There it loses its identity and Alaknanda flows southwest -- through Chamoli, Maithana, Nandaprayag, Karnaprayag until it meets the Mandakini river, coming from the north at Rudraprayag.After subsuming Mandakini, the Alaknanda carries on past Srinagar, before joining the Ganges at Devprayag near Kedarnath. Alaknanda then disappears and the mighty Ganges carries on its pan-India journey, first flowing south then west through important pilgrimage centres such as Rishikesh and finally descending into the Indo-Gangetic plains at Haridwar.Still on a southern course, the Ganges goes past Bijnor when it loops back on an easterly course toward Kanpur.Yamuna, Ramganga and Ghaghara are other Himalayan rivers that join the Ganga.Dhauli Ganga is one of the important tributaries of Alaknanda, the other being the Nandakini, Pindar, Mandakini and Bhagirathi.The Himalayan rivers pass through environmentally fragile areas. However, like other Himalayan rivers, the Dhauli Ganga too has been dammed. Dhauli Ganga also has a power station of the National Hydropower Corporation Ltd of 280 MW at Pithoragarh in Uttarakhand.According to South Asia Network on Dams, Rivers and People, a think tank, under construction HEPs threaten about 50 per cent of the Dhauli Ganga's length.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tracing-the-ganga-s-intricate-waterweb-101612747659665.html
08-02-2021||NA||LIVE: Delhi records 125 new cases of Covid-19, 3 deaths||India’s count of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is at 10,838,194 after the Union health ministry on Sunday said that the country logged 11,831 new infections in the preceding 24 hours. India’s Covid-19 caseload is the second-highest in the world, behind that of the United States of America. According to Johns Hopkins University, the US’ caseload is at over 26.9 million, while its death toll is at over 463,000. Brazil, meanwhile, has the third-highest caseload globally. The US, Brazil and Mexico, in that order, have recorded the highest number of deaths due to the disease, with India at fourth.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn India, the respective tallies of Maharashtra and Kerala, the states with the highest Covid-19 caseloads, stand at over 20 million and 962,000. At 67,795, Kerala has the highest number of active cases in the country, followed by Maharashtra at 36,192; all other states and Union territories have less than 6,000 active cases – Karnataka, which has the third-highest Covid-19 caseload, has 5,987 active cases. The largest vaccination drive against the pandemic is currently underway in India, with healthcare workers being vaccinated. The drive began on January 16 and healthcare workers will be given their second vaccine shots from February 13. 30 million healthcare workers will be inoculated in the first phase.Follow all the updates here:Madhya Pradesh records 193 new cases of Covid-19, 3 fatalities Madhya Pradesh on Monday recorded 193 new cases of Covid-19, taking the state-wide tally to 2,56,591. 3 fatalities were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll currently stands at 3,823, according to news agency PTI.Representative Ron Wright becomes first member of US Congress to succumb to Covid-19A Republican Representative to the US Congress became the first individual in the Congress to succumb to Covid-19 after being diagnosed last month, reported Reuters. Delhi records 125 new cases of Covid-19, 3 deathsDelhi reports 125 new COVID-19 cases, 138 discharges, and 3 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per Delhi Health DepartmentTotal cases: 6,36,160Total discharges: 6,24,182Active cases: 1,096Death toll: 10,882 pic.twitter.com/BGqR17YWhb278 BSF jawans inoculated against Covid-19 in Gurugram278 Border Security Force (BSF) personnel were successfully inoculated against Covid-19 at 95 BN BSF Campus in Gurugram's Bhondsi. reported news agency ANI.China's CanSino Biologics Inc's Covid-19 vaccine has an efficacy of 65.7%, says PakistanPakistan's health minister said on Monday that Chinese vaccine produced by CanSino Biologics has an efficacy of 65.7%, reported Reuters. The CanSinoBIO vaccine, jointly developed by a research institute affiliated with the Chinese military, is currently being tested in Pakistan, Mexico, Russia, Argentina, and Chile,India vaccinated 6 million beneficiaries the fastest, says health ministryManohar Agnani, additional secretary, Union health ministry, said on Monday, that India has achieved the feat of vaccinating 6 million individuals the fastest in just 24 days. Adding that the US took 26 days to reach this mark and the UK 46 days.Maharashtra records 2,216 new cases of Covid-19, 15 fatalitiesMaharashtra reports 2,216 new COVID-19 cases, 3,423 recoveries, and 15 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per State Health DepartmentTotal cases: 20,46,287Total recoveries: 19,58,971Active cases: 34,720Death toll: 51,325 pic.twitter.com/v7m6dUk0BH60,35,660, individuals have been vaccinated so far, says health ministryManohar Agnani, additional secretary, Union health ministry, said on Monday that 60,35,660, individuals have been vaccinated so far in the country. Out of which 54,12,270 are healthcare workers and 6,23,390 are frontline workers, reported news agency ANI. He added that a total of 23 individuals have died following vaccination. Jammu and Kashmir logs 43 new Covid-19 casesJammu and Kashmir recorded 43 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the infection tally to 1,24,952, officials said, reports PTI.Argentina reports first cases of Brazilian coronavirus variantsArgentina has detected the first cases of two Brazilian variants of the coronavirus in travelers from the neighboring nation, the government said on Monday, reports Reuters.South Africa in talks with J&J to get 20 million more Covid vaccine dosesSouth Africa is in talks with Johnson & Johnson to buy an additional 20 million doses of the company’s Covid-19 vaccine and has been offered supplies of Russia’s Sputnik V shot, according to a presentation the health ministry made to the cabinet, reports Bloomberg.Hyderabad Police Commissioner takes first dose of Covid vaccineHyderabad City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar on Monday took the first jab of Covid-19 vaccine along with several other senior police officers, reports ANI.Vietnam records 49 new Covid-19 casesVietnam reported 49 more Covid-19 cases on Monday, most in the economic hub Ho Chi Minh City, reports Reuters.Months after first wave of Covid-19 Spanish medics suffer mental traumaIt has been eight months since he last treated a patient with Covid-19, but Spanish nurse Ricardo Belmonte still feels anxious when he recalls the first wave of the pandemic at the intensive care unit of Barcelona's Vall d'Hebron Hospital, reports Reuters.Ukraine hopes to receive Covid vaccines from other EU statesUkraine, which hopes to vaccinate half of its population against coronavirus by early 2022, is in talks with other countries including Poland about receiving some of their coronavirus vaccines, President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said on Monday, reports Reuters.South Korea to give free Covid tests to petsSouth Korea's capital says it will give pet dogs and cats free coronavirus tests if they come into contact with infected humans and show symptoms, reports AP.Russia reports less than 15,000 new Covid cases after over 3 monthsRussia's single-day increase in Covid-19 cases fell below 16,000 for the first time since October 22, as 15,916 new cases were confirmed in the past 24 hours (down from 16,048 the day before), the response center said on Monday, reports ANI/Sputnik.Odisha reports 72 new Covid cases, one deathOdisha's Covid-19 tally mounted to 3,35,692 on Monday as 72 more people tested positive for the infection, while one fresh fatality pushed the death toll to 1,910, a health department official said, reports PTI.UK says AstraZeneca's Covid shot prevents deathThere is no evidence that the Astrazeneca vaccine does not prevent death or serious illness, and South Africa has only imposed a temporary halt on using the vaccine, a British junior health minister said on Monday, reports Reuters.Covid tally in Mizoram reaches 4383 after state logs 1 new caseOne more person has tested positive for Covid-19 in Mizoram, taking the tally in the northeastern state to 4,383, a health department official said on Monday, reports PTI.Kerala: 192 students, 72 staff test Covid positive at 2 schools192 students and 72 staff test positive for Covid-19 at two schools of Malappuram: District Health Authority, reports ANI.Arunachal logs no new Covid-19 caseArunachal Pradesh did not report any Covid-19 case on Monday, with the tally remaining unchanged at 16,830, a health department official said, reports PTI.Telangana reports 101 new Covid cases, lowest in 8 monthsThe fresh Covid-19 cases in Telangana continued to dwindle further with 101 people testing positive for the infection, the lowest in the last eight months, the state government said on Monday, reports PTI.Schools in Odisha open for classes 9,11 with Covid precautionsSchools reopen for classes 9 &11 in Odisha with COVID-19 precautions. "I'm happy to resume school after 10 months. All doubts can be cleared face-to-face now. At home, it was difficult to manage due to internet issues", says class 9 student of a school in Bhubaneshwar pic.twitter.com/99zHwoqHbXGermany reports 4,535 new Covid casesThe number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 4,535 to 2,288,545, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed on Monday, reports Reuters.Australia reassures of AstraZeneca's Covid vaccine after South Africa suspends useAustralia on Monday moved to reassure its citizens over the efficacy of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine after South Africa suspended use of the shot because data showed it offered limited protection against a new strain of the virus, reports Reuters.India records 11,831 new Covid-19 cases and 84 deathsIndia's Covid-19 tally reaches 10,838,194 with 11,831 fresh infections. Death toll tops 155,000; at 155,080 with 84 more fatalities.201,900,614 samples tested for Covid-19: ICMR201,9,00614 samples tested for #COVID19 up to 7th February. Of these, 532,236 samples were tested yesterday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)Covid-19 deaths near 79,000 mark in FranceFrance records 171 new Covid-19 deaths as toll reaches 78,965. National tally at 3,337,048 with 19,715 new infections.Mexico's Covid-19 death toll tops 166,000Mexico records 414 new Covid-19 deaths as toll reaches 166,200. This is the third-highest death toll globally, after those of the US and Brazil, respectively.1 new Covid-19 case in MizoramMizoram registers 1 new case of Covid-19 as tally reaches 4,383. 4,350 discharges, 24 active cases and nine deaths here thus far.Over 41.2 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in US, says CDCOver 59.3 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been distributed in the US, of which more than 41.2 million doses have been administered, as per the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-february-8-2021-101612748889531.html
08-02-2021||India||IndiaMART CEO, 2 others booked for selling Govardhan Hill rocks online, probe on||Three men, including the CEO of an e-commerce site, were booked on Sunday for allegedly putting up for sale online of rocks taken from the Govardhan Hill here, police said.Govardhan Hill in Mathura is considered a sacred site for Hindus as it is the setting for many legends relating to the life of Lord Krishna who is believed to be embodied in the earth of the hill.“Stern action would be taken against the company, its CEO, and the supplier for inciting religious feelings by misusing the facility of information technology,” SP (Rural) Shirish Chandra said.He said an FIR has been filed under Section 265 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 66 of the Information Technology Act against IndiaMART founder-CEO Dinesh Agarwal, co-founder Brajesh Agrawal and Mathura-based supplier Ankur Agrawal.The FIR was lodged based on a complaint by Mathura-based social worker Keshav Mukhia at Govardhan police station, the SP said.Ten more complaints on the issue filed at the same station have been clubbed for a single probe, officials said.According to the police, the website claimed that the rocks were "natural" and quoted its price as ₹5,175 per piece.Hundreds of people demonstrated in front of Govardhan police station against attempts by the company to "trade the deity".Siya Ram Baba, a saint from Mathura, condemned the act by the company saying, "Govardhan is Krishna himself. Anybody entering into a trade involving Govardhan would be inviting the wrath of the deity."Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh Brahmin Mahasabha has decided to meet the Mathura DM on Monday for strict action against the company and the supplier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiamart-ceo-2-others-booked-for-selling-govardhan-hill-rocks-online-probe-on-101612748813553.html
08-02-2021||India||Glacier breach causes floods in Uttarakhand||A glacier breach on Sunday morning at Joshimath in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district triggered a massive flood that hit two hydropower projects near the Naina Devi National Park, about 300 kilometres north of Dehradun, killing at least seven people and leaving around 170 missing and feared dead.It was as the biggest glacial lake outburst since June 2013 ,when flash floods caused the death of an estimated 5,700 people in and around the Kedarnath shrine in Uttarakhand, highlighting the impact of climate change and continuing degradation of the ecology in the fragile upper reaches of the mountainous northern Indian state.At least seven people were confirmed to have died in Sunday’s disaster and 170, workers engaged on two hydropower projects, were missing and feared to have perished. Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said as many as 28 workers engaged in the Rishiganga hydel dam project located close to the glacial lake were among the missing. “Two policemen are also missing,” he told reporters on Sunday evening after reviewing relief and rescue operations.Rawat said 176 people had been working on NTPC Limited’s under-construction hydropower project in Taporvan, around 5km downstream, when the disaster struck.“There are two tunnels there. In one tunnel there were around 15, in another tunnel there were around 30 to 35 workers. Thirty five to forty five came back and were rescued. One is injured. Rescue work is being carried out with much difficulty with ropes and digging of the muck that has filled the tunnels. But no contact could be made to the trapped workers inside the tunnel. Seven bodies have been recovered so far,” he said.Eyewitnesses recalled that such was the force of the water flowing and boulders rolling down from the upper reaches near Raini village that the under-construction Rishi Ganga dam was completely washed away.The debris from there gushed into the Dhauliganga river, a tributary of the Alaknanda, causing heavy damage to the 530 MW Dhauli Ganga hydel project, just 10 kilometres away.Close to 170 workers in the two hydropower projects were missing. Of the 16 stranded in a tunnel in the NTPC plant, two were rescued through a specially dug trench on Sunday evening. “Rescue operations are on,” said Uttarkhand disaster relief force spokesperson Alok Raven.“The river was flowing 10-15 metres above its normal level and took everything along. Only a few concrete structures on the banks remain of the Rishi Ganga hydel project,” said Dhan Singh Rawat, who rushed out of his house in Raini village after hearing a huge explosion.As videos of the breach went viral, the state government issued an alert on possible flooding in the Ganga river till Haridwar. People living at many places on the banks of the river were being evacuated.According to the Uttarakhand government, the glacial lake burst was first seen on Sunday morning between 9.30 and 10 am. Experts said that the water from the glacial lake, which could have burst because of an avalanche, could have started much earlier. There is very little satellite monitoring of glaciers in this region.Soon afterwards, disaster relief teams from its local base in Joshimath rushed to the spot to initiate rescue operations, along with the local police force. Later they were joined by army and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel from nearby bases, officials said. Five teams of the National Disaster Response Force were also flown in to assist in the rescue work, officials said.Raven said: “The rescue teams recovered two bodies from the Dhauliganga hydel power project. We are unable to receive much information about the rescue operation because of communication problems with the rescue teams. Apart from that, we are also not bothering them much as it would disturb them in their rescue work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glacier-breach-causes-floods-in-uttarakhand-101612748778970.html
08-02-2021||India||Indian Army helps authorities to control forest fire in Arunachal||Indian Army on Sunday assisted forest authorities in controlling forest fire near Chillipam Monastery, West Kameng, Arunachal Pradesh.The Eastern Command of the Indian Army in a tweet said the well-coordinated efforts of army and forest authorities and quick response averted catastrophic disaster."Indian Army assisted forest authorities in controlling forest fire near Chillipam Monastery, West Kameng, Arunachal Pradesh. A well-coordinated and quick response averted catastrophic disaster; saved lives and property," tweeted Eastern Command.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-helps-authorities-to-control-forest-fire-in-arunachal-101612748150401.html
08-02-2021||India||India-China talk disengagement, PLA beefs up on LAC with more missiles, rockets and howitzers||Although India and China have completed nine rounds of military talks on disengagement in the Eastern Ladakh theatre, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is showing no signs of de-escalation along the 3,488-km Line of Actual Control (LAC), reinforcing artillery guns, self-propelled howitzers and surface-to-missile units in Tibet.According to Indian national security planners, the PLA is engaged in fresh deployment and relocation of both troops and heavy military equipment in all the three sectors with fresh constructions of revetments (sloped protection against ordnance) in the finger areas of Pangong Tso.There is evidence with South Block to indicate fresh deployment of 35 heavy military vehicles and four 155 mm PLZ 83 self-propelled howitzers in sheds around the Shiquanhe PLA camp, just 82 kilometres from the LAC across Chumar in Eastern Ladakh.Additional deployment of vehicles, heavy equipment and new construction work was observed last month near the Rudok surveillance facility, 90 km from the LAC, with four new large sheds and partition quarters for troops. Both Rudok and Shiquanhe are in the occupied Aksai Chin area.According to Indian army commanders, there has been a marginal increase, new revetments and relocation of deployments between finger four and finger seven on the north bank of Pangong Tso. It was the Chinese PLA’s aggression on finger the 4 mountainous spur on the northern banks of Pangong Tso on May 5, 2020 that led to escalation of military tensions along the LAC.While induction of 20 military vehicles and equipment has been nobserved around the Piue radar site, 16 km from the LAC, the PLA is also strengthening positions around Spanggur Tso with induction of more firepower and troops in late December 2020.“The PLA is strengthening all along the 1,597-km LAC in Ladakh with a view for long-term deployments. The fortifications around Spanggur Tso are designed to support Moldo Garrison in Chushul area with Indian Army dominating heights in Kailash Ranges,” said an official in the know of the military deployments.The PLA has also moved a surface-to-air missile (SAM) unit near the PLA camp in Lhasa, 228 km from the Indian border, to protect the one-time seat of 14th Dalai Lama with some 30 vehicles moving the military equipment under camouflage in the second half of January 2021.Fearing an Indian Air Force (IAF) attack in Tibet’s hinterland, the PLA has deployed SAM units and anti-aircraft guns around all major towns along the LAC.While a new military shelter comprising 4-5 barracks has been observed across the Lipulekh pass in the middle sector, the presence of PHL-03 multi-barrel rocket launchers (MBRLs) at Rubinkha PLA camp just 23 km from the India-China-Bhutan tri-junction is a matter of serious concern because PLA is continuing its push in the strategic area. The PHL-03 MBRLs is a Chinese copy of the Russian Smerch rocket system with the Indian Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiachina-talk-disengagement-pla-beefs-up-on-lac-with-more-missiles-rockets-and-howitzers-101612735395774.html
08-02-2021||NA||Farmers' stir LIVE: Farmers ask govt to pick date for talks after PM's address||The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait while addressing the attendees of a kisan mahapanchayat in Haryana on Sunday said, "There will be no 'ghar wapsi' till farmers' demands are met. This is a people's movement, it will not fail." He added that the farmers’ protests, which have been going on for more than 70 days, were going strong. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since November 26, demanding a rollback of the three farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.In symbolic protest on Saturday, farmers staged a 'chakka jam' for three hours, nationwide during which farmers blocked major state and national highways. The protest was largely peaceful and the farmers said that they are ready to resume talks with the government, reiterating their demand for repeal of the three contentious laws.Follow all the updates here:Delhi police withdraws additional security personnel at bordersThe Delhi police have withdrawn additional security personnel at the city's borders. As per ANI, the additional forces to go back to their respective units and districts. Rakesh Tikait slams PM for not addressing law on MSP demandBKU leadder Rakesh Tikait slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not mentioning anything about a law on MSP> Tikait said that while the PM might have said that MSP was there to stay, he did not mention anything about a law.Can't remain silent when lakhs of farmers are sitting at border: AR ChowdhuryCongress leader AR Chowdhury said that the Parliament culd not remain silent when lakhs of farmers were protesting at the Delhi border, in the Lok Sabha. He said that over 206 farmers had passed away and the police had set up nails to prevent them from entering the capital. Chowdhury also said that all they asked for was a discussion on the farmers' issue.Farmers ask govt to pick date for talks after PM's addressFarmer unions agitating against the three agri laws on Monday asked the government to fix a date for the next round of talks, soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged them to end their stir and invited them to resume the dialogue.State intelligence department to conduct probe into celebrities' tweets on farmers' protests: Maha Home MinisterMaharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said that the state intelligence department would conduct a probe into allegations that some celebrities were pressured to tweet about the farmers' protests.Farm protests: Indo-Canadians get ‘threat calls’ for supporting India’s stanceFrom the Greater Toronto Area to Metro Vancouver and Calgary and across Canada, members of the Indo-Canadian community are being targeted with intimidating calls including threats of sexual violence against family members. Their crime? Questioning the rationale behind the ongoing farmers’ protests in India and opposing the Khalistani involvement in the movement. Read more'Want law to be formed on MSP', farmer leader Rakesh Tikait"When did we say that MSP is ending? We said that a law be formed on MSP. If such a law is formed, all the farmers of the country will be benefitted. Right now, there is no law on MSP and the farmers are looted by traders": Rakesh Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union‘Working for small farmers’, says PM Modi in Parliament amid farm stirPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that the government is working to empower small farmers and amid the ongoing farm stir reiterated that minimum support prices (MSP) will continue and mandis will be modernised. Read more'MSP will continue, mandis will be modernised,' says PM Modi amid farmers' protests over agri lawsOn MSP, PM Modi again assured farmers that it will stay. 'MSP tha, hai aur rahega, said PM Modi in Rajya Sabha. "We need to collectively convince the farmers that the farm laws will be beneficial to them. I'm doing this, you do this as well. Let all abuses come my way, you can take credit for good things", he added.Amid impasse, govt asks Twitter to take down 1,178 accountsAmid the impasse between the government and Twitter over the demand to block 257 accounts with posts related to the farmers’ protests, the ministry of electronics and information technology has asked the company to take down over 1,178 accounts that may “foment trouble”. Read moreHow farmers at Delhi borders worked their way around internet shutdownsA day after farmers organised a nationwide “chakka jam” for three hours on national highways demanding the repeal of the three new farm laws and protesting the arrests of farmers, frequent internet shutdowns and barricading at the agitation spots, farmers at Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur said network connectivity had improved on Sunday. Read moreGovt ready to resume talks, says Union minister Piyush GoyalUnion minister Piyush Goyal on Sunday said the government is ready to resume talks with the farmers protesting the new farm laws but asserted that despite repeated proposals, the protesters have not come up with any "concrete suggestions" so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stir-live-updates-live-februrary-8-farmers-protest-101612745687917.html
08-02-2021||India||Navy sailor set ablaze took over ₹20L loan: Probe||A probe into the kidnapping and death of a Navy official in Maharashtra’s Palghar district has revealed that the 27-year-old had taken a loan of ₹5 lakh from his colleague allegedly to invest in stocks and shares, police said on Sunday.The Navy official, Surajkumar Mithilesh Dube, succumbed to injuries on Friday after he was set ablaze by three unidentified men in a forest in the district.The probe into the case revealed that Dube had taken a personal loan of ₹8 lakh from State Bank of India and ₹5.75 lakh from his colleague. He also owned three mobile phones, one of which was exclusively used for the transaction of shares. His family members said they were unaware of his third mobile phone. Palghar SP Dattatray Shinde said the sailor had also taken a loan of ₹9 lakh from his in-laws for investment. The colleague had allegedly asked for his money following which Dube assured to return the amount through a cheque or via online transaction, police said.“We still do not know the motive behind the murder. We have formed 10 teams to probe the matter,” he said.The sailor was on leave and had allegedly visited Chennai on January 31 from where he was kidnapped and held captive for three days. He was then brought to Gholwad in Palghar following which the accused set him ablaze in Vaiji-Vejalpada forest after they were reportedly refused a ransom of ₹10 lakh.Sarjerao Kumbhar, assistant police inspector, said, “The victim was burnt alive at gun-point for refusing their demand for ₹10 lakh. Locals alerted us and we admitted him to Cottage Hospital, Dahanu. He was later shifted to Sion hospital where he succumbed to injuries. Before his death, he had narrated the incident.” The deceased’s father, however, claimed he did not receive any calls for ransom. “We are investigating all possible angles, including whether the victim had self-staged the kidnapping and sought the ransom so as to clear the financial mess,” Shinde said.In its statement, the Navy confirmed that Dubey, of INS Agrani, Coimbatore,Tamil Nadu, was on leave and was found with 90% burns in Palghar on February 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-sailor-set-ablaze-took-over-20l-loan-probe-101612747316562.html
08-02-2021||India||J&K police book father of slain ‘terrorist’ for holding protest||Jammu and Kashmir Police has registered an FIR against the father of an alleged terrorist killed in an encounter in the Parimpora area of the city on December 30 last year for holding a protest in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district earlier this week.Athar Mushtaq was killed along with two other alleged militants Aijaz Maqbool Ganai and Zubair Ahmad Lone in the encounter last year. The families of the three deceased have been holding protests and demanding the return of their bodies. Athar’s father Mushtaq Ahmad Wani and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti alleged that the FIR, which the police claimed was on grounds of unlawful assembly, was lodged because the former had held a protest demanding the body of his son who was buried by the forces in Ganderbal, some 110 km away. “There is an FIR against an unlawful assembly at Below (Pulwama) on February 05, 2021,” Pulwama SP, Ashish Kumar, said in a text message.As per local reports, Wani and others have been booked under sections 147, 341, 153 of IPC and 13 of the UAPA for “organizing illegal processions under criminal conspiracy”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-police-book-father-of-slain-terrorist-for-holding-protest-101612747021881.html
08-02-2021||India||A day after release from jail, Munawar Faruqui says 'justice will prevail'||Stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui said he has “full faith in judiciary” and was hopeful that “ justice will prevail”, after his release from the Indore Central jail on Saturday late night.Even as Faruqui refused to comment on the case, he said, “I won’t comment over this issue but I have full faith in my judiciary and laws. Justice will prevail.” Faruqui, who was arrested on January 1 for allegedly hurting religious sentiments and violating the Covid-19 guidelines, was released from the jail after Supreme Court granted bail to him on Friday. The apex court granted him interim bail after the Madhya Pradesh high court rejected his bail plea on January 28. The apex court also stayed the production warrant issued against Faruqui by a court in Prayagraj in connection with an FIR lodged there.After the initial denial due to paperwork, Indore central jail administration released him late on Saturday night after interference of chief judicial magistrate Aman Singh Bhuria, said a jail offcer. Indore central jail superintendent Rakesh Bhangre said, “We didn’t receive any order from the SC till late evening. We received an order of release of Faruqui from Indore district court in the afternoon but we didn’t receive cancellation order of production warrant from trial court of Prayagraj [in Uttar Pradesh].” “When we didn’t release him, CJM Aman Singh Bhuria called me and asked the reason for not releasing him. I informed him that we are waiting for certified copy of SC order or an order copy from trial court in Prayagraj. After few minutes, we received the copy, downloaded from the official website of the apex court. We informed him about receiving the copy and the CJM asked us to release him in the night,” said Bhangre.Faruqui’s advocate Anshuman Srivasatav, however, said, “We had provided the certified copy of the order to get him released.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-day-after-release-from-jail-munawar-faruqui-says-justice-will-prevail-101612746695155.html
08-02-2021||India||India dispatches Covid-19 vaccines to Barbados, Dominica||India on Sunday dispatched two consignments of Covishield Covid-19 vaccines to the countries of Barbados and Dominica under the Vaccine Maitri initiative.The consignments of vaccines, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) departed from Mumbai at 11:35 pm yesterday.India had earlier provided Barbados with Covishield vaccines, for which the country's Prime Minister Mia Mottley has expressed her gratitude to the Indian government and the people for the "most generous" donation of Covid-19 vaccine doses.In a letter addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, Mottley said: "I trust that you are well and safe. On behalf of my Government and people, I wish to express gratitude to you, your Government and the people of the Republic of India for its most generous donation of the Covishield vaccines (under the auspices of Oxford Astrazeneca)."Recently, Barbados media had reported that the country will be receiving 1,00,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines from India.Barbados, with a population of over 2.87 lakhs, has recorded 1,641 confirmed cases of coronavirus and 1,274 persons have recovered.Last month, Srivastava said New Delhi plans to supply 1 crore or 10 million vaccine doses to Africa and 10 lakh to United Nations health workers under GAVI's (Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation) COVAX facility.Srivastava said that India plans to commercially export coronavirus vaccine to Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Canada, Mongolia and other countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-dispatches-covid-19-vaccines-to-barbados-dominica-101612745626573.html
08-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier bursts: Panic and memories of 2013 floods||Rakesh Dhimri, a 42-year-old resident of Raini village in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, was sipping on his tea on an idle Sunday morning around 10am when he heard a loud sound of angry waters gushing in.Alarmed, he got up from his chair and went outside his house to enquire. What he saw rekindled his memories of the deadly Kedarnath floods of 2013 that killed about 5,700 people. “The first thing that came to my mind after seeing the swollen Rishiganga river (it becomes Alaknanda in Chamoli city) was the Kedarnath tragedy in which thousands died. I and my family members were just praying to god to protect us,” Dhimri said.Also read: Heavy damage to two hydel projects at the epicentre in Uttarakhand glacier burstTill Sunday night, rescuers have pulled out seven bodies from a tunnel while at least 170 people are missing or feared dead after a glacier lake breach in Chamoli triggered a massive avalanche and floods in the swollen Alaknanda river. Raini village and two power projects – NTPC’s Tapovan hydel project and the Rishi Ganga Hydel Project – suffered damage as waters and sludge came rushing downstream.“God has saved me…I cannot believe I am alive,” said a worker rescued at the Tapovan project. “We were working inside a tunnel and got no time to respond. I was saved as I hooked myself into one corner,” he said.Through the day, panic hung in the air in the sparsely populated mountainous region close to India’s borders with China and Nepal. Though survivors were relieved after Alaknanda water levels went down after at least two hours, they were still in shock.Mahendra Prakash Semwal, a resident of Chamoli town, about 24km from the Rishi Ganga project, summed up the emotions.“We were just holding our breath with all our eyes on the Alaknanda river…,” he said, adding that the anxious wait continued till the water level receded. “We would, however, not sleep tonight out of panic,” he added.Several Chamoli residents questioned authorities on setting up the two power projects there despite resistance by a section of locals and environmentalists.“The government should have assessed all the aspects before setting up the projects in the area,” said Pradeep Farswan, a resident.NK Joshi, Chamoli district disaster management officer, said panic gripped residents after the incident. “…we tried to handle that by making announcements in the area on mic, urging people to stay away from the river and get to safety.”Also read | Uttarakhand glacier burst: Experts cite impact of climate crisis“We also took to social media, actively urging them not to pay heed to any rumours, including some old, unrelated videos. Despite that, many were still in panic, which subsided only after the water level in the river came down to normal,” said Joshi.The personnel from the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) were among the first to respond to the tragedy.“People feared that a Kedarnath-like tragedy may happen again,” said an SDRF rescuer who rushed for relief work at the Rishi Ganga project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-glacier-bursts-panic-and-memories-of-2013-floods-101612746112155.html
08-02-2021||India||Centre trying best to reduce fuel prices: Smriti Irani in Rajasthan||Union Minister Smriti Irani on Sunday said the Centre is trying its best to reduce fuel prices and the Rajasthan government should also do its part."While the Centre is trying its best to reduce the fuel prices, the Ashok Gehlot government in the state has enough allocation to reduce fuel prices. Now, it is up to him how much burden he wants to reduce on the people of the state," Irani told reporters at a press conference here.The Rajasthan government had recently reduced the value-added tax (VAT) rate by two per cent on petrol and diesel.Responding to a separate query, the BJP leader said even the Congress' students' wing is now collecting money for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. She took a dig at the Congress, saying the party had once submitted an affidavit questioning the existence of Lord Ram.On the farmers' issues, Irani said 11 rounds of talks have already been held between the government and farmers."As our (Union Agriculture) minister said, we are ready to talk with them (farmers)," she said.Irani, who holds textiles and women and child development portfolios, said the 2021-22 Union budget will play a key role in the nation-building." ₹2.23 lakh crore were allocated to strengthen the health infrastructure. The prime minister has allocated capital expenditure of ₹1 lakh crore for construction of road. Through Ujjwala Scheme, eight lakh families were provided clean energy. And in this budget it was announced that one crore more families will be connected," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-trying-best-to-reduce-fuel-prices-smriti-irani-in-rajasthan-101612746036590.html
08-02-2021||India||Delhiwale: A staircase in CP||A creaking wooden staircase going up one side of the hall, opening into a narrow attic, or the mezzanine floor. In the earlier landmarks of the colonial-era Connaught Place (CP) shopping district, this simple element of architecture tended to be most common. But most of those longtime landmarks — or perhaps all of them — have now become history.You may remember this typical staircase, so evocative of an earlier time, from the legendary New Book Depot, famous for its collections of classics and for its charmingly eccentric owner. But that relic of the old CP shut down in 2012 – today, it is part of a clothes showroom run by an multinational brand. The staircase is gone.Fortunately, one address in today’s CP has managed to keep its staircase, as well as the flavor of yesteryear. It is the post office in the Inner Circle’s A Block. One of CP’s quaintest spots, its mere existence is already permeated with a sense of long-gone time. Indeed, when was the last you entered a post office to drop a handwritten letter?But it is the hall’s layout that immediately transports you to the CP of an earlier age. It looks spacious, except for the counter filled with post office employees. In the pre-pandemic era, this particular post office used to be filled with foreign tourists lining up to send postcards or parcels to their countries. Now, the tiled floor is marked with red circles, probably to shepherd customers into physical distancing. A corner of the hall has a metal trolley filled with a great pile of India Post parcels.And here’s that familiar wooden staircase, on the side, leading up to an attic. It is painted in the shade of dark coffee, with faded patches here and there. This evening, a phool-jharoo is placed right in the middle of the staircase, suggesting that the structure is cared for even though the attic upstairs is empty.In all, the entire post office is intensely haunting, but the staircase doubly so. The more you gaze upon it, the more absorbing it becomes. As if by staring concentratedly upon it you were to find some echo of CP’s dead past — but all you see are the pale shadows of the stair sticks falling on the wall. On exiting, you are no richer of any historical facts about the beloved CP, and yet, you feel more connected to what it once was.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-a-staircase-in-cp-101612745857024.html
08-02-2021||India||A Delhi village that celebrates Subhas Chandra Bose like no other||New Delhi: It is a balmy afternoon and Ran Singh is sitting in the courtyard of his house. The octogenarian’s eyes sparkle as one mentions Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. “ I was in class 3rd when Netaji delivered an impassioned speech in our village, his fist clenched, his hand pushed forward like this,” he says, standing up and striking a pose similar to that of many Netaji statues. “You will not get azadi until you make supreme sacrifices,” he told the villagers.Ask Singh about the year Bose came to the village and he goes silent for a while, trying to dredge up his memory, his eyes closed, and then says, “ I think it was 1944.”Singh is not the only one with a Netaji story in Tikri Kalan, a village on the western fringes of the city, which celebrates Subhas Chandra Bose like no other. Locals believe that Netaji delivered his last known speech in India in their village, though no one seems to know the year when he did so. While some say that Netaji visited the village in 1941 when he travelled to Berlin incognito via Peshawar; others claim that Netaji addressed INA (Indian National Army) soldiers in 1944 in their village—both the possibilities not supported by historical facts.“This is local folklore which cannot be historically substantiated. The only INA soldiers who came back to India in 1945 were the PoWs (prisoners of war) taken by the Allied Forces largely in Burma (now Mynamar). By then the real story of the INA, founded originally by Captain Mohan Singh and later revived by Bose, was over,” says Anirudh Deshpande, a historian who has authored many books on Indian military history.He adds that Netaji making a stopover in the village in 1941, when he escaped from his home in Kolkata to Berlin via Peshawar, too is highly improbable. “Because Bose escaped house arrest incognito and travelled straight to Peshawar from where he crossed into Afghanistan prior to his escape with the help of Italians. He would not have risked getting off at Delhi to address a village.”But the lack of historical evidence has not come in the way of Tikri village flaunting its ‘historical relationship’ with Netaji. The village organises a gala full-day event on his birth anniversary on January 23 that includes rousing speeches, cultural events and blood donation camps inspired by Netaji’s iconic slogan tum mujhe khoon do, main tumhe azadi doonga, his pictures adorn houses and shops, elderly women in the village sing folk songs in Haryanvi hailing Netaji and make and distribute sweets.The village prefers to call itself ‘Azad Hind Gram’, also the name of a six-acre complex in the village that houses a museum to INA and a memorial to Subhas Chandra Bose, built by the Delhi government.“We love Netaji like no other national leader and live by his ideals and that is what has earned us the sobriquet of Azad Hind Gram,” says Balwan Singh, a para Asian Games medalist, pointing to a small bronze statue of Netaji on his desk. Every year, he organises Netaji Subhas cross country race in the village.The walls of this mostly urbanised village — though dozens of families here are still engaged in agriculture -- are plastered with posters of the recent 125th birth anniversary celebrations of Bose at Azad Hind Gram. The Netaji memorial, the villagers say, is built on the spot where Netaji had delivered his speech under a tree. Before the memorial was built in 2000, the locals had been organising a ‘havan’ on the spot every year on January 23 , Bose’s birth anniversary. This year too, the villagers organised a mega full-day programme to celebrate mark his birthday.“Funded by the villagers, it is one of the biggest programmes organised anywhere in the country to celebrate Netaji’s birthday,” says Jaipal Drall, who heads a village committee which organises the annual event. “We revere all national leaders, but Netaji holds a special place in our hearts as our elders told us he had visited our village and gave a speech here.”Like most villagers, Yashpal Drall, president of village RWA, was quite amused by the recent controversy where people tweeted a picture of a portrait of Bose unveiled in the Rashtrapati Bhawan claiming it showed actor Prosenjit Chatterjee from a film in which he played the national leader, and not Netaji. “Netaji is the most recognisable national leader here; not even a child can fail to recognise him,” he says. He too has his own Netaji story, which again defies history. “Many village women had donated their jewellery for the INA.”He proudly adds that the village is home to many families whose members had served in the INA. One of them is the family of late Sube Singh. The wall of the house has ‘freedom fighter Sube Singh INS Veteran’, scrawled in big bold letters. Sunita Devi, the daughter of Sube Singh, brings out a sheaf of documents, including certificates of service issued by All India INA Enquiry And Relief Committee set up by the Congress, confirming his date of joining the INA in 1941.“We would not have got freedom without Netaji,” she says, then breaks into a song in Haryanvi in praise of Bose. Sunita Devi, has, in fact, learnt by heart several songs hailing the leader. On his birth anniversary, she makes and distributes kheer . “This has been a tradition in our house for almost seven decades now; earlier my mother used to do it, and now I do so.”Not far away from her house lives another INA veteran, late Sarup Singh’s family. Like most elderly villagers, her 103- year- old wife recounts the story of the Netaji’s visit to the village, adding that her husband served in INA in Singapore. “I had been married only for a couple of years when he left and villagers said that he would not return. But thankfully, he did come back after six years, ” says the centenarian sitting on a charpoy in the open courtyard of her house surrounded by her family, including great-grandchildren. Age may have shriveled her figure but has failed to dampen her enthusiasm for Bose stories. Like Sunita Devi, she too has a whole repertoire of Netaji songs.What villagers regret most is the pathetic state of Azad Hind Gram, built, they say, on their demand by the government to honour Netaji and as a symbol of their relationship with him. It boasts a domed Dilli Chalo Museum to the Indian National Army. The musty hall’s discoloured walls are hung with pictures of related historical events such as INA trials, INA’s March to Delhi, women’s role in INA and a provisional government of Azad Hind. The sprawling complex, painted in peach, also has a Netaji memorial in another hall, where rusting iron gate has almost come off its hinges. Inside, the walls have relief sculptures in black telling the story of different episodes in Bose’s life. None of the exhibits, though, has any mention of Netaji’s visit to the village.“The place hardly has any visitors and has been financially unviable. This location was chosen because locals believe that Netaji had delivered a speech in the village. We are trying to get a grant from the government for the renovation of the complex. Hopefully, we will be able to do so during the Bose’s 125 birth anniversary celebrations,” says Sanjay Goel, managing director and CEO, Delhi Tourism.It is evening, and Yashpal is in the Azad Hind Gram complex, offering to give us a guided tour. “ This is where Netaji had stood on a platform under a tree to deliver his speech,” he says, pointing to a corner. “We all bow before the Netaji statue in the complex every time we pass||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-delhi-village-that-celebrates-subhas-chandra-bose-like-no-other-101612745629881.html
08-02-2021||India||2 Punjab hamlets united by police gaze||The villages of Bangi Nihal Singh and Tateria Wala are situated 119km apart, both nestled in the rural heartlands of Punjab’s Bhatinda and Moga districts.The villages have a combined population of 5,500 people and are both located more than an hour’s drive from the main towns of Bhatinda and Moga.There is, however, a thread that connects both the hamlets, in the records of the Delhi Police.Both are two villages, according to police records, from where large group of farmer protesters — who went on a rampage in the afternoon of January 26, often fighting pitched battles with security forces — hailed from. The names of the two villages figure prominently against the address column of men arrested for the Republic Day violence in the Capital.At least seven men from Bangi Nihal Singh and 12 from Tateria Wala had been arrested for rioting and violence at Nangloi and Paschim Vihar on January 26. The other 102 men nabbed are from different villages in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi.Delhi police have said that the arrested men deviated from the pre-approved route of their tractor rally, attacked police personnel when they were stopped, and indulged in rioting.HT travelled to the two villages in Punjab to find out more.Tataria Wala, MogaTataria Wala has about 1,500 residents, mostly farmers, of whom 12 are behind bars in Delhi’s Tihar jail. Most men from this village have now come to Delhi to protest at the Tikri border against the three farm laws. Residents say that more people have gone to Delhi after the arrest of the 12 , with women in the area saying that they will soon join their husbands, brothers, sons, and add strength to the agitation on the roads of Delhi.“One of my sons is now in Tihar jail. Another is in Srinagar, fighting terrorists for the Indian army. How can we be a family of rioters? We are farmers, who are raising our voices against unjust farm laws,” Sukhjinder Kaur, 53, a resident of Tataria Wala village said, after returning from the local panchayat meeting.The villagers have been holding panchayat every day to ensure the release of the 12 men.Sukhjinder’s son, Harjinder, 23, is among the 12 men arrested for the violence in Nangloi on January 26. The family said they own five acres of land, much like the 11 other men aged between 19 and 50 years, who are currently lodged in Tihar jail. They are all farmers, they say, and were all arrested in FIR number 46/21.On the afternoon of January 23, the 12 men and a teenager, aged 17 years, had left for Tikri border in two tractors to participate in the tractor rally.Only the teenager returned.He was also caught on the night of January 26 near Peeragarhi in west Delhi but released after two days, after police found that he was a minor.“We were returning after the rally. Our tractor broke down and we lost our way. We reached Peeragarhi late at night and ended up in front of a massive crowd of police officers. They asked us where we were going. We said we were lost and were trying to find our way to Tikri. We were directly taken to the Mangolpuri police station,” the 17-year-old boy, a Class 10 student at the village’s government school, said.Most locals said their village may have been painted as a den of rioters, but to them the truth is that their 12 residents were at the wrong place at the wrong time. They are glad, they add, that the small village will be remembered for taking part in this agitation.Darshan Singh, husband of the local sarpanch Parmjeet Kaur, said none of the 12 men from Tataria were at Red Fort, where protesters had assaulted police personnel and hoisted two flags — a religious one and another of the farmers union. “Either police should show us the evidence and if they don’t, they must release our men.”Bangi Nihal SinghThe residents of Bangi Nihal Singh village find the sudden influx of local reporters and photographers to their village unusual.Seven residents of Bangi Nihal Singh are behind bars, but that has not deterred local residents from coming together to work on sending more men to Delhi’s borders. They have also started a shift system. Every group will be in Delhi for at least a week before being relived by a second group reaching the national capital.The seven men from the village were arrested after multiple raids on January 26.“We are not afraid that seven of our men have been arrested. We are pooling in resources to arrange for transport. Our village will be adequately represented in Delhi,” Gurmeet Singh Bhuttar, a resident of the village.Singh said all the seven men are farmers and members of the local Malwa Welfare Club that works for social welfare. To prove their point that none of the seven men had a criminal background, the villagers are trying to get a certificate from the Punjab police. They plan to use this to rid the tag that the men from Bangi Nihal Singh are rioters.Deputy superintendent of police, Talwandi Sabo, Manoj Gorsi, said, “We are checking their records. We can say they are not wanted criminals here.”Like the residents of Tataria Wala, the seven from this village had gone to Tikri on the afternoon of January 23.Sukjit Kaur, 50, whose son Gurpender is among those arrested, said her son was not a criminal.“Police will not even find a single complaint against my son. How can a person like that indulge in violence in Delhi?”The villagers have formed WhatsApp groups to share updates of the police’s investigation and news reports in Delhi. Details of those in Delhi or the next group of who must relieve the people protesting in Delhi are shared regularly.“Even if one person is taken away, there are two other willing to take his place. Such is the atmosphere here today. This is Punjab. We know how to fight for our rights,” Singh said.Advocate Amar Veer Bhullar, who is representing some of the accused persons, said, “ Police have arrested some innocent farmers. We are in touch with all of them and will fight the case legally. “But Delhi Police officers, privy to the investigation details, said police have arrested each person based on eye witness or photo/video evidence.“A person could have a zero crime record but that does not mean he/she will not indulge in rioting or be part of a mob. Thousands of people had indulged in violence but we have arrested only a little over 100 persons. We are arresting only those against whom we have concrete evidence. Even in the case of people from two villages, we have evidence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-punjab-hamlets-united-by-police-gaze-101612744254140.html
08-02-2021||India||Man from Chandigarh arrested for violence at Red Fort on Republic Day||Delhi Police said on Sunday that they have arrested a man from Chandigarh who was allegedly leading a group of protesters that barged into the Red Fort during the Republic Day’s tractor rally.Senior officers who declined to be named identified the man as Sukhdev Singh, “a prominent face” among those who were involved in the violence and vandalism at the fort. Last week, the police announced ₹50,000 for any info leading to Singh’s arrest.Singh, 59, a resident of Karnal in Haryana, was arrested in connection with the first case registered on January 27, after the violent clashes between the farmer groups and police at the Red Fort on Republic Day. He has been charged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including attempt to murder, rioting, dacoity, theft and under Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act and under Arms Act for illegal possession of weapon.Investigators said they have identified various people involved in the violence through pictures, video footage from the local residents and the media; and CCTV camera recordings from the fort and nearby areas.“Singh was one of them. He has been identified as a farmer leader. He was seen leading a group of violent protesters inside the Red Fort premises. He was identified as one of the prominent faces behind the violence after which search for him was initiated and a cash reward was announced on information that may lead to his arrest. From the evidence gathered, it was also established that he had spent ample time inside the Red Fort on January 26,” the investigator said.The police are awaiting response from Google after they had written to the technology firm on Friday seeking assistance in identifying the author/creator of a “toolkit” or document, which allegedly detailed an action plan for online and offline protests associated with the ongoing farmers’ agitation. The investigators said any concrete progress in the probe is only possible when Google helps with the IP addresses and details of the two e-mail accounts, through which the toolkit was created.The police are also trying to get details of the Instagram account mentioned on the original toolkit, through which a live session was screened, they said.The Delhi Police have also issued notices to nine people from Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh to join investigation into the violence at the fort. The notices were issued under 12 different sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act.The notices were issued in cases registered at eas Delhi’s Pandav Nagar police station and Seemapuri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-from-chandigarh-arrested-for-violence-at-red-fort-on-republic-day-101612743878034.html
08-02-2021||India||Very few PhD students in top Indian institutes from SC, ST category: Data||The representation of students belonging to Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribe (ST) and Other Backwards Classes (OBC) categories in the PhD programmes of premier science institutions remains poor, according to data released by the ministry of education (MoE) in Rajya Sabha, on Thursday.At the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) in Bengaluru, only 2.1% of candidates admitted to the PhD programmes between 2016 and 2020 were from ST category, 9% from SC and 8% from OBC categories. In the integrated PhD programmes at IISc, 9% of the total admitted candidates were from SC, 1.2% from ST and 5% from OBC categories.In the 17 Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIITs), barely 1.7% of total PhD candidates were from ST category, 9% from SC category and 27.4% from OBC categories. The representation is equally skewed against reserved category PhD candidates between 2017 and 2020 at the 31 National Institutes of Technology (NITs) and seven Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research (IISERs).This is against a 27% reservation of all seats in government institutes for OBC candidates, 15% for SC category and 7.5% for ST category.The alarming under-representation of reserved category candidates in PhD programmes of these institutes was revealed on Thursday in Rajya Sabha by Ramesh Pokhriyal, Union minister of education.The admission figures were provided in response to the questions raised by two members of the upper house Elamaram Kareem and Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya.In November 2020, HT had reported a similar trend of under-representation in the PhD programmes at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), despite receiving applications from SC, ST and OBC category candidates. Between 2015 and 2019, only 1.6% of all PhD candidates at IIT-B were from ST category, 7.5% from SC category and 19.2% from OBC category.Pokhriyal’s responses on Thursday also included data on dropouts from PhD programmes in these institutes. Of all the institutes, seven IISERs had the worst record with 13.3% of all dropouts from the ST category.Following the revelation in Rajya Sabha, the central executive committee of the Students’ Federation of India (SFI), a national student body, issued a statement: “The persistent violation of reservation norms in the nation’s premier technical institutions has contributed to the underrepresentation of teaching faculty from the marginalised and backward groups at the same institutions. This has proven to be a major hindrance in achieving an inclusive learning atmosphere.”“We demand immediate intervention from the President of India on the issue. SFI also appeals to all members in the parliament to take up this alarming issue in the ongoing parliament session and also join with the democratic sections in the fight for social justice,” said VP Sanu, president, SFI.Pokhriyal has informed the Upper house that several measures were being taken to address the under-representation of SC, ST and OBC category students in PhD programmes.However, experts said that while access to quality education at primary and secondary school levels was poorer for reserved category students, institutional prejudice against reservations cannot be ruled out.“One cannot rule out the bias of caste and class in the admission processes of institutes. The reservation policies have been resisted by higher education institutes, particularly in the science and technology streams, on the basis of the argument that reservations will bring down merit,” said Avatthi Ramaiah, chairperson of Centre for Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai.Meanwhile, the reduction in the overall intake capacity of PhD candidates across institutes has further reduced the representation of reserved category candidates, Ramaiah added.On July 5, 2016, University Grants Commission (UGC) issued a notification stating that a research supervisor/co-supervisor, who is a Professor, cannot guide more than eight PhD scholars. An associate professor as research supervisor can guide up to a maximum of six PhD scholars and an assistant professor can guide up to a maximum of four PhD scholars.“The government does not want an intellectual class that can raise a voice against its policies. The reduction in intake capacity of PhD programmes is a clear indication of this,” said Ramaiah.“Initially, the number of applicants from reserved categories in higher education institutes were few. However, the situation has improved now with more applications coming in. While the lack of representation has to be understood in the context of the number of applications, the lack of representation at IIT-B is concerning, irrespective of the reasons behind it.”Sukhadeo Thorat, former chairperson of UGC and author of Blocked by Caste: Economic Discrimination and Social Exclusion in Modern India, said that higher education institutions must have a sympathetic attitude towards reserved category students while admitting PhD candidates.“Institutes must practice relaxation of criteria to ensure proper representation of students, even within the limited intake capacity,” said Thorat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/very-few-phd-students-in-top-indian-institutes-from-sc-st-category-data-101612738945658.html
08-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: UK PM Boris Johnson expresses solidarity with India||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Sunday expressed solidarity with India after a glacier burst in Uttarakhand, which led to massive flooding in the state.Taking to Twitter, Johnson said that the UK is ready to offer any support required to India after the devastating floods in Uttarakhand."My thoughts are with the people of India and rescue workers in Uttarakhand as they respond to devastating flooding from the glacier collapse. The UK stands in solidarity with India and is ready to offer any support needed," he tweeted.A glacier broke in the Tapovan-Reni area of Chamoli District of Uttarakhand on Sunday triggering massive flooding in Dhauliganga and Alaknanda Rivers and damaged houses and the nearby Rishiganga power project.Following the incident, leaders across the world including French President Emmanuel Macron and Japanese Ambassador to India Satoshi Suzuki expressed condolences to the victims of the glacial burst."France expresses its full solidarity with India, after a glacier burst in the Uttarakhand province, leading to the disappearance of over 100 people. Our thoughts are with them and their families," said Macron in a tweet.The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) has rescued 12 people who were trapped in the tunnel near the Tapovan area following a glacier burst."We are assuming that around 125 people are missing. The number can be higher," said Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-glacier-burst-uk-pm-boris-johnson-expresses-solidarity-with-india-101612741487413.html
08-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: Tapovan dam completely washed off, says IAF||Tapovan Hydro-Electric Power Dam, also known as Rishi Ganga Project was completely washed off following a glacier burst in the Chamoli district, said the Indian Air Force's initial report as Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH) deployed at Joshimath has undertaken recce of affected areas."The dam is called Tapovan Hydro-Electric Power Dam. It is on the confluence of Dhauli Ganga and Rishi Ganga. As per the recce Tapovan dam also called Rishi Ganga Project has been completely washed off," said the report.It said that two bridges at the entrance of Malari valley and near Tapovan are also washed away, while the main road between Joshimath to Tapovan is intact."Construction work and hutments on valley bottom are damaged. Rubble was seen from the entrance of Nanda Devi glacier till as down as Pipalkoti and Chamoli along Dhauliganga and Alaknanda," it added.IAF said an Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH) deployed at Joshimath has undertaken recce of affected areas."Two IAF C-130 aircraft from Air Force Station Hindan have positioned NDRF teams at Dehradun, where Mi-17 and ALH helicopters are deployed for onward deployment to Joshimath. An additional ALH deployed at Joshimath has undertaken recce of affected areas," IAF tweeted.It added that humanitarian assistance disaster relief (HADR) operations will continue tomorrow."Two An-32 aircraft have transported relief material and IN Marine Commando team to Dehradun. An IAF officer, as Task Force Commander, at Jolly Grant airport, is coordinating relief operations. HADR aerial ops will continue tomorrow," it said.To speed up the rescue process, heavy excavators have been brought in to remove the debris and slush and to open the tunnel near the Tapovan dam in Chamoli. Increased water in the local river has been hampering rescue efforts.Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called Chief Minister Rawat to review the flood situation in the state. This was his fourth call regarding the matter. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi just called and inquired about the Tapovan disaster. The Prime Minister assured all the necessary help and instructed not to leave any stone unturned in the relief work. It was his fourth call in the day and shows the Prime Minister have affection for Uttarakhand," tweeted Rawat.Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted to say he had spoken to Mr Rawat and said: "Am constantly monitoring the unfortunate situation... India stands with Uttarakhand and the nation prays for everyone's safety there." Home Minister Amit Shah also tweeted; he said the Modi government stood shoulder-to-shoulder with the people of Uttarakhand.Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat announced an ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh each to kin of those who lost their lives due to the glacial burst in Chamoli.Addressing a press conference, Trivendra Singh Rawat said, "The state government will provide financial assistance of ₹4 lakh each to kin of the deceased."As it was the last day of the week (Sunday), fortunately many workers from Uttarakhand were on week off today, he added.Nearly 180 sheep and goats were believed to have been swept away in the flash flood, said Rawat adding five locals including three shepherds and two women who were cutting grass had lost their lives in the disaster."We are assuming that around 125 people are missing. The number can be higher," Rawat said. He added that the government has all the needed assistance to handle the situation for now.Talking about the cause of the disaster, the Chief Minister said experts can tell the reason behind the glacier outburst, adding the government is focusing on saving the lives of people and the rescue operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-glacier-burst-tapovan-dam-completely-washed-off-says-iaf-101612741008833.html
08-02-2021||India||Teams of NDRF’s eighth battalion rushed to Uttarakhand for search and rescue||At least five teams of the eighth battalion of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) were dispatched for search and rescue operations in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, which was hit by flash floods when a portion of a glacier broke off in the Tapovan area on Sunday morning. The eighth battalion is based at Govindpuram in Ghaziabad; more teams have been asked to remain on standby.A major relief and rescue effort is on in Chamoli where a flood was triggered in river Dhauliganga after the glacier burst. The NDRF’s officials from the eighth battalion said that one of their teams, comprising about 40 to 45 members and a dog squad, was initially rushed from their regional response centre in Dehradun, while the second team departed Sunday afternoon from Ghaziabad.“This team was sent by road in vehicles while three teams were airlifted from the Hindon airbase. In all, five teams were pressed into service and more teams, which include those from other NDRF battalions, have been asked to remain on standby, to be pressed into service as and when the need arises,” said PK Tiwary, commandant of the eighth battalion.Teams of NDRF are equipped with sophisticated equipment and teams of specialised canines which help in search and rescue.“The teams are equipped with about 310 sophisticated equipment which are used during floods, building collapses and chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear emergencies. Since a flash flood has occurred, we will also be using our team of divers and equipment such as sonars and boats which will be used for detection and rescue. Our teams have also taken away relief material for people affected,” Tiwary added.The eighth battalion were also a part of search and rescue operations carried out during the 2013 flash floods that had hit Uttarakhand.Sunday’s disaster has endangered the lives of the thousands of people living along the riverbanks, besides causing massive destruction. An alert has also been sounded by authorities in Uttarakhand in several districts including Pauri, Tehri, Rudraprayag, Haridwar and Dehradun.Teams of the Indo Tibetan Border Police were also rushed to the site near Raini village.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath tweeted that the state government is standing with the Uttarakhand government for any help or assistance.“The situation of water level in areas along the river Ganga is being constantly monitored in the state. In case there is a rise in water levels, people near the banks will be shifted, as the situation demands. Directions have been issued for relief and rescue,” the office of the CM said in a tweet.The UP police tweeted, “We are in touch with our counterparts. Border districts of Uttarakhand have been alerted. NDRF, SDRF (State Disaster Response Force) & flood company of the PAC (Provincial Armed Constabulary) have been instructed to be on highest alert. Evacuation of people shall be done wherever required.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teams-of-ndrf-s-eighth-battalion-rushed-to-uttarakhand-for-search-and-rescue-101612738747463.html
08-02-2021||India||A year on, aviation ministry to install body scanners at airports||New Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport is likely to be the first of the country’s airports that will be outfitted with technologically advanced body scanners starting March, a whole year after they were first meant to be installed, Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) officials said.“Recommendations on the project to implement body scanners at the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) have been made by the special committee constituted for the purpose and approvals are awaited from BCAS,” a DIAL spokesperson said, adding that they will take up the project as soon as they receive the approval.As per the Centre’s directions, all Indian airports were to be installed with body scanners that offer enhanced security and a touchless experience by March 2020, but the Covid-19 outbreak and the subsequent closure of airports led to a delay in procuring the scanners, officials said.“Though our idea of procuring body scanners was approved by the government, it could not be taken ahead last year due to excessive financial constraints caused due to Covid-19 pandemic,” senior Airports Authority of India (AAI) officer, who did not wished to be named, said.“Specifications of the body scanners have been finalized. We are now planning to have a combination of both the systems: body scanners and door frame metal detectors (DFMDs) and then slowly switch to only body scanners once the air services resume normalcy,” said a top Ministry of Civil Aviation official who did not wish to be named.Currently, DFMDs and hand-held metal detectors only detect metal objects. However, body scanners provide better security as they can scan plastic-based explosives as well as metallic items.Passengers would be required to remove their shoes, belts, jackets and all metallic objects according to an SOP released by the BCAS in 2019.The aviation ministry had made it mandatory for all 28 hypersensitive and 56 sensitive airports to install body scanners by March 2020 while the remaining airports were permitted to install them by March 2021.Of around 105 operational airports in the country, hypersensitive airports include those in Delhi, Mumbai, Jammu and Kashmir and the Northeast.Following the delay caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, a committee of officials from the BCAS, Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and airport operators was formed in October 2020 to identify the space for installation of full body scanners and to decide on the number of body scanners.How the body scanner worksBody scanner is an open structure that a passenger will require standing between two wall-like structures for around three seconds during which it captures an image of the person using millimeter wave technology to see if any prohibited item is on them.A mannequin-like image is generated and if there is a yellow spot on the screen, it means that area on the body may need further screening.According to BCAS officials, body scanners can handle 300 passengers an hour and should store the scanned images of the passengers for at least seven days.Passengers would be required to take off their footwear and belts.Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport had conducted a trial in August 2019 with a scanner that used a non-ionising electromagnetic radiation technology that is considered safer for pregnant women. The Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in Hyderabad also conducted a three-month trial of body scanning machines for passengers on voluntary basis at the domestic departure terminals in 2019.Last July, Airports Authority of India (AAI) had issued a tender to procure 198 body scanners for 63 airports, following which three companies had placed bids. The tendering procedure was put on a pause during the pandemic.Of these, 19 were to be used in the Chennai airport, 17 in Kolkata airport, seven in the Srinagar airport, and 12 for the Pune airport, among others. Delhi and Mumbai were not included in this list as both are managed through joint ventures between AAI and pvt firms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-year-on-aviation-ministry-to-install-body-scanners-at-airports-101612738554104.html
08-02-2021||India||How farmers at Delhi borders worked their way around internet shutdowns||A day after farmers organised a nationwide “chakka jam” for three hours on national highways demanding the repeal of the three new farm laws and protesting the arrests of farmers, frequent internet shutdowns and barricading at the agitation spots, farmers at Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur said network connectivity had improved on Sunday. However, the Internet blackouts made it difficult for protesters to access and disseminate information, and stay in touch with their families across Punjab, Haryana, and western Uttar Pradesh, forcing agitators to devise workarounds to ensure information flowed unrestricted.Internet services at Delhi’s borders were suspended following the violence that ensued during the tractor parade on January 26. Following this, internet connectivity at agitation spots remained poor. Another set of orders were passed to snap the services between 11pm on January 29 (when a group of persons claiming to be locals had entered the protest area and clashed with locals) till February 2. Another ban was imposed on February 6, when farmers undertook their chakka jam, but Internet services were restored at midnight that day.Gurjant Singh (36), a resident of Bari village in Mohali, who returned to the Singhu protest site on Sunday after spending three days in his village said his family was relieved after he shared messages on WhatsApp with them.“Following the Republic Day violence, it became difficult to stay in touch with my family, who want to know what is happening here. There are so many rumours floating around but we can’t counter them because we don’t even have Internet access. We tried to get a WiFi connection, but internet service providers told us that the authorities were not allowing new connections at Singhu,” he said.In the absence of mobile internet, the only source of current information was around 5,000 copies of regional newspapers, which were paid for by the organisers. Even the press conferences by farmer groups that were broadcast live on social media platforms, had to be first recorded and then uploaded later using WiFi hot spots set up by some farmer groups nearly a month ago. Several volunteers at the protest site travelled a few kilometres away from the protest spot to get connectivity and access news of the day using social media.Sukhwinder Singh, 28, a farmer from Roopnagar district in Punjab who volunteers at the library-cum-cultural centre at Singhu border, said, “Some of us have motorcycles, so we travelled to an area where we could get network and access news on the protests. There are a few areas at the protest spot where we could access WiFi that locals residents had opened up for us to use.”“After collecting the information, we passed the messages on verbally during our evening dialogue sessions, when farmers from various trolleys would gather at our centre,” he added.Volunteers from their team are also visiting various districts of Punjab, including Bhatinda, Patiala, Roopnagar, and Anantpur Sahib to get inputs from the villages, and to provide them verified information related to the protests.Sukhwinder also said that the farmers largely relied on social media platforms for verified information after several instances of alleged “biased coverage by media outlets” during the past two months.“Social media has been the only way for these families to get correct information. The more the government tries to suppress us, the more ways we will find to keep the movement alive,” he said.Jatinder Pal Singh, 27, a resident of Mohali who is a security volunteer at Singhu, said, “We have arranged for tractors and other vehicles with loudspeakers that share information with the other protesters towards the end of the day as not all farmers come to the stage area daily.Showing his notebook which carried names of international celebrities who recently led support to the farmers’ movement on social media, Singh said, “We had to devise alternative techniques to raise awareness, spread information, and quell rumours in the absence of the internet, which had so far empowered farmers to stay updated on their own.”Navkiran Natt, 29, a student-activist at Tikri border and also one of the editors of Trolley Times (a bi-weekly newspaper started by activists to share information on farmers’ protests) said the mobile internet ban had affected their work as well.“Since most of the volunteers stay at the protest sites, it was difficult to coordinate, and our edition was delayed because of the Internet shutdowns. In the absence of other platforms, we too used open-jeeps to circulate information among protesters to counter panic as well.”While the situation remained peaceful at the three borders on Sunday, heavy security deployment continued at the agitation spots. “We are continuing our protest peacefully. No untoward incident was witnessed here today. Our fight against the three black farm laws will continue as more people from Punjab and Haryana are expected to join us from tomorrow (Monday),” said Darshan Singh, a farmer leader from Punjab who has been camped at Tikri border.The crowd at Ghazipur, however, was thinner in comparison to the previous days, as several protesters had accompanied farmer leader Rakesh Tikait who was in Charkhi Dadri for a mahapanchayat along with farmer leaders Darshan Pal and Balbir Singh Rajewal.Thousands had gathered at the mahapanchayat where farmer leaders passed five resolutions including demands of repealing the three farm laws, a legal guarantee of MSP, and releasing farmers arrested following January 26 violence and vehicles seized after the incident.(With inputs from Ashish Mishra and Anvit Srivastava)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-farmers-at-delhi-borders-worked-their-way-around-internet-shutdowns-101612733714659.html
08-02-2021||India||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot opposed ‘love jihad’ law, but govt stands contrary||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has criticised several BJP-ruled states over new anti-conversion laws, saying these legislations “will leave consenting adults at the mercy of state power”, but his government appeared to take a contrary stand before the Supreme Court in a December 2019 affidavit, in which it did not object to further scrutiny and prior approval by the state machinery into interfaith marriages.The Rajasthan government supported making it mandatory for anyone wishing to change his or her religion to first inform the district collector, and then wait for an approval; endorsed that there must be a gap of at least a week between the conversion and wedding; and said that those facilitating the conversion as well as the wedding should be made responsible for making sure there no coercion is involved.These requirements for an interfaith marriage, which have some similarities with the controversial ordinances issued recently by the Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh government against forcible conversion, are currently in force in Rajasthan through a high court order, which the state has chosen to implement and not appeal.To be sure, the state has not promulgated any law of its own to govern conversations, for marriage or any other purpose.In its affidavit dated, December 16, 2019, the state informed the Supreme Court that the government has issued instructions to the director general of police and to all divisional commissioners and district collectors to enforce the directions issued by the high court on making inquiries before conversion and interfaith marriages.The Rajasthan government refused to comment on the matter.“That the state government has decided to implement the order dated December 15, 2017, passed by the Hon’ble High Court of Rajasthan at Jodhpur, vide circular dated March 8, 2018,” stated the affidavit, which has also attached the circular issued by the state’s Home Department.The matter in which the affidavit was filed -- it is pending before the Supreme Court -- is an appeal by a Jodhpur-based woman who converted to Islam and married a Muslim man in 2017. Her brother filed a habeas corpus petition before the Rajasthan high court, alleging forcible conversion and enticement by the man.In its judgment on December 15, 2017, the high court declined to declare their marriage as void in law, but issued a string of directions to regulate conversions and interfaith marriages in the state.Taking note of the fact that a 2006 draft law against forcible conversion in the state is yet to receive assent of the Governor, the high court said that till the time the state government came up with a law, the court had a duty to issue some guidelines to “check the problem of forcible conversion of religion for the purpose of solemnising marriage only”.The high court added: “It is obvious that in some of the religions it is a condition precedent that a male or a female must be of some religion.”The guidelines maintained that the authority or the person who is performing the conversion ceremony must ascertain that the individual wishing to convert has “full faith” in the new religion and should also ensure there is no threat or force on him or her. Besides, that authority or person “shall give information to the District Collector/SDO/SDM, as the case may be”.The set of directives added: “The person, who is desirous to change his/her religion, shall give information to the District Collector/SDM/SDO of the concerned city and Sub-Divisional Area before conversion of religion. The District Collector/SDM/SDO shall put such information upon the Notice Board of its office on the same day.”According to the high court order, the person, who has converted, “shall solemnise the marriage/Nikah after one week of such conversion of religion,” and that the authority or person, before whom such marriage or Nikah is being solemnised, shall first ensure that all the information regarding conversion has been made to the individual getting married and the authorities concerned.While the state government chose not to challenge the judgment but decided to rather comply with it, the appeal in the SC was filed by one ‘Mr X’ who wanted to remain anonymous. The petitioner contended that the judgement “directly infringed upon the fundamental rights granted under the Constitution, including the right to live with dignity enunciated by a nine-judge bench in the K S Puttaswamy judgement (right to privacy)”.“The high court is in error by unlawfully vesting an appointed authority the untrammelled power to ascertain the intention (mental state) of a person intending to convert,” said the petitioner, adding the guidelines requiring such persons desirous to convert to inform the authorities and prove their bonafide was in complete violation of the Constitution and in contrary to laws of evidence and procedure.The appeal was filed in December 2018, when the Gehlot-led Congress was in power in the state.In April 2019, the apex court sought a response from the state government, which was represented by its additional advocate general Manish Singhvi. The state subsequently filed its affidavit through an additional deputy commissioner of police in December that year.In its reply, the state unequivocally submitted that it “has decided to implement” the high court order.While the government order was issued in March 2018 when the state was ruled by the BJP, the Congress government has chosen to defend the directions on regulating interfaith marriages.Senior lawyer Sanjay Hegde said, “Political parties come and go but the government is a continuing entity. It is the government that takes a decision on policy matters which are subject matters of litigation. Here, it appears that the government of Rajasthan has taken a conscious decision to implement the high court order and oppose the appeal against this order in the Supreme Court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-opposed-love-jihad-law-but-govt-stands-contrary-101612730528511.html
08-02-2021||India||The spotlight falls on risks posed by power projects||Although the Supreme Court took suo moto (on its own motion) cognizance of the 2013 Kedarnath cloudburst and flooding that killed over 5,000 people and an expert committee warned as early as in 2014 that hydroelectric projects could pose a disaster risk to the state, Uttarakhand is still pursuing the construction of hydroelectric projects and dams.This is obvious from an affidavit filed in the SC by the Uttarakhand government on August 28, 2020 in response to an appeal by developers of a hydroelectric project on the Alaknanda river to resume operations following a stay imposed on all hydroelectric projects in the state.The affidavit, seen by HT, says: “It may be respectfully reiterated…that the Uttarakhand government has been facing acute power shortage in recent times and has been forced to purchase electricity amounting to ₹1,000 crore annually, casting an additional burden on the finances of the hilly state...”The Uttarakhand government and the Union environment ministry still don’t have a policy on hydroelectric projects and dams in the state.The SC, in its August 13, 2013 order, ruled that no new hydroelectrical power projects should be set up in the state. In all, 69 projects were envisaged in the region, and 24 were granted environmental clearance. SC sought a detailed and scientific assessment of the cumulative impact of hydropower plants in the state.Following the SC order, a committee headed by Ravi Chopra, director of the People’s Science Institute, submitted a detailed report which warned that a glacial retreat in the state, coupled with structures built for hydroelectricity generation and dams, could lead to large-scale disasters downstream.The Union environment ministry, in its December 17, 2014 affidavit, also took note of the findings of the Chopra committee report. The affidavit, seen by HT, acknowledged that upper reaches of the state above 2,200 metres were extremely prone to landslides and were located in seismic zones.The ministry sought to study the seismological vulnerability, cloudbursts caused by climate change and advise on the location, size and design of future hydroelectric projects.“We had said in our report that the region above 2,000 metres in Uttarakhand in the valleys is not suited for hydroelectric projects. ...when glaciers recede, there can be a lot of debris and moraines that flow down. Huge boulders also come along. There appears to have been an avalanche and a glacial lake outburst in the Rishi Ganga valley and, as expected, debris and huge boulders smashed into the Tapovan dam,” Chopra said on Sunday after the massive inundation in Uttarakhand’s Rishi Ganga valley caused by a suspected glacial lake outburst flood (GLOF)But the environment ministry did not take on board the Chopra committee’s recommendations om their entirety. After six of 24 hydroelectric projects were impleaded in the matter of revoking a stay on hydroelectric plants, the SC suggests setting up another panel to consider the case of the projects.A committee headed by Vinod Tare of the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur was set up to review these six projects; the panel submitted a report that the six projects shouldn’t be allowed. The environment ministry recommended setting up another committee to look into the issue, this time headed by BP Das, who used to be a member of an expert appraisal committee (EAC) that had cleared some of the six projects in his tenure. The panel recommended certain hydropower projects with design modifications.“The Ravi Chopra committee report has been in limbo since then because the environment ministry kept forming committees to ensure the six hydropower projects get to resume work. Not just dams and hydroelectric projects, now extensive slope cutting and deforestation have added to extreme vulnerability of Uttarakhand to climate change impacts,” said Mallika Bhanot of Ganga Ahvaan.“To say that today’s Rishi Ganga disaster is a natural disaster or God’s act is the biggest lie. The state and Centre have brought this disaster on the people. In 2014, our report had clearly highlighted that dams and hydropower projects are not suited for this terrain and after that SC stayed 24 projects. If not for that stay, today there would have been lakhs of deaths because most of those projects are located upstream and downstream of the Rishi Ganga valley. The government has no decision on cancelling hydropower projects completely. They have also felled lakhs of trees in the char dham ghati (region), cut hill slopes which has made locals even more vulnerable,” said Hemant Dhyani, an environmentalist and member of the Ravi Chopra Committee.The environment ministry recommended environmental clearance to Lakhwar dam in Tehri Garhwal district with certain riders on December 2, 2020.“The fact that the Union environment ministry has granted environmental clearance to Lakhwar dam on Yamuna shows they want to build more dams. So expecting a policy on cancelling all dams and hydropower projects is futile. The SC, following the 2013 disaster (in Kedarnath) had stopped all dams in Uttarakhand, then they reduced the scope of the stay to Ganga while projects were allowed on the Yamuna, Kali etc. Despite the Ravi Chopra committee’s’ clear-cut findings, we didn’t learn a lesson. How many wake-up calls do we need? I can tell you if the Lakhwar dam breaks, Delhi has had it. Its entire population will be impacted. No dams or other structures should be allowed in the Himalayas now,” said Manoj Mishra, convenor of the Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan.HT tried reaching RP Gupta, secretary of the environment ministry, for a comment on the policy on dams and hydropower in Uttarakhand, but was unable to contact him until late on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-spotlight-falls-on-risks-posed-by-power-projects-101612728079803.html
08-02-2021||India||No ‘ghar wapsi’ till farm laws are repealed: Rakesh Tikait||Firm on the demand for repeal of three controversial agricultural laws, farmers’ leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday warned the Narendra Modi government that there will be “no ghar wapsi” of protesters camping on Delhi’s borders till their demands were met and those arrested for violence in the national capital on Republic Day released.The leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU)-Tikait faction was addressing a rally of a kisan mahapanchayat in Haryana’s Jat land of Bhiwani. “The government still has time to release our protesters. The protesters were taken to Red Fort by fraud… we will not tolerate you (government). We need our youth back. The government said that the protesters had been arrested in sedition. We are telling you (government), release our people from Tihar jail and send them to their villages…,” he said.A tractor parade on January 26 turned violent after several protesters broke barricades to enter New Delhi and clashed with police in several parts. The protestors also entered the iconic Mughal Era monument Red Fort and unfurled their flags from its ramparts. At least 127 people have been arrested so far.Tikait also said that the turban (referring to the farmers) will not bow down before anyone and that the government will have to repeal the three laws that have triggered protests among the farmers since November last year.Veteran BKU leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, meanwhile, directed farmers to convince MLAs to withdraw their support to the bills. “We had mounted pressure on Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) over farm laws and Union minister Harshimrat Kaur had to resign from the Modi government. You should mount social pressure on Dushyant Chautala and other MLAs supporting the government to withdraw their support. The Modi government will bend before you,” he said.Rajewal also called the government a “liar”, saying that the farm leaders have held clause-by-clause discussions with the government officials and ministers but the latter still insisted on more discussions.Last year, SAD had pulled out of the NDA coalition at the Centre.However, independent MLA Balraj Kundu said the BJP government will not fall in Haryana under any circumstance because they are enjoying the support of six independents. “Abhay Chautala had resigned from the Haryana assembly with the consent of BJP to make the farmers’ happy. People should not indulge in such politics,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-ghar-wapsi-till-farm-laws-are-repealed-rakesh-tikait-101612727676058.html
08-02-2021||India||Congressional India Caucus takes up farm protests with Indian envoy||The leadership Congressional India Caucus, a group of US lawmakers striving for better ties with India, has called on the Indian leadership to maintain democratic norms and allow peaceful protests.The matter was raised by the leadership of the India Caucus during a virtual meeting with Indian ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu on Saturday to discuss the farmers’ protest, Brad Sherman, the Democratic co-chair of the caucus, said on Twitter.Sherman tweeted that he convened a meeting of the leadership of the India Caucus, including Republican co-chair Steve Chabot and vice chair Ro Khanna, to speak with Sandhu “regarding the farmers’ demonstrations”.“I urged the Indian government to make sure that the norms of democracy are maintained, that protesters are allowed to protest peaceably and to have access to the Internet, and to journalists,” Sherman said.“All friends of India hope that the parties can reach an agreement,” he added.There was no immediate response from Indian officials to Sherman’s comments.Sandhu said on Twitter that he had detailed discussions “on varied issues with the leadership of the House Caucus on India and Indian Americans”. He didn’t specifically refer to the farmers’ protest.“Look forward to working closely with them to further strengthening India-US ties,” Sandhu said.The caucus on India and Indian Americans, which is the largest country-specific caucus in the US House of Representatives, has joined organisations, lawmakers and celebrities in the US, the UK and other countries in taking up the farmers’ protest with the Indian side.The US state department on Thursday called for dialogue to address the farmers’ protest and backed peaceful demonstrations and freedom of expression. It also described peaceful protests and unhindered access to information and the internet as indicators of a “thriving democracy”, while offering support for reforms that improve and open up India’s markets to attract private investments.The Indian government has maintained that the farmers’ protest is an internal matter that should be seen in the context of the country’s democratic ethos and the several rounds of talks held by the government with farmers’ unions opposed to three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congressional-india-caucus-takes-up-farm-protests-with-indian-envoy-101612727381513.html
08-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: Heavy damage to two hydel projects at the epicentre||Massive floods caused by a glacier breach in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli on Sunday washed away the under-construction Rishiganga hydro project and caused heavy damage to the 530MW Dhauliganga hydel project, officials aware of the developments said.The National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC), under the chairmanship of cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, met on Sunday to review the Chamoli flooding disaster likely caused by a glacial lake outburst. The incident led to the rising of water levels in river Rishiganga, washing away the Rishiganga small hydro project of 13.2MW, according to a note shared by NCMC.The floods also affected the downstream hydro project of NTPC at Tapovan on the river Dhauliganga, which is a tributary of River Alaknanda, according to people aware of the developments. The force of the water and boulders rolling down from the upper reaches near Raini village completely washed away the under-construction Rishiganga and the debris from there gushed into the Dhauli Ganga river, causing heavy damage to the 530 MW Dhauliganga hydel project, just 10km away.“The river was flowing 10-15 metres above its normal level and took everything along. Only a few concrete structures on the banks remain of the Rishi Ganga hydel project,” said Dhan Singh Rawat, who rushed out of his house in Raini village after hearing a huge explosion.Uttarkhand disaster relief force spokesperson Alok Raven said that the rescue teams initially recovered two bodies from the Dhauliganga hydel power project.Vivek Pandey, a spokesperson for the paramilitary Indo Tibetan Border Police, confirmed that while the Rishiganga hydropower plant was destroyed, the Dhauliganga hydropower plant was damaged.He said at least 42 workers got trapped inside two tunnels at the Dhauliganga plant. While 12 workers trapped inside one tunnel were rescued, at least 30 others were still stuck inside the other tunnel, he added. Another 170 workers at the two plants were missing, Pandey said.About two years ago, residents of Raini village told the Uttarakhand high court that the construction of Rishiganga hydel project could cause damage to those living in the area. In the summer of 2019, villagers filed a public interest litigation in the court, which directed the district magistrate Chamoli and member secretary state pollution control board to constitute a joint team to inspect the Rishiganga Hydroelectric Project site with regard to allegations about the impact on the environment and local people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-damage-to-two-hydel-projects-at-the-epicentre-101612727025442.html
08-02-2021||India||Only 188 names under consideration for 419 HC judge vacancies||There are currently 188 names in contemplation for appointment as high court judges as against a staggering vacancy of 419 judges -- more than a third of the total positions. Of the 188 names being considered, a majority of the names (112) are pending with the central government with the oldest recommendations for appointment going back to July 2019, HT has learnt through people familiar with the development.As on date, the government has a total of 40 names to clear as judges after the Supreme Court collegium recommended them while another 72 other names forwarded by various high courts are also pending with the union ministry of law and justice.Out of these 72 names sent by the high courts, the law ministry has been sitting on 50 names for more than six months without forwarding them to the Supreme Court collegium for finalisation, compounding the crisis.The law ministry did not respond to queries by the time of going to press.The procedure requires high courts to send the names first to the government for Intelligence Bureau (IB) inputs, following which they are to be sent by the government to the SC collegium. After finalising these names, the SC collegium sends them back to the government for making the appointments. However, under the memorandum of procedure (MoP) on judicial appointments, there is no timeframe for the government to act on a collegium decision.Meanwhile, the SC collegium, which comprises the Chief Justice of India and the two most senior judges of the apex court in matters of appointment of high court judges, has 53 new names for consideration whereas there are 23 other names that are awaiting a final decision by the collegium. Out of these 23 names, some are pending for more than 20 months without the collegium being able to make up its mind, according to the people cited in the first instance who spoke on condition of anonymity.The fresh proposals of 53 names received by the SC collegium include 33 names for the Allahabad high court, which has a shortage of 64 judges out of the total 160; and 22 names for the Bombay high court where 30 vacancies are to be filled up out of the total strength of 94 judges.Notably, even as 188 names are in contemplation, there are 231 vacancies that are going to require the chief justices of the high courts to send the proposals for appointments in order to alleviate the situation.Currently, there are 661 working judges in the 24 high courts, against a sanctioned strength of 1,079. This translates to a vacancy of around 39% in high courts.Recently, a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, urged the central government to set a fixed timeline for clearing appointments of judges to the high courts and the apex court after receiving the recommendations of the collegium.Hearing a petition on a related issue on January 27, the bench, which also included justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Surya Kant, called it a “matter of great concern” that the collegium had not heard from the government for months together after making some recommendations. According to the bench, a proposal would get stuck without knowing the reason whether the government had any objection to a certain name or there were other issues.Justice Kaul had also prepared a chart to highlight the stages where the names were getting stuck, as the judge implored attorney general KK Venugopal, who represented the government, to consider laying down a timeline for the executive to clear appointments in the higher judiciary, with every stage of appointment marked by a definite time period. The A-G had then taken time to study the chart and come back with a response. The next hearing in expected on February 16.After this hearing, the SC collegium has sent 24 names for appointments to the high court, in addition to 16 others that were already pending. Out of these 24 names, the people cited above said the maximum names – 11, are for the Allahabad high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-188-names-under-consideration-for-419-hc-judge-vacancies-101612726549062.html
08-02-2021||India||India unprepared for roll-out of 5G: House panel on IT||India is entirely unprepared to roll out 5G telecom services, the parliamentary panel on information technology said in a report adopted on Wednesday, blaming the government’s “laidback” approach to the launch of the technology. A telecom official said 5G trials were set to start soon and a roll-out was likely by early 2022.The panel, headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, concluded that “sufficient preparatory work has not been undertaken for launching of 5G services in India. As such, India has not moved beyond the modest beginning stage as compared to other countries in the world”.On January 28, Prasad had said that the test bed for the next generation technology was ready and the country would be using indigenously made telecom equipment. The minister added that the government would soon grant a permit for the 5G trials.“We lagged in 2G, 3G and 4G but in 5G India should move at a speed faster than the world with made-in-India 5G. We have made a test bed and we are soon going to permit it. Core network should be Indian,” Prasad said at a National Informatics Centre Services Incorporated (NICSI) event to launch government e-office tools.Government officials familiar with the matter said the 5G trials are likely to commence soon and the technology will be rolled out across metropolitan cities by early 2022. “It will be rolled out in the metros first and then percolate to other parts of the country,” an official said on condition of anonymity.In its report, the parliamentary committee raised concerns that the advent of 5G services in the country may be further delayed, judging from previous experience.“While 2G was deployed globally in 1991, it was deployed in India only in 1995; 3G was deployed globally in 1998 but deployed in India ten years later, i.e. in 2008. Similarly, 4G services were launched in India seven years after their global launching in 2008. This reflects very poorly on our planning and execution. Now when many countries are swiftly moving towards 5G technology, India is likely to witness its deployment only by the end of 2021 or early part of 2022, that too partially,” said the report, a copy of which was sen by HT.At a January event by industry lobby Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI), Prasad said India did not want to miss the 5G bus and urged Indian companies to be “proactive in creating an Indian 5G model.” India is still evaluating its 5G testing models.Several countries around the world have already deployed 5G, and Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd’s chairman Mukeh Ambani said in December that his company would do so in “the second half of 2021.”That may not happen because India is yet to auction radio waves (spectrum) for 5G.Unless time-bound action is taken, “India is going to miss the bus on 5G opportunities,” the parliamentary committee report warned.The Department of Telecom had earlier set the target of starting 5G trials in 2019 and roll out the next-generation service in 2020-21.Because of claims by the defence ministry and space department on part of the spectrum that was identified for 5G services, the deadline was missed.Government officials familiar with the matter said that the issues, as far as the availability of spectrum were concerned, have been resolved after meetings with the cabinet secretary. “The concerned ministries and the cabinet secretary have met regarding spectrum availability. Sufficient spectrum will be available,” the official mentioned above said.Concerns flagged by the parliamentary committee include lack of preparedness, spectrum issues and, uncertainty around sale of radio waves for 5G, among others.“The Committee finds that inadequate availability of spectrum, high spectrum prices, poor development of use cases, low status of fiberization, non-uniform RoW {right of way} issues, deficient backhaul capacity, etc. are some of the factors coming in the way of rolling out of 5G services in India,” the report said.The official cited above added that as far as pricing was concerned, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) had made its recommendation, but a final decision would be taken by the government. “The price TRAI has recommended may be high, but ultimately the government will decide what is a fair offer.”The official added that DoT has already conducted a hackathon and identified 100 uses of 5G; it awarded Rs. 1 lakh per entry in the contest. “Initially, 5G will be rolled out on the existing 4G core. It will then be developed further,” the official said.The official further stated that the price of 5G mobile handsets would also come down once the technology becomes commonplace.The panel also highlighted security concerns surrounding the roll-out of the technology and the vulnerabilities it presents.“Reliance Jio has informed the Committee that from 5G onwards, technology will become much more intrusive in our business operations, given the applications, widespread digitisation, e-governance, the smart city project, all the cameras in a city, the data centres, the devices and the chipset in the devices, etc. Now, the more open and denser this whole network gets, the more vulnerable it becomes to threats,” the report cautioned.“Because of the increased dependency of communication networks, the hacking of 5G networks is a very clear national security risk. The only solution is to build secure and trustworthy indigenous communication infrastructure,” the Telecom Equipment Manufacturers Association informed the panel, said the report.The threats are simplified as STRIDE, where S stands for Spoofing, T stands for Tampering, R stands for Repudiation, I for information disclosure,‘D for denial of service making the network unavailable when it is needed, and E for what they call the escalation of privileges.“Because of the increased dependency of communication networks, the hacking of 5G networks is a very clear national security risk. The only solution is to build secure and trustworthy indigenous communication infrastructure,” Telecom Equipment Manufacturers Association informed the panel, according tot the report.The parliamentary committee has factored in that massive data, both personal and non-personal, which will demand special efforts for its protection, will be generated with the adoption of 5G services.“The growing concern over availability and protection of user data and privacy will exacerbate with security challenges in 5G. The Committee are aware the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019 is still under consideration of the Government and will deal with various data security issues.” It has recommended that indigenous intellectual property rights, equipment and software should be encouraged and developed.The panel has also considered the global security concerns surrounding telecom equipment provided by Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. and ZTE Corporation, twomajor Chinese equipment providers in India.The US and European Union have banned Huawei over these concerns, India has not taken any specific call on the matter.“In view of the security-related concerns raised by various countries, such as USA and European Union, the Committee feel that adequate precautions should also be taken by India before installing telecom equipment from Chinese sources in the Indian telecom network including 5G. The Committee desire that in-built safety measures be put in place to ensure that the security of the country is not compromised. The Committee also desire that such safety mechanisms should be strictly adhered to by public and private telecom companies,” the report said.Telecom expert Mahesh Uppal said 5G will present its own challenges and that the country was not really prepared to roll out the services on any significant scale.“I think what the officials are saying suggests that there has been some movement and the government has been working on freeing up more spectrum for 5G,” Uppal said. “We still do not know whether the last word has been said on that.”Uppal added: “A more important issue is that price of spectrum is too high. The companies have said that they find it unaffordable. The problems relating to RoW {right of way} are serious and have existed for over 20 years and there has been very little movement on them. This will be a problem as 5G will require many times more towers and at short distances.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-unprepared-for-roll-out-of-5g-house-panel-on-it-101612724515911.html
08-02-2021||India||Need highways road safety police: Report||The Centre and states must form dedicated national and state-level highway road safety police, and enhance the institutional framework with statutory bodies in the form of road safety authorities with quasi-judicial powers and sizable funds, the Bureau of Police Research & Development (BPRD) has recommended.A National Road Safety Plan (NRSP) prepared by former director general of police and chairman of the Telangana road safety authority, T Krishna Prasad, circulated to all states and Union territories for implementation, has also recommended deploying an advanced life saving ambulance for every 100 kilometres of road length on the highways as well as use of drones and air ambulances to rescue accident victims and provide food and medical help.The report, a copy of which has been reviewed by HT, has come against the backdrop of the National Road Safety month being observed by the Centre between January 18 and February 17.“In India, enforcement is majorly restricted to city limits only. There exists no enforcing mechanism on national and state highways. Hence it is anticipated that the road crashes and deaths are happening more on highways. In fact, 55% of road crashes and 62% of road fatalities happen on just 5% of road length of National and State highways,” said the report, which suggested “effective enforcement activities” on national highways, state highways and other roads.According to data from the ministry of road transport and highways, road accidents claimed nearly 150,000 lives in 2018. India is a signatory to the United Nations Brasilia Declaration on road safety, which called for reducing road fatalities by 50% by 2020.The BPRD’s report suggests the formation of a National Highways Road Safety Police (NHRSP) for strict enforcement of rules against traffic violations on highways across India. Similarly, there should be a dedicated State Highways Road Safety Police (SHRSP) for state highways.“The highway development in India has seen a much-awaited push since last two decades. The road length has increased considerably by construction of several multi-lane highways. However, over the same time, the safety performance of the roads has deteriorated in terms of increase in the number of road fatalities,” it added.The report said that if implemented, the NRSP will result in an annual reduction of 12% to 15% in road accidents and fatalities and will increase traffic law compliance among road users, and encourage good driving practices. Subsequently, it will provide employment to around 32,000 people.The report said that “a budgetary support arrangement coupled with a pan-India Road Safety Police” will effectively complement India‘s endeavour to reduce road accident deaths and also result in saving of the cumulative loss to gross domestic product (GDP) to the extent of about ₹5 lakh crore by the end of the fifth year.On top of that, a notional 37,667 human lives would have been saved when the National Highway Road Safety Police is deployed, the report estimated.Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari, while inaugurating the first ever National Road Safety Month last month, said that the government aims to halve road accidents and deaths before 2025.Gadkari also said India had recorded a significant drop in road accidents and deaths in 2020 compared to 2019 partly due to the lockdown induced by the Covid-19 pandemic.“A total of 1.5 lakh people died, while more than 4.5 lakh people got injured in road accidents every year, resulting in social-economic losses from accident deaths equivalent to a shocking 3.14% of GDP every year,” Gadkari added. He said 70% of road fatalities were in the age group of 18 to 45 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-highways-road-safety-police-report-101612723839963.html
08-02-2021||India||Nearly 6 million vaccinated, India ranks 3rd in world||India now ranks third among countries for the highest number of Covid-19 vaccines administered to citizens, with close to six million people having been inoculated against the viral disease in the first 23 days of the immunisation drive launched on January 16.The country that has vaccinated the most number of people is the United States, followed by the United Kingdom, with 36.82 million and 11.48 million, respectively, having received a vaccine.“India has scaled another global peak in its fight against Covid-19. India has become the third topmost country in the world in terms of the number of COVID19 vaccine doses administered. Only the United States and the United Kingdom remain ahead of India,” the Union health ministry said in a statement on Sunday.According to the health ministry, states in India have vaccinated more than 200,000 beneficiaries each. Uttar Pradesh, the country’s most populous state, alone accounts for 673,542 of all vaccinations so far, followed by Maharashtra with 473,000 and Rajasthan with 459,000.As of 8 pm on Sunday, February 7, a total of 5,775,322 people have received a Covid-19 vaccine under the countrywide inoculation drive. The cumulative vaccination coverage includes 5,304,546 health-care workers and 470,776 front-line workers -- municipal staff, police personnel, civil defence staff and so on -- across the country.Close to 400,000 vaccinations have taken place in the country across 9,000 sessions in the past 24 hours, and at least 100,000 vaccination sessions have been conducted so far in the country.There has been a sustained increase in the number of people being vaccinated every day, with as high as about 500,000 individuals getting vaccinated on some days.The number of adverse events following immunizations has also been one of the lowest in the world, with close to 10,000 adverse events reported among health workers in the past 23 days. Twenty-eight persons have been hospitalized in the country after vaccination; there has been no serious adverse reaction due to Covid-19 vaccines. The total percentage of adverse reactions out of total vaccinations is roughly about 0.0005%.Among 22 deaths reported of health care workers who were vaccinated against Covid-19, none has been linked to the vaccine.“There is a thorough investigation that follows post any deaths in persons who are vaccinated in the country. The post-morten is conducted by a medical board that comprises at least three doctors. There are also adverse events following immunisation committees at the state and national level that go through the data and reports. So far, our experts have not established causality in any of the deaths,” said a senior health ministry official with knowledge of the matter, who did not wish to be identified.The debate regarding the safety of Covid-19 vaccines is also settled, said VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, citing Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI) data.“There has been no death attributed to the vaccine, and if there is a side effect in one in 1,150 people, then it is hardly a side-effect. The Covid-19 vaccines are as safe as they can be,” he said.The country has also reported less than 80 daily deaths related to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, which is the lowest in nine months.The country’s Active Caseload was 148,766 as of Sunday. The present active caseload consists of 1.37% of India’s Total Positive Cases.“India’s cumulative recoveries stand at 10, 522,601 today. The Recovery Rate is 97.19%. 81.07% of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 6 States/UTs,” the health ministry statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-6-million-vaccinated-india-ranks-3rd-in-world-101612723321694.html
08-02-2021||India||Election or nomination? Congress divided over CEC||As more details of Friday’s Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting emerged, it is now clear that the new bone of contention between party leaders who in August called for an overhaul of the organisation and staunch loyalists of the leadership is a demand that members of the Central Election Committee (CEC) be elected, not nominated.Hindustan Times has spoken to several delegates who attended the meeting, including signatories to the letter written in August to interim chief Sonia Gandhi in which they demanded a “full-time and effective” leadership that is “visible” and “active.” The people, who requested anonymity, confirmed that the schedule for elections to the post of president and CWC members was accepted, but a spat ensued when the demand was voiced for even CEC members to be elected.The demand was articulated by Ghulam Nabi Azad, leader of the opposition in the Rajya Sabha, his deputy Anand Sharma, and former finance minister P. Chidambaram, who wasn’t a signatory to the original letter, but supported elections to the CEC, the people said. They said CEC members should be chosen by the same electoral college that takes part in the election of the president.The CEC, headed by Sonia Gandhi, selects the party’s candidates to all elections and so is a very powerful body. At present, its members include Rahul Gandhi, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, senior leaders AK Antony, Ambika Soni, Mukul Wasnik, KC Venugopal, Mohsina Kidwai, Girija Vyas, Janardan Dwivedi, M Veerappa Moily and Oscar Fernandes.The oppositionto the proposal was initially in the form of a healthy debate. Antony opposed the proposal in what one letter writer described as a “sober manner.” Soni asked if an election to the CEC would require an amendment to the Congress’s constitution and Sharma clarified that it didn’t.It was around that point of time that Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot used “harsh words” against the letter writers to their shock. Since the December 19 meeting with Gandhi, there had been a feeling that a rapproachment was in the works, especially with Venugopal and Soni reaching out to the letter writers to understand their concerns and implement reforms within the party.Speaking in Hindi, Gehlot is learnt o have questioned the need for the 23 leaders to send such a letter in the first place. “Nobody even knows your names, nobody recognises you,’’ Gehlot is learnt to have said. To which Sharma responded: “That may well be true. I don’t have any identity but that of the Indian National Congress. And it’s because of that our face and name are known. And that’s why you are also known. This is not the way to talk. Nobody has given you the authority to insult your colleagues.’’Rahul Gandh then intervened. “I can understand the emotion that Ashok Gehlot had expressed (his views with) and what he was feeling, but at the same time I agree with Anand Sharma ji and feel that harsh words should never have been spoken,” people who attended the meeting quoted him as saying.A letter writer said the delegates were taken aback by the Rajasthan CM’s words. “Just because he is a chief minister, it doesn’t give him authority over us. There are six former chief ministers among the letter writers,’’ said this person.Hindustan Times reached out to CM Gehlot’s office, but received no response. A spokesperson for the Congress denied that there had been any harsh exchange of words at the meeting.While the letter writers want elections at all levels and the CEC is one such forum, a former CWC member told HT that the CEC’s membership carried the kind of prestige that even the CWC, the party’s top decision making body, didn’t have. “It’s the only one where a member can feel important and seems to influence who gets a party ticket,’’ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-or-nomination-congress-divided-over-cec-101612721472506.html
08-02-2021||India||Govt should have fixed nails in Ladakh to stop China: Owaisi||AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday attacked the Modi government saying that instead of fixing nails and digging the highway in Delhi to stop the protesting farmers, it should have done the same things in Ladakh to prevent the Chinese aggression.He also urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to listen to the 'mann ki baat' of the farmers, a reference to the PM's monthly radio address by the same name."Had you fixed nails in Ladakh, then the Chinese forces would not have entered India. You did not fix nails in Ladakh, where 18 Indian Army personnel were killed. If you had 56-inch chest, you should have taught China a lesson," he said while addressing a rally here."Modiji does not utter the name of China even once. He would name everybody and everything, but he won't the name of China," he said.Owaisi alleged that the three farm laws were against the Indian Constitution because agriculture was a state subject and the Centre had no right to make laws on a state subject.He said that the farmers opposing the laws are branded as Khalistanis, Adivasi-Dalits become Naxals, and Muslims Jihadis."Where is the country headed? How much hatred will you spread? I am asking you a question standing on your sarzameen (home turf). Why did Chinese forces enter India in 2020? Because China knows that people of India are not united, they are accusing each other using Love jihad, corona jihad. The government is spreading hatred instead of uniting people," he alleged.The Hyderabad MP attacked the government over the rising fuel prices, and said, "A poor person's vehicle does not run on air or Modi's love, but on petrol and diesel."He also called the coronavirus-induced lockdown as unconstitutional and said that it caused 10 crore job losses in the informal sector."In Gujarat, people are being threatened in the name of GST; Hindus and Muslims are not allowed to sell property to each other without the intervention of collector inthe name of Disturbed Areas Act, and the state has a high number of stunted anaemic children and women...segregation index is the highest in Ahmedabad," he said."Modi made riverfront in Ahmedabad to show it to the world, but did not ensure proper drinking water facilities in Muslim and Dalit localities, proper flyover that causes traffic jam," he said.Owaisi also attacked the Congress saying that had the opposition party been good, it would have defeated the BJP.The Congress remained mum when the government shut down schools, did not raise voice demanding drinking water and proper drainage facilities for the people, he alleged."You lack sense, planning, intellectual USP. You want to counter Hindutva with Hindutva, Hindu nationalism with Hindu nationalism. The AIMIM will counter Hindutva with the Constitution framed by Babasaheb Ambedkar. Hindu nationalism will be countered with Indian nationalism," he said.Owaisi's party has fielded 21 candidates for the civic polls in Ahmedabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-should-have-fixed-nails-in-ladakh-to-stop-china-owaisi-101612722039072.html
08-02-2021||NA||LIVE: France begins distribution of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine||India reported 12,059 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 78 related deaths in the last 24 hours, pushing the country’s tally to over 1,08,26,363, data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare showed on Sunday morning. The encouraging figures come at a time when the nation has successfully vaccinated more than 5.6 million health and frontline workers within 22 days of the launch of the immunisation drive. The states, however, have been advised to to improve the vaccination coverage, beneficiary turn-out per session and minimise vaccine wastage, according to a statement by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.The global Covid-19 tally has crossed the 105 million mark. The United States continues to be the worst affected country, followed by India and Brazil.Follow all the updates here:France begins distribution of AstraZeneca vaccine amid growing concerns of UK Covid-19 variantFrench government started distributing AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine as epidemiologist Arnaud Fontanet warned the UK coronavirus variant B117 could become dominant in the country by March, reports ANI.West Bengal reports 193 new Covid-19 cases, 5 deathsWest Bengal's COVID-19 tally rises to 5,71,371 after 193 more people test positive for the infection, five new fatalities push death toll to 10,207: Health bulletinWith 193 new infections and 5 deaths, West Bengal's Covid-19 tally reached 5,71,371 cases and 10,207 deaths, reports PTI.Italy logs 11,641 new Covid-19 cases, 270 deathsItaly reported 11,641 new Covid-19 infections and 270 new fatalities on Sunday, down from 13,442 cases and 385 deaths reported yesterday, according to the health ministry's data.The country has recorded 91,273 overall deaths, since the beginning of the pandemic, the second highest in Europe only after the United Kingdom, reports Reuters.UK government says over 12 million people vaccinated with first Covid-19 doseUK government said that 12,014,288 people have have received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. Britain reported 15,845 new Covid-19 cases and 373 deaths within 28 days of a positive coronavirus test, according to official data, reports Reuters.Haryana reports 67 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deathsWith 67 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths, Haryana's tally reached 2,68,431 cases and 3,029 deaths, according to the state health department.The state currently has 883 active cases and 2,64,519 patients have recovered, reports PTI.Karnataka reports 487 new Covid-19 cases, tally reaches 9,42,518 casesKarnataka reports 487 new #COVID19 cases, 493 recoveries and 3 deaths today.Total cases 9,42,518Total recoveries 9,24,304Death toll 12,236Active cases 5,959 pic.twitter.com/y7cZTVv625Karnataka recorded 487 new Covid-19 cases, 493 recoveries and 3 deaths on Sunday, reports ANI.Half-million Covid-19 vaccine doses from India arrive at Kabul, says Indian embassyA half-million doses of COVID vaccines gifted by India to Afghanistan arrived at Kabul today. Acting Minister of Public Health of Afghanistan Waheed Majroh received the vaccine consignment from Charge d'Affaires Raghuram S at Hamid Karzai Int'l Airport: Embassy of India in KabulIndia's consignment of half-million Covid-19 vaccine doses arrive at Kabul, Afghanistan, as confirmed by the Indian embassy, reports ANI.More than 58 lakh healthcare workers inoculated for Covid-19 in India: Health ministry#LargestVaccineDriveMore than 58 lakh Healthcare and Frontline Workers Vaccinated for #COVID19 across the country.28,059 beneficiaries vaccinated till 6:40 pm today.No AEFI reported today.https://t.co/WfFk8gdAjx pic.twitter.com/ONVFpBy97XThe ministry of health and family welfare has said that till 6:40pm today, 58,03,617 healthcare and frontline workers have been vaccinated for Covid-19.Union health ministry shares pictures of vaccination drive in Manipur#LargestVaccineDrive #Unite2FightCoronaFrontline workers inoculated in Manipur. pic.twitter.com/ko4PGjeBSzThe ministry of health and family welfare shared pictures of frontline workers getting Covid-19 vaccine in Manipur.Manipur reports 9 new Covid-19 cases, 18 recoveriesManipur reports 9 new #COVID19 cases and 18 recoveries today. Total cases: 29,126Total recoveries: 28,654Death toll: 373Active cases: 99 pic.twitter.com/pCMdBc3GRgWith 9 new Covid-19 cases, Manipur's tally reached 29,126 cases and 373 deaths. A total of 28,654 patients have recovered in the state so far, reports ANI.UK won't issue 'immunity' Covid-19 passportsA British official says the country is not considering issuing so-called “immunity passports” for those who have been given the coronavirus vaccine but they could ask their doctor for written proof of their vaccine status if they need to travel. Vaccines Minister Nadhim Zahawi said Sunday that vaccine passports would be discriminatory and officials did not want getting vaccinated to be “made in some way mandatory through a passport.”Maldives vaccinates over 6,000 people against Covid-19The Maldives has vaccinated over 6,000 people against the Covid-19 pandemic in the first six days of its vaccination program, local media citing the Health Protection Agency (HPA) reported here Sunday. Data from the HPA showed that 2,575 people were vaccinated on Saturday, bringing the total number of vaccinated up to 6,854. Among those vaccinated people, 5,588 are from the capital region of Greater Male while the remaining 1,266 are from the atolls.UAE temporarily restricts Covid-19 vaccines to elderly, those with chronic diseasesThe United Arab Emirates will temporarily only vaccinate residents and citizens who are elderly or who have certain health conditions, state media said on Sunday. The temporary policy change was made following a spike in infections over the past weeks "to ensure acquired community immunity and contain the disease", state news agency WAM said, quoting the health ministry. Read moreVietnam reports 20 Covid-19 cases, total infections pass 2,000Vietnam has reported 2,001 Covid-19 infections since the coronavirus pandemic first hit the country more than a year ago, the Ministry of Health said on Sunday. More than 1,100 of the cases are locally transmitted, while the rest are imported, the ministry said in a statement. It recorded 20 new cases on Sunday, all linked to a new outbreak that began on Jan. 27 in the northern province of Hai Duong and has spread to at least 12 cities and provinces.Nepal concludes first phase of Covid-19 vaccination driveAfter receiving one million doses of Indian-made Covid-19 vaccine, Nepal has completed the first phase of its vaccination drive with as many as 184,857 persons receiving the first dose of the vaccine in the country. According to Himalayan Times, the first phase of the vaccination drive conducted from 201 booths in 77 districts concluded on Saturday. Frontline workers including health and sanitation workers were given priority in inoculations.Coronavirus vaccines from China arrive in CambodiaThe first 600,000 doses of coronavirus vaccines donated by China to Cambodia arrived in Phnom Penh on Sunday by special plane, with the doses earmarked to vaccinate health workers and the military. The Southeast Asian nation of about 16 million people is one of the least impacted by the coronavirus, with just 474 infections and no deaths. But it saw a rare cluster of cases in November. One of Asia's poorest countries, Cambodia has been an important ally to China in recent years. Beijing has said it will send 1 million Sinopharm vaccines to Cambodia, which will be used to inoculate 500,000 people.Ecuador registers 1,703 new Covid-19 cases, with 257,115 in totalEcuador registered 1,703 cases of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, bringing the total to 257,115, the Ministry of Public Health reported on Saturday. According to the ministry, the country also reported 21 more deaths, bringing the death toll to 10,311, along with 4,693 "probable" deaths from the disease. The province of Pichincha, which has been the most affected by the pandemic, exceeded 90,000 cases, with most infections concentrated in the capital city of Quito, the current epicenter of the pandemic in Ecuador. The capital city's health system has almost reached full capacity due to the high levels of critically ill patients.Bangladesh starts country-wide Covid-19 vaccination driveBangladesh on Sunday launched its nationwide Covid-19 vaccination campaign, reported Dhaka Tribune. Health Minister Zahid Maleque rolled out the campaign at a virtual event at the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) in Dhaka on Sunday morning. Maleque also urged all not to spread propaganda against the vaccine as it is safe and has no side effects, reported Dhaka Tribune. "The vaccine campaign will continue throughout the year. There is another process to get the jab other than online registration. People can be able to take the shots immediately after registering themselves at the vaccine centres," he added. Later on, he took coronavirus vaccine jab at Sheikh Russel National Gastroliver Institute and Hospital around 11:25 am (local time). Other ministers along with justices and distinguished persons followed the suit and took the jab on Sunday at different hospitals in Dhaka.Philippines logs 1,790 new Covid-19 cases, total tops 537,000The Department of Health (DOH) of the Philippines reported on Sunday 1,790 new Covid-19 cases, bringing the total number of confirmed cases in the Southeast Asian country to 537,310. The death toll climbed to 11,179 after 70 more patients died from the viral disease, the DOH said, adding that 11,388 more patients recovered, raising the total number of recoveries to 499,798.The Philippines, which has about 110 million population, has tested over 7.58 million people since the disease emerged in January last year.Russia reports 16,048 new coronavirus cases, 432 deathsRussia reported 16,048 new Covid-19 cases across the country on Sunday, including 2,028 in Moscow, taking the national tally to 3,967,281 since the pandemic began. Authorities confirmed 432 deaths in the last 24 hours, pushing the official death toll to 76,661.Telangana logs less than 200 cases for 15th day in a rowThe number of new Covid-19 cases continued to remain under the 200 mark for the 15th day in a row in Telananga as the total infection count rose to over 2.95 lakh, the government said on Sunday. Two fatalities pushed the toll to 1,610, a health department bulletin said. Of the 150 fresh cases reported till 8 pm on Saturday, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the maximum with 25, followed by Rangareddy and Medchal Malkajgiri with 10 and 9 respectively, a health department bulletin said. The total number of cases stood at2,95,581 while recoveries were at 2,92,032.Ethiopia reports 570 new Covid-19 casesThe Ethiopian Federal Ministry of Health on Saturday reported 570 new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, taking the national count to 141,453. The Covid-19 death toll rose to 2,145 after nine new fatalities were recorded, the ministry said. With 290 more recoveries registered, the nationwide count amounted to 125,531, it added. Ethiopia, Africa's second-most populous nation, is one of the countries hardest hit by the pandemic in Africa, after South Africa, Morocco, Tunisia, and Egypt. The country has so far reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the East African region.Odisha starts second phase of vaccination drive against Covid-19Odisha on Saturday began its second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Bhubaneshwar. Additional Commissioner of Police (ACP), Odisha, Rekha Lohani, "The second phase of vaccination drive has started today in Bhubaneshwar at three places; CP Headquarters, Reserve Parade Ground, and in the 7th Batallion premises.""We have all taken the first shots. We are all feeling absolutely fine. This drive will go on till February 15. And after a gap of 21 days, the second shots will be given," she added. 1200 personnel per day will be taking their first jab, she said. The second phase of the inoculation drive is to see the vaccination of frontline workers, including police and sanitation workers.Turkey confirms 7,897 new Covid-19 casesTurkey confirmed 7,897 new Covid-19 cases, including 618 symptomatic patients, as the total number of positive cases in the country reached 2,524,786, according to its health ministry. The death toll from the virus in Turkey rose by 108 to 26,685, while the total recoveries climbed to 2,412,505 after 8,089 more cases recovered in the last 24 hours. A total of 137,649 tests were conducted over the past day, with the overall number of tests in Turkey reaching 30,486,691.South Korea reports 372 more COVID-19 cases, 80,896 in totalSouth Korea reported 372 more cases of Covid-19 as of midnight Saturday compared to 24 hours ago, pushing the total number of infections to 80,896, according to ANI. The daily caseload has remained below 400 for three straight days.Brazil's Covid-19 death toll surpasses 231,000Brazil registered 978 new Covid-19 deaths taking the death toll to 231,012, the ministry of health said on Saturday, according to ANI. Additionally, another 50,630 new Covid-19 cases were recorded, taking the nationwide tally to 9,497,795.282 new Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra's Thane district, 4 more deathsThe Covid-19 tally in Maharashtra's Thane district has gone up to 2,55,491 with the addition of 282 new cases of the infection, an official told PTI on Sunday.Apart from these cases reported on Saturday, four more people also succumbed to the viral infection, taking the death toll in the district to 6,178, he said.59.3 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines distributed: US CDCThe US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said it had distributed 59,304,600 doses of Covid-19 vaccines in the United States and that 39,037,964 doses had been administered as of Saturday morning, Reuters reported.Mainland China reports 11 new Covid-19 casesMainland China reported 11 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, which is the lowest daily increase since December 16, the national health authority was quoted as saying by Reuters on Sunday.Mexico's confirmed coronavirus death toll rises to 165,786Mexico's health ministry on Saturday reported 1,496 new confirmed deaths from Covid-19, bringing the country's total to 165,786, according to news agency Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-february-7-2021-101612667124185.html
08-02-2021||NA||Highlights: Govt ready to resume talks with farmers, says Piyush Goyal||In symbolic protest on Saturday, farmers staged a 'chakka jam' for three hours in the country. During the strike, farmers blocked major state and national highways. Amid concerns over untoward incident, the protest took place without any violence, authorities have said. The agitation against the new farm laws which began in the last week of November is continuing for more than 70 days now.Farmers also said that they ready to resume talks with the government, but asked it to come up with a fresh proposal as the existing offer to put the three farm laws on hold for 12-18 months is not acceptable to them. However, the union asserted again that they would not settle for anything less than a repeal of the agriculture legislation.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- demanding a repeal of the three farm laws.Follow all the updates here:Govt ready to resume talks, says Union minister Piyush GoyalUnion Minister Piyush Goyal on Sunday said the government is ready to resume talks with the farmers protesting the new farm laws but asserted that despite repeated proposals, the protesters have not come up with any "concrete suggestion" so far, reports PTI.'Tractor kranti' creating buzz as protesting farmers oppose NGT's ban on old diesel vehiclesFarmers protesting against the Centre's new agricultural laws are rallying behind the call for a 'tractor revolution', while expressing disappointment over a 2014 NGT order banning diesel vehicles, including tractors, older than 10 years in Delhi-NCR, reports PTI.No 'ghar wapsi' till farmers' demands met, says BKU's TikaitAsserting that the agitation against the Centre’s farm laws is a people’s movement that will not fail, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said there will be no "ghar wapsi" till protesting farmers' demands are met.Ghazipur, Singhu border closed; Delhi traffic police asks to follow alternate routesGazipur border is closed both carriage way Traffic going Ghaziabad through Murga mandi and Gazipur R/A, Road no. 56, Vikas marg, Anand Vihar IP Extention, NH 24, informed Delhi Traffic Police. Singhu, Piau Maniyari,Saboli, Mungeshpur borders are closed. Lampur, Safiabad, Singhu school and Palla toll tax borders are open. Pls follow alternate route, said the traffic police.Govt has time to withdraw bills and make laws on MSP: BKU's TikaitYouth here has asked for repealing of (farm) laws for now, what will happen if they asked to leave their posts? Govt has time to withdraw bill and make law on MSP. We will not tolerate how our people were deceitfully taken to Red Fort, said BKU's Rakesh Tikait at mahapanchayat in Haryana, reports ANI.Farmers' protest limited to certain areas, says TomarUnion Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday said the ongoing farmers' protest against the Centre's three new farm laws is limited to a certain area, and expressed hope to break the deadlock over the issue soon, reports PTI.Indo-Canadian groups rally to protest alleged Khalistani role in farmer protestIndo-Canadian organisations are stepping up their effort to counter the narrative related to the ongoing farmers’ protests in India, as they believe that the agenda has largely been hijacked by pro-Khalistan elements in Canada. Read moreHeavy security continues at Tikri borderBKU's Tikait to address second mahapanchayat todayBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait to address second mahapanchayat in Charkhi Dadri, today.Tikait’s decision to not have chakka jam in UP, Uttarakhand 'hasty': SKM leaderSenior farmer leader Darshan Pal Saturday said the decision by BKU leader Rakesh Tikait to not hold 'chakka jam' in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand was taken in "a hasty manner" and it would have been better had he first discussed his plan with the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha.Intervention from PM may resolve farm bills issues: Sharad PawarNationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday said that the highest level intervention from the Central government may help in resolving the deadlock between the Centre and farmers organisation over contentious farm bills which has resulted in over 70-day long protest, by the agrarian community. Read moreRahul Gandhi to visit RajasthanCongress' Rahul Gandhi will visit Rajasthan next to extend support to the farmers agitating against the farm laws. He will be in Rajasthan on February 12 and February 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-farm-laws-live-updates-february-7-2021-101612661517888.html
