13-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand farmers destroy crops after failing to get buyers, proper rates||Three farmers of Sitarganj area in US Nagar district destroyed their banana crops in an area of 4.25 acres by chopping down the banana trees after failing to get buyers and proper rates for their produce.The three farmers identified as Ramesh Yadav, Rajesh Yadav and Sher Singh Yadav are brothers and residents of Khusara village about 47 km from Rudrapur. They planted banana plants on the advice of horticulture officials in 2019. When crops were ready to be harvested they failed to get buyers and proper rates for the produce.Ramesh Yadav, 46, of Khusara village in Sitarganj block said, “We had planted 5000 saplings of banana on 4.25-acre of land. Our crops were ready in the month January but we failed to get buyers and proper rates. When we failed to get the results of our hardships we ploughed and destroyed the crops by a tractor.”Yadav said, “When the banana fruit was ready to be harvested I went to Pilibhit and Bareilly of UP in search of buyers but no one took interest. They were not ready to buy even ₹200 per quintal. If our crops had sold at ₹1000 per quintal we would have earned around ₹22-lakh.”The horticulture department of US Nagar provided plants free of cost under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in 2019 to encourage the farmers to grow banana crops.Yadav said his family had come under huge debt due to banana cultivation.Harish Tiwari, joint director of Kumaon, horticulture department said, “Banana is a highly fed crop and starts fruiting in 13 months after plantation. In the previous season, farmers made good profit from the crops. What happened with these farmers we will go there and see in a day or two.”“Around 50 farmers, who were provided plants by us, are cultivating bananas across the district. They are satisfied and are not complaining like this,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-farmers-destroy-crops-after-failing-to-get-buyers-proper-rates-101613237948182.html
13-02-2021||India||'So much truth': Mahatma Gandhi's granddaughter lends support to protesting farmers||Tara Gandhi, the granddaughter of Mahatma Gandhi, reached the Ghazipur border, where farmers have been protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws, on Saturday, the 78th day of their sit-in. "There is so much truth in your reason that it speaks for itself. I am with truth and will always stand by it," Gandhi said, according to news agency ANI.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, earlier in the day, urged all sections of the society to stand up against farm laws and said that the legislation will impact all. He alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi wanted to hand over ₹40 lakh crore worth agriculture sector to his corporate friends. The Congress leader is not related to the Father of the Nation."India's and world's biggest business is in agriculture which is worth ₹40 lakh crores and run by 40% Indians which include farmers, small traders, porters, workers and poor but PM Modi wants to hand over this agriculture business to his corporate friends through this farm laws," he said.Farmers have been protesting against the Centre's contentious farm laws for more than two months now at the borders of Delhi. The Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders have seen the majority of the dissenters.There have been several rounds of talks between the Centre's representatives and the farm leaders but all have so far ended in a stalemate. The Centre has said that it has no intention of withdrawing the laws while the farmers have made it clear that they would not stop the protest unless they are completely rolled back. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said that the protests might go on until October should the Centre not heed the farmers' demands.The protests led to a tractor rally on Republic Day which ended in violence when agitators marched into Delhi and stormed the historic Red Fort. The Delhi Police since have taken strict measures to prevent the farmers from entering the Capital.The farmers have been protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and the Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, since November 26 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/so-much-truth-mahatma-gandhi-s-granddaughter-lends-support-to-protesting-farmers-101613235215758.html
13-02-2021||India||PM Modi to visit Tamil Nadu, Kerala tomorrow, launch development projects||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Tamil Nadu and Kerala on Sunday to launch a number of projects, which he said will add speed to fulfilling the vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat. "Tomorrow, 14th February, will be in Chennai (Tamil Nadu) and Kochi (Kerala). Numerous development works would be launched that would add speed to fulfilling the vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat. The projects will boost 'Ease of Living' for our citizens," PM Modi tweeted in Tamil, Malayalam, and English on Saturday.A statement from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said that the Prime Minister will inaugurate and lay the foundation stones for several key projects and hand over the Arjun Main Battle Tank (MK-1A) to the Indian Army in Chennai at 11.15am. He will lay the foundation stone and dedicate various projects to the nation in Kochi at around 3:30pm, the statement read. "These projects will add crucial momentum to the growth trajectory of these states and help hasten the pace of realizing full development potential," the statement added.The Prime Minister will also inaugurate the Chennai Metro Rail Phase-I extension; the fourth railway line between Chennai Beach and Attipattu; the railway electrification of single line section in Villupuram-Cuddalore-Mayiladuthurai-Thanjavur and Mayiladuthurai-Thiruvarur.He will also lay the foundation stone for the extension, renovation and modernisation of the Grand Anicut Canal System. The canal is important for irrigation in the delta districts. The modernisation of this canal will be taken up at a cost of Rs.2,640 crore and will lead to an improvement in the water carrying capacity of the canals. Modi will also lay the foundation stone for the Discovery Campus of IIT Madras. The campus will be built at Thaiyur near Chennai at an estimated cost of Rs1000 crore in the first phase, over an area of 2 lakh sqm.On his tour to Kerala, the Prime Minister will dedicate to the nation the Propylene Derivative Petrochemical Project (PDPP) of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL); Ro-Ro Vessels at Willingdon Islands, Cochin; International Cruise Terminal "Sagarika" at Cochin Port; Marine Engineering Training Institute, Vigyana Sagar, Cochin Shipyard Limited and lay the foundation stone of Reconstruction of South Coal Berth at Cochin Port.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-visit-tamil-nadu-kerala-tomorrow-launch-development-projects-101613235823658.html
13-02-2021||India||IRCTC set to restart services of two Tejas trains from tomorrow||The Indian Railway Catering And Tourism Corporation Limited (IRCTC) is set to restart the operations of the first set of "private" Tejas Express trains on the Delhi-Lucknow and Mumbai Ahmedabad routes from Sunday.The Mumbai Central-Ahmedabad Tejas trips were cancelled on November 24 last year due to poor occupancy levels due to the coronavirus pandemic. The train, which has AC chair car and the executive AC chair car coaches, will run regularly from Friday to Monday each week and tickets can be booked on the IRCTC website.It leaves Mumbai Central at 3:50pm and reaches Ahmedabad at 10:05pm on the same day. The return train departs from Ahmedabad at 6:40am and reaches Mumbai Central at 1:05pm on the same day. It will halt at Borivali, Vapi, Surat, Bharuch, Vadodara and Nadiad stations in both directions.The train will also halt at Andheri station on a temporary basis till March 29 as per the Western Railway zone, and its time of arrival at the following stations have been accordingly rescheduled.It will depart from Mumbai Central at 3:45pm instead of 3:50pm as notified earlier and will arrive at Borivali at the revised time of 4:13pm and depart at 4:15pm. The return train will arrive at Borivali at 12:12pm. The Mumbai Central-Ahmedabad train will halt at Andheri station at 3:56pm and will depart at 3:58pm while the return train will halt at the station at 12:28pm and depart at 12:30pm.The Lucknow-New Delhi Tejas Express is also set to restart its operations from Sunday but no changes to its schedule have been notified as of yet.Both the trains' services were stopped on March 19, 2020, due to the coronavirus pandemic and the ensuing lockdown. IRCTC had started the Lucknow-Delhi-Lucknow Tejas Express on October 4, 2019, and the Ahmedabad-Mumbai-Ahmedabad on January 19, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctc-set-to-restart-services-of-two-tejas-trains-from-tomorrow-101613233083926.html
13-02-2021||India||Two years of Pulwama: Terror attack that killed 40 CRPF men explained||Sunday will mark two years of the Pulwama terror attack, one of the deadliest in the Kashmir Valley, in which 40 personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) were killed. The attack took place after a suicide bomber rammed an explosives-laden car into the convoy of 78 vehicles carrying more than 2,500 CRPF troopers in south Kashmir.Pakistan based terror outfit Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) had claimed responsibility for the suicide attack. Jaish also released a video of the suspected suicide bomber, identified as a local man, who had joined JeM in 2018. The impact of the attack was such the targeted buses reduced to a heap of mangled iron after the blast.Also read | 2 years of Pulwama terror attack: The day when India lost 40 CRPF menHere are ten headlines on the terror attack:NIA’s first arrest in Pulwama attack is a Jaish operative who helped suicide bomberThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) in March last year arrested an operative of terror outfit Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), in the first major breakthrough in the Pulwama terror attack case.Read full story here.CRPF jawans killed in Pulwama terror attack were returning from leaveThe Jammu to Srinagar highway had been blocked for nearly a week and the queue of CRPF personnel waiting to travel from Jammu to Srinagar had been getting longer.Read full story here.Photos, chats and a phone: How NIA cracked the Pulwama caseNIA hit an obstacle in the Pulwama terror attack probe for the initial 10 months in piecing together the sequence of events since key players such as Masood Azhar’s nephew Mohammad Umar Farooq, and Pakistani terrorists Kamran Ali and Qari Yasir were killed in encounters by the security forces.Read full story here.Car used in Pulwama terror attack was bought 10 days before bombing, owner on runNIA had identified the owner of the vehicle, a Maruti Eeco, used in the Pulwama terror attack. Sajjad Bhat, who is from Anantnag district, had joined Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) and his pictures carrying weapons have gone viral on social media. He had also been evading arrest, according to officials.Read full story here.Apathy forced him to opt for violence, says Pulwama bomber’s familyAdil was 22 years old when he drove the Maruti Eeco through one of the alleyways onto the highway and rammed the explosive-laden car into a bus carrying the CRPF troopers.Read full story here.Speeches, cyber trail in India’s Pulwama proof establish role of JaishThe investigations into the Pulwama terror attack established the involvement of the JeM, which had anyway claimed responsibility for the attack. This proof – the group used the same Internet Protocol (IP) address from a location near Pakistan’s Rawalpindi to upload the video confession of the suicide bomber Adil Ahmad Dar, and also the statement of its spokesperson Mohammed Hassan – is part of the body of evidence India had handed over to Pakistan.Read full story here.Pulwama strike was pushed back a week, JeM man tells NIAThe February 14, 2019, JeM strike on a CRPF convoy in Pulwama, which led to India retaliating with an attack on a terror camp in Balakot later that month and the subsequent dogfight between the air forces of India and Pakistan, was originally set to be carried out in the first week of February.Read full story here.ISI, JeM planned Pulwama strike, trained attacker: NIAIslamabad was involved in planning, training the perpetrators and executing the February 2019 Pulwama attack that left 40 CRPF personnel dead and brought India and Pakistan to the brink of war, said two officials aware of the details of the charge sheet NIA readied in the case.Read full story here.Local explosives used to trigger Pulwama attackTerrorists who planned and executed the Pulwama attack took advantage of pilferage in mineral blocks and stone quarries to procure about 500 gelatin sticks, purchased ammonium nitrate and ammonium powder locally in small tranches, and managed to smuggle in military-grade RDX from across the border, according to people familiar with the investigation.Read full story here.First anniversary of Pulwama terror attack: Year on, kin say promises remain on paperFamily members of head constable Sukhjinder Singh, 32, who was among the 40 CRPF personnel killed in the terror attack in Pulwama district, are awaiting compensation and loan waiver announced by the Punjab government.Read full story here.BSF finds tunnel used by Pulwama attackersThe Border Security Force (BSF) and Jammu Police had detected a 150m long cross-border tunnel at the international border that intelligence agencies believe may have been used by Mohammad Umar Farooq, JeM chief Maulana Masood Azhar’s nephew, to enter India to execute the Pulwama terror attack.Read full story here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-years-of-pulwama-terror-attack-that-killed-40-crpf-men-explained-101613233180243.html
13-02-2021||India||Bihar moves to terminate 7 health staff for irregularities in Covid-19 testing||The Bihar government has initiated the process of termination against seven health officials in Jamui while serving show-cause notices to four other doctors in Araria district over alleged irregularities in Covid-19 testing, as it put up a brave front and said that the entire state and its corona warriors should not be discredited for a few black sheep in the system.Addressing the media on Saturday, Bihar’s principal secretary, health, Pratyaya Amrit said that barring Barhat and Sikandra blocks of Jamui district, no such glaring anomalies were found in the ongoing investigation in 26 districts so far.“Investigators had found many fake entries of people, who either did not exist or were not tested, but their name figured in the testing list with incorrect mobile numbers at Barhat and Sikandra blocks,” said Amrit, sharing the crux of the investigation being undertaken by district magistrates as well as independent teams of the health department.“We have initiated the process of termination against the district programme manager of Jamui, a block health manager each of Barhat and Sikandra, two auxiliary nursing midwives and a laboratory technician in each of the two blocks for the glaring lapses,” he said.The department had earlier on Friday suspended four health officials of Jamui, including its civil surgeon, the district immunisation officer and two medical officers in-charge of the health facilities at the two blocks.Amrit said incongruity in mobile numbers of those tested had been found in Araria and Forbesganj towns as well as Purnahiya block of Sheohar. However, unlike Barhat and Sikandra, people in these towns were tested, but the mismatch was in their mobile number.“Out of 4,504 samples taken in Araria, there were 275 entries that mentioned 10 times ‘0’ and 522 entries with 10 times ‘1’ under the mobile number column against the name of the person tested in Forbesganj town,” he said.“Showcause notices have been served on in-charge superintendent of Sadar hospital, Araria; deputy superintendent sub-divisional hospital, Forbesganj, and medical officers in-charge of primary health centres at Araria and Forbesganj for dereliction of duty,” said Amrit.When our investigators asked the healthcare workers responsible for the lapses, they said that people who came for testing were not keen to share their mobile numbers. They also said that there was no way they could verify the mobile numbers which people shared with them.Replying to a question on difference in prices of rapid antigen testing kits procured by the state government last July and January this year, managing director Bihar Medical Services Infrastructure Limited Pradeep Kumar Jha said, “One kit cost ₹504 when purchase was done on July 9 and the same now costs ₹42.47.”Explaining the difference in price, he said, “The Indian Council of Medical Research had approved only one firm for purchase of testing kits in July, whereas 18 firms had now got the ICRM nod. All purchases, he said was made through the government e-market (GeM) place, hosted by the Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals (DGS&D).The government had asked district magistrates to conduct random inquiry in two to four blocks of their respective districts by physically verifying the persons mentioned in the testing list to check for inconsistencies in Covid-19 testing.The government action follows a news report, which claimed that in several cases, the mobile numbers of those tested were owned by unrelated people from other districts or states; in some cases, mobile numbers listed were invalid, in others; multiple unrelated persons were listed under one number. In a few cases, numbers used were those of the primary health centre staffers themselves, pointing to basic data protocol being bypassed to meet the daily testing target, and in some cases to allegedly siphon off profits from unused testing kits, the report said.OTP based RT-PCR testsThe Bihar health department had suggested one-time password (OTP)-based testing to curb any further anomalies in Covid-19 testing.Bihar’s principal secretary, health, Pratyaya Amrit said, “We will introduce in the next few days OTP based testing in case of RT-PCR tests, while allowing rapid antigen tests to be conducted only at health facilities to check any future inconsistency or mismatch in mobile number and the name of the person tested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-moves-to-terminate-7-health-staff-for-irregularities-in-covid-19-testing-101613234736178.html
13-02-2021||India||Telsa to set up manufacturing unit in Karnataka: CM Yediyurappa||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday said that electric car manufacturer Tesla will set up its electric car manufacturing unit in the state.The chief minister made the revelation in a statement regarding the Union Budget. “American firm Tesla will open its electric car manufacturing unit in Karnataka,” read the statement.On January 8, Tesla had registered its subsidiary Tesla India Motors and Energy Private Ltd in Bengaluru. The company listed Vaibhav Taneja, Venkatrangam Sreeram and David Jon Feinstein as directors of the company. This announcement came after Elon Musk in October 2020 said that that the process to bring Tesla cars to India would begin in January 2021.Apart from the announcement on Tesla, the statement read that Karnataka will get ₹10,904 crore for 33 national highway projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telsa-to-set-up-manufacturing-unit-in-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-101613231142274.html
13-02-2021||India||NSA Doval's security beefed up after recce video of his office by Jaish surfaces||The security cover of National Security Advisor Ajit Doval has been beefed up after a video has been recovered from arrested Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorist which reveals reconnaissance of his office in New Delhi, sources said.They said that Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorist Hedayatullah Malik was arrested by security forces on February 6.Sourced said the JeM terrorist confessed during his interrogation that he made the video of NSA office on instructions of his Pakistani handler whom he called 'doctor'.He was sending recce videos via WhatsApp to his Pakistani handler.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nsa-doval-s-security-beefed-up-after-recce-video-of-his-office-by-jaish-surfaces-101613232230571.html
13-02-2021||India||Researchers propose that humidity from masks may lessen severity of Covid-19||Did you know that the humidity created inside masks may help in combating respiratory diseases such as Covid-19? According to a team of researchers, this is yet another benefit of wearing masks regularly.The findings of the study were published in the 'Biophysical Journal'. The study, led by researchers in the NIH's National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK), found that face masks substantially increased the humidity in the air that the mask-wearer breathes in.This higher level of humidity in inhaled air, the researchers suggested, could help explain why wearing masks has been linked to lower disease severity in people infected with SARS-CoV-2, because hydration of the respiratory tract is known to benefit the immune system."We found that face masks strongly increase the humidity in inhaled air and propose that the resulting hydration of the respiratory tract could be responsible for the documented finding that links lower Covid-19 disease severity to wearing a mask," said the study's lead author, Adriaan Bax, Ph.D., NIH Distinguished Investigator.Dr Bax added, "High levels of humidity have been shown to mitigate severity of the flu, and it may be applicable to the severity of Covid-19 through a similar mechanism."High levels of humidity can limit the spread of a virus to the lungs by promoting mucociliary clearance (MCC), a defense mechanism that removes mucus and potentially harmful particles within the mucus from the lungs.High levels of humidity can also bolster the immune system by producing special proteins, called interferons, that fight against viruses, a process known as the interferon response. Low levels of humidity have been shown to impair both MCC and the interferon response, which may be one reason why people are likelier to get respiratory infections in cold weather.The study tested four common types of masks: an N95 mask, a three-ply disposable surgical mask, a two-ply cotton-polyester mask, and a heavy cotton mask. The researchers measured the level of humidity by having a volunteer breathe into a sealed steel box. When the person wore no mask, the water vapor of the exhaled breath filled the box, leading to a rapid increase in humidity inside the box.When the person wore a mask, the buildup of humidity inside the box greatly decreased, due to most of the water vapor remaining in the mask, becoming condensed, and being re-inhaled. To ensure no leakage, the masks were tightly fitted against the volunteer's face using high-density foam rubber. Measurements were taken at three different air temperatures, ranging from about 46 to 98 degrees Fahrenheit.The results showed that all four masks increased the level of humidity of inhaled air, but to varying degrees. At lower temperatures, the humidifying effects of all masks greatly increased. At all temperatures, the thick cotton mask led to the most increased level of humidity."The increased level of humidity is something most mask-wearers probably felt without being able to recognize, and without realizing that this humidity might actually be good for them," Dr Bax said.The researchers did not look at which masks are most effective against inhalation or transmission of the virus and defer to the CDC for guidance on choosing a mask. Earlier studies from Bax and his colleagues showed that any cloth mask can help block the thousands of saliva droplets that people release through simple speech droplets that, if released, can remain in the air for many minutes. While the current study did not examine respiratory droplets, it does offer more evidence as to why masks are essential to battling Covid-19."Even as more people nationwide begin to get vaccinated, we must remain vigilant about doing our part to prevent the spread of the coronavirus that causes Covid-19," said NIDDK Director Dr. Griffin P. Rodgers."This research supports the importance of mask-wearing as a simple, yet effective, way to protect the people around us and to protect ourselves from respiratory infection, especially during these winter months when susceptibility to these viruses increases," added Rodgers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/researchers-propose-that-humidity-from-masks-may-lessen-severity-of-covid19-101613230943522.html
13-02-2021||India||India vaccinates close to 8 million beneficiaries against Covid-19 in 28 days||India has vaccinated close to 80 lakh beneficiaries in its fight against Covid-19, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare informed here on Saturday."Till 8:00 AM 13 February, 79,67,647 beneficiaries have received the vaccination under the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination exercise. Out of these, 5,909,136 are health care workers and 2,058,511 are front line workers. A total of 1,64,781 sessions have been conducted so far," said MoHFW in an official statement.On February 12, which is day 28 of the vaccination drive, 4,62,637 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 10,411 sessions.The press statement said, "8 states which have vaccinated more than 4,00,000 beneficiaries each account for 59.70 per cent of the total beneficiaries vaccinated in India. Uttar Pradesh alone accounts for 10.8 per cent of the total beneficiaries in India. The number of beneficiaries being vaccinated every day has shown a consistent enhancement."According to the statement, the total active coronavirus caseload stood at 1,36,571 on February 13. The active caseload consisted of just 1.25 per cent of India's total positive cases."A total of 1.06 crore people have recovered so far. 11,395 patients have recovered and got discharged in the last 24 hours. The National Recovery rate is 97.32 per cent," said the statement.The ministry said 81.93 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in six states. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries, with 5,332 newly-recovered cases. A total of 2,422 people recovered in Maharashtra in the past 24 hours, followed by 486 in Tamil Nadu.A total 12,143 daily new cases registered in a span of 24 hours, it said, adding that 86.01 per cent of the new cases are from six states. As per the release Kerala continues to report the highest number of new cases a day at 5,397, followed by Maharashtra with 3,670, while Tamil Nadu reported 483 new cases.The report said further that 103 deaths were recorded in a span of 24 hours."Six states account for 80.58 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties with 36 deaths. Kerala follows with 18 deaths, while Karnataka and Punjab reported 8 deaths each in last 24 hours," read the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-vaccinates-close-to-8-million-beneficiaries-against-covid-19-in-28-days-101613230874577.html
13-02-2021||India||River experts and geologists demand accountability for Rishi Ganga disaster||River experts, geologists and environmental activists from different parts of the country sought accountability for the Rishi Ganga glacial breach disaster in a web meeting on Saturday. Rescuers have so far retrieved 38 bodies and at least 166 people are still missing and feared dead following the flash floods on February 7.“The dams should have a system of disseminating early warnings and by early warning I do not mean a sign board that reads going near the river can be dangerous. Unfortunately, in the 21st century we still don’t have any systems in place. The workers had the time to vacate had they known. Also, a lot of muck had been dumped at the head of the Tapovan tunnel which amplified the impact of the flood pushing people deep inside it with muck,” said Navin Juyal, retired geologist from the Physical Research Laboratory, Ahmedabad.“Two events took place on February 7. To say that the glacial breach was an act of god is one thing but we have to understand how the disaster amplified. The glacial breach and the ice and debris came down with a lot of power. When such floods occur they destroy all barriers in their way and pick up more sediment from the barrier. The glacial breach can be ascribed to nature but what about the barriers and obstructions in its way?” asked Ravi Chopra, director of the People’s Science Institute and head of the Chopra committee on hydroelectric projects set up by the Supreme Court in the aftermath of the 2013 flash floods in Uttarakhand which killed over 5000 people.“Our committee was asked if hydroelectric projects were destroying the ecology of the region. We had said yes. We had also mentioned that siting hydroelectric projects in the paraglacial zone (above 2000 metres) could accentuate disasters,” he added. Chopra, however, added that “the era of dams is possibly over. Hydropower is expensive. It is costing ₹6 to ₹8 per unit to produce whereas solar power is costing ₹2 to ₹2.5 to produce. Soon nobody will want to buy hydropower,” Chopra said.Uttam Lal, assistant professor (geography), Sikkim University said the entire high mountain region in India is vulnerable to such events and changes in microclimate along with climate change make these regions very vulnerable. “The glacial breach happened at 3600 metres altitude which came down with debris and ice traversing 12 km at 2000 metres altitude and at a 45 degree slope. The slope is high. We should understand the terrain of the region and how microclimatic changes can contribute to such disasters.”The meeting was organised by India River’s Forum, Water Conflicts Forum, People’s Science Institute, South Asia Network on Dams, Rivers and People, Mattu Jan Sangathan and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/river-experts-and-geologists-demand-accountability-for-rishi-ganga-disaster-101613228682995.html
13-02-2021||India||After meeting Amit Shah, Haryana CM says laws to claim recovery of damages to public property by protesters soon||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Saturday that a law to claim recovery of damages to public property from protesters will be brought in soon. Khattar’s comment came after he met Union home minister Amit Shah to discuss the farmers' protest against the three farm laws among other issues. “We discussed the farmers' protest among other issues. We will be bringing a law for recovery of damages to public property from protesters,” the Haryana chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Khattar had on Friday said, according to ANI, that some people are agitating just for the "sake of protest" against the Centre’s farm laws, which reflects their "vested political intent". The chief minister also said the Centre will be ready for any amendment in the laws if required and that he is hopeful that the issue will be resolved soon. Khattar said the Centre is clearly of the view that the three laws are for the benefit of farmers and will give a boost to the agricultural sector.Khattar, according to a statement, said this after a meeting with the members of Parliament from his state.Farmers, especially from Haryana and Punjab, have been protesting against the three farm laws for more than two months now, demanding the repeal of the legislation which they say threaten minimum price guarantee and would leave them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-to-claim-recovery-of-damages-to-public-property-by-protesters-soon-khattar-101613230088831.html
13-02-2021||India||Over 8 million people vaccinated so far, says govt as second phase begins||More than 8 million people have been vaccinated against the coronavirus disease in the ongoing inoculation drive of the government, an official of the Union health and family welfare said Saturday as the second phase of the programme started. The health ministry official said that the second dose vaccinations had begun for those who had completed 28 days after receiving the first dose. "Second dose vaccination started today for the beneficiaries who have completed 28 days after receiving the first dose of vaccine. Till 6pm today, a total of 80,52,454 vaccinations have been carried out,” the ministry official was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.A provisional figure of 84,807 vaccinations until 6pm for the day was announced as well.The number of deaths in cases where vaccination was conducted stood at 27 and three people who had taken the dose at some point in the recent past died in the last 24 hours, according to ministry. "Deaths reported so far in cases where vaccination has been conducted to date is 27. There are three deaths reported in the past 24 hours who had taken vaccination at some point in time in the recent past," the official said as per ANI.The health ministry also said that no case of serious or severe side effects following immunisation (AEFI) or death was attributable to vaccination to date.In an earlier statement, the ministry said that the eight states which had vaccinated more than 400,000 accounted for 59.70% of the total beneficiaries vaccinated. "Uttar Pradesh alone accounts for 10.8% of the total beneficiaries in India. The number of beneficiaries being vaccinated every day has shown a consistent enhancement," it said.India's tally of the coronavirus disease stands at 10,892,746 and its death toll has risen to 155,550. India currently has 136,571 active cases, which accounted for 1.25% of the total number of coronavirus infections in the country. There were 12,143 new cases registered in a span of 24 hours, of which 86.01% were from six states, as per the ministry."Six states account for 80.58% of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties with 36 deaths. Kerala follows with 18 deaths, while Karnataka and Punjab reported 8 deaths each in the last 24 hours," the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-8-million-people-vaccinated-so-far-says-govt-as-second-phase-begins-101613224555108.html
13-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Speaker calls first phase of Budget Session 'highly productive' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Highly productive’, says Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla as first phase of Budget Session endsLok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Saturday the Budget Session, which began on January 29, has been highly productive with more than 100 members taking part in the discussion. Read more2 years of Pulwama terror attack: The day when India lost 40 CRPF menSunday marks two years of the Pulwama terror attack when 40 personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) were killed after a suicide bomber rammed an IED-laden vehicle into the security convoy carrying them. Read moreAfter BJP’s offer to join, Dinesh Trivedi has a requestFormer Trinamool Congress (TMC) lawmaker Dinesh Trivedi said on Saturday he was grateful to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for welcoming him into its fold and that it would be a 'privilege' to join. Read moreJapan hit by 7.1-magnitude earthquake off Fukushima, no tsunami threatA magnitude 7.1 earthquake hit off Fukushima prefecture in northern Japan late Saturday night, the Japan Meteorological Agency said, but there was no threat of a tsunami. Read more'That's what he has done': Gavaskar names 'reliable player in crisis for India'Rohit Sharma made headlines on Day 1 of the second Test between India and England in Chennai on Saturday, but while the opening batsman emerged star of the day, the contribution of Ajinkya Rahane was equally crucial in India's recovering their innings. Read moreMore than 100 games are coming to Google Stadia in 2021Google earlier this month announced that it was shutting down its in-house game-development for Stadia, Stadia Games and Entertainment. The news cast a shadow as to what the future held for Google’s game streaming service. Now, days later the company has finally shed some light in this regard. Read moreSajid Nadiadwala dedicates award won by Chhichhore to Sushant Singh RajputProducer Sajid Nadiadwala dedicated an award won by Chhichhore to late actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The film won Favourite Bollywood Movie at the recent Nickelodeon Kids’ Choice Awards 2020. Read moreDazzling light pillars illuminate northern US sky. See picsResidents across the northern United States were recently greeted with a fascinating view that looked like something straight out of a science fiction movie. They're dazzling light pillars. And now, images of the strange columns of light are being shared on Twitter by many. Read moreWatch: New made-in-India tanks for Army; PM Modi to hand over Arjun Mark 1APrime Minister Narendra Modi will hand over Main Battle Tank Arjun Mark 1A to the Indian Army at an event on February 14. The tanks have been fully designed and developed by India's Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-speaker-calls-first-phase-of-budget-session-highly-productive-and-all-the-latest-news-101613228243048.html
13-02-2021||India||2 years of Pulwama terror attack: The day when India lost 40 CRPF men||Sunday marks two years of the Pulwama terror attack when 40 personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) were killed after a suicide bomber rammed an IED-laden vehicle into the security convoy carrying them. The convoy of 78 buses carrying 2,500 CRPF personnel was moving from Jammu towards Srinagar.The 22-year-old suicide bomber Adil Ahmad Dar drove a Maruti Eeco through one of the alleyways onto the highway at around 3pm and rammed the explosive-laden car into a bus carrying the CRPF troopers. Within seconds of the crash, the bus was reduced to a mangled heap of metal and 40 troopers were blown up.The day has been the bloodiest in the Valley’s 30-year-old insurgency period. Provoking grief and anger in the same pulse, the attack led India to carry out strikes in Pakistan's Balakot 12 days after February 14. The aim was to bomb the Jaish-e-Mohammed's (JeM’s) camp in the dense forests of Balakot, following which India and Pakistan saw tight monitoring of their air space. Simultaneously, India rushed thousands of troops to Kashmir and heightened the security in the Valley.The Pakistan-based terrorist group Jaish had claimed responsibility for the Pulwama terror attack after repeated denials from Pakistan. The explosives used in the attack were found to be ammonium nitrate, nitroglycerin and RDX after a forensic investigation. The investigation also confirmed the identity of the suicide bomber through DNA matching with that of his father.Read | Farmers announce 'rail roko' on Feb 18; candle marches for Pulwama braveheartsA spokesperson of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the attack, said that by piecing together the remains of the vehicle used by the suicide bomber in the Pulwama terror attack, investigators, with the support of forensic and automobile experts were able to identify the vehicle used for the blast.“A Maruti Eeco vehicle having Chassis number MA3ERLF1SOO183735 Engine G12BN164140 was sold to Mohammad Jaleel Ahmed Haqqani, a resident of Heaven Colony, Anantnag in the year 2011. It subsequently exchanged hands seven times and finally reached Sajjad Bhat, son of Mohammad Maqbool Bhat, resident of Bijbehara, district Anantnag, who had acquired the vehicle on February 4. Sajjad was a student of Siraj-ul-Uloom, Shopian,” the spokesperson said.In March 2020, NIA had arrested an operative of terror outfit JeM in the first major breakthrough in the Pulwama terror attack case. Last month, the Border Security Force (BSF) and Jammu police on Wednesday detected a 150m long cross-border tunnel at the international border that intelligence agencies believe may have been used by Mohammad Umar Farooq, JeM chief Maulana Masood Azhar’s nephew, to enter India to execute the February 14, 2019, Pulwama terror attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-years-of-pulwama-terror-attack-the-day-when-india-lost-40-crpf-men-101613225652501.html
13-02-2021||India||‘Highly productive’, says Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla as first phase of Budget Session ends||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Saturday the Budget Session, which began on January 29, has been highly productive with more than 100 members taking part in the discussion. “The first part of the Budget Session, which concluded today, has been highly productive. As many as 117 members took part in the General Discussion on Union Budget 2021-2022, which lasted for 14 hours and 40 minutes,” Om Birla said according to news agency ANI.“During the first part of the Union Budget, the Lok Sabha sat for 49 hours and 17 minutes against the stipulated time of 50 hours with the participation of 117 members, including 49 women MPs. The House lost an effective time of 43 minutes due to disruptions,” Birla was quoted as saying by ANI.The Lok Sabha Speaker that the time lost due to disruptions was compensated by sitting beyond schedule time. “It is the responsibility of all members to ensure that democratic and ethical standards are maintained in the House,” Birla said.Officials, according to ANI, had said earlier that the Lok Sabha has seen productivity of 164 per cent in the first four days of this week with the overall productivity of the House in the budget session is nearing 100 per cent. The productivity has risen due to efforts of Birla, who held series of meetings to resolve the standoff between the government and opposition over a separate discussion on new farm laws which had led to several disruptions last week, they added.While the productivity was only 10 per cent between February 2 and 5, it reached 164 per cent between February 8 and 11. The productivity was 96 per cent between January 29 and February 11 and was expected to cross 100 per cent by Saturday.Also read | Indeed it’s God’s grace that world shook due to Covid but we were safe: PM ModiChairman M Venkaiah Naidu has said on Friday that the Rajya Sabha clocked 99 per cent productivity during the two-week long first part of the dual-phase Budget Session. "I am happy to inform you that this part of the session has been quite productive with the House clocking 99 per cent productivity," Naidu had said before adjourning the proceedings till March 8.The House, apart from the discussion on the budget, also debated for 15 hours on a motion thanking the President for his address to the joint sitting of Parliament at the start of the session. "The productivity of the House during this week has been 113 per cent as against the productivity of 82 per cent during the first week. As against the total scheduled time of 45 hours 4 minutes, net of only 30 minutes has been lost due to disruptions," Naidu said.Naidu said during the first part 27 hours and 11 minutes were spent on debate and discussions. More than 60 per cent of the total functional time was spent on discussing Motion of Thanks to the President and the General Budget for 2021-2022, he said. "About 100 members spoke on these two subjects alone,” he added.As against the loss of 4 hours 24 minutes during the first week, the members sat for an extra 3 hours 54 minutes during the second week. A total of 88 issues of public importance have been raised. These include 56 Zero Hour and 32 Special Mentions. Also, 55 Starred Questions were orally answered. The J&K Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill, 2021; The National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The Major Ports Authority Bill, 2020, were passed during the two weeks. The budget session began on January 29 and the first part of the session concluded on Saturday. While the Rajya Sabha went on a recess on Friday, the Lok Sabha went into recess on Saturday evening and both the Houses will reconvene on March 8. Parliament’s Budget session is usually held in two phases — President addresses the two Houses in the first and the Union Budget is also introduced during this period. The recess allows department-related standing committees to examine demands for grants of various ministries.In the second phase of the Budget Session, the finance bill and related demands for grants are passed. The session would conclude on April 8.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highly-productive-ls-speaker-birla-after-end-of-first-phase-of-budget-session-101613225418655.html
13-02-2021||India||Road crashes in India hike poverty, poor suffer more deaths: World Bank report||More than 75% of poor households in India reported a decline in their income as a result of a road traffic crash. The financial loss for the poor amounted to more than seven month’s household income, while it was equivalent to less than one month’s household income for rich households, a World Bank report released on Saturday noted.The report titled “Traffic Crash Injuries and Disabilities: The Burden on Indian Society”, was released by Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari on Saturday. The report highlights the disproportionate impact of a road crash on poor households that pushes them into a vicious cycle of poverty and debt. It sheds light on the links between road crashes, poverty, inequality, and vulnerable road users in India.Post-crash impact among Low Income Households is more severe compared to High Income Households with incidence of fatality among poor households as high as 44% in rural areas compared to 11.6% in urban areas, the report by the World Bank and Save Life Foundation on the socio-economic burden of road crashes released by Gadkari on Saturday noted.The report stated that Lower Income Household (LIH) reported twice the numbers of deaths post-crash vis-à-vis High Income Household (HIH) adding that victims from LIH and rural areas are also twice more likely to suffer a disability after a crash than their HIH counterparts.Overall, the post-crash impact was more severe for LIH in low capacity states compared to HIH in high capacity states, it noted.“The socio-economic burden of road crashes is disproportionately borne by poor households. The decline in total household income was sharper among LIH (75%) than HIH (54%). The severe impact of decline in income was highest among LIH in rural areas (56%) compared to LIH in urban areas (29.5%) and HIH rural (39.5%), and cases where victims died as well as where victims were males,” it said.The report also brings out the sharp rural-urban divide and the disproportionate impact on women. The survey shows that the income decline for low-income rural households (56 per cent) was the most severe compared to low-income urban (29.5 per cent) and high-income rural households (39.5 per cent). Women bore the burden of crashes across poor and rich households, often taking up extra work, assuming greater responsibilities, and performing caregiving activities after a crash. About 50 per cent of women were severely affected by the decline in their household income after a crash. About 40 per cent of women reported a change in their working patterns post-crash, while around 11 per cent reported taking up extra work to deal with the financial crisis.Within households, women bear the brunt of caregiving activities post-crash, leading to a double burden of labour and mental load and exacerbated inequality of opportunities in returning to livelihoods and income generating tasks, it noted.India tops the world in road crash deaths (WHO, 2018), with more than 400 fatalities per day. India has 1% of the world’s vehicles but accounts for 11% of all road accident deaths and 6% of total road crashes, according to the ministry of road transport and highways.In the last decade alone, road crashes have killed 1.3 million and injured over 5 million in India.“The risk of a road crash in low-income countries is three times higher than compared to that in high-income countries. Not only does it lead to untold and unaccounted for suffering and loss for victims and their families, but also, it drains the GDP of countries by claiming millions of economically productive young lives.Road crash deaths in India, which are the highest in the world, are a burden on its demographic dividend and have a tangible impact on poverty. The disproportionate impact can be gauged by the fact that with only 1 percent of world’s vehicles, India accounts for 11 percent of all crash related deaths or expressed different, a crash death happening every four minutes,” said Junaid Kamal Ahmad, Country Director, India World Bank.World Bank commissioned a survey-based assessment study in association with the Save LIFE Foundation (SLF)– a national non-governmental organization focused on road safety. Based on the survey data collected from four Indian states – Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, the research assesses the social, financial, gender, and psychological impacts of road crashes on poor and disadvantaged households.The study quantifies the differential financial impact of RTIs on poor disadvantaged households by comparing a test sample of victims and their family members from Low-Income Households (LIH, i.e., the bottom 40% of the population by per capita income) with a control sample of High Income Households (HIH, i.e., the top 10% of the population in terms of per capita income). It also reveals the gendered and psychological impact of crashes, a subject that has been hitherto unacknowledged in previous studies, the report noted.India is also a signatory to the United Nation’s Brasilia Declaration with the target of reducing road fatalities by 50% by 2020. Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari also said the government aims to bring down road accidents and its related deaths down by 50 per cent before 2025.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/burden-of-road-crashes-borne-by-poor-suffer-higher-post-crash-fatality-report-101613222006656.html
13-02-2021||India||PM Modi to hand over Arjun Main Battle Tank Mark to army: All you need to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hand over the Arjun Main Battle Tank Mark-1A (MK-1A) to the Indian Army during his visit to Chennai on Sunday. PM Modi will visit Tamil Nadu and Kerala for the inauguration of various development projects in the two states, according to a statement released by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO).The Arjun Main Battle Tank (MK-1A) is an armoured fighting vehicle developed indigenously by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for the Indian Army.Here is everything you need to know about the Arjun main battle tank:1. The Arjun MBT Mk IA is a state-of-the-art weapon platform with superior firepower, high mobility, excellent protection and crew comfort with 14 major upgrades on Arjun MBT Mk I, as per the DRDO.Also read: Canada to get vaccines from India, Trudeau confirms2. The tank has been developed by the Combat Vehicles Research and Development Establishment (CVRDE) of the DRDO and falls under the Armament and Combat Engineering Systems (ACE) technology cluster.3. DRDO has said that the tank has incorporated modern battle tank technologies and is distinct in comparison with other contemporary main battle tanks (MBT), calling it a “dependable warfighting machine.”4. G Satheesh Reddy, secretary of Defence Research and Development and chairperson of DRDO, has said that Arjun Mark-1A is an all-state-of-art feature incorporated tank with 71 additional features, according to news agency ANI.5. V Balaguru, associate director of Main Battle tank and Transfer of Technology Department, CVRDE, also said that the tank has “71 major and user-driven upgrades that make it world-class and will immensely benefit the Indian Army. Features like increased mobility, fighting capabilities are added in the MK-1A.”6. DRDO’s Reddy said that the order for 118 tanks is worth ₹8,500 crore and around 200 industries are working to deliver the order. He also said that this provides “employment for more than 8,000 people, which will boost the industries and the country's economy in a big way.”7. Reddy also said that it is a "great decision by Prime Minister to dedicate MK-1A to the nation by handing it over to Indian Army, giving a message that India stands by its indigenous systems and they would be promoted and encouraged in a big way.”(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hand-over-arjun-main-battle-tank-mark-to-army-all-you-need-to-know-101613221581678.html
13-02-2021||India||First phase of Budget session concludes, Lok Sabha to reconvene on March 8||Lok Sabha was adjourned on Saturday as the first phase of the Budget session concluded.The House would reconvene on March 8 after recess.The Budget session usually is held in two phases. In the first phase, the President addresses the two Houses as it is the first session of the year.The Union Budget is also introduced in phase one.The recess allows department-related standing committees to examine demands for grants of various ministries. The Finance Bill and related demands for grants are passed in the second phase of the Budget session.The session would conclude on April 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-phase-of-budget-session-concludes-lok-sabha-to-reconvene-on-march-8-101613221213963.html
13-02-2021||India||NIA files supplementary charge sheet against Hizb-ul-Mujahideen terrorist in Banihal attack case||The National Investigative Agency (NIA) on Saturday filed a supplementary charge sheet against a terrorist of proscribed terror outfit Hizb-ul-Mujahideen in the case of an attack on a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) convoy at Banihal in Jammu and Kashmir.As per a press statement from the NIA, the charge sheet has been filed against terrorist Naveed Mushtaq Shah (alias Naveed Babu) in the Special NIA Court, Jammu under several sections of the Explosive Substances Act, Jammu and Kashmir Public Property (Prevention of Damage) Act and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act."The case relates to an attack on the CRPF Convoy at Tethar, Banihal, District Ramban by a terrorist who had exploded an explosive-laden car on March 30, 2019, with the intention of killing security personnel and waging war against the Government of India," the statement said.An FIR was registered at the Benihal Police station, after which the NIA re-registered the case on April 15, 2019 and took over the investigation.The NIA had earlier filed a charge sheet against six Hizb-ul-Mujahideen terrorists for their role in the attack."Accused Naveed Mushtaq Shah (alias Naveed Babu) is an ex-constable of the Jammu and Kashmir Police. He had decamped with arms and ammunition in 2017, when he was posted as a guard in FCI, Budgam. After deserting the force he had joined the terrorist group Hizb-ul-Mujahideen and became an active terrorist," the statement added.According to the statement, the investigation established that accused Shah was actively involved in the planning and execution of the attack on the CRPF convoy, along with other terrorists Riyaz Ahmed Naikoo, Rayees Ahmed Khan and Dr Saifullah Mir who were subsequently killed in encounters with Security Forces."The deceased terrorists Sahil Abdullah Bhat, Adil Bashir Sheikh and Zubair Ahmed Wani were actively involved in preparation of the explosives that went into the making of the IED. Charges have been abated against the deceased terrorists involved in the conspiracy," the statement added.Charges have been framed by the Special NIA Court against the six accused chargesheeted earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-files-supplementary-charge-sheet-against-hizb-ul-mujahideen-terrorist-in-banihal-attack-case-101613216993895.html
13-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mahua Moitra seeks removal of policemen outside her house and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Under some sort of surveillance': Mahua Moitra on armed officers outside her houseTrinamool Congress leader Mahua Moitra has written to Delhi Police after three armed officers were deputed outside her house, saying she had never asked for any protection and does not need any. Read more'On tough pitches, he's the one who scores runs': Sunil Gavaskar names 'reliable player in crisis for India'Rohit Sharma made headlines on Day 1 of the second Test between India and England in Chennai on Saturday, but the contribution of Ajinkya Rahane was equally crucial in India's recovering their innings. Read moreKareena Kapoor steps out for yet another work assignment just days before deliveryKareena Kapoor is just a couple of days away from welcoming her second child with husband Saif Ali Khan. The actor has set an example by working throughout her pregnancy and was recently spotted leaving for yet another work assignment. Read moreBlackBerry 5G smartphone with qwerty keyboard to launch this yearBlackBerry isn’t done with the smartphone market as it plans to make a comeback this year under its new company, OnwardMobility. BlackBerry-branded smartphones with 5G are launching later this year. Read moreDia Mirza's ethnic attire collection is every bride's dream, have a lookOne of the most beautiful actresses in Bollywood is Dia Mirza and there is no denying that. She is also quite famous for her sartorial picks that often consists of beautiful clothes made by homegrown brands. Read moreSonu Sood distributes e-rickshaws to needy in hometown MogaActor Sonu Sood yet another time came forward to help the needy amid Covid-19 pandemic. Sood distributed e-rickshaws to the needy people in Punjab’s Moga. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mahua-moitra-asks-3-policemen-outside-her-house-be-removed-101613213030574.html
13-02-2021||India||After BJP’s offer to join, Dinesh Trivedi has a request||Former Trinamool Congress (TMC) lawmaker Dinesh Trivedi said on Saturday he was grateful to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for welcoming him into its fold and that it would be a 'privilege' to join. Trivedi' comments come a day after he resigned as the member of the Rajya Sabha on Friday during the debate on the Union Budget, saying he felt suffocated in the House since he was unable to do anything regarding the violence and unrest in West Bengal."I am very grateful to BJP and its senior leaders, I was told they have said that I am welcome. It would be a privilege, no question about it. But, let me settle down," Trivedi said, according to news agency ANI.The BJP was quick to respond to Trivedi's resignation, with party's national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya saying that they would welcome him in the party and anyone who wanted to do honest work could not stay in the TMC. "Not just Dinesh Trivedi ji, whoever wants to do honest work, cannot stay in Trinamool Congress. If he wants to join the Bharatiya Janata Party, we will welcome him," Vijayvargiya said.Vijayvargiya has been campaigning extensively in West Bengal along with senior leaders like JP Nadda, Union home minister Amit Shah and Dilip Ghosh for the state's upcoming assembly elections.Trivedi also took a jibe at Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee, saying that no one could hold their heads up high in an environment of fear. "If Mamata Banerjee, rightly says 'I want to keep my head up', she should know that everybody should keep their head up. If there is an environment of violence, then there is fear, so the head is not held high," he said as per ANI.Trivedi joined a long list of TMC leaders, including Suvendu Adhikari and Rajib Bannerjee, who have left the ruling party ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections scheduled to be held in April-May this year, piling pressure on chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The BJP and ruling TMC are fighting for power in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-bjp-s-offer-dinesh-trivedi-has-a-request-101613212579576.html
13-02-2021||India||Parliament approves J-K reorganisation amendment bill||A bill to merge the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) cadre of all-India services officers with the Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram Union Territory (AGMUT) cadre was passed by Lok Sabha on Saturday by a voice vote.The Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 has already been passed by Rajya Sabha.The statutory resolution, opposing the ordinance which the bill has replaced, was rejected by the House. An amendment too was defeated by a voice vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-approves-j-k-reorganisation-amendment-bill-101613214738625.html
13-02-2021||India||'Indo-Bangla railway project to be over by this March': Tripura minister||The Indo-Bangla railway connectivity project through Akhaura (Bangladesh) – Agartala (Tripura) would be completed by this March, said a minister.The 13 kilometres-long railway project would connect Bangladesh with India’s northeast and West Bengal through Nischintapur along the Indo-Bangla border to serve the purpose of trade and economic relations between the two countries."The work is almost completed. We are confident that the railway connectivity between the two countries would start by March," Tripura's transport minister Pranajit Singha Roy told the media.Also read: J-K to get status of a state at an appropriate time -Home minister Amit ShahAkhaura used to be the railway link for Agartala during the British era. It also connected Chittagong Port in Bangladesh and Tripura.The concept of the Akhaura-Agartala railway project came in 2010. Three years later, both India and Bangladesh signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for the railway project along with other issues.The project was started with an estimated expenditure of ₹968 crores. With its opening, this would be the first railway route from North East India to Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indobangla-railway-project-to-be-over-by-this-march-tripura-minister-101613214551533.html
13-02-2021||India||PM wants to 'hand over' agriculture business to his 'two friends': Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants to "hand over" the entire agriculture business to his "two friends".Addressing farmers at Rupangarh in Rajasthan, he said 40% people of the country are stakeholders of the farming business."It is the business of 40% people, which includes farmers, small and medium businessmen, traders, labourers. Narendra Modi wants to give this entire business to his two friends. This is the objective of the farm laws," he claimed but did not name anyone."Narendra Modi said that he is giving options but the options are: hunger, unemployment and suicide," he alleged.Gandhi, wearing a Rajasthani safa or turban, reached the rally venue driving a tractor with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and state Congress chief Govind Singh Dotsra sitting with him on both sides.The former Congress chief spoke while standing on a platform made of two tractor trolleys while the farmers sat or stood on tractor trolleys around the platform.AICC general secretary Ajay Maken and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot were also present with Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-wants-to-hand-over-agriculture-business-to-his-two-friends-rahul-gandhi-101613214702676.html
13-02-2021||India||Watch: Indian Army trains 'mountain warriors' in Gulmarg for high altitude ops||In a bid to prepare its troops for smooth operations in extremely harsh climates, the Indian Army is training its soldiers and officers for high altitude operations in Jammu and Kashmir, reported news agency ANI. The soldiers and officers are undergoing training at High Altitude Warfare School (HAWS) in Gulmarg.In a video shared by ANI, the troops are seen training in knee-deep thick snow in a group of 20-30. The training in new techniques is being done with the latest equipment which will help soldiers with skills for successful rescue operations on challenging snow terrain.The army has included personnel of the paramilitary forces and forces of friendly nations in this training. These troops are trained in high altitude, super high altitude and glaciated terrain at HAWS, Lieutenant Colonel Dipanankar Hamalyan, a senior trainer at the school, said."As of now two courses are imparted in HAWS, one is the winter warfare series under which the basic and the advanced courses are provided. The second course in the mountain warfare series also includes basic and advanced courses. Once a person completes all the courses, they are known as Mountain Warriors," Hamalyan said.After the conclusion of the training, the troops will move to their respective units and train their fellow soldiers, Lt Col Hamalyan said. HAWS trains at least 540 soldiers in a year.The focus of the training is on military skiing which helps in the post to post-movement and patrolling in snowbound areas, Major Saleem Jafer, a trainer at HAWS, said."Soldiers are trained to ski with weights on their backs, initially with 5 kilograms which subsequently increased up to 20 kg. In advanced training, they will be trained to navigate 80-degree slope which will help them surveil any area no matter how snowy the terrain is," Major Jafer said.Jafer said soldiers are being prepared to outlive extreme harsh climates and avalanches. In order to do that, a one-week survival training is imparted after which soldiers can make their own igloos, snow trenches and snow caves, he said. They are also being training for avalanche rescue at high altitude near the Line of Control (LoC) and Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-indian-army-trains-mountain-warriors-in-gulmarg-for-high-altitude-ops-101613211346694.html
13-02-2021||India||Work on India’s first dolphin research centre to start soon in Patna||The society for the long-awaited National Dolphin Research Centre (NDRC) is likely to be formed within a month, officials said.Last year, chief minister Nitish Kumar had laid the foundation stone of the centre and the fund for the building was also sanctioned to the building construction department (BCD), but things could not move beyond that.Principal secretary, department of forest and environment, Dipak Kumar Singh said that there were some issues with Patna University on the society formation, but that has now been sorted out. “The society will be formed within a month. The construction of the building in Patna University will also get underway soon. Fund has already been sanctioned,” he added.With Prime Minister Narendra Modi also announcing Project Dolphin last year on the lines of Project Tiger to focus on both river and sea dolphins, the centre has acquired more importance. The project also got in-principle approval at the first meeting of the National Ganga Council (NGC), headed by the PM.The NDRC is a long-pending project, but it got further delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic. The erstwhile Planning Commission had sanctioned a sum of ₹28.06 crore for it in 2013 itself and subsequently the state government also released a sum of ₹19.16 crore for infrastructure development on June 4, 2014 to Infrastructure Development Authority (IDA).However, the autonomous centre, proposed under Bihar’s department of environment and forests, still could not take off due to wrangles over its location and control. “Now, there is no issue and the work on it will begin soon,” he added.Prof RK Sinha, vice chancellor of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University (Jammu & Kashmir) and Padma Shree awardee in 2016 for his contributions to dolphin research, said sooner the centre took shape, better it would be. “With the announcement of Project Dolphin, Bihar can take lead in it. The state has the advantage of half the Dolphin population as well as expertise for conservation,” he added.As Bihar accounts for 50% of the world’s river dolphin population, a highly endangered species under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and declared the National Aquatic Animal in 2009, Sinha said the NDRC would be a big step forward for the conservation of the mammal.In 2018-19, around 1500 dolphins were sighted in the Ganga during a survey by teams of experts. This also prompted the government to build India’s first observatory, Vikramshila Gangetic Dolphin Sanctuary, for the mammals in Bhagalpur. Once it is completed, it is expected to boost eco-tourism. Another observatory is also in the pipeline at Patna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/work-on-india-s-first-dolphin-research-centre-to-start-soon-in-patna-101613212827581.html
13-02-2021||India||What Amit Shah said on Jammu and Kashmir in Parliament: 10 points||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday said Jammu and Kashmir will get back the status of a state at an appropriate time. The home minister was replying to the discussion on the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill of 2021 in the Lok Sabha.The government had in August 2019 revoked Article 370, which gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir, and proposed that the state be bifurcated into two Union territories, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. The move had provoked outrage from the National Conference and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and praise from leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Also read: J-K to get status of a state at an appropriate time, says Home minister Amit ShahHere is what Shah said in Parliament during the discussion:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-amit-shah-said-on-jammu-and-kashmir-in-parliament-10-points-101613207499312.html
13-02-2021||India||Tibetan activist begins march to Delhi, seeks change in 'one-China policy'||Tenzin Tsundue, a 46-year-old Tibetan activist, who started a march from Dharamshala on the Tibetan new year Losar, is coming towards Delhi on foot, seeking a change in India's "one-China policy".The one-China policy is the diplomatic acknowledgement of China's position that there is only one Chinese government. Under the policy, New Delhi recognizes the Tibet Autonomous Region as part of the territory of the People's Republic of China, according to the Ministry of External Affairs.The Tibetan activist, who started a solo march towards the national capital on Friday, is holding the flag of both India and Tibet. He has decided to walk 550 kilometres on foot to raise awareness about the issue of Tibet.Tsundue is a poet, writer and activist, who won the first-ever Outlook-Picador Award for Non-Fiction in 2001."I would like to express two important things. I am a Tibetian who was born in India. I am both Indian and Tibetan. Today is Losar (Friday) and I am starting a march. I will march towards Delhi, which will take one month's time and will try to spread awareness about the issue of Tibet," the activist said on Friday while addressing the people in Dharamshala."For the long term interest of India, it must change the one-China policy. Crores are being spent which could have been avoided, had the Tibet would be free. Like we have given a reply to Pakistan, we will give a reply to China. Not with violence, but diplomatically," Tsundue added.While talking to ANI, Tsundue said that he has decided to walk the long march in order to directly engage with the public on the issue of Tibet."I have decided to walk because this is direct public engagement, where I will get to meet people, speak to media and I will be able to maintain this movement about an entire month and this is also timely," he told ANI.Tsundue further said that Tibet is the missing link between "India-China crisis," adding that without understanding Tibet."India cannot understand China. I am raising the issue of Tibet and in the process reach to the government of India to repeal 'One China Policy.' Later I will write in the newspaper why we should repeal One China Policy," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tibetan-activist-begins-march-to-delhi-seeks-change-in-one-china-policy-101613211357011.html
13-02-2021||India||'Under some sort of surveillance': Mahua Moitra on armed officers outside her house||Trinamool Congress leader Mahua Moitra has written to Delhi Police after three armed officers were deputed outside her house, saying she had never asked for any protection and does not need any, news agency ANI reported on Saturday.Moitra has requested the police to remove them, according to the news agency. "It appears I am under some sort of surveillance," ANI quoted the member of Parliament as saying.On Friday, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmakers Nishikant Dubey and PP Chaudhary had given a breach of privilege motion notice in the Lok Sabha against Moitra for her speech in the House that soon went viral on social media.The MPs in the letter said that Moitra had made 'adverse statements' against the former chief justice of India Ranjan Gogoi in respect to the discharge of his duties during her speech on Motion of Thanks on the President's address on February 8. The letter said that Article 121 does not allow for discussion in the Parliament relating to the conduct of Judges of the Supreme Court and High Court with respect to the discharge of their duties.Also Read | Cong MP moves motion against FM for calling Rahul Gandhi 'doomsday man of India'"The above-said speech is now available on the YouTube, Twitter handle and other social media platforms of Mahua Moitra. Therefore, the statement made on the floor of the House relating to the conduct of the then Chief Justice of India while discharging his duties and uploading the same on social media platforms constitutes a breach of privilege of this House by the concerned Member of Parliament," the letter added, reported ANI.During her speech, Moitra without taking any name had made serious allegations while apparently referring to a former chief justice. Her remarks pertaining to the judiciary were later effaced from the proceedings.Moitra in her speech had questioned the situation of democracy in the country and had alleged that the country is in a state of 'undeclared emergency'. She said this in the backdrop of the farmers' protest and anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-some-sort-of-surveillance-mahua-moitra-on-armed-officers-outside-her-house-101613209712657.html
13-02-2021||India||Indian Railways issues clarification, says no date fixed for resumption of all passenger trains||The Indian Railways said on Saturday it has not fixed any date to restart all passenger trains amid reports that the national carrier is planning to resume all passengers train from April. The railways had suspended all passengers trains in March last year following the national lockdown to combat the coronavirus pandemic and started operating some of them gradually.“There have been a series of reports in the media about the resumption of full passenger train services from a given April date. Clarification is constantly being given to the media about it for the last few days. It is being reiterated again that no such date has been fixed for resumption of all passenger trains operations,” the Indian Railways said in a release.“Railways has been increasing the number of train services in a graded manner. Already more than 65% of trains are running. More than 250 plus were added in January alone. More will be added gradually. All factors need to be taken care of and inputs of all stakeholders are to be factored in. All are requested to avoid speculation. Media and public will be duly informed as and when such a decision is taken,” it added.The government had restated local train services in Mumbai for everyone from February 1 and were made available in three time slots: from the start of the day's services to 7am; 12:00pm to 4:00pm; and 9:00 pm to the end of the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-date-fixed-for-resumption-of-all-passenger-trains-indian-railways-101613211175231.html
13-02-2021||India||PMCH alumni association appeals to Nitish Kumar to preserve old buildings||A section of the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) Alumni Association has appealed to the Bihar government not to demolish old buildings of the PMCH which are close to heritage status and to preserve them as a part of the state capital's chequered history.The government plans to upgrade the PMCH into a world class hospital and replace the old buildings with new structures.The alumni association members say the buildings like the administrative block and Hathwa ward are some of the oldest structures on the campus and would complete 100 years of their existence soon. The association members have appealed to chief minister Nitish Kumar to reconsider the development plan and incorporate the old buildings in the heritage segment.The government’s redevelopment plan to turn the PMCH into a world class 5,462- bed hospital will cost an estimated of ₹5,540 crore.The PMCH has a long history. Developed in 1925 it was known as the Prince of Wales Medical College and was named after Edward VIII four years after he visited the country and the state as part of his royal tour in 1921.The medical college traces its origin to the Temple Medical School set up in 1874 in Patna. It was later shifted to Muradpur area of the then Bankipur on the banks of the Ganga and was renamed as the Prince of Wales Medical College."The PMCH has not just been a hospital, offering medical treatment to the patients or grooming young medicos. It's been a living testimony of the different phases of development of Patna. The administrative block was the first construction on the campus and even Hathwa ward was developed soon. Very soon these structures would become 100-years old," said Dr Satyajit Kumar Singh, the PMCH Almuni Association president.These deserve to be preserved for posterity. Otherwise they would find the original background of the hospital only in the history books, he added."We appeal to the government to consider this point and preserve a couple of old structures and develop modern buildings in the rest of the campus," he said.Dr Singh said a delegation of doctors would be meeting the chief minister in this connection in the next few days.JK Lal from the INTACH (Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage), Patna chapter, said the PMCH has been a building of heritage significance. “Structures which are not yet over 100 years old, but have historical background, are considered the structures of heritage significance and are preserved. The original buildings of the PMCH should be preserved through restoration work," he said.But not everybody is keen on preserving the ol structure. Dr Amarkant Jha Amar, the Indian Medical Association president, said the PMCH development plan has been a long pending demand. "Now that the government has started working over it, let the things get going. Hope it gets complete in the next five years," he said.Another senior doctor, Dr BK Sinha said the PMCH badly needs the development work. "It's been old and badly damaged. Patients' lives are at risk at many buildings. Concern for heritage is good, but people need a world class hospital in state capital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmch-alumni-association-appeals-to-nitish-kumar-to-preserve-old-buildings-101613211009378.html
13-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi's comment over China disengagement gave voice to nation: Khurshid||Congress leader Salman Khurshid on Saturday said that former party chief Rahul Gandhi's comment over China disengagement at Line of Actual Control (LAC) has given voice to the nation."Rahul Gandhi's comment over China disengagement at LAC has given voice to the nation. Those who're saying that our land hasn't been taken away and LAC has been maintained, we respect it. But if nothing happened, why are the talks happening?" the former union minister asked.Earlier on Friday, Rahul Gandhi alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given away Indian Territory to China said that the Prime Minister and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh would have to answer for this.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had on Thursday informed the Parliament that India would not allow an inch of our territory to be taken by anyone."India's strategy and approach during disengagement talks with China is based on directions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that we will not allow an inch of our territory to be taken by anyone. It is a result of our firm resolve that we have reached the situation of an agreement," he had said.The two countries have been engaged in a stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) since April-May last year. While China began amassing massive military strength along the LAC, India responded with a befitting build-up.,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-s-comment-over-china-disengagement-gave-voice-to-nation-khurshid-101613210970535.html
13-02-2021||India||India's 2nd Covid-19 vaccine drive starts today: Here is all you need to know||The second phase of India’s vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) started on Saturday for healthcare workers, who were given their first jabs on January 16 as the government launched its inoculation programme. The director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Randeep Guleria and NITI Aayog's VK Paul will be among the first ones to get the second dose, which needs to be taken 28 days after the first.“I want to tell the public that vaccine is now the first line of defence alongside other Covid-19 norms,” Dr NN Mathur, the director of Lady Hardinge Medical College, said after receiving the second dose.India is using Covishield, developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and manufactured by Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin shot developed by Bharat Biotech in partnership with the state-run Indian Council of Medical Research in its inoculation drive. India has administered the vaccines to 79,67,647 people till Saturday.The government says more vaccinations will be provided from next month to meet the home target. More private hospitals will give out Covid-19 vaccines once identified groups from the general public are jabbed. The government can handle 10 million inoculations a day, Reuters reported.Also read| Oxford University to test Covid-19 vaccine response among children for 1st timeHere is all about the second phase of India’s vaccination drive:1. Doctors say the second round of vaccination is to be given to people after a gap of 28 days.2. Experts have clarified that those who miss the jab can still take the second dose anytime between four to six weeks from the first one.3. The first dose, according to the experts, is designed to train the body to recognise while the second dose, or the booster shot, will further boost the immune system.4. A senior doctor at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital told news agency PTI they will receive the second dose delivery on Sunday.5. Once opened, multi-dose vials should be used as soon as practically possible and within 6 hours when kept between 2-25 Celsius. The expiry date of vaccine is indicated on the label and packaging, Serum Institute Of India Pvt Ltd stated.6. Covishield is being administered majorly while Covaxin is served at remaining facilities.7. More than 7.7 million people had their first vaccine dose till Friday, the central government said, adding that 97% of them are “satisfied.”8. India has a target of vaccinating 300 million people against Covid-19 by July 2021.9. The country inoculated more than 7 million people in 26 days, while the United States and the United Kingdom took 27 and 48 days each respectively, the Union health ministry has said.10. Ten top administered states till Friday are: Uttar Pradesh (858,602), Maharashtra (649,660), Madhya Pradesh (526,095), Gujarat (667,073), West Bengal (485,054), Karnataka (491,552), Odisha (399,670), Chhattisgarh (247,745), Jharkhand (188,095) and Jammu and Kashmir (111,470).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-2nd-covid-19-vaccine-drive-starts-today-here-is-all-you-need-to-know-101613209760981.html
13-02-2021||India||Mumbai police bust major drug trafficking racket, arrest 2 gang members||The Mumbai police's Anti-Narcotics Cell (ANC) has said it has busted a major interstate drug trafficking racket and seized 1,800 kilograms of marijuana worth ₹3.5 crore from two members of the gang. Police were looking for the mastermind and other key members of the racket.Acting on specific intelligence, the ANC intercepted a truck at Vikroli, seized the marijuana. and arrested Akash Yadav, the driver of the vehicle, and one Dinesh Kumar Saroj. The truck was on its way to Bhiwandi to take the marijuana to a godown.Milind Bharambhe, a joint police commissioner, said the racket is well-organised. "It would traffic the drugs in tempos by concealing them in between the sacks of coconuts." He said that the gang members would randomly hire a tempo from Bhiwandi, go to the bordering district of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh and send the driver of the tempo to stay in a hotel and meanwhile another driver would take the tempo further into Odisha and get the marijuana loaded.The loaded vehicles would return to the hotel and then another driver would bring it back to Mumbai via Hyderabad, Solapur, and Pune."The syndicate heads would ensure that the drivers and middlemen used for trafficking the drugs do not get to know the source and destinations of the consignment and also what actually the consignment was," said Bharambhe.He said the racket would bring 4,000 kilograms of marijuana every month to Mumbai from Odisha's Kandhamal, a Maoist-hit district. "Investigations so far have not established any link of the narcotics gang with the Naxalite groups."The racket was also supplying marijuana to other groups in Solapur and Pune. Police suspect that the group might have been supplying drugs to the neighbouring states too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-bust-major-drug-trafficking-racket-arrest-2-gang-members-101613209337336.html
13-02-2021||India||Minority affairs ministry to organise 'mushaira' on Feb 20||The Union Ministry of Minority Affairs will organise a 'mushaira' on the theme 'ek Bharat, shrestha Bharat' (one India, great India) here on February 20 in which renowned poets from across the country will recite their poems and couplets.In a statement, the ministry said Wasim Barelvi, Shabeena Adeeb, Manzar Bhopali, Popular Meeruthi, Saba Balrampuri, Naseem Nikhat, Mumtaz Naseem, VP Singh, Alok Shrivastava, Surendra Singh Shajar, Khursheed Haider, Aqeel Nomani, Nayyar Jalalpuri and Sikandar Hayat Gadbad will participate in the 'mushaira', to be organised at the Ambedkar International Centre.Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said the poets will present their poetry full of commitment to 'Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat' and 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'.He noted that 'mushaira' and 'kavi sammelan' have a rich cultural legacy which strengthens the fabric of unity in diversity.Programmes like this will spread the message of peace and also strengthen social harmony and brotherhood in the society, he said.Such programmes on the one hand give message of social and cultural harmony and on the other, they also make the younger generation aware of country's art, culture and legacy of decency and etiquette, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minority-affairs-ministry-to-organise-mushaira-on-feb-20-101613209474081.html
13-02-2021||India||Cong MP moves motion against FM for calling Rahul Gandhi 'doomsday man of India'||Congress Member of Parliament TN Prathapan on Saturday moved a notice for privilege motion against Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on her 'Doomsday man of India' remark against Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi.The Finance Minister had made the remark during her response to the budget debate today in Lok Sabha earlier in the day."Minister of Finance Nirmala Sitaraman abused Rahul Gandhi as 'Doomsday man of India', accused that Rahul Gandhi, an elected member in the house, has joined with fringe element groups and that he is demeaning the country. This is an utter breach of privilege," the notice said.He further asked on what basis Sitaraman had accused Gandhi of being a "destructive force in the country" and said that the use of such words is an "attack on the pride and privilege of the Parliament"."We cannot entertain a tendency of branding dissent voices and criticisms as fringe or destructive or anti-national," he added.Sitharaman in her reply had also accused Gandhi of creating "fake" narratives on various issues and said that he is probably becoming the "Doomsday man of India"."The veteran leader is building fake narratives identifying with the break India fringe group and is constantly abusing the constitutional heads of the nation. I am scared that the veteran leader is probably becoming 'doomsday man of India'. The Opposition is being led by the 'Doomsday man'," she said.Sitharaman further said that the Congress leader has been constantly insulting India by not 'trusting' the nation."I remember what he said about the Covid-19 pandemic. I don't want to waste the time of the House by repeating the same but in summary, it was like I will continue to demean India," she had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-mp-moves-motion-against-fm-for-calling-rahul-gandhi-doomsday-man-of-india-101613209038709.html
13-02-2021||India||Woman among two Maoists killed in encounter in Madhya Pradesh||Two Maoists, carrying a cash reward of ₹10 lakh and 14 lakh on their heads, were gunned down in an exchange of fire with security forces in Madhya Pradesh's Mandla district late on Friday, said a police officer.KP Venkateshwar Rao, an additional police director-general, identified the two as Pramila, 25, and Mainu Uike, 21. “The Maoists are trying to make their base in south-western Madhya Pradesh including Balaghat, Mandla and Dindori. The Maoists of platoon 3 of Vistar Dalam were holding a meeting on Friday night when police got information regarding their presence in Lalpur village of Sal forest of Mandla."He added the police carried out a search operation and found at least two dozen Maoists. "We warned them and asked to surrender but they started firing. The police force also retaliated and fired."Rao said after the gun battle, a police team inspected the area on Saturday morning and found the bodies of Pramila and Uike. Police also recovered a rifle and groceries near their bodies.This was the fifth gun battle between the police and Maoists in Balaghat division over the past six months.Rao said the Centre has granted permission for deployment of a battalion of Central Reserve Police Force to combat Maoists in the state.(With inputs from Monika Pandey from Jabalpur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-among-two-maoists-killed-in-encounter-in-madhya-pradesh-101613208597307.html
13-02-2021||India||High level committee approves ₹3,113 cr for 5 states as disaster relief||A high-level committee headed by Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday approved around Rs 3,113 crore to five states that faced natural disasters and pest attacks in 2020.The states and union territory that will get the additional central assistance from the National Disaster Risk Management Fund (NDRMF) are Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Madhya Pradesh, a home ministry statement said.The committee, under the chairmanship of the home minister, has approved the additional central assistance to the five states and UT, which were affected by floods, cyclones (Nivar and Burevi) and pest attack during 2020.Andhra Pradesh will get ₹280.78 crore and Bihar ₹1,255.27 crore for floods during the South-West monsoon.Tamil Nadu will get ₹63.14 crore for cyclone 'Nivar' and ₹223.77 crore for cyclone 'Burevi' -- a total ₹286.91 croreThe Union Territory of Puducherry will get ₹9.91 crore for cyclone 'Nivar'. Madhya Pradesh will get ₹1,280.18 crore for the pest attack during the Kharif season, the statement said.The central government had deputed Inter-Ministerial Central Teams (IMCTs) immediately after the calamities without waiting for the receipts of memorandum from the affected state governments.While approving the additional central assistance, the home minister said the union government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has resolved to help the people of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Madhya Pradesh who braved these natural disasters.In addition, during the financial year 2020-21, till date the central government has released ₹19,036.43 crore to 28 states from the State Disaster Risk Management Fund (SDRMF) and ₹4,409.71 crore to 11 states from NDRMF, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-level-committee-approves-rs-3-113-cr-for-5-states-as-disaster-relief-101613208720810.html
13-02-2021||India||Hyderabad pharmacy student abduction and rape case was a hoax, say police||The alleged abduction and rape of a 19-year-old pharmacy student on the outskirts of Hyderabad on the evening of February 10 turned out to be a hoax, the Rachakonda police said on Saturday.A three-day probe concluded that the student had misled her parents as well as the police.“She was neither abducted nor raped. We found that it was a false case, after a thorough investigation and gathering of technical evidence,” Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagawat told reporters.The second-year B Pharm student had told the police that the autorickshaw which she had boarded at Rampally cross roads did not stop at R L Nagar where she was supposed to get down, but continued to go at a high speed despite her cries.She had claimed that the autorickshaw driver, along with two other men who boarded midway, took her to Yamnampet village, where she was bundled into a van and taken to a remote place. In the meantime, she managed to make a quick call to her mother, who informed the police through Dial 100 helpline.The police swung into action and started searching for her by tracking her mobile phone. “Finally, we traced the woman in an isolated place near Bethel Church, Annojiguda service road. She was in a state of semi-conscious state with her clothes torn and there were injuries on her body. Police teams with her relatives shifted her to nearby Cure Hospital for treatment. Based on her statement, we, too, suspected it to be a case of kidnapping and rape and booked the case accordingly,” Bhagawat said.In the last two days, the special operations teams of the Rachakonda police conducted thorough investigation to piece together the girl's movements and locations during the period she said she was abducted. “We managed to track down the autorickshaw in which the girl travelled with the help of the local auto drivers’ union. We examined the video footage obtained from 100 different closed-circuit television cameras located in the area and interrogated the auto drivers, locals and her college mates,” the police commissioner said.The police teams found that there was absolutely no connection to what the pharmacy student claimed in her statement and the evidence the police had gathered.“The video footage clearly showed that the woman got down at the next stop from her actual destination, walked for about four kilometres towards Yamnampet and then, took another autorickshaw to reach Annojiguda, from where she called her mother stating that she was kidnapped,” Bhagawat said.The CCTV footage revealed that she was walking on the road near Annojiguda when she called her mother. “Exactly at the same time, the auto driver was at a bar after dropping other passengers at a shopping complex far away from the place where she was found,” the commissioner said.After corroborating all the evidence, the police grilled the student on Friday following which she confessed that she had lied to the police. Apparently, she wanted to leave her house for her own reasons and hence enacted the whole drama, he said.The police, however, did not explain why she was in a semi-conscious state lying in the bushes with her clothes torn. “Investigation will continue,” the commissioner said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-pharmacy-student-abduction-and-rape-case-was-a-hoax-say-police-101613208036487.html
13-02-2021||India||Railways to launch Tejas-style sleeper coaches. See photos||With the aim to provide the best in class travel experience to railway passengers, the ministry of railways will be replacing Agartala-Anand Vihar Terminal Special Rajdhani Express with the new Tejas sleeper coaches. The Tejas service is scheduled to run the tracks from February 15, 2021.The ministry is planning the production of 500 units of such Tejas-type Sleeper coaches, being manufactured at Integral Coach Factory (ICF) and Modern Coach Factory (MCF) in Financial Year 20 21-22 to gradually replace the long-distance trains currently in Indian Railways network.Also Read | Oxford University to test Covid-19 vaccine response among children for 1st time"Indian Railway is making a paradigm shift in the travel experience for the passengers. A new era of train travel experience with enhanced comfort is being rolled out with the introduction of sleeper-type Tejas Trains," the ministry said.The features of Tejas Sleeper type coaches include automatic plug doors i.e. all the entrances will be centrally controlled by the guard and the train will not start until all the doors get closed.The coaches will have significantly improved interiors with seats and berths having PU foam for comfort. The upper berth arrangement is also modified for convenience. The coach has smart features like toilet occupancy sensor, water availability sensor, air quality measurement, CCTV with day-night vision capability, network video recorder and facial recognition even in low light.The Tejas-type sleeper coaches will have roller blinds on the windows for sanitation instead of curtains. The complete underframe of the train is built of stainless steel for the longevity of the coach due to reduced corrosion.The Tejas coaches have berth reading light, mobile charging point for each passenger. The coaches also have the smart feature of emergency talk-back in case of safety or security emergency, air suspension in bogies for comfort and quality ride.The renovation of toilets in the Indian Railways is most noteworthy. The bio-vacuum-enabled toilet units in the Tejas-type sleeper coach have touchless fittings, marble finish, gel-coated shelf, new design dustbin and door latch-activated light.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-launch-tejas-style-sleeper-coaches-see-photos-101613204527831.html
13-02-2021||India||Congress questions govt on J-K’s development, rehabilitation of Kashmiri Pandits||Congress MP from Bengal Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Saturday questioned the government regarding the rehabilitation of Kashmiri Pandits while discussing the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021 in the Lok Sabha.Chowdhury said the government has not been able to keep the promises mentioned in the BJP’s electoral manifesto. “You didn't succeed in giving the 200-300 acres of land to Pandits as promised in your election manifesto. You had promised that you would bring back Pandits (to Kashmir). Did you succeed? You should at least say that since the polls are over so there is an obligation to fulfil the promise,” Chowdhury was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Congress along with other opposition parties also attacked the BJP over the abrogation of Article 370. Chowdhury said that bringing back Gilgit-Baltistan is a separate matter but the home minister should also try on bringing back displaced Brahmins back to Kashmir. He said, “Mr Amit Shah said that he'll bring back Brahmins. Did he succeed in bringing back Pandits? You say you'll bring back Gilgit-Baltistan. It's a matter that can be discussed later but at least (the government) should bring back those who were internally displaced, those who cannot return to the Kashmir valley.”The lawmakers also debated whether officers outside Jammu and Kashmir should be assigned in administrative positions within the state. BJP MPs Satpal Singh, TRS MP Nama Nageswara Rao and Brijendra Singh of BJP said that if civil service officers from outside Jammu and Kashmir are posted in administrative positions, then it will help the region to become a part of mainstream processes which was earlier not possible due to Article 370. They also said that officers are transferred to different states then they can also learn about new things which they can later introduce in their home states to foster development.While several opposition MPs said that there is still no normalcy in the region, BSP MP from Uttar Pradesh Malook Nagar said that the abrogation has helped the Gujjar and Bakarwal communities, as well as other nomadic communities, remain safer because they are at the most vulnerable when ceasefire violations occur. He also urged the government to help create a special economic zone in the region. He also said that these communities can contribute to the dairy industry. BJP MP from Ladakh Jamyang Tsering Namgyal also praised the BSP MP for his openness and criticised the Congress saying that they have a problem with national integration.The NDA government revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir by repealing Article 370 on August 5 in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-questions-govt-on-j-k-s-development-rehabilitation-of-kashmiri-pandits-101613208330066.html
13-02-2021||India||Goa govt starts giving second dose of Covid-19 vaccine||The Goa government on Saturday started administering the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine to the healthcare workers in the state, an official said.Those healthcare workers who had taken the first dose of the vaccine 28 days ago were given the second shot on Saturday, state immunisation officer Dr Rajendra Borkar said.Ranganath Bhojje, a healthcare worker from Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), near here was the first person to get the vaccine shot on January 16, when the nationwide vaccination programme had started.He was again the first person to get the second dose of the vaccine, the official said.Those who received the second dose of the vaccine will develop immunity against the infection after 14 days, he said.Out of the total number of 19,952 healthcare workers in the state, 10,341 have received their first dose so far, while the remaining will receive it by February 20, Dr Borkar said.The state has covered 52% of the healthcare workers in the vaccine drive so far, Dr Borkar said."Initially, we had set the deadline of February 12 to cover all healthcare workers, but now it has been extended to February 20 to ensure maximum coverage," he said.Earlier this week, the state government also began vaccinating Covid-19 frontline warriors, including police personnel, home guards, civic employees, staffers of revenue and panchayat departments, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-starts-giving-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-101613207730931.html
13-02-2021||India||TN government rolls out ₹12,110 crore crop loan waiver scheme, CM gives away certificates to farmers||Marking the rollout of the ₹12,110 crore crop loan waiver scheme for over 16 lakh ryots in Tamil Nadu, Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Saturday gave away certificates to nine farmers here.The certificates state that loans taken from cooperative banks and due on January 31, 2021 have been waived.Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, Agriculture Minister K P Anbalagan and senior officials led by Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan participated in the event at the state secretariat, a government release here said.On February 5, Palaniswami had announced waiver of ₹12,110.74 crore crop loans availed by 16,43,347 farmers from cooperative banks. The move was considering damage to crops following back to back cyclones 'Nivar' and 'Burevi' last year, besides the heavy unseasonal rains.The waiver would pave the way for farmers to continue cultivation without any hassles, Palaniswami had said.Following the announcement, Government Orders were issued on February 8, setting the stage for the scheme's implementation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-government-rolls-out-rs-12-110-crore-crop-loan-waiver-scheme-101613207004638.html
13-02-2021||India||J-K to get status of a state at an appropriate time: Home minister Amit Shah in Lok Sabha||Union home minister Amit Shah said on Saturday Jammu and Kashmir will be granted back its statehood at an appropriate time as he questioned the Congress’ contribution to the region in the last seven decades. Shah was replying to Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury who asked the home minister about the promises he made to the people after the abrogation of Article 370, which provided special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir."The opposition is asking us what we have done for Jammu and Kashmir since 2019. . It has been 17 months since the abrogation and you are demanding an account for it. Did you bring the account of what you did for 70 years? Had you worked properly, you need not have asked us,” Shah asked in the Lok Sabha while replying to the discussion on the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill, 2021.Also watch | Ghulam Nabi Azad raises doubts over govt's intention to give statehood to J&KThe home minister said he had no objection and will give an account for everything. “But those who were given the opportunity to govern for generations should look within if they are even fit to demand an account,” he retorted.Also read | No change in policy on Jammu and Kashmir, says USHe said many members of the House have said that bringing the Jammu & Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill, 2021, means J&K won't get statehood. “I am piloting the bill, I brought it. I have clarified my intentions. It is not written anywhere that J&K won't get statehood. Where are you drawing the conclusion from?” he asked. “I have said in this House and I say it again that this bill has got nothing to do with the statehood of Jammu and Kashmir. Statehood would be given to Jammu and Kashmir at an appropriate time,” he added.Also read | J&K, Ladakh fully integrated into mainstream, govt tells RSOn Monday, Rajya Sabha’s Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad had reiterated the Congress party's demand to restore statehood status to the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.The Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was introduced by minister of state (MoS) for home affairs G Kishan Reddy in the Rajya Sabha on February 4 to replace Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021. The bill was passed by the Rajya Sabha on Monday.The new bill aims to merge the Jammu and Kashmir cadre Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Police Service (IPS), and Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officers with that of the Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram, and Union Territory (AGMUT).(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-to-get-status-of-a-state-at-an-appropriate-time-home-minister-amit-shah-in-101613207676709.html
13-02-2021||India||Odisha CM seeks withdrawal of NMA bylaws for Bhubaneswar shrines||Close on the heels of the Centre withdrawing draft notification of the National Monuments Authority banning any developmental work within 100 metres of an archeological site, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik has urged the union government to take back similar communique for areas around Lingaraj temple and Brahmeswar shrine here. Reacting on the issue, Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan has assured the people of Odisha and Patnaik that the Centre will leave no stone unturned in honouring the culture, pride and local sentiments on the issues related to the recent draft notification of the NMA. A delegation of the BJD MPs met Union Parliamentay Affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi in New Delhi Saturday and placed demands that the centre remove the bylaws relating to Lingaraj temple. Since Union Culture minister Prahlad Singh Patel was not in the national capital, the BJD Parliamentarians met Prahlad Joshi. The proposed heritage rules, prohibit construction within a radius of 100 metre of any archaeological site,undermining the Odisha government's plan to develop the Lingaraj temple and its surroundings as a heritage site at the cost of ₹700 crore. A section of the people are also critical of the fact that the bylaws equate Shree Lingaraj temple, where living gods are being worshipped, with museums and other monuments. National Monuments Authority which comes under union ministry of culture had issued the notification last month. Pradhan said that Patnaik might not have been properly briefed on the applicability of the proposed NMA rules while responding to the series of tweets by the chief minister on Friday where he demanded the withdrawal of the NMAs draft notification for areas around Lingaraj and Brahmeswar temples in the state capital. Patnaik in his tweets had invoked sentiments of lakhs of devotees and interests of servitors for making demands to withdraw the bylaws. "I assure Hon. CM that Hn. PM Shri @narendramodi's govt. will leave no stone unturned in honouring and respecting the culture, pride & sentiments of Odisha and its people. We are committed to address through dialogue all objections of the State Govt. regarding these draft bylaws," Pradhan, the Petroleum and Natural Gas minister said in a tweet on Friday. Pradhan,who hails from Odisha, also requested Patnaik to direct the chief secretary to write a letter to the secretary of the union ministry of culture for examining point by point provisions of the draft bylaws and for listing out objections of the state government in the draft published by NMA. "It seems that Hon. CM Shri @Naveen_Odisha is inadequately briefed on the applicability of the draft bylaws promulgated by NMA on the Ananta Basudev and Brahmaeswar temple in Bhubaneswar," Pradhan said in another tweet. The union minister clarified that the director of culture department in the Odisha government being the competent authority has been giving necessary permissions for any kind of construction and development activities within the periphery of the notified monuments of Odisha. He also said that the NMA was constituted by a court order to provide better policy and legal framework to further improve upon preservation of monuments of immense cultural and historical importance. "NMA also facilitates better upkeep, protection and preservation of natural treasures," Pradhan said. Referring to the ongoing controversy between the state and the centre over the NMA draft notification, Pradhan said, "Protection of monuments of national, historical & cultural importance is a collective responsibility of all of us. "HonCM who is a founding member of the @INTACHIndia must be aware that all notified monuments are protected under the AMASR Act, 1958 enacted in the Parliament." Sources said that the draft notification on heritage bylaws is applicable for all the 80 monuments including Lord Jagannath temple in Puri, Shree Lingaraj Temple in Bhubaneswar, Sun Temple in Konark and others preserved by Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) in the state. However, the objections have been raised over Puri temple and some temples in Bhubaneswar. While the centre has already withdrawn the notification for Puri temple, it remained in force for other monuments across the state, a senior ASI official told PTI. Though the NMAs notification does not mention the name of Shree Lingaraj temple in the draft notification, it will automatically come under the purview of the proposed laws as the 11th century shrine is located in the regulated zones of Ananta Basudeva temple. Earlier this week, a joint effort by the BJD and the BJP saw withdrawal of the NMA's regulations for the 12th century Jagannath temple in Puri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cm-seeks-withdrawal-of-nma-bylaws-for-bhubaneswar-shrines-101613206896069.html
13-02-2021||India||Blast in Boisar pharma unit near Mumbai, one injured||An explosion triggered a fire at the Bajaj Healthcare Limited facility in Tarapur MIDC in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region on Saturday afternoon injuring a worker who had to be hospitalised, fire department officials said.“The fire was reported at around 12.15 pm and we rushed two fire engines and controlled the blaze in an hour,” said Manish Sawant, Fire Officer, Boisar MIDC Fire Brigade,One worker, Nilesh Vilas Borse (29) suffered burn injuries and was admitted to Tungha hospital, Boisar while another worker whose blood pressure shot up on seeing the fire and was given medical treatment, said Sawant.“A spark due to static electricity in the reactor led to the blast and subsequent fire but we are waiting for the report of the Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health (DISH),Vasai and have registered a case of accident and probing further,” said a Boisar MIDC police official.The facility was set up in 1993 and manufactures bulk drugs, hydroxychloroquine, intermediates used in pharma, nutraceutical and food industries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blast-in-boisar-pharma-unit-near-mumbai-one-injured-101613205885490.html
13-02-2021||India||'Cricket marred by hatred': Rahul Gandhi's veiled comment on Wasim Jaffer row||Making a veiled comment over the Wasim Jaffer controversy, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said hate has been so normalised in India in the last few years that even "our beloved sport cricket has been marred by it". He, however, did not mention any name as he tweeted, "India belongs to all of us. Do not let them dismantle our unity."In the last few years, hate has been normalised so much that even our beloved sport cricket has been marred by it.India belongs to all of us. Do not let them dismantle our unity.Wasim Jaffer resigned as the Uttarakhand coach after Cricket Association of Uttarakhand made many changes to the team, including replacing the captain, without consulting him. Uttarakhand team manager Navneet Mishra alleged that Jaffer picked players based on their religion and created a communal atmosphere.The episode became a centre of controversy after Jaffer on February 10 tweeted clarifying his decisions which have been attacked as "communal". 1. I recommended Jay Bista for captaincy not Iqbal but CAU officials favoured Iqbal.2. I did not invite Maulavis3. I resigned cos bias of selectors-secretary for non-deserving players4. Team used to say a chant of Sikh community, I suggested we can say "Go Uttarakhand" #Facts https://t.co/8vZSisrDDlRahul Gandhi's comment comes on a day finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, from the floors of Parliament, called Rahul Gandhi "the doomsday man of India".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cricket-marred-by-hatred-rahul-gandhi-s-veiled-comment-on-wasim-jaffer-row-101613205299909.html
13-02-2021||India||NCP splits in Kerala, faction led by Kappan joins UDF ahead of assembly polls||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), one of the partners of the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) coalition, has split within itself, ahead of the upcoming assembly elections in Kerala. Mani C Kappan, Kerala NCP leader and legislator from the Pala legislative assembly in Kottayam, announced his decision to join the United Democratic Front (UDF) led by the Congress party.LDF had planned to handover Pala, the legislative assembly seat in contention, to the Kerala Congress party, which has recently joined the coalition after breaking its decade-old alliance with the UDF. The UDF, however, would field Kappan for the seat.Also read | Kerala CM announces 5-year economic package worth ₹7,000 crore for WayanadDuring the bypoll held in 2019, Kappan won the Pala legislative seat for the LDF coalition. The LDF, however, had reportedly decided to hand over the seat to Kerala Congress (M), led by Jose K Mani, in the upcoming assembly polls, much to the dismay of Kappan. He had claimed the support of seven district presidents and nine office bearers of the NCP and had decided to part ways with the party and LDF.While talking to the press, Kappan said he hopes the UDF will accommodate his faction into their alliance. He also said that he would attend the UDF’s state-wide rally, Aiswarya Kerala Yatra, on Sunday, when it reaches his Pala constituency in Kottayam district.A K Saseendran, Kerala’s transport minister and NCP leader, had criticised Kappen’s move to split from the party and join the UDF. He said that Kappen had done injustice to the people who elected him in the 2019 bypoll for the seat, in which he defeated Kerala Congress leader Jose Tom from the UDF. The bypolls for the Pala seat was held after veteran Kerala Congress leader K M Mani, who had represented the seat for more than 50 years, died.Kappan had also held discussions with the national leadership of the NCP in New Delhi, which is yet to react regarding the issue.(With inputs from Ramesh Babu KC, PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncp-splits-in-kerala-faction-led-by-kappan-joins-udf-ahead-of-assembly-polls-101613203952681.html
13-02-2021||India||Judge's assault: SC rejects PIL, says nothing found in enquiry by Bihar Police||The Supreme Court has dismissed a plea seeking registration of an FIR and initiation of contempt proceedings against a police officer for allegedly assaulting a district judge in Aurangabad, saying Bihar Police found nothing in their enquiry.A bench comprising justices A M Khanwilkar and Aniruddha Bose referred to the response of the Bihar Police and told PIL petitioner and lawyer Vishal Tiwari that the plea cannot be allowed to remain pending in view of the fact that the enquiry could not verify the allegations of assault.The bench refused to hear further the PIL in the proceedings conducted through video conferencing on Friday.The plea had alleged that Dinesh Kumar Pradhan, a district judge in Aurangabad in Bihar, was assaulted by a police officer in October last year.The court had on December 16, 2020, issued notices to the Bihar government, Bihar's Director General of Police, Superintendent of Police of Aurangabad district and Sub-Inspector Pranav Kumar, who had allegedly assaulted the district judge.The plea had sought registration of the FIR and initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against the police officer for allegedly assaulting the judicial officer.Tiwari, in the PIL, had also sought an inquiry into the incident by a panel of two serving high court judges.The plea has alleged that Pradhan was abused, threatened and assaulted on October 21 when he was on an evening walk by a Bihar Police sub-inspector, who was accompanied by some Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel on election patrol duty.The plea had claimed that the sub-inspector had a grudge against the judicial officer as he had taken action against him and a few other police officers for dereliction of duty a few months back.The petition had sought action against senior police officials, including Director General of Police (DGP), Bihar and Superintendent of Police (SP), Aurangabad for their alleged inaction in the matter.It had also sought lodging of an FIR in the matter against the erring police official and direction to all state governments to ensure and take safety and security measures for judicial officers of subordinate judiciary in their respective states.The Bihar Judicial Services Association had earlier written a letter to the DGP seeking action against the erring officer, but no step was taken yet in connection with the incident, it had claimed."Attack and assault upon the judges and magistrates by police not only lowers the dignity of judiciary but also leaves an impression in the minds of the public that when the judicial officers are not safe from police atrocities than what safety the public will expect," the plea had said."The judges of the subordinate judiciary are the vital part of our judicial system. Assault upon them with the feeling of a grudge is the assault upon the dignity and supremacy of the judiciary of this country, which cannot be tolerated and requires strict punishment against the erring police officials under the contempt law," it has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judges-assault-sc-rejects-pil-says-nothing-found-in-enquiry-by-bihar-police-101613196091777.html
13-02-2021||India||Those demanding repeal of farm laws, including Rahul Gandhi, know nothing about them, says Narendra Singh Tomar||Hitting out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has said those who are asking to repeal the new farm laws including the Congress leader, do not even know about them."People from political parties have nothing to do with these laws, those who are demanding the withdrawal of the laws from Rahul Gandhi to the rest, know nothing about them," Tomar told reporters in Madhya Pradesh's Ujjain late Friday on the sidelines of a two-day training program organised for BJP MLAs."I want to tell Rahul Gandhi that those who do dynasty politics do not have the right to comment on others," he added.The Minister further stated that even the Congress party does not take Rahul Gandhi's statements seriously."What worries me is the three-fold pace with which the Congress is tumbling under his leadership which is weakening the opposition. A weak opposition is not good for democracy," Tomar said."As far as the farmers' movement is concerned, the government is holding discussions with the farmers, we have given them the best proposal. When they convey their opinion, then we will carry forward the discussion," he further added.Speaking about the BJP's training program, Tomar said, "Training in BJP is important, from the local committee to a worker at the national level. There are many workers who have won for the first time, there are many who have experience. They should meet so that they can learn from each other in terms of working with the party and the public, therefore training classes are organised."Speaking to ANI after attending the first day of the training session, BJP MLA Mahendra Singh Sisodia who had left Congress to join BJP along with Jyotiraditya Scindia said, "Today, the first day of the training program was of 11 hours and was amazing. I am running out of words to appreciate the program. Everything is zero in Congress party. The BJP has struggled for 70 years and has formed an organisation that is working across the country."Sisodia further stated that such training programs were never heard of in the Congress, but here everything from discipline, personality development, party development, ideology, Central government, the state government was covered in the session.On being asked about the training program organised as part of preparations for the upcoming polls in 2023 and 2024 Sisodia said, "BJP is always ready, unlike the Congress which is just the opposite."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-others-demanding-repeal-of-farm-laws-know-nothing-says-tomar-101613203042183.html
13-02-2021||India||'Rapid pace of vaccination,' tweets Adar Poonawalla after visiting Pune centre||Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla visited a vaccination centre in Pune on Friday and praised the setup, sharing his first-hand experience of witnessing how vaccines are being rolled out. "What an excellent setup. There are many like this across India as the health ministry is scaling up the vaccination drive at a rapid pace," he tweeted. The vaccination centre that he visited was at Ruby Hall Clinic in Pune.It was nice to witness firsthand, the rollout of the vaccine, at one of the vaccination centres at Ruby Hall Clinic, #Pune. What an excellent setup! There are many like this across #India as the @MoHFW_INDIA is scaling up the vaccination drive at a rapid pace. pic.twitter.com/aEFpVD7vrxFrom Saturday, India started administering second doses of Covid-19 vaccines to those who received the first dose on January 16, the day when the vaccination drive in India began. Inoculation of frontline workers is also going on.The government, meanwhile, has placed orders for one crore additional doses of Covishield from Serum Institute of India and 45 lakh more doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech.Before the beginning of the vaccination drive, India had ordered 1.1 crore doses of Covishield and 55 lakh doses of Bharat Biotech.As of February 13, till 8am, 79,67,647 beneficiaries have received vaccines, including 5,909,136 health care workers and 2,058,511 frontline workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rapid-pace-of-vaccination-tweets-adar-poonawalla-after-visiting-pune-centre-101613203078108.html
13-02-2021||India||Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra receives ₹1,511 crore in contributions||Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust treasurer Swami Govind Dev Giri on Friday said that the account of Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra, which oversees the construction and management of Ram Temple in Uttar Pradesh's Ayodhya, has received ₹1,511 crore rupees so far for temple construction purposes.“Till now, ₹1,511 crore has been deposited in the account of Trust for the construction of Ram Mandir,” Giri was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Giri also said that the Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra aims to reach out to 4 lakh villages and 11 crore families across the nation. He further highlighted that the large number of donations is due to the fact that people are excited about the Ram Temple in Ayodhya and said that it has taken 492 years for this opportunity to arrive.“For the construction of the grand Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, the whole nation is donating funds. We aim to reach 4 lakh villages and 11 crore families across the country during our donation drive. We are conducting the donation drive from January 15 and it will continue till Feb 27. I am here in Surat as part of the drive. People are contributing to the trust. After 492 years, people have got such an opportunity again to do something for the Dharma,” Giri said.The mass contact and contribution campaign for the construction of the grand temple in Ayodhya will go on for the next two weeks and will end on February 27. The drive began on January 15.In 2019, a five-judge Supreme Court bench headed by former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi had ruled in favour of Ram Lalla and said that the government will form a trust that will monitor the construction of a Ram Temple at the site which spreads over 2.7 acres.PM Narendra Modi performed the bhoomi pujan for the construction of Ram Temple on August 5 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shri-ram-janmbhoomi-teerth-kshetra-receives-rs-1-511-crore-in-contributions-101613202146972.html
13-02-2021||India||Vistara to start non-stop flights to Maldives from March 3||With Maldives emerging as a major holiday destination, Vistara – a joint venture of Tata Group and Singapore Airlines – on Saturday announced special non-stop flights between Mumbai and the island’s capital from March 3.Vistara will operate flightsthrice a week to Male under India’s travel bubble agreement with Maldives. Airbus A320neo aircraft with three-class cabin configuration will fly on the route, making Vistara the only airline to offer travellers the choice of premium economy in addition to business and economy cabins on flights between India and Maldives.“Our new service to the Maldives will give travellers greater access to one of India’s most-preferred holiday destinations. We are delighted at the opportunity of taking India’s best airline to more places and offering the very best of air travel to people flying between India and the Maldives while maintaining the highest standards of safety and hygiene,” said Leslie Thng, chief executive officer, Vistara."Vistara will accept all eligible customers meeting visa/entry requirements in both countries, as specified by the respective government bodies," the airline spokesperson said."All tourist establishments in the Maldives have been regulated to ensure that they are in line with the Covid-19 safe tourism guidelines issued by the Maldivian Ministry of Tourism along with a certification program to uphold high standards of safety and hygiene," the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vistara-to-start-non-stop-flights-to-maldives-from-march-3-101613201875030.html
13-02-2021||India||Parliamentary panel on defence decides to visit Galwan Valley, Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh||The parliamentary standing committee on defence has decided to visit the Galwan Valley and Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh region which has been witness to a violent stand-off between the troops of India and China, sources said on Friday.The 30-member committee, chaired by senior BJP leader and former Union Minister Jual Oram and of which Rahul Gandhi is also a member,wishes to visit the eastern Ladakh region in the last week of May or in June.The decision to visit these areas was taken in the panel's last meeting which was not attended by the Rahul Gandhi, sources said, adding since the panel intends to visit the LAC, it depends on the approval from the government.After a nine-month standoff, the two militaries reached the agreement on disengagement in the north and south banks of Pangong lake that mandates both sides to cease forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner.On Thursday, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh made a detailed statement in Parliament on the disengagement pact.According to the agreement, China has to pull back its troops to east of Finger 8 areas in the northern bank while the Indian personnel will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 in the region.Also read| Manpower insufficient for committed R&D projects: Parliamentary panel on DRDOSimilar action will take place on the south bank of the lake as well, Singh said in Parliament.India has not "conceded" any territory to China by firming up an agreement on the disengagement process in Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh, and other outstanding "problems" including in Depsang, Hot Springs ad Gogra will be taken up at the upcoming talks between military commanders of the two countries, the defence ministry said on Friday.The statement by the ministry came hours after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged that the government has "ceded" Indian territory to China and raised questions over the agreement on the disengagement process.The ministry also dubbed as "categorically false" the assertion that Indian territory is up to Finger 4 in the Pangong Tso area, adding the permanent posts of both sides in the area are "longstanding and well-established"."India has not conceded any territory as a result of this agreement. On the contrary, it has enforced observance and respect for LAC and prevented any unilateral change in the status quo," the ministry said in the strongly-worded statement.The MEA also said the two countries have agreed to convene the 10th round of senior commanders meeting within 48 hours after complete disengagement in the Pangong Lake area to address the remaining issues, and added that no date has been set for Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs.The agreement on disengagement in the north and south banks of Pangong lake mandates both Chinese and Indian sides to "cease" forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-on-defence-decides-to-visit-galwan-valley-pangong-in-eastern-ladakh-101613199497727.html
13-02-2021||India||Right to protest cannot be anytime and everywhere, says SC dismissing Shaheen Bagh plea||“The right to protest cannot be anytime and everywhere”, the Supreme Court said as it dismissed a plea seeking review of its verdict passed last year in which it had held the occupation of public ways during the anti-CAA protests at Shaheen Bagh here was “not acceptable”The top court said there may be some spontaneous protests but in case of prolonged dissent or protest, there cannot be continued occupation of public place affecting the rights of others.A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Aniruddha Bose and Kirshna Murari said, “We have perused the review petition and record of the civil appeal and are convinced that the order of which review has been sought, does not suffer from any error apparent warranting its reconsideration”.The bench, which has passed the order recently, said it has considered the earlier judicial pronouncements and recorded its opinion that “the Constitutional scheme comes with a right to protest and express dissent but with an obligation to have certain duties”.“The right to protest cannot be anytime and everywhere. There may be some spontaneous protests but in case of prolonged dissent or protest, there cannot be continued occupation of public place affecting rights of others”, the bench said, while dismissing a plea by one Shaheen Bagh resident Kaniz Fatima and others seeking review of last year's verdict of October 7.The top court, which considered the matter in the judges' chambers also rejected the prayer for open court hearing in the matter.The apex court had on October 7, last year held that public spaces cannot be occupied indefinitely and demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in designated places alone.It had said occupation of public ways in the anti-CAA protests at Shaheen Bagh locality here was “not acceptable”.Observing that democracy and dissent “go hand in hand”, the apex court had said constitutional scheme comes with the right to protest and express dissent, but with an obligation towards certain duties.It had said the mode and manner of dissent against colonial rule during India's freedom struggle cannot be equated with dissent in a self-ruled democracy.“However, while appreciating the existence of the right to peaceful protest against a legislation...we have to make it unequivocally clear that public ways and public spaces cannot be occupied in such a manner and that too indefinitely,” the top court had said.The apex court's verdict had come on a plea by lawyer Amit Sahni against blockade of a road in Shaheen Bagh area by those protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), which aimed to provide Indian citizenship to persecuted minorities of Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh.It had held that the protest at Shaheen Bagh was a blockage of a public way which caused grave inconvenience to commuters.The top court had said such kind of occupation of public ways, whether at the site in question or anywhere else for protests, is not acceptable and “the administration ought to take action to keep the areas clear of encroachments or obstructions”.“Democracy and dissent go hand in hand, but then the demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in designated places alone,” it had said, adding, “We cannot accept the plea of the applicants that an indeterminable number of people can assemble whenever they choose to protest”.Restrictions were imposed on the Kalindi Kunj-Shaheen Bagh stretch and the Okhla underpass, which were closed on December 15, 2019 due to the protests.Later, due to Covid-19 pandemic, the area was cleared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/right-to-protest-cannot-be-anytime-and-everywhere-says-sc-dismissing-shaheen-bagh-plea-101613201468175.html
13-02-2021||India||Indian elected as Oxford University Student Union president||Rashmi Samant, an alumna of Karnataka’s Manipal Institute of Technology, was elected as the Oxford University Student Union president on Thursday. Samant, a student of MSc in energy systems at Linacre College, is also the first Indian woman to ever hold the position.According to the university, Samant received 1,966 of the 3,708 votes. This is more than votes received by her opponents combined.Rashmi is from Manipal town in Udupi district. Her father, Dinesh Samant, is a businessman in Udupi, and her mother, Vathsala, a homemaker. Samant did her schooling in Udupi and graduated in mechanical engineering from the Manipal Institute of Technology in 2020.During her election campaign, Samant promised to remove all statues proven to be imperialist, including Christopher Codrington’s at the Conference of Colleges. She also promised to increase funding for a mental health strategy, according to an official release.According to the statement from the Manipal Institute of Technology, during her time at the institute, Samant had conceived and launched the Manipal Hackathon, an event to incubate modern digital solutions for societal challenges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-elected-as-oxford-university-student-union-president-101613200760978.html
13-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Nirmala Sitharaman asks Rahul Gandhi 10 questions during Lok Sabha address and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Rahul Gandhi becoming doomsday man of India': Sitharaman poses 10 questionsFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman attacked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi saying he is probably becoming the "doomsday man" of India, building "fake narratives" that "demean" the country. Read more'England may not be comfortable against him': Manjrekar explains why having Kuldeep Yadav is 'advantage' for IndiaIndia spinner Kuldeep Yadav was included in the playing XI for the 2nd Test against India at MA Chidambaram Stadium in Chennai. India skipper Virat Kohli won the toss and announced three changes in the team. Read moreSushmita Sen and Rohman Shawl put an end to breakup rumours with latest appearance togetherActor Sushmita Sen got her fans a little worried recently when she shared an Instagram post about walking out of a futile relationship. Fans began wondering if she had broken up with her model boyfriend, Rohman Shawl. Read moreJoe Biden and Jill share secret to their happy married life on Valentine's DayOn January 20, 2021, Joe Biden took oath as the 46th President of the United States Of America while standing next to his wife of 43 years and the new First Lady Of The United States (FLOTUS), Dr Jill Biden. Read moreWoman turns Bernie Sanders’ meme into food art, Stephen King shares itSanders’ look has been recreated by a woman from Arizona, US on a plate. The art created by Sandra Marshall has also been shared by renowned author Stephen King and may make you smile too. Read more'Agricultural allocation data in Budget misread': FM Sitharaman in Lok SabhaUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman replied to the discussion on Union Budget in LS. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-nirmala-sitharaman-s-10-questions-for-rahul-gandhi-101613199818339.html
13-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: Rescue operation underway at tunnel in Joshimath||Following the glacial burst and flash floods, the rescue operation is still underway on Saturday at the tunnel in Joshimath of Chamoli district.A joint team of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and other teams are carrying out the operation.A total of 38 bodies were recovered so far in the Uttarakhand glacier burst incident, out of which 12 bodies were identified and 26 remain unidentified, said Chamoli District Magistrate Swati Bhadoriya on Saturday.Earlier on Friday, a lake has been formed near Raini village in Joshimath following the glacier burst causing massive destruction.Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday told media persons, "We have information about a lake that has been formed near Raini village in Joshimath. The lake is being monitored through satellites. Right now, we need to be cautious, but there is nothing to be worried about."A glacier broke in the Tapovan-Reni area of Chamoli District of Uttarakhand on Sunday, which led to massive flooding in Dhauliganga and Alaknanda rivers and damaged houses and the nearby Rishiganga power project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-glacier-burst-rescue-operation-underway-at-tunnel-in-joshimath-101613199510425.html
13-02-2021||India||Shiv Sena urges Centre to recall Maharashtra Governor||The Shiv Sena, which is in power in Maharashtra, on Saturday accused state Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari of toeing the BJP's line, and said that if the Centre wants the Constitution to be upheld, it should recall him.The party also asserted that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) dispensation is stable and strong, and added that the Centre cannot use the governor's shoulders to take aim at the state government."Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari is back in news again. He has been in politics for the last many years. He was a union minister and also the chief minister of Uttarakhand. However, ever since he became the Maharashtra governor, he has always remained in news or landed in controversy," the Sena said in an editorial in mouthpiece 'Saamana'."Why he is always landing in controversy is a question. Recently, he is in news over the use of a state government's plane. The governor wanted to go to Dehradun using the state aircraft. But the government denied permission to it. He sat in the aircraft on Thursday morning, but as the plane did not have approval to fly, he had to disembark and take a commercial flight to Dehradun," it said.The opposition BJP is creating an issue out of it. But why did the governor sit in the plane even as the government had not given its approval for it to fly, the party asked.It was a private tour of the governor and as per the law, not only the governor, but even the chief minister cannot use a state plane for such purposes. The Chief Minister's Office (CMO) has acted in accordance with law, it said."But Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis accused the state government of being egoistic. The country knows who is indulging in politics of ego. Despite the death of over 200 farmers during the ongoing protest on Delhi borders over the three farm laws, the government is not ready to withdraw them. Isn't that ego?" the Uddhav Thackeray-led party asked.A governor should pursue the agenda of the government of the day and not that of the opposition, it added.The Sena also criticised the delay in governor's approval of 12 names recommended by the state cabinet for their nomination to the Legislative Council from his quota."The governor is acting like a puppet," it alleged.The governor of Maharashtra is an honourable person. But it is also his own responsibility to keep the prestige of the position that he occupies. However, he is being forced to dance to the BJP's tunes, it said."If the Union Home Ministry wants the Constitution, laws and norms to be upheld, it should recall the governor," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-urges-centre-to-recall-maharashtra-governor-101613198982488.html
13-02-2021||India||Govt raises upper ceiling of family pensions from ₹45k to ₹125k per month||In a bid to bring ‘ease of living’ to the family members of deceased government employees, the Department of Pension and Pensioners' Welfare (DoPPW) has decided to raise the upper ceiling of family pensions from ₹45,000 to ₹1.25 lakh per month.Union minister Jitendra Singh after making the announcement said, “The amount of both the family pensions will now be restricted to ₹1,25,000 per month, which is over two and half times higher than the earlier limit.” He further added that the DoPPW has issued a clarification on cases of the amount admissible in case a child becomes eligible to draw two family pensions in case of death of both parents.“In accordance with sub-rule (11) of rule 54 of the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules 1972, in case both wife and husband are government servants and are governed by the provisions of that rule, on their death, the surviving child is eligible for two family pensions in respect of the deceased parents,” a statement issued by DoPPW said.The statement further outlined that since the highest pay has been revised to ₹250,000 taking into account the recommendations by seventh Central Pay Commission (CPC) recommendations, the amount prescribed has also been revised. “Earlier instructions laid down that the total amount of two family pensions in such cases, shall not exceed to ₹45,000 per month and ₹27,000 per month, which were determined at the rate of 50 per cent and 30 per cent, respectively taking into account of the highest pay of ₹90,000 as per the sixth Central Pay Commission (CPC) recommendations,” the statement said.“Since the highest pay has been revised to ₹250,000 per month after the implementation of the seventh CPC recommendations, therefore the amount prescribed in Rule 54(11) of CCS (Pension) Rules has also been revised to ₹125,000 per month being 50 per cent of ₹250,000 and ₹75,000 per month being 30 per cent of ₹250,000,” the statement further added.The DoPPW said that the above clarification came after several ministries shared references. The existing rule states that if both parents are government employees and one of the parents dies either during service or post-retirement, the family pension in respect of the deceased becomes payable to the surviving spouse. In the event of the death of the spouse, the child will receive both the family pensions in respect of the deceased parents and is subject to fulfilment of other eligibility conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-raises-upper-ceiling-of-family-pensions-from-rs-45k-to-rs-125k-per-month-101613199285303.html
13-02-2021||India||Tea planters in Bihar seek exemption from land ceiling||Tea planters from Bihar's Kishanganj and adjoining districts have approached deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad seeking exemption from the land ceiling for individual planters to set up plantations and processing units above the prescribed limit of 25 acres. They said the medium-range or big size plantations need 200 to 500 acres.The government has come up with the new Bihar Agriculture Investment Promotion Policy ( BAIPP) and introduced tea as one of the important investment categories to boost the sector.“The lifting of the exemption limit is crucial for attracting investors as the existing ceiling limit is not conducive for bigger plantations. There is no ceiling in states like West Bengal and Assam where land is given by the government on lease. ...the government should accord tea processing, plantation, and packaging [the status] of agro-based industry,” said, Raj Karan Daftari, president of Ashok Bihar Tea Planters Association, which represents planters in Kishanganj district.He said the planters have long been demanding the exemption from the ceiling to boost the growth of the sector. “ It is good the government has announced subsidy and incentives for setting up tea processing units. But that also requires land,” Daftari said.He highlighted how the Bihar Industrial policy, 1995, had provisions of lifting land ceiling.There are nine tea processing plants in Kishanganj, which has the potential for nine more.Agriculture secretary N Saravana Kumar said he has taken note of the matter and the processes have started to address it. “ We have already taken up the matter with the revenue and land reforms department... We are seriously looking into the matter."BAIPP nodal officer A C Jain said they are getting a good response from probable investors. “Tea planters and producers can avail the incentives under promotion policy for setting up processing units as a huge stock of green leaf goes to the neighbouring state for processing. There is a potential of setting nine to 10 units,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tea-planters-in-bihar-seek-exemption-from-land-ceiling-101613199158987.html
13-02-2021||India||Vistara to start flights between Mumbai and Male from March 3||Vistara on Saturday said it will start flights between Mumbai and Male from March 3 onwards under the air bubble arrangement formed between India and the Maldives.The airline will deploy its three-class A320 neo aircraft on this route, said its press release. The carrier's flights between Mumbai and Male would operate three times a week - Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday.Also read| Mughal Gardens to open for public from todayScheduled international flights have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020, due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international flights have been operating since July last year under air bubble arrangements formed between India and around 24 countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vistara-to-start-flights-between-mumbai-and-male-from-march-3-101613198163650.html
13-02-2021||India||Bihar signs MoU with UNEP for climate resilience and low carbon development||The Bihar government has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) for climate resilience and low carbon development strategy formulation.Officials said UNEP will provide technical assistance to Bihar to prepare its greenhouse gas inventory and carry out climate impact scenario and vulnerability assessments. It will also suggest revisions to the State Action Plans on Climate Change.According to the UNEP, countries globally are committed to achieving net-zero emissions goal by around mid-century. At the beginning of 2021, 126 countries – accounting for 51% of global greenhouse gas emissions – have net-zero goals that are formally adopted, announced or under consideration.Officials said Bihar has registered higher economic growth in the past few years. The state is highly vulnerable to the climate crisis, which may undermine its developmental efforts. Officials underlined the role of state government in identifying and addressing local adaptation and mitigation measures to deal with the climate crisis.Union minister Babul Supriyo, who was present at the signing ceremony on Friday, said the crisis rings a global alarm and warrants immediate attention and action. "Climate change mitigation and adaption, along with environmental sustainability, has been a focus area of the government. The collaboration is a key step in the right direction that aims at strengthening existing policies and proactive actions taken to combat climate change effectively.”Bihar State Pollution Control Board chairman Ashok Ghosh said to fight global warming and climatic crisis, they need to equalise carbon emission and neutrality. "UNEP will help us in analysis and strategy formulation for striving a balance between source and sink of carbon emission."Deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad said the new agreement is another addition to the green initiatives taken by Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-signs-mou-with-unep-for-climate-resilience-and-low-carbon-development-101613198734081.html
13-02-2021||India||Mob attacks vigilance team in Bihar, frees official accused of bribery||A mob attacked a state vigilance bureau team and freed an executive officer of a Nagar Panchayat in Bihar's West Champaran arrested for allegedly accepting ₹20,000 bribe on Friday, police sa."...a crowd of 50 -60 people led by Arjit Naran Singh, a ward councillor, mobbed and manhandled us. They managed to escape with the executive officer," said deputy police superintendent Sarvesh Kumar Singh. "Some of the attackers have been identified with the help of video footage."Officials said Jitendra Kumar Sinha, the officer, allegedly demanded the bribe for releasing a retired clerk's arrears.After verifying the clerk's complaint, a vigilance team caught the suspect and recovered the money. "We are looking into the matter. Those who attacked the vigilance team are being identified," said Arjun Lal, a sub-divisional police officer.A separate state vigilance bureau team caught a clerk at district education office allegedly accepting ₹15,000 bribe in Motihari on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mob-attacks-vigilance-team-in-bihar-frees-official-accused-of-bribery-101613197912664.html
13-02-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh holds panchayat polls in Odisha village despite official protest||A day after the Supreme Court fixed February 19 as the date of hearing of the case of Andhra Pradesh “invading” Odisha’s territory, the Jagan Reddy government on Saturday went ahead with panchayat polls in one of the villages of Koraput district despite the Odisha government asking it to not to do so.On Friday, the SC asked Andhra Pradesh to file its response after Odisha moved a contempt of court petition, seeking action against the neighbouring state over its violation of the apex court order in 1968 and 2006 alleging that the neighbouring state was trying to hold panchayat polls in three of its bordering villages. The Odisha government in its petition informed the court that the three villages where Andhra Pradesh is holding the panchayat elections fall within Odisha and form part of 21 villages in respect of which a suit was filed in 1968 by Odisha in the Supreme Court.The panchayat polls which began in Andhra Pradesh on February 9 will end on February 21.On Saturday morning hundreds of villagers of Patusinri village under Kotia grampanchayat in Koraput district were seen queuing up at polling booths across the inter-state border even as Koraput district collector Abdaal Akhtar wrote to his counterpart in Andhra to desist from holding the polls as the matter was sub-judice.Officials said on Saturday morning, hundreds of people of Patunsiri (renamed as Pattu Chennuru by Andhra Pradesh) were seen going to the polling booths despite Pottangi BDO and Tehslidar urging them not to go. The voting began from 6 am and will conclude at 3 pm.Sarpanches for two other villages - Talaganjeipadar and Phagunseneri - that were declared as separate grampanchayats by the Andhra Pradesh government have been elected unopposed. The AP government renamed Talaganjeipadar as Ganjayibhadra and Phagunseneri as as Paguluchennuru in its panchayat poll notification.On Friday, Koraput district collector in a letter to Vizianagaram district collector M Hari Jawaharlal said that as the matter was sub-judice, no election should be held there. “In its oral observations, the SC has observed that should the state of Andhra Pradesh go ahead with its plans, necessary consequences will follow," Akhtar wrote.According to the Odisha government, the group of villages of Kotia GP form part of the Koraput parliamentary constituency and the Potangi Assembly segment. There are 2,448 voters and all of them have been provided election photo identity cards. The state government told the SC that it has been conducting the general census in Kotia since 1951.But despite the Odisha government's submission in the SC, officials conceded that it would be tough for them to administer the villages of Kotia GP. While doctors of Andhra Pradesh can reach the Kotia panchayat by travelling only 15 km distance, those in Odisha have to cover a distance of 70 km. Around 60 per cent people of the panchayat speak and understand Telugu as against 40 per cent Odia speaking. The AP government last year granted land rights under the Forest Right Act to 19 families in Arjuvalsa village.The panchayat polls may become embarrassing for the Naveen Patnaik government as it comes just before the Budget session starting next week. On Friday, a delegation of BJP leaders led by the Odisha unit chief Samir Mohanty had forced officials from Andhra Pradesh to retreat in Gangabada GP in Gajapati district where the latter were trying to conduct panchayat polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-holds-panchayat-polls-in-odisha-village-despite-official-protest-101613197066011.html
13-02-2021||India||Odisha to identify more locations for nature and eco-tourism||The Odisha government has decided to identify more location for nature and eco-tourism as the eco-retreat sites set up in the state have become quite popular with tourists, an official said.This was decided at a meeting chaired by Chief Secretary S C Mohapatra, who directed the departments of tourism, forest and environment and water resources to identify more locations for enhancing nature tourism activities in the state, the official said.The chief secretary asked the district collectors to identify locations for setting up year-round eco-retreat sites, nature camps, day destinations, river cruise, boating, jungle safari, wildlife sighting towers and other such activities."Selection of the appropriate site for nature tourism is very crucial for taking it to the next level," Mohapatra said and assigned Tourism secretary V K Dev and Chairman and Managing Director IDCO SK Singh to verify the identified locations and evaluate their potential for development to year-round tourist destinations.Also read| Centre allows expansion of Odisha's Kulda coal mine despite air pollution fearsNature tourism is no more an international tourist activity, the chief secretary said, adding that now more domestic tourists are visiting the nature camps in Odisha. Eco-locations, nature sites and nature camps will generate more employment opportunities for local populace and will help enhance their income, he said.The proposals regarding scaling up such activities at Talasari, Konark, Satpada, Chandipur, Debrigarh, Bhitarkanita, Similipal, Daringibadi, Astarang, Satkosia gorge, Tikarpada, Hirakud, Chilika and Nalabana were discussed in the meeting.The chief secretary also directed authorities to demarcate tourism zones in forest areas, list out the dams, river stretches and water bodies having good potential for boating, water boats, cruises and placement of houseboats.While the District Collectors will identify suitable locations near major tourist destinations for development of tourist stay, it has been decided that the diesel motorboats engaged in tourist sites to be converted to CNG mode.Additional Chief Secretary Forest and Environment Dr Mona Sharma suggested to start nature camps in 30 to 40 new locations during the year. It was also decided to invite more private sector investment for making the nature tourism activity more competitive and employment generating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-identify-more-locations-for-nature-and-ecotourism-101613196188659.html
13-02-2021||India||A living lab: A community hosts innovations at Bengal research institute||As one walks down the Central Mechanical Engineering Research Institute (CMERI) colony in West Bengal's Durgapur at night, the apparently dark roads gradually lighten up. Smart streetlights fitted with sensors can detect approaching humans. The lights get dimmer as one walks past, helping the colony to save electricity bills and reduce its carbon footprint.Innovations like this and many others, including the country’s first machine to segregate municipal waste, are all first put to use in the colony of 250 families, mostly of scientists and research scholars.The colony acts as a living lab for the scientists, where innovations made in the institute’s laboratory, are first tried and tested before they are finally launched for public use.“All innovations made in the CMERI lab, some of which are first of its kind in the country, are initially put to use in the colony. This helps us to further finetune the product according to the needs of the society. Only then they are launched for public use,” said Harish Hirani, director of CSIR-CMERI, who is also a resident of the colony.The CMERI is India’s apex research and development institute for mechanical engineering under the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). The Swaraj and Sonalika brand tractors, which are popular in rural India, are products of CMERI.“The colony hasn’t produced any waste in the last two years. All the waste generated by the families, including plastic and sanitary waste, are mechanically segregated in a plant – the first of its kind in India – and then converted into biogas, manure, fuel briquettes, electricity, and road-building materials. These are used in the colony. The use of LPG has dropped. Roads and parking areas are also being constructed with recycled products,” said Amit Ganguly, a senior scientist associated with the development of the segregation plant.There are also huge trees in the colony with solar panels fitted onto every branch. Known as solar trees, they help to enhance the production of solar energy.Also being tried and tested are large air purifiers to bring down pollution levels. Air purifiers, called WAYU developed by the CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute, have been installed on some roads of Delhi.“Our laboratory products are being put to use in almost every nook and corner of the society. Starting from simple plant manure manufactured from domestic waste to air purifiers and smart-street lighting, there are many innovations that are being tried and tested in this colony-lab comprising 250 families,” said Subho Samanmta, a scientist of CMERI and a resident of the colony.In cities, vehicle owners find it difficult to locate a parking space and have to jostle for space. The scientists of CMERI are now planning to come up with a smart parking system, wherein vehicle owners would get to know about vacant parking lots before they approach the parking area.“We are in the process of upgrading our parking lots into smart parking spaces. Not only would the car owner receive messages on his mobile about which lots are free, and which are engaged, but he would be able to see the green lights of free parking spaces as he approaches the parking area. A red light would mean the space is not free,” said Ajoy Roy, one of the scientists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-living-lab-a-community-hosts-innovations-at-bengal-research-institute-101613196213458.html
13-02-2021||India||Manpower grossly insufficient for committed R&D projects: Parliamentary panel on DRDO||The DRDO's current manpower is grossly insufficient for committed research and development projects and the Defence Ministry should take effective measures to augment the workforce, stated a report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence on Friday.In its reply to the committee, the Defence Ministry said the Finance Ministry on April 24 last year had approved the proposal to augment the manpower in the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) by 436 posts. The report also said the Finance Ministry has advised the Defence Ministry to take fresh approval from the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) on creation of two senior posts -- chief executive and chief construction engineer -- at the DRDO.While the Standing Committee expressed its happiness about approval regarding 436 posts and proposal on creation of two new posts, the panel said it has not been "clearly apprised" about the progress made on increasing manpower."The issue of augmentation of manpower especially of scientists in the Defence Research and Development Organisation is of vital importance given that DRDO has been managing with same authorisation in spite of more than six-fold increase in outlay from 9th to 13th plan," said the committee's report tabled in Lok Sabha on Friday.Presently, the authorised strength of scientists in DRDO is 7,353 while their existing strength 7,068, the report noted."The percentage of scientists in DRDO is 30 per cent of the total strength of DRDO... The committee note that the current manpower is grossly insufficient for committed R&D projects," it said.The DRDO works under the Defence ministry only.The committee said more effective measures should be taken by the Defence Ministry to augment the workforce in the DRDO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manpower-insufficient-for-committed-r-d-projects-parliamentary-panel-on-drdo-101613195287054.html
13-02-2021||India||'Rahul Gandhi becoming doomsday man of India': Sitharaman poses 10 questions||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman attacked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi saying he is probably becoming the "doomsday man" of India, building "fake narratives" that "demean" the country. As Sitharaman on Saturday was replying to the discussion on Union Budget 2021 in the Lok Sabha, she posed 10 questions about Rahul Gandhi's speech which was mainly on farmers' protest, not Union Budget 2021, the finance minister said."He said he would be only commenting on farmers' issues as this is also part of the budget. I am also giving my reply pertaining to that," Sitharaman said.First, the finance minister said she expected Rahul Gandhi to explain the Congress's U-turn on farm reforms as similar promises were part of Congress's election manifesto earlier.Sitharaman counters Rahul Gandhi's 'Hum do, Hamare do' with MNREGA dataSecond, Sitharaman said she expected Rahul Gandhi to explain why farm loan waiver was not been implemented in Madhya Pradesh (when Congress was in power), Rajasthan. "Congress is so sympathetic to farmers' issues. Then why not implement loan waiver especially when you come to power riding on these promises," Sitharaman said."My third expectation was Rahul Gandhi would say something on Punjab's 'kala kanoon' that has provision to send farmers to jail. I thought he would say he has asked Punjab CM to repeal that law," Sitharaman said.In her fourth point, she said she expected Gandhi to say something on stubble burning but he did not."I expected Rahul Gandhi to at least point one clause of the three laws that is anti-farmer," the finance minister said in her fifth point.In her sixth point, the finance minister referred to Gandhi's 'Hum do, Hamare do' jibe and said, "When PM Modi talked about small farmers, I expected Rahul Gandhi to announce that he had also asked 'his two' to return lands to farmers that were acquired at throwaway prices. But he didn't do that.""I had also expected Rahul Gandhi to say that Congress party won't dishonour Manmohan Singh after PM Modi quoted Manmohan Singh on farm reforms. I expected he would say why the Congress has started to forget Manmohan Singh's ideas," she said listing this as her seventh point."Can you show one proof of APMC being closed anywhere in the country? I expected him to come up with at least one example," Sitharaman said."This is not an expectation, but a question to Rahul Gandhi. Why does he choose to insult constitutional authorities?" Sitharaman asked even raking up the 2013 incident when Gandhi had trashed then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's ordinance when Singh was abroad."My last point will be the fake narrative that he is building identifying with the 'break India fringe group'. I remember what he said about Covid-19 pandemic. I don't want to waste the time of the House by repeating the same but in summary, it was like 'I will continue to demean India'. The veteran leader is perhaps becoming the doomsday man of India," Sitharaman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-becoming-doomsday-man-of-india-sitharaman-poses-10-questions-101613195284154.html
13-02-2021||India||VIMSAR doctors to study seroconversion of vaccinated people||Doctors of Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (VIMSAR), Burla will conduct a study on the impact of Covid-19 vaccines and how it helps the creation of antibodies after people were inoculated, officials said.The study will be conducted in conjunction with scientists of Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC), Bhubaneswar. The state health research committee has already given its nod for the research which will be conducted for a period of 12 months, an official said.The objective of the study is to observe seroconversion on the population, who have been vaccinated, to calculate the numbers of people required to be vaccinated for herd immunity, so that we will be able to control the pandemic, said Dr Sanjeeb Mishra, principal investigator of the study.Seroconversion is the time period during which a specific antibody develops and becomes detectable in the blood. After seroconversion has occurred the antibodies can be detected in blood tests for the disease.Also read| India records 12,143 new Covid-19 cases, 103 deaths in last 24 hoursThe team of doctors of VIMSAR, who will conduct the study, includes Sanjeeb Mishra, principal investigator and tutor of department of community medicine, and co- investigators from doctors various other departments of VIMSAR.Mishra said, whenever a new vaccine is launched, Odisha gets it much later than other states of the country. However, the Covid-19 vaccine drive was launched throughout India in a single day allowing for this research here. It is a unique opportunity for us.Bimal Panda, who is also Nodal Officer of the MRU, said, this is the first indigenous research project of the MRU of VIMSAR. We have already started making our laboratory ready for the study, he said.Since the emergence of Covid-19 and declaration of Public Health Emergency of International Concern, the entire world has been eagerly waiting for a vaccine for its prevention.While two vaccines namely Covishield and Covaxin have been given emergency approval for restricted use in India, results from large scale trials are still awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vimsar-doctors-to-study-seroconversion-of-vaccinated-people-101613193344163.html
13-02-2021||India||‘I was and will be with annadata’: Rahul Gandhi as farmers' agitation continues||Continuing his attack on the Centre over the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three new farm laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Saturday that India’s ( annadatas) farmers were peacefully struggling for ensuring a better future for India and added that he would continue to stand by their side. Gandhi further took a jibe at the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government’s popular slogan ‘acche din’ by saying that the days were neither ‘acche’ (good) nor ‘sacche’ (true).“Neither true nor good days of Modi government! Our annadatas are struggling peacefully for the better future of the country. I was and will be with them,” Gandhi’s tweet roughly translated from Hindi read.Addressing a rally in Rajasthan’s Padampura on Friday, he said that almost 40 per cent of the country’s population was employed in businesses associated with agriculture and the new laws would adversely impact them. Claiming that these 40 per cent of the people feed all citizens, the Wayanad MP said that this business was worth ₹40 lakh crore.ना सच्चे ना अच्छे,दिन मोदी सरकार के!देश के बेहतर भविष्य के लिए हमारे अन्नदाता शांतिपूर्ण संघर्ष कर रहे हैं।मैं उनके साथ था, हूँ और रहूँगा। pic.twitter.com/9bxJzGL7um“This is the motive of these laws. The day these laws are implemented, remember my words, the business of 40 per cent population will go in the hands of two people,” Gandhi alleged during his Padampura rally. He further appealed to the Centre to repeal the farm laws before engaging in any future discussions with the farmers.“PM Modi says in Parliament that he wants to talk to the farmers but what talks do you want with farmers? End these laws first and then farmers will talk to you,” he said.Also Read| Sitharaman counters Rahul Gandhi's 'Hum do, Hamare do' with MNREGA dataEleven rounds of talks have been held between the Centre and the farmers’ unions till now - which remain deadlocked despite the former placing an offer to suspend the laws for 18 months. Farmers have been protesting at several border points in Delhi since November 26 last year. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait had said on Friday that the farmers would not return home and protest would continue until both sides arrive at an agreement.Meanwhile, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh had said that the government, in several rounds of talks, had requested the unions to ‘discuss the farm laws clause by clause’ in order to solve their problems. “However, farmers’ unions never agreed to discuss the farm laws except for the demand for their repeal,” Tomar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-was-and-will-be-with-annadata-rahul-gandhi-as-farmers-agitation-continues-101613193560868.html
13-02-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir police arrest TRF terrorist from Samba||The Jammu and Kashmir police claimed to have arrested a terrorist of The Resistance Force (TRF) from Samba district late Friday.He has been identified as Zahoor Ahmad Rather."Late Friday we arrested a terrorist from the Bari Brahmana area. A police team from Anantnag had come and carried out a joint operation with Samba police," said Samba district’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rajesh Sharma.An FIR had been registered in Anantnag against the accused in a terror case, he added.The accused was allegedly involved in the killing of three BJP workers and a policeman in Kulgam district of South Kashmir.He had allegedly killed one policeman in Furrah, Kulgam and three BJP workers in Vessu, Kulgam last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-police-arrest-trf-terrorist-from-samba-101613193647238.html
13-02-2021||India||Man grows orchard of 10,000 trees on barren land in Bihar's Gaya||Satyendra Gautam Manjhi from Imaliyachak, a small village in the Belaganj block area of Gaya district, has on his own planted a huge orchard on the wastelands of an island in the Phalgu River.Manjhi said that he started work on his orchard, which consists of 10,000 trees, mostly guava, 15 years ago inspired by the 'mountain man' Dashrath Manjhi.He recounted that Dashrath Manjhi, who singlehandedly carved a path through a mountain, came to his house one day."Dashrath Manjhi told me to plant an orchard in this area. At that time this place was barren and deserted and there was only sand everywhere. It was a lot of trouble in the beginning. Water had to be brought from the house in a pot for the plants," he further said.Talking to ANI he said, "Animals used to destroy the plants. I brought thorny bushes from the forest and made a hedge. The hedge still protects my orchard.""When Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar came to know about my contribution to environmental protection, I was made a member of the Child Protection Commission," he said.Satendra Gautam Manjhi holds an MA degree from Magadh University.An erstwhile member of the Child Protection Commission and currently a member of the Senate at the University of Magadh, Manjhi still continues to take care of his orchard.Most of the guavas are of the Allahabad Guava variant which is considered to be of high quality. He added that he has started making profits by selling guava."I urge the people of this country to start planting trees," he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-grows-orchard-of-10-000-trees-on-barren-land-in-bihar-s-gaya-101613193465455.html
13-02-2021||India||National Women's Day 2021: Political leaders remember Sarojini Naidu||On her birth anniversary, which is also celebrated as the National Women's Day in India, the first Indian woman president of Indian National Congress, Sarojini Naidu was remembered by political leaders across party lines on Saturday.Union minister Nitin Gadkari, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal posted on Twitter, offering their respect to Sarojini Naidu. Congress remembered her as an "activist for women’s rights", "the first Indian woman President of the INC", "the first woman to hold the office of Governor in the Dominion of India".भारत कोकिला के नाम से मशहूर, स्वतंत्रता सेनानी सरोजिनी नायडू जी की जन्म जयंती पर उन्हें कोटि-कोटि नमन।"National Women’s Day is celebrated each year on February 13 in honour of Sarojini Naidu’s birthday. She was an activist for women’s rights, she was the first Indian woman President of the INC the first woman to hold the office of Governor in the Dominion of India," the official Twitter handle of the Congress posted.Listed amongst the “150 leading women” by the University of London in 2018, Naidu was appointed as Congress president in 1925, and as India’s first lady governor of Uttar Pradesh in 1947. Her works in poetry reflect some of the serious themes, including patriotism, romance, and tragedy.Some of her prolific literary works are Golden Threshold, The Bird of Time: Songs of Life, Death, and the Spring, The Broken Wing: Songs of Love, Death and the Spring, The Gift of India, Muhammad Jinnah: An Ambassador of Unity, The Sceptred Flute: Songs of India, Kitabistan, The Indian Weavers etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-women-s-day-2021-political-leaders-remember-sarojini-naidu-101613191220075.html
13-02-2021||India||Congress in-charge in Bihar to launch next round meetings to revamp state unit||All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Bihar Bhakta Charan Das is set to embark on the second round of consultation with party workers next week in quest of a complete overhaul of the party unit in the state.Senior leaders of the state unit said that Das had already started serious talks with grassroots workers amid a growing number of claimants for the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief’s post.During his first round of visit to 14 districts last month when Congress leaders traded blame for the party’s poor performance in the last assembly polls, Das had assured that a new-look organization would be in place in the next couple of months in Bihar.Das had kicked off his first round of meeting with party workers on January 26 and it lasted for 12-days.His predecessor Shaktisinh Gohil had resigned after the humiliating show of the Congress in the assembly election. BPCC president Madan Mohan Jha has also offered to resign.Congressmen familiar with the developments said that Das’ keen interest to rejuvenate the party has boosted the workers’ morale. It has also boosted the list of leaders aspiring to lead the new state unit. Rajya Sabha member and chairman of the BPCC campaign committee Akhilesh Prasad Singh is said to be leading the race to replace Jha as the next state chief.Former governor Nikhil Kumar, AICC media panelist and former NSUI chief Prem Chandra Mishra, former BPCC chief Anil Sharma, working presidents Shyam Sundar Singh Dheeraj and Kaukab Quadri, MLA Shakeel Ahmad Khan, former party vice president Pravin Kushwaha, AICC member Kishore Kumar Jha, Kapildeo Prasad Yadav are also among those eyeing for the BPCC chief’s post.BPCC media in-charge HK Verma said that Das is likely to reach Patna on February 18 and travel to Mithilanchal and Kosi regions the next day, which also coincides with the opening day of the Budget Session of the state legislature. “Itinerary of Das’s visit is being finalized,” said Verma.Kishore Kumar Jha said that Das’ bid to establish dialogue with grassroots workers over the new shape of the party had raised hopes of the Congress getting back into the reckoning. “Das is the first in-charge, who unlike his predecessors, prefer spending his time with workers in the state. However, he urgently needs to set up a new team to plan the strategy for the party’s revival,” said Jha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-in-charge-in-bihar-to-launch-next-round-meetings-to-revamp-state-unit-101613192939381.html
13-02-2021||India||Security forces thwart drug smuggling attempt at international border; 1 shot down||Two incidents of smuggling were averted by the Indian security forces on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday at the international border (IB) in the Ferozepur sector in Punjab. The operation was jointly carried out by the Border Security Force (BSF) and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB).According to people aware of the developments, the NCB got a tip about an attempt to smuggle in drugs from the Pakistan side. The officials laid a trap at the IB.At around 2:30 am, the team heard some sound along the fence and fired eight rounds from 9 mm Beretta. At 2:45 am, another similar attempt was made in the Amritsar sector and a vigilant soldier of the BSF fired three rounds in the direction of the sound.During preliminary search, a PVC pipe and 14 packets of contraband were recovered from the first spot. A packet of heroin hanging on the fence and another in a wheat field about 10 metres from there was found at the second.The soldiers also recovered a body, about 25 metres from the IB. The patrol party had followed a blood trail, which led it to the dead body.People aware of the development say that the body is believed to be that of a smuggler who tried to run towards Pakistan after getting shot. One mobile phone, one magazine and a pistol have been found in his possession.This comes a day after the BSF troops found a plastic pipe and saw footmarks on both sides of the border fence in Chanmullah, in the Amritsar sector.An FIR was lodged in connection with the case and area domination beefed up in the wake of dense fog, which has shrouded the area for the past two days.Such attempts are regularly carried out from the Pakistani side to fund terrorism activities in India, the people cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-forces-thwart-drug-smuggling-attempt-at-international-border-101613192716109.html
13-02-2021||India||India records 12,143 new Covid-19 cases, 103 deaths in last 24 hours||India on Saturday recorded 12,143 new Covid-19 cases and 103 deaths taking the total tally to 10,892,746. The overall death toll reached over 1.55 lakh (155,550), as per the Union health ministry's coronavirus dashboard.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19In the last 24 hours, daily fatalities have slightly increased as for the past few days, the number was below 100.The national recovery rate stands at 97.32 per cent with a total of 10,600,625 recoveries. The recovery rate of the country is among one of the highest in the world.There has been a slight rise in the active Covid-19 caseload in the last 24 hours. Earlier this week, active coronavirus caseload had witnessed a sharp decline of plummeting from 1.48 lakh when the week began to 1.35 lakh reported on Friday.As per the health ministry data, the active coronavirus caseload in the country has risen to 1.36 lakh. However, total active cases in the country still constitute 1.25 per cent of the total cases. The mortality rate of the country stands at 1.43 per cent.Also Read | From 1.48 lakh active cases to 1.35 lakh, India witnessed sharp decline in Covid-19 cases in 5 daysThe nationwide vaccination drive in the country is in full swing as India crossed the milestone of seven million of immunisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-12-143-new-covid-19-cases-103-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101613192261657.html
13-02-2021||India||Sitharaman counters Rahul Gandhi's 'Hum do, Hamare do' with MNREGA data||The pandemic did not deter the government to take up reforms which will ensure sustained growth of the economy of the country, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Saturday in her reply to the discussion on the Union Budget in the Lok Sabha.Giving back to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's 'Hum do, Hamare do' which Gandhi had raised in the Lok Sabha to attack the government over farm laws. “Years ago there was a family planning slogan — hum do, hamare do (We two and ours two), but just like Corona has returned in another form, this slogan too has made a comeback. Today, four people run the country — hum do, hamare do,” Gandhi had said, without taking any name.Click here for the live updates from the Lok SabhaNirmala Sitharaman used the same slogan and said though Congress comes up with "very good schemes", it lacks the will of using those schemes properly as those schemes turn into devices to only favour "cronies" and "hum do hamare do"."Take the credit of giving birth to MNREGA. But also take credit for mismanaging it, for giving money to ghost workers," Sitharaman said.Addressing Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor, Sitharaman said, "Kerala invited one crony to develop a port — no bidding, just invitation. Because Kerala has no damad, Damad is here. Damads get land in states which are governed by some parties - Rajasthan, Haryana once upon a time""The budget combines stimulus with reforms and has an element to provide impetus to make India one of the top economies of the world in the coming decades. The budget took a courageous approach," the finance minister said.Attacking the tradition of India's post-Independence 'licence quota raj' Sitharaman said, "This budget draws on the experience of Prime Minister when he was the chief minister of Gujarat. He saw how licence raj constricted India's economy."Since Jan Sangh days, respecting India's entrepreneur skill and India's taxpayers has been followed, Nirmala Sitharaman said amid resistance from opposition leaders that the reference to Jan Sangh was irrelevant. "It is relevant as it was the precursor of the BJP," Sitharaman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budget-2021-draws-from-pm-modi-s-experience-as-cm-nirmala-sitharaman-101613191763266.html
13-02-2021||India||PMC to rehabilitate 110 slums, use robots to eliminate manual scavenging||The Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) signed a memorandum of understanding with the United Nations Population Fund (UNPF) on Friday to rehabilitate slums, eradicate manual scavenging and provide better reproductive health facilities to women in the city.The civic body aims to rehabilitate 110 slums by next year.PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma pointed out that Patna cannot achieve ‘smart city’ status without developing slums areas. He said, “With collaborative efforts, we aim to rehabilitate a total of 50 slums by the year-end while rest 60 will be rehabilitated by 2022.”For eradicating manual scavenging the civic body has procured a spider-shaped robot.\ic ‘bandicoot’.“Abolishing the inhuman practice of manual scavenging, our sanitation staff will clean and unclog clean septic tanks and manholes with the help of robots and machines. We will also set up three sanitary napkin packaging units in the city providing employment opportunities to women. Besides, women living in slums will be given better reproductive health facilities and family planning counseling,” he said.UNPF’s representative Argentina Matavel Piccin, who virtually attended the programme, said, “Slums are the major area which contribute to the increase of urban population. Overall development of any city can’t be achieved without the development of slums.”The PMC has also geared up for the installment of CCTV cameras at 500 places in Patna to enhance surveillance for checking crime and traffic norm violations along with construction of 25 public toilets. The civic body has also got approval from its standing committee to acquire 35 acres of land at Ramchak Bairiya dumping yard for setting-up a plastic waste management centre with an estimated expenditure of ₹5 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmc-to-rehabilitate-110-slums-use-robots-to-eliminate-manual-scavenging-101613190881848.html
13-02-2021||India||Better 'immune training' in poorer countries led to fewer Covid-19 deaths: CSIR||“Immune training” through repeated exposure to infections in poorer countries has led to fewer deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in comparison to those that have a high GDP (Gross Domestic Product) and Human Development Index, says a study by researchers at the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research.The study, recently published in the journal Current Science, looked at the co-relation between Covid-19 deaths and various factors such as urbanisation, sanitation, and population level prevalence of autoimmune diseases.“Better sanitation leads to poorer ‘immune training’ and thus could be leading to higher (deaths per million),” the study said.“From the beginning of the pandemic, we have seen that a higher number of Covid-19 deaths were reported from high income countries. We wanted to look at the reasons. And, we found improved hygiene and better sanitation co-related with more deaths. So did a higher age profile of the population,” said Dr Shekhar Mande, director general of CSIR.He said, “In Covid-19, once the virus enters the body it starts making copies of itself leading to the symptoms and the body fights it off by the tenth or twelfth day. However, around the eighth or ninth day, the body’s immune system goes into hyper-drive in some people and this is what kills them. So, we started looking at prevalence of other auto-immune conditions and these are the same countries that have a high prevalence of such diseases; there was a good co-relation.”The researchers found a high co-relation of Covid-19 deaths with auto-immune conditions such as multiple sclerosis (a condition where the body’s immune system attacks the layer covering the nerve fibres), rheumatoid arthritis (where the immune system attacks the joint linings), type-1 diabetes (where the immune system destroys the insulin-making cells), and psoriasis (where the immune system attacks the skin cells and increases its production abnormally).The study also looked at BCG vaccination coverage; several studies had hypothesised that countries with high anti-tuberculosis vaccine coverage saw fewer deaths because it trained the innate immune system of the body. However, the study found “negligible” correlation between the two.“Although our study shows that countries with poorer hygiene practices and sanitation had fewer Covid-19 deaths, it does not advocate maintaining the poor hygiene conditions. The best way to reduce Covid-19 deaths is to protect against the infection by wearing masks. Other studies done by our lab have shown that Covid-19 is majorly airborne and wearing a mask can reduce the chances of getting the infection considerably,” said Dr Mande.The study also added, “This analysis opens up avenues to consider ‘immune training’ with possibilities of microbiome therapies to supplement improved hygiene and sanitation practices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/better-immune-training-in-poorer-countries-led-to-fewer-covid-19-deaths-csir-101613189126922.html
13-02-2021||India||Tajikistan earthquake: Tremors shake cities in north India, Pakistan||People across North India felt strong tremors as an earthquake of magnitude 6.3 on the Richter scale struck near Tajikistan, according to India’s National Center for Seismology. People rushed out of their homes in Kashmir and Punjab and in other parts of north India, fearing the intensity of the tremors. Tremors were also felt across Pakistan’s Islamabad, Lahore and Peshawar.Initially, the seismology department erroneously had said that the epicentre was Punjab’s Amritsar, citing the depth of the earthquake at 19km. The national seismology department then confirmed that the earthquake was centred at Tajikistan in central Asia.“The epicentre is in the Hindu Kush Himalayan region where the Indo Australian plate is colliding with the Eurasian plate. It's a seismically highly active area. The tremors have been felt across Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Delhi NCR. However, we haven’t received any reports of damage yet,” said JL Gautam, head of operations, National Centre for Seismology (NCS) told Hindustan Times.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh also tweeted expressing concerns after reports of people rushing outside their houses due to the quakes were reported across Twitter.The United States Geological Survey said that the earthquake’s magnitude was 5.9 and centred 35 km west of Murghob in Tajikistan, Central Asia, according to news agency Reuters. The location was a sparsely populated area 420 km east of Tajikistan’s capital Dushanbe, said Tajikistan Emergency Situations Ministry on Friday.AP Pandey, a seismologist at the National Centre for Seismology, told Hindustan Times that the earthquake which happened in the Himalayan region was strong enough as its tremors were felt throughout the several north Indian states. He said, “As we know the Indian and the Eurasian plates are colliding, so the Himalayas are always active. This event happened towards the Eurasian plate but it was a very strong earthquake, so the energy was felt here also. Smaller aftershocks are possible but the source is very far. So it's unlikely to impact us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tajikistan-earthquake-tremors-shake-cities-in-north-india-pakistan-101613188113608.html
13-02-2021||India||Mughal Gardens to open for public from today||New Delhi [India], February 13 (ANI): The famed Mughal Gardens of Rashtrapati Bhavan are set to open to the public from Saturday with a display of various fauna and flora, including specially cultivated flowers that are expected to bloom in vivid colours in phases during this month.The 15-acre gardens will be thrown open for visitors at the presidential residence from today.Visitors can enter the Gardens for free from February 13 to March 21 between 10 AM and 5.00 PM and the Gardens will remain closed on Mondays for maintenance, according to a press statement from Rashtrapati Bhavan.This year, due to Covid-19 pandemic entry will only be available through an online booking facility and not walk-in-entry, unlike previous years.Various Covid-19 protocols along with sanitisation facility will be provided this year at the Rashtrapati Bhavan in order to curb the spread of the disease.President's deputy press secretary Kriti Tiwari said arrangements of drinking water, toilets and first aid are also being provided at various places along the route visitors will take.She also said that entry and exit for all online visitors will be from Gate No. 35 of the President's Estate, close to where North Avenue meets Rashtrapati Bhavan.This year, due to the pandemic, the online booking facility has been divided into seven hourly slots with 100 persons in each slot."Not more than five people will be allowed to stand at one place inside the premises of Rashtrapati Bhavan to prevent the spread of the virus," said Tiwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mughal-gardens-to-open-for-public-from-today-101613187238230.html
13-02-2021||India||Centre allows expansion of Odisha's Kulda coal mine despite air pollution fears||-The Union environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) has recommended environmental clearance for expanding the capacity of the Kulda opencast coal mine in Odisha’s Sundargarh district by 20%, overriding opposition by residents concerned over the project’s impact on their health, agriculture and water bodies.The mine’s output will now increase from the current 14 million tonnes per annum (MTPA) to 19.60 MTPA.The clearance was recommended on condition that Mahanadi Coalfields Limited (MCL) which owns the mine, will plant 100,000 native trees with broad leaves along the villages and 50,000 trees along the transportation route in two years to prevent air pollution, according to the latest minutes of the EAC published on the Parivesh website.The EAC has also directed MCL to operationalise three air quality monitoring stations by March, update related data in real time on the company website and display it in the mining lease area.Residents of nine villages in Himgiri Tehsil of Sundargarh district had written to the EAC last month that the MCL did not comply with conditions of the green clearance recommended in February 2018 for capacity expansion from 10 MTPA to 14 MTPA.In February 2018, an environmental clearance was granted only for a year, but it was extended to 30 years in January 2020. According to locals, the mine has not complied with environmental conditions since 2007, when it started producing coal.MCL, in its compliance reports, submitted that it had avoided transporting coal through any village. Residents have countered that claim with pictures of coal being transported through village roads.“The route through which transportation happens is flanked on both sides by our agricultural fields. The heavy dust pollution caused by the transportation has been damaging our crop production continuously,” the villagers said in their letter to the EAC last month.“The paddy cultivated by us in the last year was not sold at any mandi or with any vendor as they rejected it because of its quality and blackened colour as a result of the coal dust. This has become a grave threat to our lives and livelihoods. The coal dust also causes respiratory and breathing issues for the residents of the villages along which transportation happens.”A spokesperson for Coal India Limited, of which MCL is a subsidiary, said he was not in a position to comment on the opposition by locals. “We will get information and then respond,” the spokesperson said.Virendra Pradhan of the Jan Shakti Vikas Parishad, which represents 45 villages, alleged that MCL had lied to the EAC that coal was being transported through a coal corridor.“But there is no coal corridor, coal is transported on PWD (Public Works Department) roads through 45 villages....We feel choked because there is coal everywhere. People are not able to hear each other properly because of noise and our children have stopped going to anganwadis and schools because we fear they will be run over by trucks. We will continue our protests,” he added.Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at the Centre for Policy Research think tank, said the approach to enforcing environmental regulations presented at least three areas of concern.“First, expansions of the current scale are exempt from public hearings based on recent amendments made by the environment ministry. This has once again reduced the decision making to being a bilateral matter between a mining company and the central government,” she said“Second, the EAC has allowed the expansion despite full knowledge that the non-compliance of environmental safeguards has resulted in massive pollution in the area which in turn has impacted health, food security and mobility of people living around the mining and transportation routes. Third, neither the ministry nor the project authorities have carried out a risk assessment of extending the impact footprint despite heavy and publicly reported opposition in the area,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-allows-expansion-of-odisha-s-kulda-coal-mine-despite-air-pollution-fears-101613187028676.html
13-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: 13 mild earthquakes hits Delhi-NCR in 2020 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi-NCR experienced 13 mild earthquakes in 2020: Govt dataWhile the tremors felt late on Friday night was the first massive jolt in Delhi and NCR in 2021, government data shows the year 2020 was full of mild earthquakes for the National Capital Region. Read moreVaccination day 29: Healthcare workers to get 2nd shot beginning from todayIndia's vaccination drive which began on January 16 enters 29th day on Saturday, thus beginning the phase where second shots of the vaccine will begin to be administered. Read moreNo communal angle, business rivalry behind Mangolpuri murder: PoliceTension simmered in Delhi’s Mangolpuri on Friday after the murder of a 25-year-old man took a communal twist even as police said their investigations revealed that the crime was a result of personal enmity. Read morePM Modi to dedicate Arjun tank to nation on Sunday, Army to get 118 latest tanksIn yet another boost for Make in India in defence Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate the Main Battle Tank Arjun Mark1A to the nation on Sunday. Read morePriyanka Chopra channels inner CEO in well-fitted blazer worth Rs.54kIf you are a boss babe in real life, you should even dress like one. Seems like Priyanka Chopra believes in the statement. Read moreIndia vs England: 'We back him completely,' Rahane dismisses criticism over Pujara's slow battingIndia batsman Cheteshwar Pujara has been on top of his game for the past few years. Read moreHow the Congress G-23 came together | WatchIn the latest episode of On The Record, senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, spoke to Hindustan Times’ Sunetra Choudhury and Saubhadra Chatterji.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-mild-earthquakes-hits-delhi-ncr-in-2020-and-all-the-latest-news-101613185683263.html
13-02-2021||India||From 1.48 lakh active cases to 1.35 lakh, India witnessed sharp decline in Covid-19 cases in 5 days||India, with a total coronavirus caseload of more than 10.8 million, ranks second in the world map of Covid-19 but the situation is improving as the number of daily cases is on a steady decline. The national recovery rate of the country was 97.32 per cent on Friday, which continues to be one of the highest globally, as per the data of the Union health ministry. The consistent rise in the recoveries from the states is improving the national positivity rate. Daily recoveries have long overtaken the number of daily infections, indicating the flattening of the curve. On Friday, 15,858 recoveries were reported as against 9,309 new casesHere's how the Coronavirus situation was this week> The week began with India reporting 11,831 daily infections and less than 150 fatalities for the tenth consecutive day. 17 states and union territories (UTs) had not reported a single death due to the Coronavirus.>The fall in the total positive Covid-19 cases followed the next day too, with the country reporting less than 10,000 new Covid-19 cases. The active caseload in the country had dropped to 1.43 lakh from 1.48 lakh of the previous day.> While the number of fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Wednesday was over 11,000, the active caseload continued to plummet to 1.41 lakh. 33 states and UTs had reported less than 5,000 Covid-19 cases with 19 states and UTs, including Delhi, reporting zero death.Also Read | Over 7.76 million people vaccinated so far, 33 hospitalised: Govt> 12,923 Coronavirus cases were reported in the country on Thursday, increasing the active caseload to 1.42 lakh. The national recovery rate stood at 97.26 per cent, while 17 states and UTs reported zero deaths. India's active cases per million population (104) is among the lowest in the world.> On Friday, the number of new Covid-19 cases fell to 9,309 with a sharp decline in active caseload to 1.35 lakh. The total positive cases in the country is now only 1.25 per cent of the total cases.India, this week, became the fastest country to vaccinate more than seven million beneficiaries in the span of just 26 days. The milestone was crossed on Thursday. On Friday, only one state reported more than 1,000 new Covid-19 cases indicating a significant and overall fall in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-1-48-lakh-active-cases-to-1-35-lakh-india-witnessed-sharp-decline-in-covid-19-cases-in-5-days-101613185105885.html
13-02-2021||India||Delhi-NCR experienced 13 mild earthquakes in 2020: Govt data||While the tremors felt late on Friday night was the first massive jolt in Delhi and NCR in 2021, government data shows the year 2020 was full of mild earthquakes for the National Capital Region. According to the ministry of earth sciences, a total of 964 earthquakes of magnitude 3 and above were recorded last year and 13 of them were in the Capital Region and its vicinity.Earth Sciences minister Dr Harshh Vardhan recently informed the Lok Sabha that the ministry is exploring possibilities to take up a pilot study on earthquake early-warning system in collaboration with the United States Geological Survey.Strong tremors in Delhi-NCR: What we know so farLate on Friday night, an earthquake of 6.3 magnitude was felt across northwest India, including Delhi. The epicentre was in Tajikistan. Apart from Delhi, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir and Rajasthan felt strong tremors on Friday night.Between April and August in 2020, the National Capital Region recorded four minor earthquakes — the epicentres being in the region only. On April 12, the first tremor of 2020 was felt on the northeastern boundary of Delhi. The second earthquake took place on May 10.The region faces seismic hazards as it lies close to a faultline and following the minor earthquakes in 2020, the National Centre for Seismology started a geophysical survey of the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhincr-experienced-13-mild-earthquakes-in-2020-govt-data-101613184204275.html
13-02-2021||India||Vaccination day 29: Healthcare workers to get 2nd shot beginning from today||India's vaccination drive which began on January 16 enters 29th day on Saturday, thus beginning the phase where second shots of the vaccine will begin to be administered. With both the shots, the vaccination process will be completed and after 14 days antibodies against Covid-19 will be developed.Till Friday, India inoculated 58,65,813 healthcare workers and 19,00,506 frontline workers.Here's all you need to know about India's vaccination drive so far> India's vaccination drive is not only the largest but has also become the fastest one in the world. The World Health Organization praised India's inoculation drive.> The ministry has asked the states and UTs to finish the first round of vaccination of health care workers by February 20. Mop-up rounds can be held by February 25.India begins roll-out of second shot today> There has been a total of 24 deaths which took place after vaccination but none of the deaths is attributed to vaccination.> With the vaccination of health care and frontline workers going on, India will soon start vaccinating people above the age of 50 years and people below the age but with co-morbidity issues that make them more vulnerable to Covid-19.> A fake website offering vaccines in ₹4,000-6,000 has been blocked by the ministry.> Bihar, Tripura, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Lakshadweep, Mizoram, Rajasthan and Sikkim have vaccinated more than 70 per cent of their registered healthcare workers.> Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, West Bengal, Gujarat, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Odisha have recorded the highest number of vaccinations.> The Covaxin versus Covishield debate is still raging as Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo expressed apprehension over Bharat Biotech's Covaxin as its phase 3 trial data are still not available. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan in reply said in such "unprecedented times", a minister should not further vested interests.> It may be noted that Bharat Biotech's Covaxin shots have been sent to Mongolia, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Philippines, Bahrain, Oman, Maldives and Mauritius.> Covaxin's interim efficacy estimate will be generated by the end of February 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-day-29-healthcare-workers-to-get-2nd-shot-beginning-from-today-101613182117026.html
13-02-2021||India||‘Depressed over power bill’, farmer in Bihar’s Rohtas district ends life||A farmer who was said to be depressed over his electricity bill allegedly of died by suicide at his house in Naugain village of Bihar’s Rohtas district, police said on Friday.Following the incident, one of his minor daughters, aged 14, consumed pesticide but was saved due to timely medical help.The 48-year-old deceased had six daughters, two of whom are married.“My husband was already worried about the marriage of the rest of our four daughters. He got depressed due to the huge electricity bill and took his own life,” his wife alleged in a petition to the police at the Darigaon police station.Station House Officer (SHO) Umesh Kumar said, the farmer had a small piece of ancestral land on which he cultivated vegetables and used an electric pump set.South Bihar Power Distribution Company Limited (SBPDCL) executive engineer Prem Kumar Praveen said the farmer had taken a power connection in 2010.“He had deposited ₹10,000 in 2014, ₹10,000 in 2020 and ₹5,000 in February first week and ₹23,000 in dues was left. But his connection was running. How can one end his life for this amount?” Praveen said.Rohtas district magistrate Dharmendra Kumar said he has sought a detailed report from the executive engineer for further action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/depressed-over-power-bill-farmer-in-bihar-s-rohtas-district-ends-life-101613181322672.html
13-02-2021||India||‘Recced his office’: Jaish terrorist reveals Pak’s plan to target NSA Ajit Doval||A security dragnet has been placed at the office and residence of National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval after a disclosure by an arrested Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorist that he conducted reconnaissance at Sardar Patel Bhawan, and other high-value targets in the Capital on the instructions of his Pakistan-based handler, according to people familiar with the matter.Doval, who has been a target of terror groups operating from Pakistan since the 2016 Uri surgical strikes and the 2019 Balakot attack, is one of India’s most protected individuals. The possible threat to the NSA has been conveyed to security agencies and the Union home ministry, said the people cited above who asked not to be named.Officials in Delhi and Srinagar said information about a detailed video recce of Doval’s office was revealed during interrogation by Jaish operative Hidayat-Ullah Malik, a Shopian resident who was arrested on February 6.A case -- FIR number 15/2021 under Section 18 and 20 UAP Act -- has been registered against Malik at the Gangyal police station in Jammu. Malik, who is the chief of a Jaish front group, Lashkar-e-Mustafa, was arrested in Anantnag, and arms and ammunition were found in his possession.The people said that Hidayat told interrogators that, on May 24, 2019, he took an Indigo flight from Srinagar to New Delhi to record a video of the NSA’s office, including the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) security detail there, and passed it on through WhatsApp to his Pakistan-based handler. The handler was described simply as “Doctor”.Malik then returned to Kashmir in a bus. He also admitted to his Jammu & Kashmir Police interrogators that he conducted reconnaissance of the Samba Sector border area in the summer of 2019, along with Sameer Ahmad Dar, who was arrested on January 21, 2020 for his involvement with the 2019 Pulwama terror attack.Also Read | China surprises India with its speed, moves out 200+ tanks from Pangong TsoAccording to details accessed by HT, Malik provided a Hyundai Santro car for a suicide attack in May 2020, and confessed that he and three other Jaish terrorists -- Irfan Thokar, Umar Mushtaq and Rayees Mustafa -- looted ₹60 lakh from a J&K Bank cash van in Shopian on November 2020.The Jaish operator also disclosed names, code names, and phone numbers of 10 of his contacts in Pakistan, including the handler. J&K Police have passed the details to security agencies. Two of his contacts were later killed in Shopian and Sopore.Officials added that Malik told interrogators extensively about his background – that he joined the Hizbul Mujahideen on July 31, 2019; worked as an over-ground worker for the Jaish before that; shifted to Jaish in February 2020; and then raised a front group in August that year.Also Read | US NSA dials Indian counterpart, discusses efforts to unite on global challengesNSA Doval has a running battle with Jaish chief Masood Azhar -- as Joint Director, Intelligence Bureau, he interrogated Azhar after his arrest in India in 1994, and also escorted him to Kandahar airport after the IC-814 hijack in 1999.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/recced-his-office-jaish-terrorist-reveals-pak-s-plan-to-target-nsa-ajit-doval-101613180989307.html
13-02-2021||India||Gold, silver prices see volatility throughout the week||Gold prices remained volatile throughout the week with prices dropping by ₹661 on Friday bringing the cost of the precious metal to ₹46,847. The price drops are in line with the global price drops.Gold prices rose marginally on Thursday by ₹36 to ₹47,509 per 10 gram in line with firm global prices across international markets. The week started on a bright note for gold prices as it gained ₹94 to ₹46,877 per 10 gram on Monday. Silver prices also saw a spike of ₹340 to ₹68,391 per kg, from ₹68,051 per kg on Monday. The bright start was attributed by experts to the recovery in international prices. A report by PTI citing HDFC securities said that stimulus hopes in the United States (US) were also responsible for the rise in prices of gold.“Gold prices traded up from support levels on disappointing US payroll data and stimulus hopes,” Tapan Patel, HDFC Securities Senior Analyst (Commodities), was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.US stimulus hopes also powered gold prices on Tuesday as prices rose by ₹495 to ₹47,559 per 10 grams, one of the biggest gains of the week for the precious metal, while silver prices fell by ₹99 to ₹68,391 per kg.Silver prices fell by ₹783 to ₹68,884 per kg on Wednesday, while gold prices fell marginally by ₹38 to ₹47,576 per 10 grams due to rupee appreciation which led to the capping in the price of the precious metal.Silver prices soared by ₹454 on Thursday to ₹69,030 per kg, from ₹68,576 per kg in the previous trade. Gold prices gained marginally by ₹36 to ₹47,509 per 10 gram. Gold prices slipped below ₹46,500 last week marking an eight-month low. “Prices are attractive, but consumers are hoping they could fall further. They are delaying buying,” Ashok Jain, a proprietor of Mumbai-based gold wholesaler Chenaji Narsinghji was quoted as saying by news agency Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gold-silver-prices-see-volatility-throughout-the-week-101613179212815.html
13-02-2021||India||‘Not easy to force a tattoo’: Delhi HC grants bail to rape accused||The Delhi high court on Friday granted bail to a man accused of accused of raping a woman, on the grounds that his name was tattooed on her forearm and that “it is not easy to make the art if there is resistance from the other side.”While the woman had alleged that the accused forcibly tattooed his name on the woman’s arm, the court said it is not an “easy job to make a tattoo”.“In my opinion, making tattoos is an art and a special machine is required for the same. Moreover, it is also not easy to make such a tattoo which is on the forearm of the complainant if there is some resistance from the other side,” justice Rajnish Bhatnagar said in the judgment.“It is not everybody’s job and it is also not the case of the prosecutrix that the petitioner had anything to do with the tattoo business,” the court said in its judgment.The woman alleged that the accused forced her to have physical relations with him by threatening and blackmailing her. She asserted that physical relations continued from 2016 till 2019.The accused said the complainant, who was married, loved him and claimed they were in a consensual relationship. He said the FIR was registered only after she failed to convince him to maintain the ties.He also showed the photos of the tattoo on the woman’s arm and said she clicked selfies with him, exchanged garlands, attended festivities, and sent a him a Facebook friend request.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-easy-to-force-a-tattoo-delhi-hc-grants-bail-to-rape-accused-101613178661661.html
13-02-2021||India||Order banning protest has been withdrawn, cops tell Delhi high court||The Delhi Police on Friday told the high court that it has recalled an earlier notification that prohibited conducting protests at various places in the national capital.Justice Prathiba M Singh noted the submissions of advocate Gautam Narayan, representing the Delhi police, and asked them to decide within seven days on an application by a social activist seeking permission to conduct a protest at Jantar Mantar.Advocate Narayan told the court that the earlier notifications issued by the Delhi government’s Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) brought to contain the spread of Covid-19 is no longer in force.Narayan, however, said that other Sections like 144 CrPC might be in place for some areas in the city.He said that the petitioner, Nirmal Gorana, can file a fresh application to the city police to seek permission on the protest.Gorana, an activist fighting for the rights of bonded labour, had moved court challenging the decision of the Delhi police to deny him permission to protest to highlight the plight of the migrant workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/order-banning-protest-has-been-withdrawn-cops-tell-delhi-high-court-101613178146909.html
13-02-2021||India||BJP, Rahul Gandhi in war of words over claims of land being conceded||The Union government and leaders from the Bharatiya Janaya Party (BJP) on Friday hit out at former Congress president Rahul Gandhi for raising questions over the agreement between India and China on troop disengagement in eastern Ladakh, and called his comment an attempt to dampen the morale of the military.Minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy said the Congress MP should question his great-grandfather Jawaharlal Nehru who “gave India’s land to China”.Reddy was responding to Gandhi’s comments earlier on Friday that “the PM has given away sacred Indian territory to China”, and that the Indian Army held Finger 4 area in Ladakh along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) but now it will move back to its permanent position near Finger 3.“He must ask his great-grandfather (Jawaharlal Nehru) about who has given India’s territory to China, he will get the answer. Who is a patriot and who is not, the public knows it all,” Reddy said.In a press briefing, Gandhi raised questions about the disengagement a day after Union defence minister Rajnath Singh informed the Lok Sabha that the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) will retreat to its base east of Finger 8 on the north bank of Pangong Tso and the Indian Army will move back to its permanent position near Finger 3.“Indian government’s position was status quo ante in April 2020. Now, defence minister comes and makes a statement. We find Indian troops will now be stationed in Finger 3. Finger 4 used to be our territory. Why has PM Modi given our land to the Chinese?” Gandhi asked.“Why they have been asked to move back? There is no word on our most strategic area of Depsang plains. The government is mum on Gogra post and Hot Springs. PM Modi has stooped before China and given away the land between Finger 3 and Finger 4 to the Chinese,” he said.“There is no strategic advantage. Chinese were in our land. Our soldiers risked everything they had to go to Kailash ranges. Now PM has given back land and status quo ante is irrelevant. This is absolute 100% cowardice. The Prime Minister is a coward who can’t stand up to the Chinese,” Gandhi added.The Union defence ministry said in a statement that contrary to certain misleading reports being circulated, India had not ceded any territory as a result of the disengagement agreement.Senior BJP leader and Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi accused Gandhi, who is a member of the Lok Sabha from Wayanad, of demoralising the Indian security forces. “There is no cure if they (the Congress) are engaged in conspiracy to defame the country... they are trying to break the morale of the security forces,” Naqvi said.This is not the first time that the BJP and the Congress have sparred over defence and strategic issues. The BJP has in the past accused the Congress in general and Gandhi in particular of disrespecting the forces, questioning their defence preparedness and raising doubts about operations.In December 2018, Gandhi said that the Indian Army had conducted three surgical strikes in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) when the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government was in power but those operations were kept under wraps at the force’s insistence and accused the BJP government of turning a targeted September 2016 operation into a “political asset” to garner votes during the Uttar Pradesh elections.The BJP retorted by accusing him of insulting Indian soldiers. In response to Gandhi’s comment, the then BJP chief Amit Shah dubbed the statement as “an insult to the martyrs” of Uri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-rahul-gandhi-in-war-of-words-over-claims-of-land-being-conceded-101613174058496.html
13-02-2021||India||India begins roll-out of second shot today||India will begin administering second doses on Saturday to people who got a coronavirus vaccine 28 days ago when the drive was launched, sending automated SMS messages as well as using direct phone calls to make sure eligible recipients turn up for what will be a new logistical challenge for a campaign that is the most complex and voluminous than seen anywhere in the world.Government experts said recipients will not need to take their second doses exactly at the 28-day mark but a window of two weeks will be given – which means the doses will need to be taken 4-6 weeks after the first were administered.On January 16, over 202,000 people got the first doses.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage“The second dose can be given any time between four to six weeks. That’s the window period that we have,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health) of Niti Aayog, who took his first Covaxin dose on the launch day of January 16 and is likely to take the shot on Monday.“Though I am eligible to take the shot on February 13, I am most likely to take the second dose on Monday (February 15) as I am away,” he said.The states have been given the flexibility to reschedule appointments in case a beneficiary is not able to make it on the stipulated date. “An alternate date will be given to those who either are not available on the scheduled date assigned to them or miss the slot under certain circumstances,” said Paul.Reminders are being sent at regular intervals through a phone text (SMS) to all beneficiaries listed to take the shot.“There are people on job to ensure not a single beneficiary is missed. The second shot can actually be taken even up to eight weeks after having taken the first shot but the sooner it is the better, which is why up to six weeks is what is being told,” said Dr NK Arora, National Task Force member on Covid-19 vaccines.Dr Arora said he will take the second shot on Wednesday. “I have been scheduled on February 17 for taking the second dose. Even though February 13 the second dose process should start, I believe, the numbers will pick up after the weekend,” he added.Also Read | 4k health workers in line to get second Covid-19 vaccine shot todayA senior official, who asked not to be named, said the health ministry was confident of covering everyone who needs to take the second dose. “There is no question of people falling through the cracks as we have real-time information on who all have taken the first dose. It is all QR-coded and any changes automatically get updated on the digital database that the central and state governments can access. Teams are working to mobilise recipients and inform them about their next dosage schedule,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting anonymity.As on Friday, India has vaccinated 7.8 million people with first doses since January 16. While this is the quickest any country has delivered these many doses, India also faces one of the tallest targets – it has set a rough deadline of July-end to inoculate 300 million (roughly the population of the United States of America) of the people who make up the three priority groups: health workers, frontline staffers and people above the age of 50.Asked if India might miss the deadline, Arora said the said the campaign will be ramped up significantly in order to catch up. “We are looking at vaccinating 5 million beneficiaries per day in future as we have the capacity. In Polio, the government managed to vaccinate 170 million children in a week. So, it is not that big a target and will be achieved comfortably,” he said.According to HT’s tally of vaccinations based on figures released by states, there was an average of roughly 400,000 vaccinations every day over the last week.“It is marathon that we are trying to run and will pick up pace gradually. Everything will depend on the digital platform, Co-WIN, as it is a new software and we had to see how it functioned in real-time. Now that the platform has been streamlined, we can scale up in no time,” Arora added.Health experts said that next couple of months will determine how soon the vaccination process for the initial population groups is completed. “We still have got some time to see how things pan out. The pace has to be picked up, obviously, and it will depend on factors such as opening up vaccines for general population beyond the essential services; and how many more Indian vaccines get regulatory approvals so that more options open up. By April-May there should be some more vaccines approved and we will know how well the pace is picked,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, founder, Public Health Foundation of India.In Delhi, health workers said they have already begun reaching out to people.“After receiving the first dose of the vaccine, the recipients were given a card with details of when their next dose would be given. An automatic message is also sent by the CoWIN portal. However, we are not taking any chances. We have asked all the centres to call the beneficiaries and inform them that they are due for the next dose,” said a senior official from Northeast district in Delhi, which has been reporting the highest vaccination coverage.The officials said that the beneficiaries for now do not have a choice of where they will get the second dose.“Their names are listed against the centre where they received the first dose and will get the second dose there itself. For now, there is no option of changing the centre for the second dose,” said an official from Shahadara district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-begins-roll-out-of-second-shot-today-101613170746995.html
13-02-2021||India||16 killed in Tamil Nadu fireworks unit blaze||At least 16 workers were killed and over 30 suffered injuries after a blaze broke out at a firecracker factory in Tamil Nadu’s Virudhunagar district on Friday.Officials fear the toll could go up with several of those injured in a critical condition. They said some of the bodies were charred beyond recognition.The fire broke out around 1.45 pm at Sree Mariammal Fireworks, a licensed unit under the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) in Achankulam area.According to initial reports, the fire broke out when workers were handling chemicals inside the unit. The blaze quickly spread to nearby sheds and caused minor blasts.Virudhunagar district collector R Kannan said the unit employed about 70 people. “Some of them were out for lunch,” he said. “One of those inside who regained consciousness told us about what happened.”He said a first information report was filed against the factory owner. Police were looking for him till the time of going to press.Kannan said some of the bodies were badly damaged. “We couldn’t even identify if they were male or female,” he said.Rescue operations went on for a couple of hours. Ambulances and fire-tenders were pressed into service. Locals too rushed in for help.Of those undergoing treatment, at least four people sustained more than 90% burns, a senior health official said, requesting anonymity. “One person died during treatment.”Those injured have been admitted to three government hospitals in Sattur, Kovilpatti and Sivakasi. Medical assistance was also brought in from the neighbouring Madurai district, officials said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced an ex-gratia payment of ₹200,000 each to the families of those killed and ₹50,000 each to those severely injured from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund.“Fire at a firecracker factory in Virudhunagar, Tamil Nadu is saddening. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. I hope those injured recover soon. Authorities are working on the ground to assist those affected,” the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) tweeted.Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced an ex-gratia of ₹3 lakh each to the families of those killed and ₹1 lakh each for those critically injured.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi appealed to the state government to provide immediate “rescue, support and relief”. “Heartfelt condolences to the victims of the firecracker factory fire in Virudhunagar, Tamil Nadu...,” he tweeted.Virudhunagar district is known for its firecracker manufacturing units. Accidents are common, especially in Sivakasi. Ten years ago, 11 people were killed in three separate incidents in Sivakasi. Between July and August 2009, over 40 were killed in five separate fire incidents.“These fires are a recurring event and its always the workers who pay the price,” said Dharmesh Shah, a policy researcher and activist who has worked with firecracker labourers.“Ironically, it’s the same workers whose jobs the fireworks industry claims to protect every time there is a talk of a ban. If the industry is that concerned about its workers, it ought to treat them better and allocate more resources towards the health and safety of its staff,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-killed-in-tamil-nadu-fireworks-unit-blaze-101613165358954.html
13-02-2021||India||‘India to be a hub for foreign arbitrators’: Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad||Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told the Lok Sabha on Friday that India will become a major hub for international and domestic arbitration under the Narendra Modi government.Replying to the debate on the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Bill, 2021, Prasad said India’s ranking has substantially improved in terms of enforcement of contracts and said the country has some of the best judges and legal brains who are respected internationally.The bill seeks to ensure that all stakeholders get an opportunity to seek unconditional stay on enforcement of arbitral awards where the agreement or contract is “induced by fraud or corruption”. The bill intends to replace an ordinance issued on November 4, 2020.Prasad justified the ordinance route for the law, saying that it saves public money and also emboldens the legal options to act against any fraud even after an arbitrator has given his adjudication.With courts flooded with public interest litigations, the law minister took the opportunity to also appeal to the courts to only take “genuine” public interest litigations so that their time is not wasted. “Today I appeal to the judiciary to exercise their discretion in selecting the genuine PILs,” Prasad said, adding that elected representatives should be the sole authority to handle governance issues.The law minister said that under the law, which allows ample opportunities to create India as an arbitration hub, India will welcome foreign arbitrators. He further informed the House that the government is in touch with experts to seek suggestions on this issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-be-a-hub-for-foreign-arbitrators-law-minister-ravi-shankar-prasad-101613164826341.html
13-02-2021||India||‘First repeal farm laws’: Rahul Gandhi, BKU's Tikait intensify attack on PM||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Friday continued their attacks on Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government over the new farm laws at separate mahapanchayats in Haryana and Rajasthan, respectively.Addressing a rally in Rajasthan’s Hanumangarh district, Gandhi claimed that the new laws will render 40% of the people who are engaged in farming jobless, and the control will slip into the hands of corporates. “Agriculture protects food security of the country and India’s 40% people are dependent on agriculture which means crores of people are part of it, including small traders, workers, commission agents and others. The Congress has always tried that this business should not go to a single entity and it should stay in the hands of 40% people,” he said.Also Read | Playing by own rules, Rakesh Tikait propels farm protests into UPFor nearly three months, farm unions have camped outside Delhi demanding repeal of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, which farmers say favour big corporations. The Centre has refuted the concerns, and offered to put the laws on hold for 18 months, but talks are currently locked in a stalemate.The Congress leader urged the Centre to scrap the three agricultural laws before further talks with farmers. “PM Modi says in Parliament that he wants to talk to the farmers but what talks do you want with farmers? End these laws first and then farmers will talk to you. You are snatching away land and the future of the farmers and asking for talks with them, there is no need for talks. First cancel these farm laws and then talk to farmers,” he said.State BJP president, Rajasthan, Satish Punia said that “Rahul Gandhi should first reply on the poll promises made regarding farm loan waiver as still farm loans have not been waived off in the State which was promised during last assembly polls”. He said that the Congress is misleading farmers on the issue of farm laws which are brought by Modi government for the benefit of the farmers.In Haryana’s Bahadurgarh, Tikait, too, hit out at the Centre. “These people are making an attempt to store the food leading to increase in hunger. They are traders of hunger and they want to make a business of hunger in the country. Bukh ke saudagar ko jana hoga, ye lutreon ka aakhire badshah hoga, esko nahi jamne denge, esko jana hoga (The man, who is involved in the business of hunger will have to go, he (referring to Modi) will be the last ruler of robbers, we will not allow him to settle here and he will have to go now,” the BKU spokesperson added.Going firm on the demand for repeal of the agricultural laws, Tikait warned the Modi government that there will be “no ghar wapsi” till their demands are fulfilled.“We will not go back home until the barricades and iron spikes placed on Delhi’s borders are removed and their demands are met. The government has asked their people to build storage houses before bringing these three laws. If these laws were implemented, the corporates will control the market and they will ensure heavy barricading outside their storage house and a greedy man can’t be able to get a roti in the same way we can’t cross Delhi’s borders due to heavy barricades,” he added.The BKU further alleged that the people of Gujarat were being jailed by the government if they want to join the protest.“ The police have stepped up security outside the house of those who want to join our stir. The people are not allowed to come in trains to join our stir. We will visit Gujarat and ensure that the people should get freedom there too. The farmers from Karnataka and other parts of the country will start a march towards Delhi, if needed. The government has been banning our vehicles after a span of 10 years but the police are using the same vehicles for more than 20 years and without having any insurance cover. We will go back only, if these laws are repealed and after a formulation of committee to discuss hundreds of other issues related to farming,” Tikait said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-repeal-farm-laws-rahul-gandhi-bku-s-tikait-intensify-attack-on-pm-101613164471089.html
13-02-2021||India||Congress names Mallikarjun Kharge as Rajya Sabha leader of Opposition||The Congress has nominated Mallikarjun Kharge as the new Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Rajya Sabha, party chief Sonia Gandhi informed Upper House chairman Venkaiah Naidu on Friday -- three days before the incumbent Ghulam Nabi Azad’s term comes to an end.Ever since Kharge was brought in to the Upper House last year, despite his defeat in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, party insiders speculated that he is tipped to succeed Azad.Kharge, a Dalit leader, was the floor leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha between 2014 and 2019 and Union minister for railway and labour. He was also appointed as the party general secretary in charge of Maharashtra.In the party circles, Kharge is considered very close to Congress’s former president Rahul Gandhi. His nomination also signals that the party will be less accommodating while negotiating with the government for floor management and will work more in tandem with Gandhi’s line of action against the government. Recently, Gandhi was disappointed to see the party’s Rajya Sabha leaders participating in the debate on President’s speech while their Lok Sabha counterparts continued protests to demand a separate discussion on farm laws.According to party leaders, Azad had suggested to the party leadership that after his exit, the deputy leader Anand Sharma should be promoted as the LoP. Both Azad and Sharma were part of the group of 23 senior leaders who demanded sweeping changes in the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-names-mallikarjun-kharge-as-rajya-sabha-leader-of-opposition-101613163256686.html
13-02-2021||India||Budget aims to uplift poor, Oppn is spreading false narrative: FM Sitharaman||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday said the Union Budget 2021-22 aims to attain sustainable growth for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat (a self-reliant India) with enhanced allocations to key sectors and focus on uplifting the poor, but the Opposition was spreading a “false narrative” that the government was working for the rich.Speaking on the budget in the Rajya Sabha, Sitharaman said the budget was drawn from the experience of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, known for his commitment to development, growth and reform, and it was through these three things that Aatmanirbhar Bharat would be attained.Citing global recognition to India’s effective handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, she said: “False narratives were created... There is a lot of grudge in the speech of the former finance minister [referring to Congress leader P Chidambaram]... not to recognise how honourable Prime Minister handled the corona crisis. Today the entire world is seeing how we in India have had less deaths per million, we in India have less active cases when there are countries which are seeing wave after wave [of Covid-19]...”Chidambaram attacked the Modi government in the House on Thursday, calling its Budget a “disappointing” one, and labelling it a “budget for the rich, of the rich, and by the rich”. Earlier last week, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had said in a tweet: “Modi’s crony centric budget means- Struggling MSMEs [micro, small and medium enterprises] given no low interest loans, no GST relief. The employers of India’s largest workforce betrayed.”Reacting to the criticism, Sitharaman said: “It’s now become a sort of habit for some in the Opposition to constantly allege whatever this government is doing... False narrative is created to accuse saying, oh, this government works only for cronies.”She provided details of some of the work done by the government for the poor, including the completion of over 16.7 million houses for the poor under the PM Aawas Yojana, more than 26.7 million homes having been electrified since October 2017 and the total value of orders placed in the government’s e-marketplace being ₹8,22,077 crore. Sitharaman said all these benefits had gone to the poor and small enterprises and not to the rich.She said the total verified applications on the national scholarship portal were over 90 million and these people were getting scholarships. “Whom are these fellowships going? Are they going for the rich? Are they going for the capitalists? Are they going for the cronies who the UPA government had happily encouraged? And now to stand up [in the House], and each time create the false narrative,” she said.Also Read | ‘Very important business’: BJP issues 3-line whip to Lok Sabha membersSitharaman said approximately 16.9 million farmers were registered with e-NAM or the online National Agriculture Market to get connected across the country for better prices for their produce and not “constricted” by the local market. “Are these farmers rich, corporate farmers? No, not at all, they are small farmers,” she said.Speaking about the government’s disinvestment policy, Sitharaman said it was part of the reform process initiated in 1991. “The entire range the Congress party covered from high socialism [to] hybrid socialism with Indira Gandhiji’s Congress... which was nothing but ‘license-quota raj’. And from there to 91 [1991] without blinking an eyelid... They moved from the high socialism to come down to opening globalisation and everything else,” she said.Congress leader Deepender Singh Hooda said, “In about seven years of BJP government, on the economy, there is a big difference between what BJP says and does, and this budget also reflects the same.”Sitharaman said the Modi government’s policy is consistent with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Jan Sangh’s ideology of “Antodaya” or to take care of the people at the bottom of the rung. “At the same time, respect wealth creators, respect taxpayers, all citizens will have to be respected,” she said.Sitharaman said the criticism that the health and defence budget had been curtailed was incorrect and quoted the World Health Organization that water and sanitation were integral parts of health care. “So, increased allocation for water has been based on the objective to provide tap water to ensure health for all,” she said.Even the budget allocations to health departments per se had been substantially increased, she said. According to her, the budget allocations to the ministry of health and family welfare were raised by 9.6%, to the ministry of ayush by 40%, and to health research by 26.8% (year-on-year comparison with budget estimates or BE). Similarly, defence (revenue) saw 1.3% growth in the budget and defence (capital expenditure) grew by 18.8%, she said.Ram Singh, professor at the Delhi School of Economics (DSE), said the Budget for FY-22 has elements of realism, which is reflected in enhanced allocation in capital expenditure. “It is tailored to revive the economy in the short-run and accelerate the growth rate in the medium terms. The government expenditure is well targeted,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budget-aims-to-uplift-poor-oppn-is-spreading-false-narrative-fm-sitharaman-101613162727411.html
13-02-2021||India||Manipur police team gets ₹10 lakh reward for saving 3 workers from militants||Manipur chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh on Friday gave a reward of ₹10 lakh to the Imphal East District Police team for rescuing three workers from suspected militants.The ceremony, in which the reward (a cheque of ₹10 lakh) was handed over, was held at the Chief Minister’s Secretariat in Imphal on Friday evening.DGP Manipur LM Khaute led high ranking officers of the Manipur Police Department including IGPs and the SP of Imphal East District and others at the ceremony.Speaking on the occasion, Chief Minister Biren Singh said that suspected Kuki National Liberation Army (KNLA) militants abducted three workers engaged in the construction of a bridge at Laikhong near Nongpok Keithelmanbi under Imphal East District on February 7 at about 10 pm.After the matter was reported to the Thoubal Dam Police Station on February 11 at about 11.30 am, Imphal East District Police and Imphal East District police commandos immediately swung into action launching intensive search operations at Keihao, Henjang, Kamuching forest hill ranges, the Chief Minister informed.After a continuous search operation, he said, the team led by Imphal East Additional Superintendent of Police (Operations) Roni Mayengbam rescued the workers safely from a hill range located between Boljang and New Boljang village after a fierce gunfight that lasted for around two hours beginning at about 5 am on Friday. One AK-56 assault rifle was also recovered from the spot, he said.“The search operation will continue to arrest the suspected abductors who escaped taking advantage of the nearby jungle,” he said, urging people not to give shelter to such miscreants.The Chief Minister also lauded the Imphal East police team for successfully rescuing the workers. He announced that commendation certificates would be given to all the personnel and officers, who took part in the day’s operation.Later in a Facebook post on Friday afternoon, Biren Singh wrote, “Well done Imphal East District Police and Commando team for rescuing three labourers from their kidnappers today. Handed over a cash reward of ₹10 lakh for their bravery and the police team will also be awarded the Chief Minister's commendation certificates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-police-team-gets-rs-10-lakh-reward-for-saving-3-workers-from-militants-101613160538461.html
13-02-2021||India||Playing by own rules, Rakesh Tikait propels farm protests into UP||When, after months of peaceful protests, a group of farmers stormed the Red Fort and clashed with police in the Capital on January 26, farm unions feared the violent episode could spell the end of their gritty movement.Instead, Rakesh Tikait, a beefy leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), an influential farmers’ organisation, has managed to re-energise the protests and entrenched them in a new avatar in his home turf, the politically crucial sugarcane belt of western Uttar Pradesh. His model is now being replicated in other states as well, just as the model led by farmers from Punjab and Haryana, tens of thousands who are camped at Delhi’s Tikri and Singhu borders since November 26, was being replicated by Tikait’s group at the Ghazipur border.Also Read | Police escort Tikait’s car for ‘security’ near UP GateSince January 28, when the UP Police attempted to vacate the Ghazipur site only to see its number swell, Tikait has been holding a series of “kisan mahapanchayats”, or rural conclaves — respected village institutions of the landed Jat community where social decisions taken by elders are binding.Under him, therefore, the farmers’ protest against three new agricultural laws has branched off into a regional uprising. Analysts say his strategies diverge from those devised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the national platform of farm unions, in two ways.First, he has built a groundswell of support for the agitation by raising local farm issues, such as the problems of sugarcane growers, aside from the larger demand of scrapping the farm laws.Second, while farm unions at the national level have vowed to keep their agitation off-limits for political parties, Tikait has departed somewhat from this strategy. Prominent politicians from Opposition parties are freely attending his mahapanchayats, and speaking in them.Also Read | Farmers' protest: 'Ghar wapsi' only after laws are repealed, says Rakesh TikaitThe Tikaits belong to the Baliyan khap, a dominant clan among the Jat agrarian community in western UP, most which is made up of sugarcane growers. They voted overwhelmingly for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha, and the 2017 assembly elections.On February 5, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leader Jayant Chaudhary attended the “mahapanchayat” in Bhainswal village in Shamli, a Jat-dominated region of western Uttar Pradesh. On Wednesday, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi attended another gathering of farmers at Chilkana, Saharanpur to protest against the new farm laws.Politicians from the RLD and Samajwadi Party have so far attended gatherings in Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor, Mathura, Baghpat and Shamli, all in western UP.This sugarcane belt was the “ground zero” of the deadly Jat-Muslim clashes in 2013, which polarised votes in favour of the BJP since then. Analysts say the Jat-Muslim religious divide is now being bridged because of the farmers’ agitation. The Bhainswal mahapanchayat had seen heavy participation from Muslims.“Mahapanchayats have different connotations in rural settings. The current farmers’ agitation is being organised by informal all-inclusive mahapanchayats, which historically have great respect among the people,” said Sudhir Panwar, a professor of Lucknow University.“These mahapanchayats are a true extension of the diffused leadership. The classic example was the Bhainswal mahapanchayat which was inclusive of all castes of Hindus and Muslims,” he said.The glue for farmers in western Uttar Pradesh is an age-old problem of sugarcane farmers: pending dues from millers. “The government must ensure that all sugarcane arrears are paid. There are no bonuses on cane price this year. Why? The government must answer,” Tikait said. According to official data, millers owe nearly ₹11,000 crore to cane farmers in Uttar Pradesh in unpaid dues.Farmers have been camping for months on national highways leading into Delhi to demand the repeal of a set of laws approved by Parliament in September last year. The government has said that the laws will bring investments in the farm sector and give farmers more market access. Farmers say the laws will threaten their livelihoods by forcing them to sell to corporate giants instead of government-regulated markets.Tikait’s mahapanchayats in western Uttar Pradesh are now set to be replicated in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. Darshan Pal, a prominent farm leader from Punjab, said mahapanchayats will be held in Bahadurgarh Bypass (Haryana) on February 13, Sri Ganganagar (Rajasthan) on February 18, Hanumangarh (Rajasthan) on February 19 and Sikar (Rajasthan) on February 23.Their success would fly in the face of the government’s assertion that the farmers’ agitation is limited to the two states of Punjab and Haryana, said political analyst Milind Sharma of Osmania University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/playing-by-own-rules-rakesh-tikait-propels-farm-protests-into-up-101613160140393.html
13-02-2021||India||SC/ST intake drops in departments across IITs, shows govt data||Fifteen of 31 departments at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Delhi, and 16 of 26 in IIT-Bombay did not admit any scheduled caste (SC) student last year in their doctoral programmes as part of a broader trend of lower recruitment from marginalised communities at the PhD level in these prestigious institutions, data furnished by government in Parliament shows.When it came to enrolment of scheduled tribe (ST) students at the doctoral level, 19 departments at IIT-Delhi and five at IIT-Bombay didn’t admit any in 2020, according to the same dataset.The data was part of a response by the Union education ministry to a question by CPI(M) Lok Sabha member S Venkatesan in the Lok Sabha. The answer covered 23 IITs and provided information on SC,ST, other backward class (OBC)and economically backward class (EWS) students at the PhD level.At all levels, the numbers were lower than the designated level of representation fixed by the government’s reservation policy: 15% for SC, 7.5% for ST, 27% for OBC and 10% for EWS.Data showed some of the newer IITs had very few doctoral students from marganisalised communities. In IIT-Tirupati and IIT-Palakkad, there were zero ST student admissions in any department at the PhD level in 2020, while in IIT-Bhilai, IIT-Goa and IIT-Dharwad, there was just one ST doctoral student admission in the entire institute last year.Overall, the number of students stood far lower than the mandated quota. At IIT-Delhi, the percentage of SC doctoral student admission was around 7%, that of ST students around 2.5% and OBC students at 18%. These figures in 2019 stood at 6.4%, 1% and 15%, respectively, according to official data.At IIT-Bombay, the percentage of SC doctoral student admission was around 5%, that of ST students was 11% and OBC around 3%. These numbers stood at 8%, 1% and 20% respectively in 2019.At IIT-Madras, the percentage of SC doctoral admission was around 10%, ST around 3% and OBC around 23.5%. These figures stood at 8%, 4% and 24% in 2019.Many of the institutes refused to officially comment on the data, but some officials connected with PhD recruitment pointed out that the 2020 admission process was disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown imposed to arrest its spread, because the digital divide and poor internet access hurt poor and marginalised students in particular.IIT-Bombay said the institute strictly followed the government’s reservation policy and undertook extra efforts and lower cut off marks to fulfil the quota criteria.“IITs have very high expectations of our student input, which is needed to carry out research towards a PhD. While we do get sufficient candidates in certain departments, in some other departments, students of the required calibre tend to take up industry jobs rather than join for a PhD which has extra uncertainties and lower income levels during PhD and in some areas even post PhD. It is possible that the family background and economic level may have an impact on such candidates applying for a PhD,” it said in a statement.IIT-Kharagpur refused to comment on the matter. IIT-Madras, too, didn’t respond officially but a senior faculty member at the institute said the low numbers was a general problem across IITs.“A PhD research program is not like a curriculum where you can bring them up if they are weak by giving extra time and coaching. Research requires a certain level of academic credentials to even get started where these candidates often lack and so we have to consider this as a larger problem from its root,” he said.He said IIT-Madras received 7000-8000 PhD applications annually. “We finally select 400 from that large pool so the competition is really tough. But we do care and go easy on the initial filtration so SC/ST candidates can come in for interviews and we work towards applying the government’s reservation,” he said.IIT-Delhi refused to officially comment on the data but a senior official at the institute said the reason for no enrolment in certain categories of PhD courses was “unavailability” of eligible candidates. “In IIT-D we could not even fill all the seats in general category since we did not get enough eligible candidates. We could have admitted 200 more PhD students last year if we had candidates available. It’s not that IIT-D is discriminating or something,” the official added.Experts said the problem of lower enrolment at the PhD level was a longstanding problem, especially at prestigious institutions such as IITs and pointed to more systemic problems such as poor access to high-quality school education.“For first generation learners or Dalit students, we have to see how school education is. Also, science education in mofussil towns or villages is generally dismal. Government should try to strengthen school education and science learning to build a strong base,” said Vivek Kumar, a professor of sociology at Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University. “The problem is not of merit, it is of practice and access to quality education,” he added.Hansraj Suman, the chairperson of Delhi University’s (DU) SC, ST, and OBC teachers’ association, demanded the Centre intervene to resolve the matter. “There is no dearth of candidates but these institutes don’t find them eligible. Even after passing the entrance exams, the SC/ST candidates face discrimination during the interviews. The government should immediately seek a report,” he said.(With inputs from Fareeha Iftikhar in Delhi, Priyanka Sahoo in Mumbai, and Divya Chandrababu in Chennai)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scst-intake-drops-in-departments-across-iits-shows-govt-data-101613159889432.html
13-02-2021||India||TMC’s stand against Left, Congress raises questions in poll-bound Bengal||The strike was called in protest against baton charge and use of tear gas shells by the police during an agitation in Kolkata and Howrah by youth and student fronts of the Left parties on Thursday. To stop the young men from marching to Nabanna, the state secretariat, and voice their demand for jobs, the police even erected barricades similar to the ones witnessed during the farmers’ agitation in Delhi.The BJP alleged that with such a crackdown the ruling party is making space for the Left and Congress and helping them paw into the anti-establishment votes that helped the saffron camp rise in Bengal. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the Congress and the Left contested as opponents while the BJP won 18 of the 42 seats, thanks to a huge swing in Left votes towards the saffron camp.Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Friday did not support the general strike, calling it anti-development, and alleged that the TMC is helping the Left and Congress regain ground.“This is part of Mamata Banerjee’s tactics to dig into the BJP’s vote share,” said Ghosh.The allegation came against the backdrop of the soft stance TMC chief Mamata Banerjee and her leaders took towards the CPI (M) in January while her follower-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari openly appealed to Left and Congress workers to help the BJP oust the ruling party. “I appeal to our friends in Left Front and Congress to attend rallies of their parties but vote for us in the interest of Bengal,” Adhikari said at a rally in West Burdwan district in January.The Left Front’s decision to announce a general strike at such short notice surprised many since this was not the first time the police used force to disperse Left agitators. The Indian Secular Front, a new platform launched by popular cleric Pirzada Abbasuddin Siddiqui from Hooghly district, also supported the strike. Siddiqui has shown keenness to have a seat-sharing arrangement with the Left and Congress.Although Bengal’s Marxists took part in the all-India strikes called by trade unions and farmers’ fronts in the recent past, they did not organise any Bengal bandh in at least five years, Left leaders said. In 2016, the Left trade unions had called a general strike in Bengal but it saw poor response.In sharp contrast, roads, highways and railway tracks were blocked in parts of every district on Friday. Shops and established were closed in parts of north Bengal too where the BJP made maximum inroads in 2019. “Railway services were affected in several sections in the morning,” said K D Das, chief public relations officer of the Eastern Railways.“In a way, the strike helped the Left parties evaluate their presence on the ground,” said Manoj Bhattacharya, state secretary of the Revolutionary Socialist Party, a partner in the Left Front.CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, who was in Kolkata on Friday, claimed that success of the strike proved that a “Left, democratic, secular alternative” is rising and the contest is a triangular one.“How can Mamata Banerjee and Narendra Modi, who rose to power by leading processions, crack down on people’s movements today. They follow the same path and people are rising for their rights. The coming election is not one to seek change in regime but to protect our democratic rights,” Yechury said.“The TMC and BJP have created this narrative on a bi-polar election for their own advantage. It gives the BJP the opportunity to exploit people’s anger against the TMC while the ruling party gets the support of voters with secular views. In 2019, there was no alternative before voters. Now, there is one,” Yechury added.TMC leaders said Yechury and Ghosh were both wrong and the contest remains a bi-polar one. “Mamata Banerjee does not need parties with microscopic presence to win elections,” said a cabinet minister who did not want to be quoted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmcs-stand-against-left-congress-raises-questions-in-poll-bound-bengal-101613158948068.html
13-02-2021||India||Other friction points on table next: Centre||Outstanding problems with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra — friction points on the contested border in eastern Ladakh — will be tackled after full disengagement between rival soldiers in the Pangong Tso area, where mutual withdrawal of front-line troops is underway, the defence ministry said on Friday.This was the first official mention of Depsang, which lies south of Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) in a strategic area that the military calls Sub-Sector North, as a friction point after border tensions began last May.The outstanding issues related to deployment and patrolling at the three friction points will be taken up within 48 hours of pullback of troops deployed on strategic heights on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso, the ministry said in a statement.Disengagement in the Pangong Tso area along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) began on Wednesday.Also Read | India has not conceded any territory to China along LAC, says defence ministryIndia has not ceded any territory to China as a result of the disengagement agreement, the ministry said hours after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had given away land in the Finger area on the north bank of Pangong Tso to the neighbour. Gandhi asked why the government was silent on Depsang.“On the contrary, it (the agreement) has enforced observance and respect for LAC and prevented any unilateral change in the status quo,” the statement said. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told reporters that the agreement was reached after several rounds of sustained negotiations at the military and diplomatic levels.Giving out details of the Pangong Tso disengagement plan in Parliament on Thursday, defence minister Rajnath Singh said the PLA will retreat to its base east of Finger 8, the Indian Army will move back to its permanent position near Finger 3 and neither side will patrol the contested areas in between until an agreement is reached through future talks.Singh also told both Houses that India did not “concede anything” during the military talks, and added that there were still some outstanding issues at some other points along the LAC.Disengagement is progressing smoothly in the Pangong Tso area and it could be over in two weeks after which talks would focus on the other friction points, people familiar with the developments said on Friday.“Both sides on Friday withdrew more troops from the area for third straight day. Armoured and artillery elements retreated to their respective positions from heights on the south bank on Thursday. Infantry is now being pulled back,” said one of the officials cited above, asking not to be named.Focus will shift to Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra after Pangong Tso.PLA’s deployments in Depsang have hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes including the ones leading to Patrolling Points (PP) 10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13.The Indian Army’s patrolling activity has also been affected in Gogra and Hot Springs, where rival troops are forward deployed and where skeletal disengagement took place last year, but the gains could not be consolidated.“The synchronised and simultaneous disengagement process is seemingly progressing as planned. This augurs well for subsequent disengagement from other friction points. While we may not trust the Chinese post the Galwan Valley clash, we need to trust ourselves and the armed forces to protect our interests,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations.The disengagement will be phased, coordinated and verified at all friction points. It could be a time-consuming process and take several months, said a second official. The external affairs ministry didn’t go into specifics such as the next steps for disengagement during a regular news briefing on Friday, with Srivastava saying these issues were spelt out in Singh’s statements in both Houses.“It will be a long-drawn process and should hopefully be followed by de-escalation and de-induction. There should be some clarity on timelines after the next round of military talks. As long as disengagement is successful, time is not of essence,” said Bhatia.The current disengagement involves pulling back troops deployed eyeball-to-eyeball on the Finger 4 ridgeline at heights of almost 18,000 feet as well as withdrawing soldiers holding positions on the Kailash range on the south bank.Addressing a press conference, Gandhi said Indian troops will now be stationed at Finger 3 while Finger 4 used to Indian territory.“The assertion that Indian territory is up to Finger 4 is categorically false. The territory of India is as depicted by the map of India and includes more than 43,000sq km currently under illegal occupation of China since 1962,” the defence ministry said.Before PLA grabbed positions on Finger 4, the Indian Army would patrol right up to Finger 8 that New Delhi considers within Indian territory. The new positions held by the PLA curtailed the scope of Indian patrols. Fingers 4 and 8 are 8km apart. The Indian claim line in this sector extends to Finger 8, while the Chinese claim is up to Finger 4.Srivastava responded to questions on why India had agreed to a buffer zone in the area between Finger 4 and Finger 8 by saying that the defence ministry’s statement had set the record straight on “wrongly understood information.”The defence ministry statement said the government had reposed full faith in the armed forces for safeguarding India’s interests and territory in eastern Ladakh.“Those who doubt the achievements made possible by the sacrifices of our military personnel are actually disrespecting them,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/other-friction-points-on-table-next-centre-101613157722822.html
13-02-2021||India||India has received letter from Myanmar's military on coup, says MEA||India said on Friday it had received a letter from Myanmar’s military administration outlining reasons for the removal of the elected government, even as New Delhi continued to engage with other players on the fallout of the February 1 coup.Defying the military government’s call to halt mass gatherings, hundreds of thousands joined pro-democracy demonstrations across Myanmar on Friday. At several places, anti-coup protesters clashed with police, though protests by more than 100,000 people in Yangon were largely peaceful.Friday’s protests were the largest so far, and came a day after US President Joe Biden imposed new sanctions against the top military officials who ordered the coup that removed the elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi.“Yes, we have received the letter and I believe such a letter has also been sent to other governments,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a news briefing, referring to the letter sent to India by Myanmar’s military administration. He didn’t give details of the letter or India’s response to it.Srivastava said India had already made its position clear soon after the coup on February 1. “We believe that the rule of law and the democratic process must be upheld,” he said.“As immediate neighbours with close cultural and people-to-people ties as well as relations strengthened by exchanges in trade, economy, security and defence, we are closely monitoring developments in [Myanmar]. We will remain engaged with all concerned on this issue,” he added.The developments in Myanmar figured in telephone conversations between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Biden on February 8 and external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his US counterpart Antony Blinken on February 9. “India and the US have agreed to remain in contact and exchange assessments on the situation,” Srivastava said.On Thursday, Jaishankar and his Australian counterpart Marise Payne discussed the situation in Myanmar, reflecting the growing coordination between the four members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad on the issue.Blinken discussed ways to strengthen cooperation with allies and partners of the US to address the coup in Myanmar during a phone call with Japanese foreign minister Toshimitsu Motegi on Wednesday.While the US has adopted a tough position on Myanmar in line with Biden’s approach of upholding democratic norms, India has adopted a more cautious position because of security concerns linked to its north-eastern states. India has close ties with both the civilian and military leadership of Myanmar, and the security relationship between the two sides is crucial to tackling militancy in the north-eastern states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-received-letter-from-myanmar-s-military-on-coup-says-mea-101613156313400.html
13-02-2021||India||Strong tremors in Delhi-NCR: What we know so far||Thousands of people rushed out of their houses after a strong earthquake jolted several parts of northern India late on Friday night. Punjab’s Amritsar and Ludhiana, Jammu and Kashmir, Delhi, National Capital Region (NCR) and Rajasthan’s Jaipur were among the places which felt the strong tremors.The tremors were also felt across Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana.According to the National Seismic Monitoring Centre, the epicentre of the earthquake was in Tajikistan, with a depth of 80km. According to the initial reports. no loss of life or property was reported so far.Also read: Earthquake felt in Delhi-NCR, parts of north IndiaTremors were also felt in Pakistan’s Islamabad and major cities of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, Punjab provinces and Pakistan occupied-Kashmir.Here is what we know so far about the earthquake:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strong-tremors-in-delhi-ncr-what-we-know-so-far-101613151894256.html
13-02-2021||India||Supreme Court grants Centre six weeks to decide on Rajoana's pardon||The Supreme Court on Friday gave the Centre six more weeks to decide on granting pardon to Balwant Singh Rajoana, accused of killing former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh in August 1995.The Centre told the Court on Friday that the mercy petition for pardoning Rajoana was still pending with the President of India. Appearing before a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said, “The petitioner is accused of assassination of former Chief Minister Beant Singh of Punjab possibly over differences over the Khalistan issue. Since the President will take his own decision, the Court may await the decision of the President.”The bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, asked Mehta, “Can you indicate a time-frame.” Mehta requested the Court to have it after six weeks. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi who appeared for Rajoana opposed this request claiming that the man has been in jail for over 25 years. The mercy plea filed on his behalf by various Sikh organizations and individuals have been pending decision since March 2012. Rajoana has neither moved any mercy petition nor appealed against his death sentence before any Court.This is the second consecutive adjournment request by the Centre. On January 8, the Centre informed the Court that the Ministry of Home Affairs had processed the file at its end. On January 25, when the matter was next heard, the Centre sought three weeks claiming, “The government is examining the matter. Under the present circumstances please have it after three weeks.”The Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee, Amritsar and the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee had moved separate mercy pleas seeking pardon for Rajoana in March 2012. The petitions were filed before the President of India under Article 72 of the Constitution. On March 27, 2012, the President’s Secretariat forwarded the two mercy petitions along with several similar appeals received from various organizations and individuals supporting Rajoana’s release to the Ministry of Home Affairs.In his petition filed through advocate Rupesh Kumar, Rajoana had stated that on September 27, 2019, the Centre wrote a letter to Punjab Chief Secretary affirming that the mercy plea of Rajoana is to be processed under Article 72 of the Constitution coinciding with the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. When the same was not done, Rajoana came to the top court to remind the Centre of its resolve.Rajoana was sentenced to death on July 27, 2007, when the trial court found him and his associate Jagtar Singh Hawara guilty of killing the former Chief Minister by triggering a bomb blast at the Punjab and Haryana Civil Secretariat on August 31, 1995. Later, on October 12, 2010, the Punjab and Haryana High Court confirmed the death penalty on Rajoana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-grants-centre-six-weeks-to-decide-on-rajoana-s-pardon-101613155540050.html
13-02-2021||India||Strong tremors shake north India, Pakistan, no major damage||Strong tremors were felt in northern India and Pakistan on Friday and many residents ran out of their homes, witnesses said.The US Geological Survey put the quake's magnitude at 5.9 and centred 35 km (55 miles) west of Tajikistan in central Asia.Cracks were reported in some homes in northern Kashmir, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said. A witness also reported a wall collapse near the northern Indian city of Amritsar, but there were no reports of casualties.Also Read | Earthquake felt in Delhi-NCR, parts of north IndiaG. Suresh, a senior scientist at the IMD, told Reuters there were two earthquakes within 10 minutes in Tajikistan and Sichuan, China. An Indian government monitor had earlier said the quake was centred near Amritsar."The seismic waves have been mixed up in data monitoring," he said.Tremors were felt across Pakistan including the capital, Islamabad, and northwestern Peshawar, and even as far as the eastern city of Lahore, which borders India.Also Read | Aftershocks possible but may not impact India: NCS scientist after 6.3 quakeIn Muzaffarabad, where a 2005 earthquake wreaked serious destruction, there was mass panic, according to witnesses and many rushed out of their homes in fear."I thought it's the same like what had hit us in 2005. My children started crying," said Asif Maqbool, a resident in Madina Market, a neighbourhood of Muzaffarabad that was almost flattened in the 2005 quake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strong-tremors-shake-north-india-pakistan-no-major-damage-101613154559405.html
13-02-2021||India||Aftershocks possible but may not impact India: NCS scientist after 6.3 quake||Smaller aftershocks and tremors are likely after an earthquake of 6.3 magnitude hit Tajikistan at 10.31 pm on Friday, but due to the distance of northwest India from the epicentre it is unlikely to impact national capital Delhi and surrounding areas, senior seismologists at the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) said.The strong earthquake had its epicentre in Tajikistan with latitude of 38 N and longitude 73.58 E and recorded a depth of 74 km.“The epicentre is in the Hindu Kush Himalayan region where the Indo-Australian plate is colliding with the Eurasian plate. It’s seismically highly active area. The tremors have been felt across Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Delhi NCR. However, we have not received any reports of damage yet,” said JL Gautam, head, (operations) at the National Centre for Seismology (NCS).“As we know the Indian and the Eurasian plates are colliding, so the Himalayas are always active. This event happened towards the Eurasian plate but it was a very strong earthquake, so the energy was felt here also. Smaller aftershocks are possible but the source is very far so it’s unlikely to impact us,” said AP Pandey, seismologist at National Centre for Seismology.Earlier, initial reports by the National Centre of Seismology had suggested it was an earthquake of 6.1 magnitude with its epicentre in Amritsar, Punjab. But, a little later the report was corrected by NCS. Social media platforms were abuzz with people in Delhi-NCR sharing videos of fans, lights and other fixtures oscillating during the strong tremors felt.Neighbouring Pakistan also reported strong tremors of magnitude 6.4 on Friday night. However, no loss of life or property has been reported yet. Tremors were felt in capital Islamabad and major cities of the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, Punjab provinces and also in Pakistan occupied-Kashmir.Pakistan geologically overlaps the Eurasian and Indian tectonic plates and is an earthquake-prone zone. The Chaman Fault poses the biggest threat of earthquakes to the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aftershocks-possible-but-may-not-impact-india-ncs-scientist-after-6-3-quake-101613153173221.html
13-02-2021||India||Political parties trade barbs over 25-year-old’s killing in Mangolpuri||A political blame game erupted between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Congress over the murder of 25-year-old Mangolpuri resident Rinku Sharma, which took a communal angle as posts circulated by political leaders over social media gained popularity on Friday.While the AAP and the Congress questioned the deteriorating law and order situation in Delhi demanding home minister Amit Shah’s intervention, the ruling BJP questioned Delhi chief minister’s Arvind Kejriwal “silence” on the matter and demanded a compensation of ₹1 crore for Sharma’s family. Some BJP leaders on social media asked for “justice” for Sharma, with one of them, Kapil Mishra even suggesting he was killed for collecting money for the Ram temple in Ayodhya.Delhi Police have arrested five persons in connection with the murder that took place on Wednesday night, and have maintained that Sharma’s death was on account of personal enmity, and a dispute that arose at a birthday party.Also Read | No communal angle, business rivalry behind Mangolpuri murder: PoliceOn Friday, president of Delhi BJP Adesh Gupta said: “Why is Kejriwal silent on Rinku’s murder?... AAP leaders in the Delhi government leaders announce compensation and condemn such incidents when they go to UP, Bengal, MP and other states. But when such incidents take place in Delhi, the CM doesn’t even utter a word. The state government should give a compensation of ₹1 crore to the family.”BJP leader Kapil Mishra claimed on Twitter that Sharma was murdered by “jihadis. He said on Twitter that since the person who died had a Hindu name, the CM would not step in to help the family financially. Mishra also urged people to come forward and collect money for the family.Gupta and BJP parliamentarian Hans Raj Hans visited Sharma’s family on Friday. Hans Raj Hans also met senior police officials and demanded speedy probe into the matter. Separately, AAP legislator Rakhi Birla also paid the family a visit.The AAP released a statement on Friday stating that the law and order situation in Delhi needed improvement. “The law-and-order situation in Delhi has badly deteriorated. Many such incidents show that the MHA (Union minister of home affairs) has failed to maintain the law-and-order situation in Delhi. We strongly condemn this gruesome killing and urge the MHA to take urgent steps to restore people’s faith in the law-and-order system of Delhi.”AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj tweeted, “Rinku Sharma’s murder is a blot on humanity. The guilty should be given the strictest punishment in accordance with the law. Also, Union home minister Amit Shah should immediately convene a meeting with the elected government in Delhi on the law-and-order situation in Delhi. Necessary steps should be taken to ensure that such incidents do not happen again. Otherwise, things like this would keep repeating.”The Congress, too, hit out at the ruling BJP for deteriorating law and order situation in the city. “Crime rate in Delhi is increasing in the city. In the past one year, rioters have tried to damage the city. Due to the current law and order situation, such anti-social elements feel emboldened. Strict action should be taken against those involved in Rinku Sharma’s murder,” Delhi Congress vice-president Abhishek Dutt said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-parties-trade-barbs-over-25-year-old-s-killing-in-mangolpuri-101613152947420.html
13-02-2021||India||No communal angle, business rivalry behind Mangolpuri murder: Police||Tension simmered in Delhi’s Mangolpuri on Friday after the murder of a 25-year-old man took a communal twist even as police said their investigations revealed that the crime was a result of personal enmity.Police said extra force was deployed in the area -- in north-west Delhi -- as the killing of Rinku Sharma, who was stabbed while returning home from a birthday party on Wednesday night, appeared to turn political owing to his links with some Hindu groups.Some leaders from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) -- including Kapil Mishra and Delhi unit chief Adesh Gupta -- said on social media that Sharma was collecting money for construction of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. Mishra even linked the killing to the collection drive, as posts demanding “justice” for Sharma gained traction through the day.Gupta and party MP Hans Raj Hans also visited Sharma’s house to meet his family, as did Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Rakhi Birla.Delhi Police, who on Friday arrested a fifth person in relation to Sharma’s death, however, said that Sharma and the accused were known to each other for a long time, got into a fight at a party over the shutting down of a mutual friend’s restaurant, and the row escalated into Sharma being stabbed later that night.The five arrested are Mohammad Danish,36, Mohammad Islam, 45, Zahid, 26, Mohammad Mehtab, 20, and Tajuddin, 39.Denying any communal angle to the murder, the official handle of deputy commissioner of police (outer) tweeted at 10.26am:“So far, during investigation, it has surfaced that quarrel started during a birthday party over shutting down of a restaurant... All persons are known to each other and live in the same locality. Any other motive alluded to this incident is factually wrong.”Sharma’s family members, however, said on Friday that some of the accused had fought with him last August because of his links with Hindu groups. “Rinku was associated with Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal. Last year in August when Rinku and his friends carried out a Ram Rath Yatra (procession), these people objected to it and fought with him. It is a retaliation of that which led to his murder,” Sharma’s brother Mannu said, adding that some of the accused objected to reciting the Hanuman Chalisa outside his house.Sharma worked as a lab technician at a private hospital. His father works in an export firm.Reacting to the family’s statement, Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said investigators were looking into all possible angles.Detailing the background sequence of events leading to Sharma’s murder, police said that Sharma was a friend of Akash (second name not known) whose younger brother Sachin had opened a restaurant in Rohini last year. The restaurant shut down shut due to losses, and Sachin blamed their acquaintance Zahid — who also owns a restaurant in the same area — for this.Police said that Sharma, Akash, Sachin, Zahid and another friend, Golu, were at the birthday party on Wednesday night. An argument broke out between Sachin and Zahid, during which Sachin slapped Zahid, leading to a scuffle that also involved Golu and Sharma. As the fight escalated, Zahid called his uncle Islam, and acquaintances Danish and Mehtab. Later, when Sharma and Akash were heading home from the party, Zahid, and his accomplices Danish, Islam and Mehtab intercepted and assaulted them.Police said Danish stabbed Sharma with a knife, and Akash, who tried to save him, was also injured in the attack. Sharma was rushed to a nearby hospital, where the doctors pronounced him dead. The hospital staff reported the matter to the police.Reacting to the police saying there was no communal angle in Sharma’s murder, Mishra said: “Police needs to listen to the family before coming to a conclusion. This is not an isolated incident in Delhi. Ankit Saxena, Dhruv Tyagi, Dr Narang, all were killed in the same manner. Police have to improve a lot.”The AAP called for strict punishment to the perpetrators but appealed that the incident not be given a communal colour. “The Aam Aadmi Party demands that strictest action be taken against those found guilty in the case. They should be arrested, jailed and hanged. The punishment should be strictest, in accordance with the law of the land. Secondly, we also urge people not to give communal colour to the incident,” AAP leader Durgesh Pathak said.Speaking about the circumstances behind the arrest, additional deputy commissioner of police (outer) Sudhanshu Dhama said that Danish and his friends were identified early in the probe, and caught in a police raid.“Sharma and Danish lived in the same area and were familiar with each other. Medical examination revealed that Sharma had one stab wound in his abdomen and probably died of excessive bleeding. While Danish and Islam work as tailors, Zahid is a third-year college student and Mehtab is a student of Class 12. All of them are adults. None of them have any previous criminal involvement. Further probe is underway,” he said.Experts cautioned against allowing the incident to turn into a communal issue.“To make sure that the matter is not blown out of hand, the police should loudly proclaim the real reason behind the murder. If some politicians are flaring up the matter, their party leaders must be apprised of the situation and they must intervene to stop anything like this from snowballing into a communal riot-like situation,” said Julio Ribeiro, former chief of police in Bombay and Punjab, adding that the incident seemed to be due to personal enmity.Former Delhi Police commissioner Neeraj Kumar said in such situations police must make sure that those spreading misinformation are under preventive custody. “Preventive deployment can help control the situation from flaring up and maintaining law and order. The involvement of local leaders also helps in pacifying the residents. Decisions are to be taken according to the situation on the ground,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-communal-angle-business-rivalry-behind-mangolpuri-murderpolice-101613152887390.html
13-02-2021||India||China’s actions along LAC led to distrust, confrontation: Army chief||China’s rising footprint in India’s neighbourhood, coupled with that country’s attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo along disputed borders, has led to confrontation and mutual distrust, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Friday.His comments, at a seminar on evolving security challenges in the country’s North-east and the way forward, come at a time when disengagement between Indian and Chinese troops is underway in the Pangong Tso area of eastern Ladakh.The army chief said the regional security environment was characterised by Chinese belligerence in the Indo-Pacific, Beijing’s hostility towards weaker nations, and its relentless drive to create regional dependencies through steps such as the multibillion-dollar Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) – a state-backed global infrastructure development project covering scores of countries.Also Read | Other friction points on table next: CentreSince it was unveiled in 2013 by President Xi Jinping, BRI has expanded to cover a vast swathe of territory from South America to the Arctic, and includes plans to build a vast network of highways, ports, power plants, pipelines, and other infrastructure. Both India and the United States oppose BRI because it favours Chinese firms and Beijing employs predatory lending practices.“The resultant Sino-US rivalry has created regional imbalances and instability,” Naravane said.He said a renewed focus on the North-east was in order in the wake of the ongoing security dynamics across India’s borders and the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.“Although endowed with natural resources, the North-east is a laggard in growth and development. Protracted insurgencies, legacy issues further accentuated after partition and inefficient integration with rest of India account for much of what the region faces today,” Naravane said.Experts said China’s actions were aimed at curtailing India’s leadership role in the neighbourhood.“China’s aggressive behaviour along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as part of its strategy of military coercion, and increased footprint and investments in India’s neighbourhood, aim at restricting India’s strategic space and leadership role,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations.Naravane added that the security situation in the North-east had improved significantly and two army divisions had been pulled out of counter-insurgency and internal security duties, and were now solely focused on their operational role along the northern borders. “This has been a significant achievement. The operational responsibility of these areas has now been taken over by the Assam Rifles,” he said.The move will help the army focus on the borders and train for conventional operations. Several parliamentary panels have made recommendations in their reports to reduce the army’s exposure to counter-insurgency and counterterrorism duties because it results in blunting the force’s focus on its main task -- defending the country from external aggression.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinas-actions-along-lac-led-to-distrust-confrontation-army-chief-101613152408404.html
13-02-2021||India||SC seeks govt, Twitter replies on fake news plea||The Supreme Court on Friday sought responses from Twitter India and Centre on a petition demanding regulation of “fake and seditious” content and advertisements circulated on social media platforms from unverified accounts.The petition filed by Delhi Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) unit’s IT and Social Media Cell chief Vinit Goenka cited the recent order of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued on February 1 directing Twitter to block more than 250 Twitter accounts found to promote fake and provocative contents. Goenka accused Twitter of creating hatred in society by circulating, publishing, and promoting seditious contents and sought a mechanism to deal with such content.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde issued a notice and tagged it with two similar petitions pending in Court on the issue of regulating content on social media. In October 2020, the Court issued notice on a petition by two law students demanding profile verification of social media accounts in order to weed out illicit and graphic content uploaded on social media.Appearing for Goenka, advocate Ashwini Dubey argued that there was an urgent need for the Court to interfere since, he claimed, there was no law is in place to prevent circulation of anti-national content and posts that spread hatred based on fake news.“In the absence of any law to deal with offensive and hatred messages, platforms like Twitter are knowingly promoting the messages which are against the law of the land and therefore, the Respondent No.4 (Twitter) needs to explain for circulating and promoting the prohibited content,” the petitioner said.With notices been issued, responses have to be filed to the petition by Twitter and the two Central departments – ministry of law and justice and ministry of information and broadcasting.The petition comes a day after the Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who also has the charge for the ministry of electronics and information technology, warned social media companies that they cannot ignore Indian law and told parliament that new rules and codes were in the works for social media companies to follow.This month, Twitter has been locked in a rare confrontation with the Union government after being given orders to block over 1,300 links -- entire profiles as well as posts -- for alleged incitement during the January 26 farm protest-linked violence. The company complied partially, saying that the orders were not consistent with the law, prompting the government as well as legal experts to accuse it of ignoring the rule of law.At present, Twitter enjoys a considerable presence in India. According to the petition, 10 per cent of 3.5 million Indian accounts are fake with some of their bearing names and profiles of top constitutional functionaries in the country that tends to mislead the common man.“Fake accounts are used to promote casteism, communalism, regionalism, linguism,” the petition stated by citing what it said were posts posts by separatist organizations such as Sikhs for Justice, Pakistan-based Inter Services Intelligence, as well as terror groups that it said created fake IDs and foment division.“The aforesaid act shows that the Respondent 4 (Twitter) is sympathetic to terrorist groups. There is no law/mechanism which prohibits Respondent 4 from doing aforesaid illegal acts, and Respondent 4 does not have its own mechanism” Goenka stated in his petition.Twitter declined to comment on the matter.According to Apar Gupta, lawyer and founder of Internet Freedom Foundation, the step initiated by the Court would be injurious to freedom of speech and expression. “Censorship in any form is imperfect and leads to a wide chilling effect on freedom of internet users. Even the category proposed for taking down content such as seditious content is wide which often confounds experts. What amounts to seditious content can be decided only after a criminal trial,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-govt-twitter-replies-on-fake-news-plea-101613152407233.html
13-02-2021||India||Negotiations between Centre, Naga groups concluded: Governor||Nagaland’s governor and the Union government’s interlocutor for the Naga peace talks, RN Ravi, on Friday announced in the state assembly that the political negotiations that were going on for several years between the Centre and Naga groups have finally concluded.Addressing the first day of the seventh session of the 13th Nagaland Legislative Assembly (NLA), the governor said even as the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic was going on for the past year, the early resolution of the long-drawn-out Naga political issue continued to remain the focus of the government.With the negotiations over, he said there is now a need for efforts to build on the substantial gains made so far, and to move swiftly for a “final solution”.Governor Ravi’s fresh statement came barely two weeks after he said the Centre’s initiative to resolve the Naga political issue since the past 24 years was yet to bear fruit due to “unrealistic intransigence of some people” who were unwilling to forsake politics of the gun. In his Republic Day address, Ravi, without naming any group, blamed the delay in Naga solution on “politics by gun”, which, he said, had fragmented the Naga society.The new statement also comes close on the heels of the assertion made in Parliament by India’s junior home minister G Kishan Reddy on February 9 that negotiations with Naga groups were at an advanced stage, but no time-frame for agreement could be indicated at this stage. Reddy was responding to an unstarred question in the Lok Sabha raised by Nagaland MP Tokheho Yepthomi regarding the progress of negotiations between the Centre and Naga groups, and whether the agreement is likely to be signed in the current year.The Naga insurgency began in 1950s seeking independence, but over the years that gave way to demand for other things like more autonomy, integration of all Naga-inhabited areas in Nagaland, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur.The prominent Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN-IM, has been holding peace talks with the Union government since 1997, while a conglomeration of seven different Naga national political groups (NNPGs) have also been engaged in separate talks with the centre since 2017.The Centre had signed a “framework agreement” with NSCN (IM) in 2015, and an “agreed position” with the NNPGs in 2017.The relationship between NSCN (IM) and interlocutor Ravi appeared to sour when, in 2019, the rebel group stood firm on its demand for a separate Naga flag and constitution, and the interlocutor later set a deadline to ink the final agreement on the protracted Indo-Naga issue. During such a time, both parties concurred that the almost all the modalities were all drawn out, except symbolic issues including the flag and constitution, the NSCN (IM) and the interlocutor had a fallout, with the armed group accusing Ravi of violating the spirit of the “framework agreement” and of becoming a liability for the Naga political settlement.“The pending issues are about the Naga people’s political rights and identity as symbolised by the Naga flag and Yehzabo (constitution) but Ravi is putting the blame on gun politics,” the NSCN (IM) had stated in the January issue of its bi-monthly newsletter “Nagalim Voice”. The group also made it clear that only the principle of the “framework agreement” was the key to an honourable and acceptable solution for durable peace, not economic packages or imposed political packages.NSCN (IM) then resumed negotiations vis-a-vis flag and constitution with other government agencies, according to people familiar with the matter.Meanwhile, the Naga tribal and civil society, along with the state government, have been reiterating that the armed groups must come together to facilitate “one solution” for the sake of the Naga people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/negotiations-between-centre-naga-groups-concluded-guv-101613152287297.html
13-02-2021||India||MP high court grants bail to two men arrested with comic Munawar||The Madhya Pradesh high court on Friday granted interim bail to two people who were arrested along with stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui earlier this month for allegedly hurting religious sentiments.MBA students Prakhar Vyas and Edwin Anthony were the organisers of the January 1 event in Indore from where the two, Faruqui, Nalin Yadav, and a minor, were held on the complaint of Hindu Rakshak Sangathan convener Eklavya Singh Gaud, son of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Malini Singh Gaud . A day later, Faruqui’s friend Sadaqat Khan, a Mumbai-based engineer, was also arrested for allegedly making abusive remarks about Eklavya. He and Yadav continue to be in jail after their bail pleas were rejected .Faruqui was released from prison late on February 6 after the Supreme Court stayed a Madhya Pradesh high court judgment that declined him bail, and issued notices to the state police as well as the complainant. The top court also restrained the Uttar Pradesh Police from arresting Faruqui in a separate case registered against him at Prayagraj for allegedly offending religious feelings through his jokes.Vyas’s counsel Ajay Bagadia said the high court order came on the grounds set by the Supreme Court for granting bail to Faruqui.“The apex court had found a violation of Section 41 of CrPC (arresting a person without a warrant) as police should arrest a person in a case having a provision of punishment more than 3 years only after a preliminary investigation,” Bagdia said.Indore, Inspector General (IG) of Police, Harinarayan Chhari Mishra said, “We can’t comment over it as the matter is sub-judice. We will submit the reply to the notice.”Prakhar Vyas’s uncle, Nitin Vyas, said, “We don’t want to comment anything, but we have full faith in the judiciary. Prakhar and others will be acquitted in the false case.”Former advocate general Ravi Nandan Singh said, “It’s a check and balance system. The same court, which denied bail to Faruqui and Nalin Yadav, granted bail to two young comedians due to Supreme Court order. Everybody should follow the system and law whether it is a police or judiciary. Our law has no room for injustice. If anybody tries to ignore the law, we have layers of the judiciary system.”On Friday, at least 100 artistes and writers, including Arundhati Roy, Kunal Kamra, and Kalki Koechlin, issued a joint statement demanding the dismissal of charges against the accused.The signatories said that every citizen in India has the constitutional right to free speech and expression, albeit with reasonable restrictions “however, through instances like these, it is obvious that most arrests and forms of censorship carried out against artistes are founded on arbitrary grounds and are greatly damaging to artistic and creative freedom in the country”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mphc-grants-bail-to-two-men-arrested-with-comic-munawar-101613152227830.html
13-02-2021||India||TMC MP says feeling ‘suffocated’, quits Rajya Sabha||Former Union railway minister and Trinamool Congress MP Dinesh Trivedi, a prominent national face of the party, dramatically announced his resignation from the Rajya Sabha while participating in the debate on the budget in the House on Friday, alleging that he was feeling “suffocated” and saying that he heard the call of his antaratma (inner voice).The latest jolt for West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress came ahead of assembly elections in the state and two months after political heavyweight and minister Suvendu Adhikari, state minister Rajib Banerjee and a few party MLAs quit to join the BJP. A section of the party saw Trivedi as a key figure among the non-Bengali population in Kolkata and nearby districts.State elections are expected in April-May this year and the Trinamool and the BJP are the prime contenders.In the House, Trivedi said “the motherland is supreme”, cited his inability to speak on the “violence” and the “situation” in West Bengal to conclude that “there is no point to just sit here and remain silent”. Later, he said, it was a spontenous decision but added that he consulted his “mentors” before announcing his resignation.“The way there is violence, I feel awkward what should I do by sitting here. For us, the homeland is supreme. I am in a party. Party has disciplines. But now I am feeling suffocated. If I am sitting here and can’t do anything, it’s better that I resign and go back to Bengal,” he told the Rajya Sabha, quoting Swami Vivekananda and the lyrics of a patriotic Bengali song.He evaded questions on whether he is set to join the BJP, but said in a TV interview, “Narendra bhai (PM Modi) has been a friend since 1990.” Many BJP leaders claimed he was in touch with them while the Trinamool issued a statement saying, “Trinamool” means grassroots. “This will give us an opportunity to send one of our ‘grassroot’ workers soon to the Rajya Sabha.”According to officials, Trivedi later met Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and handed over his resignation letter in the prescribed format.Both in Parliament and in the TV interview, Trivedi repeatedly cited his brief tenure in the rail ministry and the presentation of the budget. He said even at that time, “I had listened to my inner voice and kept the interests of the motherland supreme.” His budget had proposed a hike in passenger fares and left West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee so irked that he had to resign hours after his budget speech. Mukul Roy, who is in the BJP now, replied to the budget debate in Parliament.Trivedi said he was not happy with the Trinamool’s strategy both inside Parliament and outside and expressed displeasure over the way PM Modi was being “abused” by his party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-mp-says-feeling-suffocated-quits-rs-101613152227214.html
13-02-2021||India||Centre extends tenure of Bombay HC judge by just 1 year, overruling collegium||The central government on Friday extended by one year the tenure of justice Pushpa Ganediwala of the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court in view of her controversial rulings on sexual assault on children under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO).Overruling the recommendation made by the Supreme Court collegium to extend the woman judge’s tenure by two years, the government modified the proposal and instead gave her an extension of just one year as an additional judge.The SC collegium, which had asked for giving justice Ganediwala a further term of two years, comprised chief justice of India SA Bobde, justices NV Ramana and Rohinton F Nariman.Justice Ganediwala’s extension was notified by the Union law ministry on Friday evening after a hurried exercise of getting approval from the Prime Minister’s Office and then the President’s secretariat during the day.Since the judge’s tenure as an additional judge was ending on Saturday, it was incumbent to notify her extension by the end of Friday so as to maintain continuity of her judgeship and not affect her seniority, people familiar with the development told HT.But former chief justice of India (CJI) RM Lodha was critical of the move by the government to take a unilateral decision, overriding the mandate of the CJI and the collegium regarding justice Ganediwala’s extension.“It is not just a norm but rulings of the constitution benches that the collegium, which is headed by the chief justice of India, has primacy in matters of appointment of judges, transfer, posting, etc. And the government is bound by it,” justice Lodha told HT.If the political executive, the former CJI said, has a view different from the collegium, the proper course is to send such a recommendation back to the collegium with the reasons, asking for a review.“But to modify or segregate or tinker with the collegium’s decision without referring it back to the collegium is not proper. Such actions affect the primacy of the collegium. It is now for the collegium in the Supreme Court to take up this matter with the government,” added justice Lodha.During his tenure as the CJI, justice Lodha had in July 2014 publicly criticised the NDA government for its “unilateral” move to segregate former solicitor general Gopal Subramanium from the panel of four names recommended for appointment as Supreme Court judges by the collegium.He had also expressed his disapproval in a letter to Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, and said the government should not adopt such “unilateral segregation” in the future.Justice Ganediwala will now function as an additional judge for one year, and then a decision will be taken whether her tenure will be extended by another year as an additional judge or should she be made a permanent judge.Under constitutional provisions, an additional judge can be appointed for a maximum period of two years unlike permanent judges, who are appointed till the age of 62. Further, an additional judge can either be made permanent following a recommendation by the collegium to the central government, or the tenure can be extended for up to two years, pending review of the judge’s performance.Justice Ganediwala has courted controversy after a series of her judgments on the interpretation of the POCSO Act came under criticism. In a January 19 ruling, she held that groping a minor without removing her clothes was not a case of sexual assault but only of molestation, since there was no “skin to skin” contact. This judgment was stayed by a Supreme Court bench, led by the CJI on January 27. In another judgment on January 15, the judge ruled that holding the hands of a minor and unzipping one’s trousers in front of her does not amount to “sexual assault”.The SC collegium had on January 20 recommended that justice Ganediwala be made a permanent judge, only to withdraw its proposal within a week. In a revised proposal, the collegium said her tenure should be extended by two years but the government did not accept it and modified the tenure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-extends-tenure-of-bombay-hc-judge-by-just-1-year-overruling-collegium-101613151927205.html
13-02-2021||India||Have seen drop in hate speech content, says Facebook||The prevalence of hate speech on Facebook has dropped compared to the last quarter, the social media company said in its fourth quarter enforcement report released on Thursday.“Last quarter, we shared the prevalence of hate speech on Facebook for the first time to show the percentage of times people see this type of content on our platform. This quarter, hate speech prevalence dropped from 0.10-0.11% to 0.07-0.08%,” the company said.This implies that for every 10,000 posts there were seven to eight views of hate speech. Further, the prevalence of violent and graphic content also dropped from “0.07% to 0.05% and adult nudity content dropped from 0.05-0.06% to 0.03-0.04%”. The social media company added that it also took down 6.4 million pieces of organized hate content, up from 4 million in the last quarter and 26.9 million pieces of hate speech content, up from 22.1 million.According to the company’s policy prevalence estimates the percentage of times people see violating content on the platform. “It is calculated by selecting a sample of content seen on Facebook and labelling how much of it violates our hate speech policies”.“Because hate speech depends on language and cultural context, we send these representative samples to reviewers across different languages and regions. Based on this methodology, we estimated the prevalence of hate speech from July 2020 to September 2020 was 0.10% to 0.11%. In other words, out of every 10,000 views of content on Facebook, 10 to 11 of them included hate speech,” the company’s said.Facebook has been charged with allowing hate speech to flow freely on its platform. Facebook officials on September 2 met the Indian parliamentary panel on information technology to discuss alleged political bias shown by the company, following reports that its executives intervened to shield Bharatiya Janata Party leaders from action for spreading hate speech.The company said that the improvements were mainly due to changes made to reduce problematic content. “Each post is ranked by processes that take into account a combination of integrity signals, such as how likely a piece of content is to violate our policies, as well as signals we receive from people, such as from surveys or actions they take on our platform like hiding or reporting posts,” Facebook said.In areas of bullying and harassment, Facebook said that its proactive rate of action went up from 26% in Q3 to 49% in Q4 on Facebook, and 55% to 80% on Instagram. “Improvements to our AI in areas where nuance and context are essential, such as hate speech or bullying and harassment, helped us better scale our efforts to keep people safe,” Facebook said.Facebook’s report corresponded to the calendar year 2020, which meant the latest data is from the October-December period.The company added that 6.3 million pieces of bullying and harassment content were taken down, up from 3.5 million in Q3, while 2.5 million pieces of suicide and self-injury content were removed, up from 1.3 million in Q3 due to increased reviewer capacity.On Instagram, 5 million pieces of bullying and harassment content, 308,000 pieces of organized hate content, 6.6 million pieces of hate speech content, and 3.4 million pieces of suicide and self-injury content, were removed due to increased reviewer capacity.“This year, we plan to share additional metrics on Instagram and add new policy categories on Facebook. Our goal is to lead the technology industry in transparency, and we’ll continue to share more enforcement metrics as part of this effort,” the company said. “We also believe that no company should grade its own homework. Last year, we committed to undertaking an independent, third-party audit of our content moderation systems to validate the numbers we publish, and we’ll begin this process this year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-seen-drop-in-hate-speech-content-says-fb-101613151807868.html
13-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand rescuers face fresh threat after lake formation, say experts||Authorities on Friday dispatched an eight-member team to inspect a lake that has formed on the Rishiganga river due to the accumulation of debris and threatens ongoing rescue operations after a glacier break triggered an avalanche and deadly floods in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district earlier this week.Geologists have sounded caution about the lake near the disaster-hit Reni village --- about 6km upstream --- and said water from there could ooze out gradually and pose a risk to teams involved in rescue and search operations downstream. Satellite images have confirmed the formation of the water body.“There is a place where Rontigad, or Ronti river, meets the Rishiganga. The debris that fell after the glacier breach on February 7 has blocked the Rishiganga water there, creating a lake,” said Navin Juyal, a retired geologist from the Physical Research Laboratory in Ahmedabad.“The water will definitely spill as the lake is full. We have been informed that authorities are trying to drain the water...The lake will not collapse, but it will gradually drain, which can be dangerous for those engaged in rescue work,” Juyal added.Also Read | Chamoli tragedy: Rescue agencies change tactic, focus on drilling into tunnelHe said a geologist, Naresh Rana, went to the area to physically inspect the lake with the help of villagers on Wednesday.YP Sundriyal, geologist and professor of the Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University, said he and his colleague Rana found out about the lake formation on Wednesday and informed the authorities.A State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) team was sent to the area on Friday to assess the situation before draining out the waters, according to Riddim Agarwal, deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG), SDRF.“A team of SDRF reached there...exact information could be received once the team returns,” Nilesh Anand Bharne, deputy inspector general (law and order), said. The team is working on setting up a temporary helipad there.In a statement on Friday evening, the Uttarakhand government said scientists of the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing, Dehradun, who conducted an aerial survey of the site, informed chief secretary Om Prakash that water flow had started from the lake.Rescuers have retrieved 38 bodies since tragedy struck Chamoli district on Sunday morning, when a glacier breach sent a torrent of water and sludge hurtling down a valley into the Rishiganga river (it becomes Alaknanda in Chamoli city). At least 166 people have been missing since the subsequent flooding that hit villages, including Reni, on the way, damaged two power plants (the Tapovan project and the Rishiganga hydel project), and prompted a section of experts to link the event to climate change.Juyal said some boulders in the higher reaches in the area were “as big as a house”. “It is understood from various satellite images and aerial surveys that rocks and boulders from Nanda Ghunti or Trishul, the two peaks here, have fallen on the glacier. There was no lake on the surface of the glacier, but there may have been subsurface water bodies. The glacier surface along with ice, water, debris fell on February 7. Because of the remoteness of the region studying it manually is very difficult.”The India Meteorological Department (IMD), meanwhile, warned that a fresh, feeble western disturbance was likely to impact the Western Himalayas from February 14 to 16. There is likely to be light rainfall (up to 1 cm) and snowfall (up to 10 cm) in the northern parts of Uttarakhand, including Chamoli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ukhand-rescuers-face-fresh-threat-after-lake-formation-say-experts-101613151747255.html
13-02-2021||India||Tremors felt in Delhi-NCR, parts of north India; no damage reported||An earthquake of 6.3 magnitude was felt across northwest India, including Delhi, late on Friday night with its epicentre in Tajikistan. Initial reports by the National Centre of Seismology suggested an earthquake of 6.1 magnitude with the epicentre in Punjab’s Amritsar. However, the report was corrected by NCS soon after.“The epicentre is in the Hindu Kush Himalayan region where the Indo Australian plate is colliding with the Eurasian plate. It’s seismically highly active area. The tremors have been felt across Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Delhi NCR. However, we haven’t received any reports of damage yet,” JL Gautam, head of operations at National Centre for Seismology (NCS), said.Earthquake of Magnitude:6.3, Occurred on 12-02-2021, 22:31:33 IST, Lat: 38.00 & Long: 73.58, Depth: 74 Km ,Location: 285km ENE of Fayzabad, Afghanistanfor more information https://t.co/PxX3VNYiFY @ndmaindia pic.twitter.com/2F8ndn7p5v“As we know the Indian and the Eurasian plates are colliding, so the Himalayas are always active. This event happened towards the Eurasian plate but it was a very strong earthquake, so the energy was felt here also. Smaller aftershocks are possible but the source is very far so its unlikely to impact us,” AP Pandey, a seismologist at National Centre for Seismology, said.People were seen rushing out of their homes in many parts of north India such as Punjab's Ludhiana, Jammu and Srinagar among other places. “Not since the earthquake of 2005 have the tremors in Srinagar been bad enough to force me out of the house. I grabbed a blanket & ran. I didn’t remember to take my phone & so was unable to tweet “earthquake” while the damn ground was shaking,” National Conference leader Omar Abdullah tweeted.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted after the quake, saying he is praying for everyone's safety. "Earthquake tremors felt in Delhi. Praying for everyone's safety," Kejriwal posted on Twitter.Tremors were also felt in Pakistan’s Islamabad, Lahore and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Punjab provinces. There were no reports of loss to life or property in the neighbouring country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-felt-in-delhi-ncr-parts-of-north-india-101613149695063.html
13-02-2021||NA||Highlights: Withdraw the laws then talk to farmers, says Rahul Gandhi at Kisan Mahapanchayat in Pilibanga||Farmers from across the country, mostly from Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting against the new farm laws passed in Parliament last year. The farmers have been at the borders of Delhi for 77 days demanding complete rollback of Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi raised the issue of the farmers' protest in Parliament on Thursday and said the laws will lead to "collapse of mandi system, allow unlimited hoarding and prevent farmers from moving courts". Congress leaders in Madhya Pradesh have threatened that they would not let Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut shoot for her next film if she doesn't apologise for her tweets where she called farmers "terrorists". "Kangana Ranaut has called farmers as terrorists and Chinese agents. If she doesn't apologise or FIR is not registered against, we will take out a rally to Sarni on Feb 13 and try not to let her shoot," ANI quoted Congress leader Samir Khan in Betul as saying.Meanwhile, the farmers camping at Delhi borders have started preparing for summer. Mosquito nets, fans, coolers will be arriving at the protest sites by the end of this month.Follow all the updates here:Withdraw the laws then talk to farmers, says GandhiGandhi while talking about PM Modi's appeal, in the Parliament, to farmers for the deliberations, said talk to farmers after repealing the 'black' agri laws. No talks are required before the Centre repeal the laws. Congress will stand by the farmers till the laws are repealed, he added.PM Modi wants to clear path for his 'friends': GandhiTalking about demonetization, GST, migrant workers crisis and farm laws Gandhi said PM Modi aims to clear the path for this big corporate 'friends' as the laws are aimed at destroying traders, small middlemen and farmers.Gandhi questions PM Modi on death of over 200 farmers during protestGandhi attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the passing of the new laws, questions if the laws are meant for farmers then why farmers all across the nation unhappy and protesting. Gandhi also questioned him on the death of over 200 farmers who lost their lives during the protest.Agri laws will snatch away every avenue from farmers to seek justice: GandhiGandhi while addressing the mahapanchayat said the agri laws will take away the avenue from farmers to avail justice against misdeeds of big corporates.Agri laws meant for one company to own agriculture, says Rahul GandhiRahul Gandhi addressing a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Pilibanga, Rajasthan said agri laws are meant to kill Mandi system and to allow big businesses to store unlimited quantities for unlimited time, thereby giving them the power to control the prices in the market.BKU's Tikait says protest to go on for indefinite periodBhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait on Friday said the ongoing farmers' protest will go on for indefinite period as there is no planning regarding the duration yet, reports ANI. Read morePriyanka Gandhi to participate in Kisan panchayat, meet farmers in UP's BijnorCongress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is now scheduled to visit Uttar Pradesh's Bijnor and Meerut districts on February 15, according to sources. During her visit, she will participate in the Kisan Panchayat and meet the farmer families, reports ANI.Tikait to hold Kisan Mahapanchayat in Maharashtra on Feb 20Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait will hold 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' and a public rally in Yavatmal district of Maharashtra on February 20, an office-bearer of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha has said, reports PTI.Traffic movements on Delhi borders remain affectedVehicular traffic continue to be disrupted and slow on roads connecting Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad and some parts of Haryana with Delhi on Friday because of the closure of Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) and at least seven other borders because of the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Read moreChildren learn in makeshift pathshala amid farmers' stirEducation at protest sites be it Singhu or Ghazipur continues with various initiatives such as free books, library but this Pathshala is the first of its kind that has arranged classes and lunch breaks periodically, report ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-children-learn-in-makeshift-pathshala-amid-farm-laws-stir-101613095104993.html
13-02-2021||NA||Highlights: 'All hypotheses remain open', says WHO chief on pandemic's origin||India's count of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is at 10,880,603 after the Union health ministry on Friday said that the country had recorded 9,309 new infections in the preceding 24 hours. The global tally of cases, meanwhile, is at well over 107 million, as per the Johns Hopkins University tracker, which also shows that the global death toll due to the disease is at over 2.36 million. While India has the second-highest tally globally, that of the United States, the highest in the world, is in excess of 27 million, the tracker shows.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe world's largest vaccination drive against Covid-19 is currently underway in India and, according to the health ministry's latest figures, more than 7.5 million healthcare and frontline workers have been inoculated against the disease. In the first phase of the drive, which commenced on January 16, India aims to vaccinate 30 million workers, who are scheduled to receive their second vaccine shots from February 13 onwards. Covishield and Covaxin anti Covid-19 vaccines are being used in the country.Follow all the updates here:'All hypotheses remain open', says WHO chief on pandemic's originWorld Health Organization (WHO) director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a press briefing on Friday that all 'hypotheses are still open' in the WHO's search for the origins of Covid-19, reported Reuters. Kuwait records 1,021 new Covid-19 cases, 7 deathsKuwait reported1,021 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 176,052. The Kuwaiti Health Ministry also announced seven more deaths, taking the death toll to 992, reported news agency ANI. Karnataka records 380 new Covid-19 cases, 8 fatalities Karnataka reports 380 new #COVID19 cases, 405 discharges and 8 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 9,44,437Total recoveries 9,26,234Death toll 12,259Active cases 5925 pic.twitter.com/xfL7DEndd9Maharashtra records 3,670 new cases of Covid-19, 36 fatalitiesMaharashtra records 3,670 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the state-wide tally to 2,056,575. 36 deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll currently stands at 51,451.Delhi records 141 new cases of Covid-19, 3 fatalitiesDelhi reports 141 new #COVID19 cases, 136 recoveries and 3 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 6,36,670Total recoveries 6,24,728Death toll 10,889Active cases 1053 pic.twitter.com/FmNLdfDWix229.7 lakh doses of India-made Covid-19 vaccine has been supplied around the world: MEAAnurag Srivastav, MEA, spokesperson said at a press conference that India has supplied a total of 229.7 lakh doses of India-made Covid-19 vaccines all over the world till date. Adding that 64.7 lakh doses have been supplied as a grant while 165 lakh doses have been supplied on a commercial basis.Bosnia starts vaccination drive with Russia's Sputnik VAfter receiving its first batch of Russia's Sputnik V vaccines Bosnia started its vaccination drive on Friday. So far only healthcare workers have been vaccinated but a mass inoculation drive has also been planned for later this month, reported Reuters.Melbourne placed under lockdown for 5 daysThe second most populous city in Australia has been placed under a snap lockdown for 5 days. A new and developing Covid-19 cluster linked to a quarantine hotel in Melbourne has forced authorities to declare fresh lockdown in the city, reported Reuters.Mutated Covid-19 strain from UK found in Sri LankaSri Lanka has reported the highly contagious new variant of the coronavirus found in the UK, Dr Chandima Jeewandara, a health official, said on Friday. Jeewandara added that four mutated samples have been found and all are from different locations, reported PTI.6 states account for 79.87% of new cases#IndiaFightsCorona:79.87% of the new cases are from 6 States.Kerala has reported the highest daily new cases at 5,281. It is followed by Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu with 652and 481 new cases, respectively.#Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/wNxUqjuMGrRussia reports 15,089 new Covid-19 cases, tally reaches 40,42,837 casesWith 15,089 new Covid-19 cases and 507 new fatalities, Russia's Covid-19 tally reached 40,42,837 cases and 79,194 deaths, reports Reuters.'Antibodies will develop in about 14 days after second vaccine shot': AIIMS Director Dr R GuleriaHi @ankitashah96, ‘A good amount of antibodies will develop about 14 days after second vaccine shot. It is not clear how long the protection will last but it is believed that it will last for at least 8 months, or may be longer.’ – Dr. R. Guleria, Director, AIIMS #VaccineVarta https://t.co/PvKy5Dm39HAnswering a question about Covid-19 vaccines, AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria said that "A good amount of antibodies will develop about 14 days after second vaccine shot. It is not clear how long the protection will last but it is believed that it will last for at least 8 months, or may be longer."Health ministry says 18 states, UTs reported no deaths in last 24 hours#Unite2FightCorona 18 States/UTs have not reported any new deaths in the last 24 hours. pic.twitter.com/FxGakhyiMKAccording to the health ministry, 18 states/UTs have reported no Covid-19 related deaths in the last 24 hours.Four states, UTs reports no new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours: GovernmentDadra And Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Ladakh, Tripura and Andaman & Nicobar Islands have not reported any new cases in the last 24 hours: Government of IndiaGovernment says Dadra And Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Ladakh, Tripura and Andaman & Nicobar Islands have recorded no new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, reports ANI.Odisha health ministry says 2.73 lakh healthcare workers vaccinated for Covid-19During the first Phase of #COVID19 vaccination that began in the state on 16th January, 2.73 Lakh registered health care workers have been innoculated till now. #OdishaCares #LargestVaccineDrive #Unite2FightCorona https://t.co/yuX9lFPRJIOdisha health ministry says 2.73 lakh healthcare workers have been vaccinated in the state, in the first phase of Covid-19 vaccinations.India's active cases slump to under 140,000India's active Covid-19 caseload at 135,926 while recoveries rise to 10,589,230 with 15,858 new discharges.India records 9,309 new Covid-19 casesIndia's Covid-19 tally reaches 10,880,603 with 9,309 new infections in last 24 hours. Death toll at 155,447 with 87 new deaths.5-day 'snap lockdown' imposed in Australia's MelbourneA five-day 'snap lockdown' has been announced in Australia's Melbourne after a Covid-19 cluster linked to a city hotel expanded to 13 cases as of Thursday midnight.Schools to reopen in West Bengal today for class 9-12West Bengal to resume schools for classes 9 to 12 from today, following COVID19 guidelinesVisuals from Siliguri pic.twitter.com/0IZM6Z5ICvWest Bengal to resume schools for classes 9 to 12 from today, following Covid-19 guidelines.Mexico reports 10,677 new Covid-19 casesMexico reports 10,677 new Covid-19 cases and 1,474 deaths. National tally reaches 1,968,566 cases while death toll at 171,234.US to acquire 200 million more doses of Covid-19 vaccinesPresident Joe Biden has announced that his administration has signed deals for 100 million more doses each of Moderna and Pfizer anti Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-february-12-2021-101613093655194.html
