15-02-2021||India||In Kerala, protests against backdoor appointments in govt jobs intensifies||Amid ongoing protests by Kerala public service commission rank holders against backdoor entry in service, the Kerala government on Monday decided to give permanent posting to 221 people who have been working on temporary basis.While the government insists that these temporary workers were inducted on humanitarian grounds, the rank holders alleged that party affiliation was the main criteria and their appointments were illegal.As the stir outside the state secretariat intensified two young Congress legislators, K S Sabarinathan and Shafi Parambil, also started a fast in solidarity with the agitating young men. But the ruling CPI (M) said opposition parties were behind the stir and blamed them for provoking the youth before the assembly elections.Protesting candidates crawled outside the secretariat on their knees on Monday and two of them were later hospitalized after they fainted. A spokesperson for the agitators said it was wrong to say political parties sponsored their agitation and they were only concerned about the backdoor entry which stole their opportunities. These candidates have pitched tents outside the secretariat for more than a week protesting against filling up of vacancies ignoring rank holders.“Recently the Left Front organised a shutdown in West Bengal alleging backdoor entry in government service. In Kerala they are resorting to same tactics. The state has never seen such an insensitive government,” said state Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran. But the government dubbed it as an election stunt.“Usually the rank list is huge and it is five times higher than existing vacancies. No government can give jobs to all aspirants. Some job aspirants have fallen in the hands of the opposition,” said state finance minister Thomas Issac.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-kerala-protests-against-backdoor-appointments-in-govt-jobs-intensifies-101613411817704.html
15-02-2021||India||Centre deregulates geospatial data and map-making in India||India on Monday liberalised its regulations on geospatial data, allowing private companies to conduct surveying and mapping without prior government approvals and sharing the data for various everyday applications, from logistics and transport to road safety and e-commerce.Under the new policy, geospatial data from government agencies such as the Survey of India and the Indian Space Research Organisation will also be made available to public and private companies.“Our government has taken a decision that will provide a huge impetus to Digital India. Liberalising policies governing the acquisition and production of geospatial data is a massive step in our vision for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat,” or Self-Reliant India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote in a tweet.He added in another tweet: “The reforms will unlock tremendous opportunities for our country’s start-ups, private sector, public sector and research institutions to drive innovations and build scalable solutions. This will also generate employment and accelerate economic growth.”Read more: Centre issues fresh guidelines for offices. Here’s what you need to knowThe new guidelines will allow increase the scale, speed, and accuracy of mapping. Indian entities will require no prior approvals, security clearances, licenses for acquisition and production of geospatial data and geospatial data services, including maps.“Geospatial data is vital for all manners of planning and development work. There are three major objectives of the new guidelines—first, ease of collecting, using and sharing geospatial data. Second, deregulating the sector and allowing private entities to survey and map all physically accessible areas without prior approvals. Third, sharing the geospatial data collected by government agencies with the public and the industries,” said Prof. Ashutosh Sharma, secretary of department of science and technology.The government estimates that the new guidelines will boost the geospatial data sector to a value of ₹1 lakh crore by 2030, create jobs for 2.2 million people, and have a multifold impact on the economy.Read more: Only 4% beneficiaries turn up for second vaccine shot: Centre“This will be beneficial for all allied sectors that need geospatial data such as logistics and transportation, road safety, e-commerce. It will also aid government programmes such as MNREGA where people will now be able to see the implementation of various projects and their progress. It will have huge economic impact. Just an example would be the logistics industry, where the country spends around 13% of GDP. This can be brought down to 9% using geospatial data and other technology,” said Rohan Verma, CEO and executive director of MapmyIndia, a technology company that builds digital map data, and offers telematics services and location-based software as a service and geographic information systems using artificial intelligence.The new policy restricts the terrestrial mapping and surveying to only Indian entities—both public and private. The data generated also needs to be owned and stored in India, with foreign entities being allowed to license it. High resolution data—finer than 1m horizontally and 3m vertically—will still remain restricted.“This will also level the playing field for Indian companies. Just as an example, while Google Earth could provide satellite images on the map we weren’t allowed to do so even though we had the technology. It will promote projects like the 4D map that we are working on—a 3D map with realtime updated data that can be used by applications such as autonomous vehicles,” said Verma.Read more: Govt asks Covid vaccination centres to send out reminders about second jabAjey Lele, senior fellow working with space security and strategic technologies at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, said that this will allow companies to use Indian data instead of paying for expensive data from other satellites.“We have very good remote sensing satellites as well as earth observation satellites, but so far the data was not freely available to private players. This resulted in many applications using data from foreign satellites and paying a lot for it. This policy will allow data generated by Isro to be used and it will be more cost effective,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-deregulates-geospatial-data-and-map-making-in-india-101613410526630.html
15-02-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate key Tamil Nadu projects on Feb 17||New Delhi, Feb 15 (PTI) Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate key projects of the oil and gas sector in Tamil Nadu on February 17 via video conferencing.His office said Modi will dedicate to the nation the Ramanathapuram–Thoothukudi natural gas pipeline and gasoline desulphurisation unit at Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited, Manali.He will also lay the foundation stone of Cauvery Basin Refinery at Nagapattinam.These projects will result in substantial socio-economic benefits and will boost the country's march towards Urja Aatmanirbharta, the PMO said.The Ramanathapuram-Thoothukudi section (143 km) of the Ennore-Thiruvallur- Bengaluru- Puducherry- Nagapattinam- Madurai-Tuticorin Natural Gas Pipeline has been laid at the cost of about ₹700 crore.It will help utilise gas from ONGC gas fields and deliver natural gas as feedstock to industries and other commercial customers.The gasoline desulphurisation unit at Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited (CPCL), Manali has been constructed at the cost of about Rs. 500 crore.It will produce low-sulphur (less than 8 ppm) environment-friendly gasoline, help reduce emission and contribute towards a cleaner environment, the PMO said.The Cauvery basin refinery to be set up at Nagapattinam will have a capacity of 9 million metric tonnes per annum. It will be set up through a Joint Venture of IOCL and CPCL at an estimated project cost of Rs. 31,500 crore.It will produce motor spirit and diesel meeting BS-VI specifications, and polypropylene as a value-added product, the PMO noted.Tamil Nadu is among the five states going to the assembly polls in April-May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-key-tamil-nadu-projects-on-feb-17-101613407804741.html
15-02-2021||India||Magnitude 3.5 earthquake shakes Bihar; no injuries, damage||A 3.5-magnitude earthquake struck several districts of Bihar, including the capital city of Patna, according to the National Center for Seismology. According to the agency, tremors occurred 20km northwest of Nalanda at 9:23pm. No injuries or damage was reported.According to Hindustan, HT’s sister publication, people who rushed out of their homes in Patna said that they felt the tremors for two to three seconds. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav requested people to take precautions and go to safe open places if needed.“Tremors felt in Patna. I wish everyone safety and plead all to be attentive, take safety precautions & move to safe open spaces if needed,” Yadav posted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magnitude-3-5-earthquake-shakes-bihar-no-injuries-damage-101613408118724.html
15-02-2021||India||AIADMK, Sasikala likely to claim Jayalalithaa's legacy on her birth anniversary||The next big political event in Tamil Nadu politics appears to be late chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s 73rd birth anniversary on February 24 as the ruling AIADMK has already begun rolling out programs. Party's expelled interim general secretary, VK Sasikala’s team is also preparing for the event, according to political leaders.After her 23-hours-long marathon road-show from Bengaluru to Chennai last week, a person considered close to Sasikala said that her doctors had advised her to rest in isolation which ended Monday and they were preparing for a grand roadshow on Amma’s birthday. Jayalalithaa is identified as Amma, meaning mother, in Tamil Nadu.Sasikala held the reins of the party briefly between Jayalalithaa’s death in December 2016 and her imprisonment in the disproportionate assets case in February 2017.After completing her four-year imprisonment and being treated for Covid-19, Sasikala returned to Tamil Nadu and announced that she would be active in state politic. She positioned herself as Jayalalithaa’s heir in the AIADMK urging the party to work together against a common rival - DMK. Sasikala received thousands of supporters along her road route which came from a breakaway faction Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) formed by her nephew TTV Dhinakaran in 2018.Also read: Disengagement in eastern Ladakh’s Pangong Tso in full swing, may be over soon“We will be calling for a meeting soon and discuss the preparations for Amma’s birthday anniversary,” said AMMK general secretary G Senthamizhan. “It could be something like how Chinamma garlanded MGR’s statue at his residence on her return.” Jayalalithaa used to be addressed by party cadre as Amma (mother) in Tamil and later Sasikala as Chinnamma (mother’s younger sister). Dhinakaran has said that they will explore legal options for Sasikala to reclaim the AIADMK and also contest the upcoming elections. The Representation of People’s Act 1951 bars Sasikala from contesting or holding any constitutional post for the next six years.Chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami-led AIADMK is firm on not taking Sasikala back. The ruling party always had elaborate plans and implemented welfare schemes on Jayalalithaa’s birth anniversary. On Monday, the AIADMK conducted a mass wedding for 123 couples from all faiths to commemorate Jayalalithaa’s birth anniversary as well as highlight the marriage welfare schemes that she introduced.“Amma had instructed that her birthday should be celebrated by doing good for the people,” said Palaniswami in Coimbatore after conducting the mass wedding. “As her birthday is approaching, it will be a day that brings happiness to the poor.” The party also announced that applications will be open from February 24 for those wishing to contest the polls in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala.“After her (Sasikala) massive entry, she may choose Jayalalithaa's birth anniversary to project herself to the public as someone who can truly claim the right to Jayalalithaa's legacy having been her shadow nearly for thirty years,” said Durai Karunanidhi, a commentator on Dravidian politics. Karunanidhi, however, also cautioned that Sasikala may not act unless she knows the act will be successful.Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam, both former Sasikala loyalists, had turned against her and the party has vastly changed since her imprisonment. “It’s a setback for Sasikala that no senior AIADMK leader has met her, that’s why she is quiet now,” said Karunanidhi.The AIADMK has expelled at least a dozen functionaries for welcoming Sasikala and participating in her roadshow. Following her release, the government blocked public entry to Jayalalithaa’s mausoleum, converted her residence into a memorial which is also out of bounds to prevent Sasikala's entry."Since the AIADMK is in power, the AMMK may not try organising any events in these (above mentioned) places but could hold a public rally and roll out social programs," added Karunanidhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-sasikala-likely-to-claim-jayalalithaa-s-legacy-on-her-birth-anniversary-101613407290190.html
15-02-2021||India||After gram panchayat polls, Andhra preps for municipal elections on March 10||As the elections to 13,000-odd gram panchayats in Andhra Pradesh come to a close on February 21, the state will be witnessing yet another electoral battle, this time for urban local bodies, early next month.The state election commission on Monday announced the schedule for elections to 12 municipal corporations and 75 municipalities and nagar panchayats across the state in a single phase on March 10.The election process for these urban local bodies had actually commenced in March 2020, but the SEC had to postpone them indefinitely due to imposition of the nationwide lockdown on account of the Coronavirus pandemic.“When the process was stalled on March 15, 2020 due to the pandemic, nominations were received and scrutinised. Now, the process will resume from the stage of withdrawal of nominations,” state election commissioner N Ramesh Kumar said, in an official release.The withdrawal of nominations will be accepted on March 2 and 3. The final list of candidates will be announced on March 3. The polling will be conducted on March 10 and re-polling, if required, will be held on March 13. Counting of votes will take place on March 14.Unlike the gram panchayat elections which are being held on non-party basis, the elections to the municipalities, nagar panchayats and municipal corporations will be held on party-basis and the contestants, other than independents, will be allotted their respective party symbols.The YSR Congress party, which has been claiming that the candidates supported by it have bagged the majority of 82-85 per cent of gram panchayats, hopes to repeat the show in the elections to urban local bodies as well.“Our government’s welfare schemes will fetch us the votes in urban local bodies as well. The opposition parties will have to bite the dust,” YSRC leader and state endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas said.Senior Telugu Desam Party leader Bonda Umamaheshwar Rao said the SEC should have announced fresh schedule for the municipal polls, instead of continuing the stalled process.“Last year, the YSRC resorted to large scale violence during the nomination process and intimidated opponents. That is why we requested the SEC to cancel the earlier nominations and start the process afresh. Anyways, the TDP is going to win majority of the urban local bodies,” the TDP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-gram-panchayat-polls-andhra-preps-for-municipal-elections-on-march-10-101613406463632.html
15-02-2021||India||Can do whatever they want to at their movement: BKU's Rakesh Tikait after Congress leader’s liquor offer to farmers||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Monday hit out at Haryana Congress leader Vidya Rani over her remarks about distributing liquor to the protesting farmers, who have been camping at several border points in Delhi for more than 80 days. Tikait said that such people didn’t have anything to do with the agitation against the Centre’s three new farm laws and added that the Congress party could distribute whatever it wanted in its own movement.“What is the use of liquor here? I don’t know why she’s making such comments. Such people don’t have anything to do with the movement. It’s wrong and shouldn’t be done. They can distribute whatever they want to at their movement,” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Rani had made the comment during the Congress’ executive meet in Jind, which was attended by Safidon MLA Subhash Gangoli and other leaders. “We should help them. Be it money, vegetables, liquor - we can contribute as we like and strengthen this agitation. It is not a movement of farmers only but all of us,” Rani is heard saying in a 80 second video, which has been doing the rounds on social media.Also Read| Won't let govt sit in peace till farmers' demands met: Rakesh TikaitShe said that the party would take out a ‘padyatra’ or a march in Jind and that the farmers’ protest had further strengthened the party in Haryana after it had been facing a crisis. “The farmers’ protest will give new direction and strength to the party,” the Congress leader from the Narwana constituency added.Tikait also said that 40 farmer leaders, who are spearheading the movement against the central farm laws, would tour across India seeking support for the protest and repeated his previous point that the farmers’ unions would not let the Centre sit in peace till all demands of the protesters are met.Also Watch| 'Send cash, liquor, food': For farmer stir, Congress leader's controversial call“This time the target (for the tractor parade) will be 40 lakh tractors. We all 40 leaders will tour the entire country to gain support. Everyone is united for the movement. Now, the farmers will decide the future of the country,” he said while addressing a mahapanchayat in the Karnal district of Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-congress-leader-s-liquor-offer-to-farmers-bku-s-rakesh-tikait-reacts-101613404306717.html
15-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Uttarakhand CM orders probe into Wasim Jaffer's resignation and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Uttarakhand CM orders probe into Wasim Jaffer’s resignation as cricket coachAmid the row following the resignation of Uttarakhand state cricket team coach Wasim Jaffer after which an office-bearer of Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) accused him of "communal bias", chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Monday ordered an inquiry in the matter. Read more‘Not subject to removal’: Twitter on Haryana minister Vij’s tweet on Disha RaviTwitter said on Monday a tweet by Haryana’s home minister Anil Vij, in which he had posted about arrested climate activist Disha Ravi, has been investigated and "is not subject to removal" under rules governing extreme speech online. Read morePresidents' Day 2021: Here’s all you need to know about US federal holidayThe holiday was originally established to celebrate the birthday of George Washington, the first president of the United States, who was born on February 22, 1732. Read moreRavichandran Ashwin slams century, joins unique list of lower order batsmenRavichandran Ashwin made a huge statement on Monday as he scored his fifth Test match century on Day 3 of the second Test against England, to help India set a huge target for the visitors. Read moreDia Mirza-Vaibhav Rekhi wedding: First pictures of newlyweds are here, check them outThe first pictures of actor Dia Mirza, decked up as a bride on her wedding day, have arrived online. Dia tied the knot with Vaibhav Rekhi on Monday. Read timeDia Mirza makes for the most beautiful bride in red saree and dupatta, see picsDraped in a red saree, Dia Mirza made for a beautiful bride. The first few images of Dia walking towards the mandap at her wedding landed on the internet and spread like wildfire. The actor married her boyfriend and businessman Vaibhav Rekhi on February 15, 2021, in a private ceremony at her home. Only close family and friends were in attendance. Read moreWatch: Rajnath Singh hands over trophies to best marching contingents from R-DayDefence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday handed over the trophies of best marching contingents of this year's Republic Day parade to the Jat Regimental Centre and the Delhi Police. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-u-khand-cm-orders-probe-into-wasim-jaffer-s-resignation-101613400068998.html
15-02-2021||India||Amid rise in Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra minister looks at ‘3T formula’||Amid the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Maharashtra, the state government had said the "3T formula" of tracing, testing and treatment will have to be implemented strictly to tackle the increase. The state’s health minister Rajesh Tope said they had managed to flatten the curve in the last one month as far as daily Covid-19 cases were concerned, but a recent rise in the numbers in Mumbai, Wardha and some other areas was "alarming"."We have given instructions that the 3T formula of tracing, testing and treatment be implemented strictly, effectively. Testing needs to be increased. Meanwhile, people also need to follow Covid-19 guidelines," Tope said, according to news agency PTI.Photos: Experts sound alarm after Maharashtra reports record cases in 39 daysTope said the situation needs to be controlled as "we don't want to go in for a lockdown now". He also said the state was waiting for the Centre to start the second round of vaccination, adding that the shots should be given free to the "poor and lower middle class".Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 4,092 Covid-19 infections, over 4,000 for the first time since January 6, taking its tally to 2,064,278. Mumbai, meanwhile, reported over 600 cases after 31 days with 645 fresh infections. The city last saw over 600 cases in a day on January 14.Health experts have attributed the rise in cases to the increased movement of people post the resumption of activities and the operation of trains in Mumbai and Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), and fatigue in wearing masks and sanitising.They have sounded an alarm and said that authorities will have to increase tracing and testing and the people will have to strictly adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour. They also suggested that areas, where cases have on the rise, should be put on “red alert”.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has not yet decided on any further relaxations in the city and said that a decision about it and unlocking will be taken on February 22 after monitoring the situation in Mumbai. Experts have said that several factors, including restarting local train services for all, increased mingling among groups and non-compliance of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, are some of the reasons for the increase in daily cases in the past five days.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-maharashtra-minister-looks-at-3t-formula-101613401224424.html
15-02-2021||India||Toolkit row: Shantanu Muluk, one of 3 accused, seeks transit anticipatory bail||Shantanu Muluk, one of the three accused named by the Delhi Police in connection with the Google toolkit row, on Monday moved the Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court, seeking transit anticipatory bail in connection with the case. The plea is similar to the one filed by activist-lawyer Nikita Jacob, who, earlier in the day, moved an urgent transit anticipatory bail plea before the high court.Also Read | Greta toolkit: Nikita Jacob moves HC for anticipatory bailSatej Jadhav, who represents Muluk, said a non-bailable warrant (NBW) has been issued against Muluk in the first information report (FIR) filed by the Delhi Police’s cyber cell, which also includes names of Jacob and Bengaluru-based climate activist Disha Ravi. Ravi was arrested by the Delhi Police on Sunday.The bench of Justice Vibha Kankanwadi has allowed the circulation of Muluk’s application and will take up the plea on Tuesday.The Delhi Police said earlier in the day that Ravi, who has been sent to five-day police custody, created the toolkit detailing digital support for protests against the three farm laws, in collaboration with Jacob and Muluk. This information, the police claimed, was revealed by Ravi during her interrogation in Bengaluru. “The email account created by Shantanu is the owner of this doc and all others are editors,” Prem Nath, joint commissioner of police of the cyber cell, said.Also Read | Disha Ravi, Nikita Jacob and Shantanu created toolkit, say Delhi PoliceThe officer further said that information from Jacob’s phone shows that she and Ravi had sent it to Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg on the Telegram app.The controversy dates back to earlier this month, when Thunberg was among a host of international celebrities, who tweeted on the ongoing farmers’ protest in India. Thunberg also tweeted a toolkit, detailing how to protest against the laws, but deleted the tweet and later posting an edited version of the document. After this, the Delhi Police registered an FIR against ‘unknown persons.’Barbadian pop star Rihanna was the first international celebrity to tweet on the protests. US lawyer Meena Harris, the niece of vice president Kamala Harris, too, has tweeted about the farmers' protests, as well as the arrest of Ravi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toolkit-row-shantanu-muluk-one-of-3-accused-seeks-transit-anticipatory-bail-101613401267452.html
15-02-2021||India||India, Japan pitch for Assam to be hub of connectivity with Southeast Asia||India and Japan on Monday made a strong pitch for Assam to be a hub for connectivity and economic activities with Southeast Asia, with Japanese funding playing a key role in taking forward infrastructure and development projects.External affairs minister S Jaishankar and Japanese ambassador Satoshi Suzuki visited the north-eastern state to review projects being implemented with Japanese support, and outlined a vision of Assam playing a crucial role in India’s efforts to link up with and benefit from new markets in Southeast Asian countries such as Myanmar and Vietnam.The visit was a follow-up to the meeting on January 28 of the Act East Forum, a special body formed in 2017 and co-chaired by the Japanese envoy and India’s foreign secretary to boost development of the northeast.“Assam has long been the bridge between India and the world to our east,” Jaishankar told a symposium in Guwahati that was also addressed by Suzuki.Assam’s role over the centuries in facilitating the flow of goods, people and ideas till as far as Korea and Japan was disrupted by colonialism and partition, and the “Act East” policy will create connectivity “to and within Assam, beyond to the northeast, then to neighbouring Myanmar and Bangladesh, but eventually push all the way by road, by sea, by air to Vietnam [and] Japan,” Jaishankar said.Suzuki said enhancing connectivity across India’s eastern border is critical because the country “faces certain restrictions in the western border outlet”. He added: “Japan always takes a panoramic perspective in its diplomacy. The vision for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific is at its centre, and India’s northeast, including Assam, occupies an important place in this vision.”The northeast is “situated where India’s Act East policy and Japan’s vision for a free and open Indo-Pacific converge”, he said. “To be ‘free and open’ is critical here in Assam. That is why Japan is supporting various connectivity projects in this state,” he added.Jaishankar said Assam has the potential to become the centre of a hub covering Myanmar, Bangladesh and Bhutan, and India has worked to coordinate with Japan’s projects in these three countries.India, he said, intends to make the Brahmaputra River the main channel for movement of goods and people in an area ranging from the Himalayas to the Bay of Bengal by creating inland water connectivity to the key ports of Chittagong and Mongla in Bangladesh. India is also developing the Eastern Waterways Transport Connectivity Grid with support from the World Bank, and river ports such as Dhubri and Karimganj in Assam are being used to move goods to and from Bhutan and Bangladesh, he said.New Delhi also plans to make Assam the hub for transmission of surplus power to the neighbourhood, and work is on to develop new transmission lines connecting Assam with Bihar through Bangladesh, Jaishankar said. Since Assam is a major producer of refined petroleum products, the government is trying to facilitate the sale of these products to the larger region through steps such as building a pipeline to Bangladesh to supply high speed diesel.In recent years, Japan has backed several crucial infrastructure projects in the northeast. It signed a loan agreement of ₹1,600 crores for the 20-km Dhubri-Phulbari bridge on the Brahmaputra to be built at a cost of more than ₹6,000 crores. The bridge, which will be the longest river bridge in India, will shorten the travel time across the river in this area from more than eight hours to less than 30 minutes.Jaishankar and Suzuki also visited parts of the Guwahati water supply system that are being renovated with a Japanese loan of ₹1,183 crores, which constitutes a major part of the total project cost of Rs. 1,443 crores. Japan is also backing the ₹1,460-crore Guwahati sewerage project with a loan of more than ₹1,000 crores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-japan-pitch-for-assam-to-be-hub-of-connectivity-with-southeast-asia-101613398979649.html
15-02-2021||India||Danfoss, IISc ink pact to promote natural refrigerants||Danfoss Industries said on Monday it has signed an MoU with Indian Institute of Science here to promote use of natural refrigerants. The collaboration aims to develop a research and training centre focused on promoting the use of natural or CO2-based refrigerants, a company statement said. Refrigerants lie at the core of the cold chain and refrigeration industry, but traditional refrigerants such as Hydrochlorofluorocarbons and Chlorofluorocarbons are known to contribute to global warming, and the depletion of the ozone layer which protects the earth from harmful UV light. In recent times, there has been an increase in the use of natural refrigerants like ammonia and CO2-based refrigerants, R744 (CO2) and R290 (Propane). "To promote their wider adoption across India, the MoU between Danfoss India and IISc aims to increase knowledge systems around natural refrigerants both at the academic and industry level", the statement said. "This collaboration with IISc endeavours to enhance R&D and skill development in the use of natural refrigerants in lieu of HCFCs and HFCs", President, Danfoss Industries Pvt. Ltd., India Region, Ravichandran Purushothaman said. The MoU aims to provide training in best practices at various levels, including for teachers, students, field and maintenance engineers, technicians and practicing engineers, it was stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/danfoss-iisc-ink-pact-to-promote-natural-refrigerants-101613400347561.html
15-02-2021||India||Ker CM launches fibre optic network for free internet access to 20 lakh families||To bridge the digital divide by providing high-speed, affordable internet connectivity to every household, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday launched the KFON (Kerala Fibre Optic Network) in the state.Speaking at the launch event, the Chief Minister said that KFON will revolutionise the digital space."With KFON, free internet connectivity will be provided to 20 lakh BPL families. It will also cover villages in all 14 districts. Earlier only 10 per cent of government offices had high-speed Internet, with the launch of KFON, 30,000 government institutions will have high brand width connectivity,' said the Chief Minister.KFON is a joint venture of Kerala State IT Infrastructure Limited and Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB). A consortium led by Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) was selected to implement the project in March 2019.The Chief Minister said the project will leverage the infrastructure of the Kerala State Electricity Board by establishing a core ring, and a network operating center will be set up at Eranakulam."Across the 14 districts in the state, a 35,000-kilometer-long optic fiber network is being laid, which once completed will be the largest such network. All service providers will have the option to use the network. The internet speed available will be from 10 Mbps to 1 Gbps," the CM informed.He said that earlier with only private internet service providers in play, cities had internet connectivity, but those in villages lagging behind."With KFON this scenario will be changed," he stated.KFON is part of the Kerala government's effort to provide a digital infrastructure in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ker-cm-launches-fibre-optic-network-for-free-internet-access-to-20-lakh-families-101613399456780.html
15-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand CM orders probe into Wasim Jaffer’s resignation as cricket coach||Amid the row following the resignation of Uttarakhand state cricket team coach Wasim Jaffer after which an office-bearer of Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) accused him of "communal bias", chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Monday ordered an inquiry in the matter.Rawat had met CAU officials at his official residence in Dehradun on Sunday evening.Darshan Singh Rawat, the chief minister’s media coordinator, confirmed the development. "On Sunday evening, the CM had met few officials of CAU at his residence who apprised him of the matter," he said."After listening to them, he ordered an inquiry in the whole matter. Once the inquiry report comes, he would take the required action," said Rawat.The chief minister’s order for a probe came after a tweet by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in which he did not name any person or organization.Gandhi in his tweet said, "In the last few years, hate has been normalised so much that even our beloved sport cricket has been marred by it. India belongs to all of us. Do not let them dismantle our unity."The state Congress meanwhile, accused the BJP led state government of communalising the sport."If the CAU would have raised objections on Jaffer's coaching on merit or demerits then it would have been okay. But leveling communal charges against him is totally unacceptable. Under the BJP rule even a sport is being communalised which is not healthy for Uttarakhand's cricket," said Suryakant Dhasmana, Congress state vice-president.The row erupted after Jaffer resigned from the position of state team coach on February 8 citing "interference and bias of selectors and CAU office bearers in team selection and promoting non-deserving players." He was appointed as the coach in June last year on a one-year contract.Following his resignation, CAU secretary Mahim Verma alleged that "Jaffer had been promoting players from a particular community and brought a Muslim cleric among the players for Friday prayers" which Jaffer completely refuted saying, "The communal angle brought in is very sad."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-orders-probe-into-wasim-jaffer-s-resignation-as-cricket-coach-101613398902558.html
15-02-2021||India||Gujarat extends night curfew in 4 metro cities from tomorrow||The Gujarat government on Monday extended the night curfew in four metro cities—Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot—of the state until February 28, additional chief secretary of the home department Pankaj Kumar was cited as saying by news agency ANI. The duration of the curfew has been curtailed in the new order by an hour which begins only at midnight, while the existing night curfew begins at 11pm. The new order comes as the existing night curfew in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot and Surat is ending on Monday.“Starting February, Gujarat will strictly follow till February 28 the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs on January 27. The night curfew would continue to be in force in four metros of the state - Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot and Surat. But it would now be between 11pm to 6am till February 15,” Kumar had said on January 30, according to news agency PTI.Also read | Vijay Rupani could be in hospital for a week, says Gujarat deputy CMEarlier in the day, chief minister Vijay Rupani tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He was hospitalised on Sunday in Ahmedabad after he fainted on a stage during an election rally in Vadodara.Gujarat reported 247 new Covid-19 cases and one death on Sunday, taking the overall tally to 265,244, and 4,401 fatalities, PTI reported citing the state health department. Also, the Covid-19 vaccination drive to give the second dose of the vaccine to people covered in the first phase began in the state on Monday.The Union ministry of health and family welfare had said that as of 8am on Monday 683,903 people had received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-extends-night-curfew-in-4-metro-cities-from-tomorrow-101613397651724.html
15-02-2021||India||Mumbai’s Byculla zoo reopens after Covid shutdown, draws 1,400 visitors on Day 1||The Byculla zoo also known as Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan which opened its gates to the public on Monday after remaining closed for almost a year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, drew 1,400 visitors, zoo authorities said.The zoo garnered a revenue of ₹69,600 on the opening day.According to zoo authorities, the two biggest attractions for visitors were the two Royal Bengal tigers named Shakti and Karishma followed by the Humboldt penguins.In February 2020, the zoo had received the two tigers from Aurangabad zoo. It had plans to keep them in the 3,500 square-metre enclosure with landscape and terrain that replicates the conditions in the Ranthambore National Park of Rajasthan.However, by March 2020 the zoo was shut owing to Covid-19 lockdown with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) announcing the shutdown on March 15, 2020.The zoo’s director Dr Sanjay Tripathi said, "We handled a total of 1,419 people in Byculla zoo and earned a total revenue of Rs. 69,600. This excludes senior citizens whose entry is free."The zoo authorities expect the number of visitors to go up in the coming days when the situation normalises.In normal times, the zoo gets around 6,000 to 8,000 visitors daily on weekdays, and nearly 10,000 on weekends. The zoo also gets many visitors in the form of morning and evening walkers. However, currently owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, walkers are not allowed inside the zoo, but are allowed to walk in the garden area outside the zoo. Current timings of the zoo are 9 am to 6 pm.Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar will inaugurate the social media pages of the Byculla zoo on Tuesday.According to the plan, Byculla zoo will have dedicated social media pages under the banner of Mumbai Zoo on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube."The plan is to upload daily activities of animals on our dedicated social media page and also upload educational materials on our social media pages about the zoo and wildlife inside the zoo," Dr Tripathi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbais-byculla-zoo-reopens-after-covid-shutdown-draws-1-400-visitors-on-day-1-101613397130298.html
15-02-2021||India||Pak spouses of Kashmiri men flag their plight, seek citizenship, travel papers||Women from Pakistan and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) who married Kashmiri men and had traveled to Jammu and Kashmir after 2010 announcement of amnesty policy for former militants by then chief minister Omar Abdullah, on Monday reiterated demands of citizenship rights and travel documents for them and their children to visit their parents, siblings and relatives across the border.At a press conference, the group of women appealed to the governments of India and Pakistan to look into their issues from a humanitarian point of view.“We see the last glimpses of our dead relatives on the phone. We see their funerals on video calls. What can be a bigger tyranny than this? Imagine the plight of one’s daughter or sister if she can’t visit her home for 9-10 years or you can’t see her dead body,” said Toiba, a resident of Baramulla district, who had come with her Kashmiri husband and three kids nine years ago from Pakistan.“We are not criminals. We are women and have small kids. We request the governments of India and Pakistan to decide something for us. The Government of India should either deport us or provide us with the travel documents,” she said.The women’s group is part of the hundreds of women who came here with their Kashmiri husbands after the then chief minister Omar Abdullah in 2010 had announced a return and rehabilitation policy for former militants who were living in PoK.Out of many Kashmiri youth who had crossed the Line of Control (LoC) into PoK in the 1990s to get arms training after insurgency started in Kashmir valley, some had given up violence, married there and started their lives afresh.There are no official figures from the government of the number of those returning but the women say that they are 400 in number who came with their Kashmiri husbands.“Our husbands are Indian. We have married them. We have kids. What sort of justice is this that you accept them but you don’t accept their wives and children?” Toiba said.Owing to the opposition from the Pakistan side coupled with the then Indian government’s assertion that there were ‘practical issues’ involved in implementing the rehabilitation policy, the returning men and their families were forced to take Nepal route and then by road to Kashmir with authorities going soft on the travelers.The informal entry meant no official recognition of their families or any documents which would help them to travel and acquire education.“The government is now saying that these are illegal immigrants. Why didn't the government deport these families or punish them that time when they had come. Then those 400 women would not have come. How come this illegal thing would continue from 2010 to 2018,” she said.The women have held a number of protests and lately also met lieutenant governor Monoj Sinha."We met LG who listened to our issues and told us to come again. Second time when we went we were detained outside Raj Bhawan without citing any reason. We were lodged in a police station from 10 in morning to 4 in the evening.We were 20 women," said Safiya, a resident of Sopore, who had come from PoK.She said that the 2010 promise of rehabilitation was all false. “They did not fulfill any of their promises. Instead cases were filed against us. We got no documents like Aadhar card or election card nor were we given any citizenship although we knocked on every door,” she said.“Our children are suffering the most. They should get travel documents so that they could acquire education outside,” she said.“We are not terrorists. We are from Pakistan and we have been living here for the past 10-12 years,” she said.The group said that many of the women have been divorced and husbands of some others have died.“In any part of the world, a divorced or widowed woman returns to her parent’s home. Where else will she go with her small children? Why are our parents’ homes snatched from us,” said Toiba.Nabila, a resident of Pattan, had left her minor daughter in Pakistan when she had decided to travel to Kashmir with her husband in 2012. For the past eight years she has been unable to meet her daughter.“I make her excuses when she asks me ‘Mama when are you coming’. I had never imagined that I would get stuck here. What crime have we committed?... This separation has terribly affected our and our children’s mental health,” she said.The group said that if a decision was not taken on their fate then they have plans to march en-masse towards the Line of Control in the near future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-spouses-of-kashmiri-men-flag-their-plight-seek-citizenship-travel-papers-101613394227708.html
15-02-2021||India||‘Not subject to removal’: Twitter on Haryana minister Vij’s tweet on Disha Ravi||Twitter said on Monday a tweet by Haryana’s home minister Anil Vij, in which he had posted about arrested climate activist Disha Ravi, has been investigated and "is not subject to removal" under rules governing extreme speech online. Vij had earlier on Monday tweeted in Hindi, saying that wherever seeds of anti-nationalism are found, they have to be exterminated from the roots.Also read | Who is Disha Ravi? Here’s how the activist is linked to Greta ThunbergThe Haryana home minister posted the screenshots of Twitter’s notification hours after his tweet. “We have received a complaint regarding your account, @anilvijminister for the following content…” Twitter said in its response. “We have investigated the reported content and have found that it is not subject to removal under the Twitter Rules or German law. Accordingly, we have not taken any action as a result of this specific report,” it added.pic.twitter.com/hxrzfII3LPIn a comment on the arrest of the 21-year-old Ravi, Vij had on Monday urged the "extermination from the roots" wherever seeds of anti-nationalism are found. “Whoever harbours the seeds of anti-nationalism in their mind, has to be destroyed from the roots, be it #Disha_Ravi or anyone else,” Vij had tweeted in Hindi.Also read | From opposition in the country to global leaders, all come in support of DishaThe minister’s remarks came two days after Ravi was arrested by the Delhi Police for allegedly sharing a Google toolkit related to the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s farm laws with Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg.Delhi Police have claimed that the Bengaluru-based Ravi made the toolkit detailing digital support for the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws in collaboration with Nikita Jacob and Shantanu. They said they had started an investigation ‘against unknown persons’ on February 4 for fomenting ‘disaffection and ill-will against the Indian government’ under the guise of supporting farmers’ unions in connection with the violence on January 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-subject-to-removal-twitter-on-haryana-minister-vij-s-tweet-on-disha-ravi-101613395151741.html
15-02-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal to visit Meerut, address ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ on February 28||After Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rashtriya Lok Dal’s (RLD) Jayant Chaudhary, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will address a ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ or a farmers' meeting amid the ongoing protests by agriculturists against the three contentious farm laws. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Sanjay Singh tweeted on Monday saying that party chief Kejriwal will address the mahapanchayat in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut on February 28.“A workers’ meeting of the party will take place in Meerut on February 28. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will address farmers through a kisan mahapanchayat. Voices will be raised for farmers from Meerut, which is the land on which the revolution of 1857 took place,” Singh tweeted in Hindi, with the hashtag ‘kaala kanoon vapas lo’ (repeal the black laws).मेरठ में कार्यकर्ता बैठक सम्पन्न 28 फ़रवरी को होगी “किसान महापंचायत” दिल्ली के मुख्यमंत्री @ArvindKejriwal जी किसानो को सम्बोधित करेंगे। 1857 की क्रान्तिभूमि मेरठ से उठेगी किसानो के हक़ में आवाज़। #काला_क़ानून_वापस_लोThe mahapanchayat will mark yet another outreach towards the farmers from Kejriwal and the AAP, who have publicly expressed their support for the protests, as well as opposition to the three legislation, which were passed Parliament in September last year. In Delhi, where farmers have been protesting since November last year, the AAP has been providing free internet connection and water at the protest sites. At a special one-day session of the Delhi assembly in December, Kejriwal and AAP MLAs tore copies of the laws. In the initial days of the protest, the Kejriwal government had denied permission to the Delhi Police to convert city grounds into temporary prisons; the police ostensibly wanted to detain thousands of farmers who were marching to the capital city.On Monday, Kejriwal also expressed support for Bengaluru-based climate activist Disha Ravi, who was arrested by the Delhi Police on Sunday in connection with a toolkit tweeted by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, who is among the international celebrities to have spoken out on the anti-farm law protests.Also Read | Disha Ravi’s arrest in 'toolkit case' unprecedented attack on democracy: Arvind KejriwalAfter the violence in Delhi on Republic Day, when protesting farmers clashed with the police, several politicians have visited the protest sites, while others have addressed mahapanchayats. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra addressed farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Bijnor on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arvind-kejriwal-to-visit-meerut-address-kisan-mahapanchayat-on-february-28-101613394512125.html
15-02-2021||India||Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla to pay two-day visit to Russia from Wednesday||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will pay a two-day visit to Russia beginning Wednesday during which both sides will deliberate on bilateral as well as topical issues of regional and global importance, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Monday.It said this year's first visit abroad by the foreign secretary to Moscow signifies the importance India attaches to its close and friendly relations with Russia.The MEA said the two sides will review the entire gamut of bilateral relations, including the forthcoming high level exchanges, during Shringla's visit."Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will pay an official visit to Moscow on February 17-18 at the invitation of Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Igor Morgulov," the MEA said in a statement."The foreign secretary will hold the next round of India-Russia foreign office consultations with Deputy Foreign Minister Morgulov, during which the two sides will review the entire gamut of bilateral relations, including the forthcoming high-level exchanges," it said.The MEA said both sides will also exchange views on topical issues of regional and international importance.The foreign secretary will also deliver a speech on 'India-Russia relations' at the prestigious Diplomatic Academy of the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it said."Despite the COVID-19 pandemic situation, India and Russia have sustained the momentum of the Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership between the two countries," the MEA said. PTI MPB NSD NSD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secretary-harsh-vardhan-shringla-to-visit-russia-from-wednesday-101613393673349.html
15-02-2021||India||Punjab's civic body elections: SEC announces re-polling in 3 booths of Patiala||After reports of miscreants allegedly damaging the EVM in some booths of Patiala District surfaced, the State Election Commission of Punjab (SEC) on Monday ordered to conduct re-election in three polling booths of Municipal Council Patran and Samana in the district.SEC said that repolling would be held on February 16, from 08.00 am to 04.00 pm and counting will take place on February 17."Commission has received reports from Returning Officers (RO) Patran that some miscreants allegedly damaged the EVM in polling booth number 11 of ward number 8. Similarly, Commission had also got reports from RO Samana that unknown persons allegedly damaged EVM in polling booth numbers 22 and 23 of ward Number 11," said an official release of SEC.SEC said that taking serious note of these incidents, the Commission has announced to nullify the earlier polling conducted in these booths and ordered to re-poll under Section 59 (2)(A) of Punjab State Election Commission Act, 1994.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjabs-civic-body-elections-sec-announces-re-polling-in-3-booths-of-patiala-101613393344916.html
15-02-2021||India||Bihar police book JD-U MLA in murder case of former member of district board||Police in Bihar’s Naurangiya on Monday lodged an FIR against JD-U leader and Valmiki Nagar legislator Dhirendra Pratrap Singh in connection with the murder of a former member of district board on Sunday.Kiran Kumar Gorakh Jadhav, superintendent of police (SP), Bagaha police district on Monday said three persons including Dhirendra Pratap Singh, alias Rinku Singh, have been named accused, apart from a few unknown people."One person has been taken into custody. We are looking into the matter. Prima facie, a dispute over contract work appears to be the main reason behind the incident," said Jadhav.The deceased who was shot in the head, was identified as Dayanand Verma, a resident of Gandak Colony, Bettiah and former member of district board.In the FIR lodged in the Naurangiya police station, Dayanand's wife Kumud Verma said she was an eye-witness to the murder of her husband which took place near Sirisiya chowk in Bagaha subdivision in West Champaran at around 7.15 pm on Sunday."When my brother and I reached Sirisiya chowk after coming to know about my husband’s argument with one Shakeel, I saw MLA Rinku Singh reaching the spot in a four-wheeler along with some men. He pointed out my husband after which t some people caught my husband and fired at him from a point blank range," she said.While the MLA and others fled from the spot, the local people gave a hot chase and managed to catch hold of one Bablu Jaiswal, she said.On Monday afternoon, high drama unfolded in Bettiah as a large number of the gathered to protest the murder by placing the body near the collectorate. They were finally pacified following assurances of West Champaran district magistrate (DM) Kundan Kumar.The Valmiki Nagar MLA could not be contacted for comments. Rajya Sabha member and BJP leader Satish Chand Dubey, who has represented Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha seat after his victory in 2014 polls, however, came out in support of MLA Dhirendra Pratap Singh, saying allegations can be labeled against anybody."So far Rinku Singh is concerned, he does not have any criminal background. Let the law take its own course," Dubey said.Police have registered a case against three persons including the JD-U MLA under Section 302/34 of the IPC and (1-B)A/26/35 of the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-police-book-jd-u-mla-in-murder-case-of-former-member-of-district-board-101613392673583.html
15-02-2021||India||Ahead of assembly polls, Sabarimala issue back on radar in Kerala||With assembly elections just two months away political parties in Kerala are in a race to rake up the emotional Sabarimala Temple issue yet again but a majority of youngsters who participated in the agitation feel let down. Facing a litany of litigations and with no legal solution in sight they are a tad upset.K Sabarinathan was 18 years old when he was arrested during a hymn-chanting protest in Kollam (south Kerala) at the height of the Sabarimala agitation three years ago. Later, police slapped two more cases against him. A graduate now, he can’t apply for a government job or go abroad since three cases are pending against him. Many youngsters like him are making frequent trips to the court these days as parties are busy raking up the issue in a bid to get votes.A part-time secretary with a private firm PK Jayakumar (23) lost his job after he spent 14 days in Thiruvananthapuram central jail in connection with the agitation. Facing six cases, he was summoned five times last year by two courts-- to add to his woes the six cases are in four different districts.Nearly 50,000 people were booked at the height of the temple agitation three years ago and youngsters are running pillar to post amid a host of cases. A regular at the hill temple Jayakumar said he never expected anything positive from the Communist government but pinned much hope on the BJP government at the Centre.“The Centre is hiding behind mere technicalities and it wants to make the issue live again. Prime Minister Modi and then party chief Amit Shah had said that sacrifices of devotees won’t be wasted. We expected a positive move after Modi stormed back to power but nothing happened,” he said.The state had witnessed large-scale violence and five shutdowns in 2018 after the Supreme Court verdict that allowed women of all ages to the temple annulling an age-old bar on women of reproductive age. For the first time in the history of the state more than 50,000 people were booked in connection with the agitation and many jails were filled to the brim.Three years have passed and the protestors are a worried lot because no legal solution is in sight and many parties that exploited the issue including the BJP are silent now. Worried, the Nair Service Society, a socio-cultural organization of upper caste Nairs, which took a proactive role during the stir has asked Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to withdraw cases against those who participated in the agitation. In the letter its secretary G Sukumaran Nair cited the plight of youngsters. But the government is yet to react. Though the Congress and BJP promised that all cases will be withdrawn once they assume power, protestors are not moved.“Since review petitions are pending before a larger bench of the apex court the Union government can’t take a decision now. The state government’s affidavit in the court to change the custom is still pending before the court. I am facing more than 200 cases,” said BJP state president K Surendran adding that party will withdraw all cases once it assumed power in the state. A distant third runner in the state, protestors know that it won’t happen in near future.Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy had written a letter to the CM last month asking him to approach the Supreme Court to speed up verdict and withdraw its earlier affidavit that favoured entry of women of all ages. In the letter Chandy also said the government’s affidavit created much confusion which ultimately led to the five- bench verdict in 2018.But the government is treading cautiously this time—the Sabarimala flip-flop was one of the reasons for the drubbing of the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the last general election in which it lost all but one of the 20 Lok Sabha seats. “We all know the issue is before the Supreme Court. Bankrupt Congress and BJP are raising it eying votes,” said state law minister A K Balan adding the government will go by the directive of the court.But Bindu Ammini, one of two women who entered the hill temple three years ago making history, said she was worried that some of the progressive outfits have diluted their stance for vote bank politics. She said she expected a steady stream of women to the temple after her entry but it never happened and many who took bold positions now strand retracted.Temple Timeline:1990: Ban on productive women in Sabarimala was first challenged in Kerala High Court which in 1991 ruled that restriction was part of an age-old tradition. Upheld restriction on women between 10-50 age groups.2006: Indian Young Lawyers’ Association filed a PIL in Supreme Court challenging the temple’s practice saying it was discriminatory and against gender justice.2008: The issue was referred to a three-judge bench. Then Congress-led state government favoured status quo.2016: The plea came up for hearing after eight years.2017: A constitution bench was formed to hear the plea. The CPI (M)-led state government supported the entry of women.2018: A five-judge constitution bench allows women of all ages to enter the temple. State witnesses widespread protest.2019: The SC takes up 60-odd review petitions and entrusts the case to a nine-member bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-assembly-polls-sabarimala-issue-back-on-radar-in-kerala-101613391521777.html
15-02-2021||India||Supreme Court panel on farm laws holds consultations with agri-professionals, academicians||The Supreme Court-appointed committee on the new farm laws on Monday said it held consultations with eminent academicians and agri-professionals on the legislations against which farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders for over two months now.This is the seventh meeting the panel has held so far. The three-member committee is holding consultations with stakeholders both online and in person.In a statement, the committee said it held a detailed discussion with academicians and professionals on Monday through video conferencing."In total, 7 eminent academicians and professionals in the field participated through video conferencing for detailed deliberations with the committee members," it said.The committee members requested the participants to give their views on the three farm laws. "All the participating professionals and academicians gave their detailed views and suggestions...," the statement said.The Supreme Court had on January 12 stayed the implementation of the three contentious farm laws for two months and asked the committee to submit a report within two months after consulting the concerned stakeholders.Thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's borders for over two months now seeking repeal of the new legislations, introduced by the Centre last year, saying they are pro-corporate and could weaken the mandi system.The 11 rounds of the talks between the Centre and 41 protesting farmer unions has so far remained deadlocked even though the former has offered concessions including suspension of the legislations for 18 months, which the unions have rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-panel-on-farm-laws-holds-consultations-with-agri-professionals-academicians-101613389915732.html
15-02-2021||India||Bihar police arrest bootleggers’ associates from Haryana in Muzaffarpur||The Bihar police said Monday that one of its anti-liquor squads arrested four associates of bootleggers from Haryana late Sunday night who were on their way to bail them out of jail.A team from the Ahiapur police station arrested the four men when they were approaching a roundabout on national highway 28. Police also seized their car.Their associates had been arrested on Thursday from a tourist bus in the Aurai police station area. The police had also seized a large number of bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL). The bus was heading towards Sitamarhi.Deputy superintendent of police (town) Ram Naresh Paswan said that a team was deployed after a tip off.“The team, led by station house officer of Ahiapur police station Sunil Kumar Razak set up barricades near Bairia roundabout. Every suspected vehicle was being checked minutely. Meanwhile, the driver of a car, bearing a Haryana registration number tried to flee after seeing the police barricades. Our team chased the car and took four persons including the driver into custody. They were taken to the police station and quizzed,” Paswan said.The police officer claimed they had confessed their association with the smugglers who were arrested from the bus.“They told the interrogating officers that they had come to get their associates out on bail. They also revealed some more facts about the modus operandi of alcohol smuggling in the dry states like Bihar and Gujarat. Some of the influential traders of IMFL from Haryana are running a big racket across the country with political patronage,” Paswan said.The DSP also said that the information provided by the four men are being verified.Meanwhile, a team of Bihar excise arrested Pushpindar Singh Dhariwal from SAS Nagar of Mohali in Punjab on Sunday and brought him to Muzaffarpur on transit remand. He was arrested in connection with two cases pending with the Brahmapura police station in Muzaffarpur and Majhi police station of Saran district.A policeman on condition of anonymity said that Dhariwal has made many startling revelations. “He has confessed that he had sent more than 200 consignments of IMFL to Muzaffarpur since Bihar became a dry state. He has admitted to running a racket with his father and some local associates from Mohali. A strongman from western diara of Gandak in Muzaffarpur district is his partner in the state. Some others from Bihar are also purchasing IMFL from him. All payments are being made either in cash or through net banking. Even bitcoins are being used for illegal transactions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-police-arrest-bootleggers-associates-from-haryana-in-muzaffarpur-101613389335654.html
15-02-2021||India||18-19 Covid-19 vaccine candidates in pipeline, says Harsh Vardhan||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday at least 18-19 vaccine candidates against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are in the pipeline and in different stages of the clinical trial as he reiterated that the shots which are in the public domain are safe and effective. Vardhan also said the government will be able to vaccinate people above 50 years of age in the next two to three weeks amid an ongoing inoculation drive."About 18-20 vaccine candidates against Covid-19 are in the pipeline and are in preclinical, clinical and advanced stages," Vardhan said during a press briefing.The minister also informed that 80-85% of frontline workers have been inoculated against the coronavirus disease so far even as an inoculation drive is ongoing across the country. India has approved Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech and Covishield from the Oxford University-AstraZeneca being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, for emergency use in the country. He added that India will be supplying Covid-19 vaccines to 20-25 other countries.Also read | IIT Bombay claims Covid-19 survives longer on glass, plastic than cloth or paperHe also said that 188 districts across the country have not reported new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last seven days and no new cases have been reported in 21 districts in 21 days. “It is crucial that people continue to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour which I had called a social vaccine, along with real vaccine,” Vardhan also said during the briefing.India's tally has risen to 10,916,589 with 11,649 new infections and 90 fatalities between Sunday and Monday morning, the health ministry’s updated shows. The death toll increased to 155,732 and there are 139,637 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country, according to the data updated at 8am. The number of people who have recovered from the viral disease surged to 10,621,220, which has pushed the recovery rate to 97.29%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-new-covid-19-cases-in-188-districts-in-the-last-week-union-health-minister-101613389068975.html
15-02-2021||India||Two associates of terror outfits LeT, TuM arrested in Kashmir||Police on Monday said that they arrested two associates of terror outfits during an operation in Budgam.According to the police, the arrested persons were affiliated with Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Tehrik-ul-Mujahideen (TuM).A police spokesman said a police team, along with 53 Rashtriya Rifles, arrested two associates of proscribed terror outfits LeT and TuM. Also Read | Army conducts career counselling camp in remote village of J-K’s Rajouri“They have been identified as Sameer Ahmed Ittoo and Ubaid Ameen Mallah of Kulgam. Incriminating materials, including flags, banners and letter pads have been recovered from their possession,” the spokesman said.He said that during the preliminary investigation,the police found that these persons were involved in grenade lobbying incidents in Pulwama and Kulgam districts of south Kashmir, and were also making posters, banners and flags of banned terror organisations on the directions of their handlers for distribution at various locations in central and south Kashmir. “They were also actively involved in recruiting terrorists and overground workers with the aim to carry out terror activities in Budgam. A case under relevant sections has been registered at the Chadoora police station and further investigation has been initiated,” the spokesman added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-associates-of-terror-outfits-let-tum-arrested-in-kashmir-101613389009888.html
15-02-2021||India||33-yr-old woman in Assam hospitalised after acid attack, accused arrested||A 33-year-old woman has been hospitalized in Assam’s Dibrugarh after she was attacked with acid by a man on Sunday evening, police said.The woman was attacked at Amolapatty area in Dibrugarh when she was returning home from a store where she works. The accused has been arrested.“The accused identified as Buddhadeb Das has been nabbed. Preliminary investigations show that both the victim and the accused were known to each other,” said Prateek Thube, superintendent of police, Dibrugarh, said.The accused who is in his 50s had allegedly been pressuring the woman to marry him. But when she turned down his proposal he decided to retaliate. The police said the accused is married and has two childrenThe woman who sustained burn injuries on the left side of her face and left shoulder has been admitted to Assam Medical College Hospital (AMCH). Her condition is stated to be stable.“The nature of the injuries shows that she was attacked with acid. A laboratory test would reveal the exact substance she was attacked with. She is stable at present but we are keeping a tab on her recovery,” said Thube.The woman has not given a statement yet, the officer said.The accused was arrested late Sunday evening. A case has been registered and further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/33yrold-woman-in-assam-hospitalised-after-acid-attack-accused-arrested-101613388697077.html
15-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi announces ₹2 lakh ex-gratia for Jalgaon truck accident victims and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Jalgaon accident: PM Modi approves ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each for victims' kinPrime Minister Narendra Modi has approved an ex-gratia amount of ₹200,000 each for the families of the labourers who were killed in a truck accident in Maharashtra’s Jalgaon district. Read moreMark Butcher says Ashwin is a 'fine all-round cricketer'Former England cricketer Mark Butcher praised India off-spinner R Ashwin for his aggressive approach with the bat on Day 3 of the 2nd Test in Chennai. Read moreDia Mirza-Vaibhav Rekhi wedding: Actor poses as 'bride-to-be', shares mehendi picActor Dia Mirza may not be saying it in as many words, but she is all set to tie the knot with Vaibhav Rekhi. Read moreCitroen C5 Aircross SUV first drive review: Comfort food on four wheelsThere is something about French food that brings about a romantic flavour to the taste buds - something classy yet comforting. Much of the same delectable aura is what the Citroen C5 Aircross also brings about to the passenger vehicle segment in India. Read moreNeena Gupta goes walking in style, accessorises track suit with neon fanny packNeena Gupta is ageing like fine wine. The actor who is reversing in age has lately won a lot of accolades for her work. However, that is not all, Gupta is very famous for her fashion choices and her workout routines as well. Read more‘Pawri Hori Hai’ girl vibes to mashup track on her own video. Netizens love itPakistani influencer Dananeer Mobeen became the talk of the town after Yashraj Mukhate of Rasode Me Kaun Tha-fame dropped a fun mashup track featuring one of Mobeen’s clips. Read more‘Their sons guard our borders’: Priyanka Gandhi on PM Modi’s ‘parijeevi’ remarkPriyanka Gandhi said that the Prime Minister insulted and made fun of the protesting farmers by calling them ‘parijeevi’ in Parliament. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-101613386208850.html
15-02-2021||India||Disha Ravi, Nikita Jacob and Shantanu created toolkit, say Delhi Police||Arrested activist Disha Ravi made the toolkit detailing digital support for the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws in collaboration with Nikita Jacob and Shantanu, Delhi Police said on Monday and claimed that Ravi revealed the information while she was questioned in Bengaluru after her arrest.Prem Nath, the joint commissioner of police of the cyber cell, said during a press briefing that Jacob, a lawyer, Shantanu and Ravi had created the document. “The email account created by Shantanu is the owner of this doc and all others are its editors,” He added.He also said that team reached Mumbai and conducted searches at Jacob’s residence on February 11. Information from Jacob’s phone shows that she and Ravi had formed the toolkit and sent it to Swedish activist Greta Thunberg on Telegram app. “The aim was to spread misinformation and disaffection. They also sought people's participation in January 26 violence,” he added.Also read | From opposition in the country to global leaders, all come in support of Disha“On February 4, during a social media monitoring we came across the toolkit which had one portion as - prior action - in which there were instructions on how to start hashtags and tweet storms, and targeting Indian embassies,” he said. “It was seen after January 26 that instructions, as given in toolkit, were followed and during initial probe a warrant was issued from a court against Jacob after incriminating documents were recovered from her iPhone and laptop,” he said.Also read | Who is Disha Ravi? Here’s how the 22-yr-old activist is linked to Greta ThunbergOn January 11, pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation held a Zoom meeting which was attended by Jacob, Ravi and the group’s founder Mo Dhaliwal with a motive “to spread misinformation and disaffection.”Dhaliwal had contacted Jacob through his colleague Puneet, a Canadian citizen, to create a storm on Twitter ahead of Republic Day, police said on the 'Toolkit' document case related to the ongoing farmers' protest.The senior police officer also said that data was also deleted and that Ravi’s Telegram account shows that many links related to the toolkit were also removed. He said that since Jacob and Shantanu, a Pune-based engineer who is associated with NGO XR Factor, are absconding so a non-bailable warrant has been issued against them.Jacob’s house was searched after due intimation to Mumbai Police and incriminating information was recovered. “She was asked to make herself present but she's absconding,” Nath added.Separate teams have been sent to Maharashtra and Bengaluru as she's still absconding. Jacob has moved an urgent transit anticipatory bail before Bombay High Court. Delhi Police have already arrested activist Disha Ravi in connection with the toolkit case on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disha-ravi-nikita-jacob-and-shantanu-created-toolkit-say-delhi-police-101613387489674.html
15-02-2021||India||Own a TV or fridge or 2 wheeler in Karnataka? Surrender BPL cards or face action||The Karnataka government on Monday asked people possessing Below Poverty Line (BPL) ration cards, despite being ineligible on account of owning either a two wheeeler, TV, fridge or over five acres of land, to surrender them before March 31 or face legal action. "There are parameters for possessing a BPL card. They should not have more than five acres of land, motorcycle, TV or fridge. Those who don't qualify on these parameters should return the cards or else we will do it," food and civil supplies minister Umesh Katti said at a press conference in Belagavi. He said anyone earning more than ₹1.20 lakh annually should not use BPL cards and has to return it before March 31. Congress flayed the remarks and party workers staged protests in front of various ration shops in Bengaluru. Party workers also protested in Dharwad, Mysuru and Tumakuru, a Congress leader said. Congress MLA U T Khader said the issue had come up before him when he was the Food and Civil Supplies Minister in the Siddaramaiah government and he had decided not to relax the norms as many poor people would be affected. He opined that when there are offers like interest free loans to purchase all these items, it was obvious that people would buy it. The government is 'anti-poor', he charged and asked them to focus on identifying more beneficiaries instead of 'snatching away' their BPL cards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/own-a-tv-or-fridge-or-2-wheeler-in-karnataka-surrender-bpl-cards-or-face-action-101613385951025.html
15-02-2021||India||UP panchayat polls: Govt issues list of 75 seats under quota system||The Uttar Pradesh government has set the ball rolling for the three-tier panchayat elections by issuing a list of 75 reserved and unreserved posts of zila panchayat chairpersons. It has yet to announce reservation of kshetra panchayat chiefs (block-level heads). Of the 75 posts, 25 have been reserved for women. “A total 16 seats have been reserved for the Scheduled Castes (SCs) including 6 for women; 20 have been reserved for backward classes (BCs), including 7 for women; 27 seats have been put in the unreserved category; and 12 for women in general category,” additional chief secretary, panchayati raj, Manoj Kumar Singh said. Though panchayat polls in UP are not contested on party lines and no party symbols are allotted to candidates, political parties do take interest in them and back candidates. Also Read | BJP to chalk out strategy ahead of panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh“For villagers, these elections are of prime importance,“ retired panchayati raj official Sudab Chandola pointed out, adding “This is why they are eagerly waiting to find out if their village falls under a reserved category (SC, ST, BC, Woman) or has been left unreserved. The real activities start only after the reservation and seat allotment.” The government has proposed to make final publication of lists of category-wise allotments for all around 58,000 village panchayats on March 14 after which the state election commission will announce the dates for panchayat polls which is a 45-day exercise from the announcement to voting and constitution of new village panchayats. The government has decided on the rotation system of reservation under which, panchayats can be reserved for STs, SCs or BCs on the basis of their population in a block in the descending order but in a way, as far as possible, that a village panchayat is not reserved for the same category as the previous election.The Allahabad high court last month directed the state government to hold overdue village panchayat polls by April 30 and zila and kshera panchayat polls by mid-May. The five-year term of village panchayats in UP ended on December 25, 2020, but the state government deferred polls for six months citing unavoidable circumstances’ as the reason and on December 24, issued an order appointing administrators in place of village pradhans. “Now, the state election commission may announce the poll schedule around March 20 after the government completes reservation exercise by March 14,” a senior official dealing with the issue said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uppanchayat-polls-govt-issues-list-of-75-seats-under-quota-system-101613386609787.html
15-02-2021||India||Jalgaon accident: PM Modi approves ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each for victims' kin||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved an ex-gratia amount of ₹200,000 each for the families of the labourers who were killed in a truck accident in Maharashtra’s Jalgaon district on Sunday night, his office tweeted on Monday. The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in the tweet that ₹50,000 would also be given to those who have sustained serious injuries in the accident.Also Read | PM Modi condoles death of 16 labourers in 'heart-wrenching' truck accident in Maharashtra's Jalgaon“PM @narendramodi has approved an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each from Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the tragic truck accident in Jalgaon, Maharashtra. ₹50,000 would be given to those seriously injured,” PMO said in its tweet.PM @narendramodi has approved an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the tragic truck accident in Jalgaon, Maharashtra. Rs. 50,000 would be given to those seriously injured.Separately, the office of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray tweeted that the state government would also provide ₹200,000 each to the families of the victims. “Chief Minister Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray has announced to provide ₹2 lakh each to the families of the workers from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund,” the chief minister’s office (CMO) tweeted.जळगाव जिल्ह्यातील किनगाव (ता. यावल) येथे पपई घेऊन जाणारा टेम्पो पलटी होऊन त्यात १५ मजूर मृत्यूमुखी पडले. या मजुरांच्या कुटुंबियांना प्रत्येकी २ लाख रुपये मुख्यमंत्री सहाय्यता निधीतून देण्याचे मुख्यमंत्री उद्धव बाळासाहेब ठाकरे यांनी जाहीर केले.At least 16 labourers were killed and five others sustained injuries when the papaya-laden truck they were travelling in overturned in Jalgaon on Sunday night. All the victims were from Abhoda, Kerhala and Raver of Jalgaon district. According to officials, the vehicle was on its way from Dhule district’s Sakri to Raver when the driver lost control due to potholes on the road, resulting in the accident. The truck, according to a police officer, was taking a steep turn when it overturned and the labourers were crushed under the papayas.Prime Minister Modi had conveyed his condolences over the accident, also sending well wishes for those injured. “Heart-wrenching truck accident in Jalgaon, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover at the earliest,” the Prime Minister had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jalgaon-accident-pm-modi-approves-ex-gratia-of-rs-2-lakh-each-for-victims-kin-101613386095186.html
15-02-2021||India||From opposition in the country to global leaders, all come in support of Disha Ravi||Internet in India is raging against the government's move to arrest a 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi for supporting the farmers' protest. Ravi has been accused of editing and sharing the social media “toolkit” document by Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg that promoted the protests. The Delhi Police arrested Ravi on Saturday from her home city Bengaluru. The police claimed that she was an editor of the "toolkit Google doc" and " key conspirator" in its formulation and distribution.On Sunday, a Delhi court ordered Ravi in police custody for five days.Leaders from all over the world and across the political spectrum have come together in her support while condemning the government for trying to kill dissent in a democracy. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took to Twitter against what he said was an attack on democracy.Arrest of 21 yr old Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on Democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime.Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, P Chidambaram, Shashi Tharoor and many others also tweeted in her support and demanded her immediate release.बोल कि लब आज़ाद हैं तेरेबोल कि सच ज़िंदा है अब तक!वो डरे हैं, देश नहीं!India won’t be silenced. pic.twitter.com/jOXWdXLUzYयदि माउंट कार्मेल कॉलेज की 22 वर्षीया छात्रा और जलवायु कार्यकर्ता दिशा रवि देश के लिए खतरा बन गई है, तो भारत बहुत ही कमजोर बुनियाद पर खड़ा है।
15-02-2021||India||TN CM K Palaniswami says AIADMK always fulfilled poll promises unlike DMK||The ruling AIADMK has fulfilled its promises in election manifestos unlike arch-rival DMK, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami said here on Monday. The DMK had given a "tall promise" of two acres of land each to landless poor families in its manifesto in 2006, which however, was never implemented, he said at a function here. On the other hand, the AIADMK has fulfilled all its promises from the days of its founder and late chief minister M G Ramachandran, he claimed. Palaniswami was speaking at a function of mass marriage of 123 couples, organised by Municipal Administration Minister S P Velumani here as part of the celebrations of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa's 73rd birth anniversary falling on February 24. Highlighting schemes for the welfare of women, he said the AIADMK government had distributed over Rs.4,200 crore worth marriage assistance in the last 10 years benefiting about 11.8 lakh women. Under the 'thaaliku thangam' (gold for mangalasutra), a pet scheme of Jayalalithaa, it had given 6,086 kg of gold worth Rs.1,796 crore. Similarly under the Amma two-wheeler scheme, the government has given Rs.731 crore as subsidy benefiting 2.98 lakh women in purchase of the vehicles, Palaniswami said. With a conducive climate, more investments were coming to the state, he said, claiming Tamil Nadu stood number one in the country in maintaining law and order. In his address, Deputy Chief Minister O Paneerselvam said the AIADMK rule was successful in getting various development projects from the Centre for Tamil Nadu. With more than ₹one lakh crore tax revenues from Tamil Nadu, the UPA regime at the Centre in which the DMK was a key partner failed to sanction any development projects to the state, he alleged. The marriages were solemnised in Hindu, Islamic and Christian tradition as per the respective religion of the couple who were given 73 wedding gifts including mangalasutra made of one sovereign of gold (8 grams), bed, cot, almirah and other items needed for a family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-cm-k-palaniswami-says-aiadmk-always-fulfilled-poll-promises-unlike-dmk-101613384689007.html
15-02-2021||India||Farmers don’t want new laws, why isn’t PM Modi withdrawing them: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three news farm laws. Gandhi questioned why PM Modi wasn’t withdrawing the laws when farmers themselves have said they didn’t want them and added that farmers had been camping at several border points in Delhi for more than 80 days in harsh weather conditions and were now bracing for the summer season.Addressing a kisan panchayat or a farmers’ meeting in Uttar Pradesh’s Bijnor district, she said, “Farmers sitting at Delhi borders for over 80 days in cold are now bracing themselves for summer. What are they sitting for? PM says laws are for the benefit of farmers. When farmers themselves are saying that they don’t want it then why are you not withdrawing them?”While talking about the prices of sugarcane, Gandhi alleged that the Prime Minister did not give the due amount to the sugarcane farmers. She said that an amount of ₹10,000 crore was outstanding to the sugarcane farmers in UP while the due amount to the farmers growing the crop across India was worth ₹15,000 crore.Farmers sitting at Delhi borders for over 80 days in cold, are now bracing themselves for summer. What are they sitting for? PM says laws are for benefit of farmers. When farmers themselves are saying that they don't want it then why are you not withdrawing them?: Priyanka GV pic.twitter.com/x4mOMgl5JN“Did they increase the price of sugarcane from 2017? You should know that ₹10,000 crore is due to the sugarcane farmers of UP. This outstanding amount is ₹15,000 crore across the nation. He is such a PM that he has not given you your due amount,” the Congress leader said.Further taking a jibe at PM Modi’s official tours and rallies in India and abroad, Gandhi said that he (Modi) never spoke to the 300,000 protesting farmers that have been camping at sites which were near his residence. “You (PM Modi) have travelled across the globe for tours, rallies, purchased big aircraft for commuting, but you never heard the farmers that are camping just 2-3 kilometres away from your residence. In Parliament, you made fun of them (farmers) by calling them Andolan Jeevi,” she said during the kisan panchayat.Also Read| Toolkit case: Activists, environmentalists demand release of Disha RaviEarlier in the day, Gandhi had tweeted in support of climate activist Disha Ravi and demanded her release. “People with guns are afraid of an unarmed girl. Rays of courage and hope are being spread through an unarmed girl #ReleaseDishaRavi #DishaRavi #IndiaBeingSilenced,” she wrote on Twitter.Ravi was arrested by the Delhi Police regarding the toolkit controversy related to the farmers’ movement on social media. A Delhi court on Sunday had remanded her to five days of police custody. Delhi Police had said that the 21-year-old climate activist from Bengaluru was a key conspirator in the document’s formulation and dissemination and had started a WhatsApp group and collaborated to make the toolkit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-don-t-want-new-laws-why-isn-t-pm-modi-withdrawing-them-priyanka-gandhi-101613384970541.html
15-02-2021||India||Army conducts career counselling camp in remote village of J-K's Rajouri||The Indian Army has organised a career counselling camp in the remote Budhal-Kandi belt of Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district, a defence spokesperson said here on Monday.The camp was organised at Samote village to educate the local youth on the 'Emergency Medical Technician Course', planned to be conducted under project Himayat in Jammu later this month, he said.The Army has always been at the forefront of guiding the youth and empowering them to grab more employment opportunities and channelising their energy positively, the spokesman said."The counselling camp was aimed at spreading awareness amongst youth from far-flung areas about opportunities available to them under project Himayat and particularly for this course. A total of 34 boys benefited by attending the camp," he added.He said the locals lauded the efforts of the Army for providing employment opportunities for the youth of the remote area."Such noble initiatives of the Army will go a long way in empowering the youth and will further strengthen the existing bond between Army and 'awam (people)'," the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-conducts-career-counselling-camp-in-remote-village-of-j-k-s-rajouri-101613383303703.html
15-02-2021||India||Vijay Rupani could be in hospital for a week: Gujarat deputy CM||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani, who has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), may have to be in the hospital for a week, his deputy Nitin Patel said on Monday. “He was meeting people daily and also holding public meetings for local elections. He fell unconscious in Vadodara yesterday as he was tired and not well. He was taken to a hospital in Ahmedabad. He tested positive for Covid-19. He might have to remain admitted for a week,” Patel was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Earlier in the day, Patel had said Rupani was fine and that would be kept under observation for 24 hours. The 64-year-old Rupani tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, a day after he collapsed on a stage while addressing his third rally for upcoming civic polls in the Nizampura area of Vadodara. He was flown to Ahmedabad and admitted to the UN Mehta Hospital in the night.Also watch: Gujarat CM faints on stage during rally, PM Modi calls to check on him"Rupaniji fainted due to tiredness and dehydration. We have done a thorough checkup and all his tests are normal," Dr RK Patel of the UN Mehta Hospital told reporters earlier in the day.The hospital said in a bulletin on Monday that Rupani's sample was collected on Sunday night and sent for RT-PCR test. According to the hospital, the Gujarat chief minster has mild symptoms of the viral disease. "His (Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani's) condition is stable. All his medical check-up reports including EGC and CT scan are normal. There is nothing to worry about. He will be kept at the hospital for 24 hours just for observation," Dr RK Patel said on Sunday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had inquired about Rupani's health over the phone and asked him to get himself thoroughly checked and to take proper rest, a statement issued by the chief minister's office had said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijay-rupani-could-be-in-hospital-for-a-week-gujarat-deputy-cm-101613381529911.html
15-02-2021||India||India to commence trials of 160 km air to air missiles this year||In a step that would establish its superiority in air combat over China and Pakistan, India would start testing the Astra Mark 2 beyond visual range air to air missile, which would be capable of taking down enemy aircraft from a range of 160 kilometres.The extended range Astra Mark 2 would give India an edge over its adversaries and would add more lethality to its fighter jets in aerial combat, like the one which happened a day after the Balakot airstrikes on February 26, 2019."The trial for the Astra Mark would be starting in the second half of this year and we are hoping to see the missile fully developed by 2022," government officials told ANI.The next-generation missile is expected to be operational by the next year-end, former Central Air Commander Air Marshal SBP Sinha (Retd) said.The retired officer has been associated with the Astra missile programme for a long time now.The Astra is a beyond visual range air-to-air missile (BVRAAM), which flies over four times the speed of sound at Mach 4.5. Efforts are now on to integrate the over 100 km strike range missile on the indigenous fighter aircraft LCA Tejas.The all-weather day and night capable Astra, which currently has a strike range of around 100-km, will eventually replace the expensive Russian, French and Israeli BVRAAMs that are currently imported to arm IAF fighters.The Indian Air Force and Indian navy have already given orders for 288 Astra Mark-1 Missiles which are already "proven" on the Russian-origin Sukhoi-30MKI fighters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-commence-trials-of-160-km-air-to-air-missiles-this-year-101613381015291.html
15-02-2021||India||3 of a family in Telangana drown in canal in Jagtial, son escapes||A 55-year-old lawyer, his wife and their soon to be wedded daughter drowned when the car they were travelling in fell into an irrigation canal in Telangana’s Jagtial district in the early hours of Monday. The lawyer’s son Jayanth survived the accident, the police said.“Jayanth, who was driving the car (Maruti Swift), apparently lost control over the steering due to poor visibility, as a result of which, the car rammed into the railing on the bridge over the Sriramsagar project canal at Katlekunta village and fell into the waters,” the police said.The deceased were identified as Katkurwar Amarendar Rao, his wife Sirisha (48), and his daughter Shreya (23). Rao’s son, 25-year-old Jayanth, managed to get out of the car and swim to the shore.Jayanth called up the police for help. “By the time we rushed there, it was too late. With the help of cranes, we retrieved the vehicle and found Rao, his wife, and daughter dead inside,” the police said.Also Read: Youths with learning disabilities manage organic outlet in HyderabadThe family was on its way to Joginipalle temple to conduct special prayers before Shreya’s wedding, which was due in a few days.The bodies were sent to Jagtial government hospital for post-mortem.A resident of Housing Board colony in Jagtial town, Amarander Rao was a close relative of local MLA Dr Sanjay and assisted MLA’s father Hanmanth Rao, a senior advocate. Sanjay visited the spot after learning about the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-of-a-family-in-telangana-drown-in-canal-in-jagtial-son-escapes-101613380455071.html
15-02-2021||India||15 former Maoist couples marry on Valentine's Day in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada||Fifteen former Maoist couples in Chhattisgarh who had surrendered over the past year tied the knot at a mass marriage organized by Dantewada police on Valentine’s Day, officials said on Monday.The former Maoists included commanders and lower-rung cadres who were active in the region. Relatives and tribals of the nearby villages attended the function and blessed the couples.“Marriage is a part of the complete rehabilitation package of the state government, as most of those surrendered under ‘Lon Varratu’ campaign were youths. Maoists never allow marriage according to tribal tradition, which they wanted hence we decided to organize this function,” said Superintendent of police, Dantewada, Abhishek Pallava.‘Lon Varratu’ in the local Gondi language means Return Home. Maoists in about 50 hypersensitive villages are being encouraged to surrender under this programme that began in May last year. Till now total 310 Maoists have surrendered under this campaign in Dantewada district, the police said.“I was in love with Kumli when I was with the Maoists. After we surrendered, we decided to marry because it was not possible to do so when I was a Maoist,” said Hukum Manda, one of those who married on Valentine’s Day.“Many couples were in love when they were in Maoist ranks while others developed attraction after surrendering and while working together. The day was chosen as Valentine's Day symbolizes victory of love over violence and fear. It also shows victory of national integration over anti-national forces,” the SP said. Claiming that couples who got married were very happy, the SP said, “The Maoists claim to preserve tribal traditions but on the contrary they kill tribal priests never allow their own cadres to marry as per their traditions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-former-maoist-couples-marry-on-valentine-s-day-in-chhattisgarh-s-dantewada-101613380261376.html
15-02-2021||India||Bombay HC quashes FIR against Sushant Singh Rajput's sister Meetu Singh||The Bombay High Court on Monday partially allowed the petitions filed by the sisters of late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput seeking to quash the first information report (FIT) against them by the Mumbai Police alleging for sending him medication without a doctor's consultation. The FIR was registered by Bandra Police against Priyanka Singh on September 7, 2020, on the basis of a complaint lodged by Rajput's girlfriend, actor Rhea Chakraborty.Also Read | ‘Sushant Singh Rajput was sober, innocent,’ observes Bombay high court, reserves order on plea by his sistersThe high court quashed the FIR against Meetu Singh but refused to do the same for Priyanka Singh, who will have to face prosecution for allegedly sending him a fabricated prescription, prescribing for him medicines containing psychotropic substances controlled under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.The court had, last month, reserved its order on the plea filed by Rajput's sisters, observing that he was a "sober, innocent and a very good human being." The bench, comprising Justice SS Shinde and Justice MS Karnik had further said that from Rajput's face, "one could make out that he was innocent." The actor, originally from Patna, was found dead at his flat in Mumbai on June 14, 2020. While the Mumbai Police has declared his death as a case of suicide, the case is currently being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), as directed by the Supreme Court on August 19 last year.The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is conducting a parallel probe into a "drugs racket" in Bollywood, had arrested Chakraborty last September in connection with the case, days after arresting her brother Showik, among others. Both Chakraborty and her brother are currently out on bail.In her complaint against Rajput's sisters, Chakraborty had alleged that Meetu Singh, Priyanka Singh and a doctor from Delhi's Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital were getting drugs for the late actor without any physical consultation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-quashes-fir-against-one-sister-of-sushant-rajput-no-relief-for-other-101613379991430.html
15-02-2021||India||SII’s Adar Poonawalla assures Covid-19 vaccines to Canada would ‘fly out in less than a month’||Serum Institute of India’s (SII’s) owner and chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla on Monday assured Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau that the anti-coronavirus disease vaccine it is manufacturing would “fly out to Canada in less than a month” as the vaccine awaits regulatory approval there.“Dear Hon’ble PM @JustinTrudeau, I thank you for your warm words towards India and it’s vaccine industry. As we await regulatory approvals from Canada, I assure you, @SerumInstIndia will fly out #COVISHIELD to Canada in less than a month; I’m on it!” Poonawalla tweeted on Monday.Dear Hon’ble PM @JustinTrudeau, I thank you for your warm words towards India and it’s vaccine industry. As we await regulatory approvals from Canada, I assure you, @SerumInstIndia will fly out #COVISHIELD to Canada in less than a month; I’m on it!Prime Minister Narendra Modi had assured Covid-19 vaccine supplies sought by Canada in a call with Trudeau. “Was happy to receive a call from my friend @JustinTrudeau. Assured him that India would do its best to facilitate supplies of COVID vaccines sought by Canada. We also agreed to continue collaborating on other important issues like Climate Change and the global economic recovery,” Modi tweeted on February 10.Was happy to receive a call from my friend @JustinTrudeau. Assured him that India would do its best to facilitate supplies of COVID vaccines sought by Canada. We also agreed to continue collaborating on other important issues like Climate Change and the global economic recovery.In response, Trudeau’s official website released a statement saying “Prime Minister Trudeau and Prime Minister Modi spoke about India's significant efforts in promoting vaccine production and supply, which have provided vital support to countries around the world. The two leaders agreed to work together on access to vaccines. The leaders also recognized the need for continued global coordination to respond to the pandemic and to promote recovery.”Today, I had a good discussion with Prime Minister @NarendraModi on many important issues, and we’ve agreed to stay in touch. For a summary of the call, click here: https://t.co/vFGa8lkkQVWhile Covishield awaits regulatory approval in Canada, the country provided emergency use authorisation (EUA) to the vaccines of Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna in late December 2020. On Saturday, Trudeau tweeted “Update on vaccines: We’ll now receive 10.8 million doses of Pfizer’s COVID-19 vaccine between April and June, and we’ll get our entire order of 40 million doses by the end of September.”India’s vaccine delivery is expected to bring some optimism to the ties between the two countries which witnessed friction after Trudeau, in December 2020, conveyed his support to the ongoing farmers’ protest in Delhi. However, India’s external affairs ministry (MEA) spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Friday said that the Canadian PM “commended efforts of the government of India to choose the path of dialogue as befitting a democracy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/im-on-it-sii-s-adar-poonawalla-assures-covid-19-vaccine-supply-to-canada-101613379703004.html
15-02-2021||India||Rescuers retrieve bodies of 2 students who drowned in Varasgaon dam near Lavasa||The bodies of two students from a private college in Lavasa who drowned in the backwaters of Varasgaon dam on Sunday were found on Monday afternoon by rescue teams, police said.The two students who drowned while on an outing with their friends were identified as Nihal Uttam Thapa (21) from Shillong, Meghalaya and Shirashit Chandramauli Soran (20), from Chennai police said. Both were second year students pursuing Bachelor in Science at Christ College in Lavasa.“The disaster management team of Mulshi administration helped us in finding the bodies,” said police naik Ravindra Nagtilak of Paud police station.He said the tragedy took place when one of the students began to drown after entering the water. Three others came to his rescue but one of them also drowned with the one they were trying to rescue.“It was their day off yesterday (Sunday) so they came to the dam and one of them, who did not know how to swim well, entered the water and drowned as the water was deep. Three others who were near the water entered the water to save him but as they started drowning too, two of them managed to come out but one of them could not,” Nagtilak said.The parents of Soran have reached Pune while Thapa’s parents are on their way from Shillong. The bodies have been taken to a local government hospital for post mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rescuers-retrieve-bodies-of-2-students-who-drowned-in-varasgaon-dam-near-lavasa-101613379038364.html
15-02-2021||India||Toolkit case | Zoom meet held before Republic Day to create Twitter storm: Report||MO Dhaliwal, the founder of pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation contacted activist Nikita Jacob through his colleague Puneet, a Canadian citizen, to create a storm on Twitter ahead of Republic Day, police sources revealed on the 'Toolkit' document case related to the ongoing farmers' protest.According to the sources, an investigation into the toolkit conspiracy has revealed the deeper conspiracy associated with the Google document.There was a zoom meeting before Republic Day which was attended by MO Dhaliwal, Nikita and Disha, among others. The motive of the meeting was to create a Twitter storm ahead of Republic Day. They also spoke about the death of a farmer.According to the sources, four days ago Special Cell team went to Nikita Jacob's house and examined her electronic gadgets. Delhi police told her that they would again question her but she is currently not available.A day after Disha Ravi was arrested and sent to five days of police custody the Delhi Police have now issued a non-bailable warrant against activists Nikita Jacob and Shantanu.Disha Ravi, a 21-year-old climate activist was arrested from Bengaluru in connection with the formulation and dissemination of Toolkit document, in the ongoing farmers' protest. She was one of the editors of 'Toolkit' document."Disha Ravi is an editor of the Toolkit Google Document and a key conspirator in document's formulation and dissemination. She started a WhatsApp group and collaborated to make the Toolkit doc. She worked closely with them to draft the Doc," tweeted Delhi Police.According to CyPAD Delhi Police, the editors of the toolkit collaborated with the pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to spread disaffection against the Indian State. Ravi was the one who shared the Toolkit Doc with Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg.Ravi later asked Thunberg to remove the main document after its incriminating details accidentally got into the public domain, said Delhi Police.On Sunday, Ravi was presented before a Delhi Court that remanded her five days of police custody. Disha Ravi broke down inside the courtroom and told the judge that she has edited only two lines and she wanted to support the farmers' protest.Earlier, the Delhi Police sent a communication to Google seeking registration details and activity log of the account through which a "toolkit" related to the farmers' protest was created and uploaded on the social media platform.Two e-mail IDs, one Instagram account, and one Uniform Resource Locator (URL) were mentioned in the toolkit and police have asked for details from the respective platforms.The police had registered an FIR against unidentified persons in connection with the creators of the 'toolkit'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toolkit-case-zoom-meet-held-before-republic-day-to-create-twitter-storm-report-101613378436262.html
15-02-2021||India||SC to hear Kerala govt's plea against lease of airport on March 8||The Supreme Court will hear the Kerala government's appeal against the Airport Authority of India's (AAI) decision to lease out Thiruvananthapuram International Airport to Adani Enterprises Limited on March 8.A three-judge bench of the Apex Court, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Arvind Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said, "we will hear the matter on March 8."Kerala government had moved the Apex Court and filed an appeal against the AAI's decision to lease out Thiruvananthapuram International Airport, in the state to Adani Enterprises Ltd.Earlier, the Kerala High Court dismissed the state government's petition challenging the Union government's decision to lease out the right of operation, management, and development of the Thiruvananthapuram international airport to Adani Enterprises Ltd.A Division Bench comprising Justice K Vinod Chandran and Justice CS Dias issued the order observing that it is a policy decision of the Union government and cannot be interfered with.Kerala government submitted that many clauses in the Request for Proposal (RFP) were tailor-made to suit private players. However, the court rejected this contention.According to the State, ''the Assembly had on August 24 unanimously resolved to request the Union government to avoid handing over the operation and management of the Thiruvananthapuram airport to private players and instead consider a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) formed by the state government.''The Centre had contended that the tender procedure was carried out in a transparent manner and special advantage was given to KSIDC considering the Kerala government's request.The Centre had no other option but to proceed with awarding the lease agreement to Adani Enterprises, the highest bidder, as the State government entity, KSIDC did not fall within parameters of the RFP.The government added that the decision to go for the PPP mode of operation, management and development of airports was taken purely on public interest. It was also a policy decision of the Union government.According to the Centre, the award of the lease to the KSIDC by allowing it to match the bid amount of the highest bidder after the completion of bidding process would have amounted to a violation of the entire bidding process.The Centre said that it had approved the grant of lease/concession of the airport to the highest bidder for 50 years subject to the security clearance from the National Security Agency. In fact, the decision taken by the Centre was in the interest of the airport.Adani enterprises argued that the property acquired and transferred to AAI completely vests with the Authority and therefore neither the State Government nor KSIDC has any locus standi to lay any claim on the basis of the transfer of such property.Answering the wrong contentions taken by some of the petitioners that participation of qualified bidders in the tender process was less, Adani Enterprises pointed out that 25 bidders had registered and 10 bidders submitted 32 bids for various airports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-kerala-govt-s-plea-against-lease-of-airport-on-march-8-101613378508118.html
15-02-2021||India||Toolkit case: Activists, environmentalists demand release of Disha Ravi||Social activists and environmentalists called for immediate release of climate activist Disha Ravi who was arrested in the 'toolkit' document case, asking the government to stop targeting India's youth.Ravi (22) was arrested on Saturday from Bengaluru for allegedly sharing with Greta Thunberg the toolkit related to the farmer's protest against the Centre's three new agriculture laws, police said.The Delhi Police claimed that Ravi was an editor of the "toolkit Google doc" and "key conspirator" in the document's formulation and dissemination.Activists and environmentalists have condemned the arrest.Kavita Krishnan, the secretary of All India Progressive Women's Association, said people like Ravi are India's best hope because they are concerned about not just themselves, but the future generations."We are not behaving like a democracy right now. If we are going to equate protest with conspiracy and organising protests as conspiracy, then you are not a democracy anymore," she said."They should immediately drop this case based upon absolutely flimsy, ridiculous and evil pretext. A toolkit is not sedition, it is not conspiracy, toolkit is for protest," she added.Rights activist Shabnam Hashmi also questioned the basis of Ravi's arrest, saying anybody even doing a local campaign prepares a toolkit."We should look at the prime minister's campaign toolkit. We are crossing the limits of absurdity. We will become a laughing stock internationally," she said.  Sunita Narain, head of the Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment, also extended her support to the arrested activist."We know #climatechange is an existential threat. World desperately needs the passion and commitment of the youth and their loud and strong voice to shake it to more action #FreeDishaRavi," she tweeted.Nine-year-old climate activist Licypriya Kangujam called it an attempt to silence the voices of young girls and women in the country."This is an attempt to silence the voices of young girls and women in this country. But this will not stop us from fighting for our planet and future," Kangujam tweeted.In a joint statement, more than 50 academics, artists and activists voiced support for Ravi and called her arrest “disturbing,” “illegal in nature" and an "over-reaction of the State”. The statement issued under the banner of 'Coalition for Environmental Justice in India' also called it an attempt to distract the public."It is also becoming increasingly clear that the current actions of the central government are diversionary tactics to distract people from real issues like the ever-rising cost of fuel and essential items, widespread unemployment and distress caused due to the lockdown without a plan, and the alarming state of the environment," it said.An online petition has also been started by the group demanding the immediate release of the climate activist.Environmentalist Vikrant Tongad said the incident will be demotivational for climate activists."We cannot go on the merit of the case as the probe is ongoing, but the incident will be demotivational for climate activists...," he said.  Thunberg, a teen climate activist, had shared the "toolkit" to lend her support to the farmers agitation against the three farm reform laws. In the document, various urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed which were needed to be taken to support the farmers protest.A graduate in Bachelor of Business Administration, Ravi is also one of the founding members of a group named 'Fridays For Future India', police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toolkit-case-activists-environmentalists-demand-release-of-disha-ravi-101613377789425.html
15-02-2021||India||Govt announces radical changes to mapping policy; 'massive step', tweets PM Modi||The Centre on Monday announced sweeping changes to the country's mapping policy, which it said will benefit Indian companies. The changes have been made in the policy keeping in mind the the government's Atmanirbhar Bharat vision.Announcing this on Twitter, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the policy change is a massive step in the government's vision to make India self-reliant."Our government has taken a decision that will provide a huge impetus to Digital India. Liberalising policies governing the acquisition and production of geospatial data is a massive step in our vision for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat," he tweeted.Our government has taken a decision that will provide a huge impetus to Digital India. Liberalising policies governing the acquisition and production of geospatial data is a massive step in our vision for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat. #mapmakingsimplified https://t.co/ssbPhAeSp1"The reforms will unlock tremendous opportunities for our country’s start-ups, private sector, public sector and research institutions to drive innovations and build scalable solutions. This will also generate employment and accelerate economic growth," the Prime Minister further said in subsequent tweet.He also said that the country's farmers will benefit by leveraging the potential of geo-spatial and remote sensing data. "These reforms demonstrate our commitment to improving ease of doing business in India by deregulation," PM Modi said in another tweet on the matter.According to radical changes announced by the government, what is readily available globally does not need to be restricted in India and therefore geospatial data that used to be restricted will now be freely available in India, according to Ministry of Science and Technology.The changes also seek to remove unnecessary red tape and obstacles in innovation."The existing regime imposed significant restrictions on the mapping industry - from creation to dissemination of maps, requiring Indian companies to seek licenses, follow a cumbersome system of pre-approvals and permissions. Compliance with these regulatory restrictions has subjected startups in India to unnecessary red tape, hindering Indian innovation in map technologies for decades," Ministry of Science and Technology said in a release."Our corporations and innovators are no longer subject to restrictions nor do they require prior approvals before they collect, generate, prepare, disseminate, store, publish, update digital Geospatial Data and Maps within the territory of India," it added.The ministry also said that the government is looking forward to see India emerge as a mapping power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-announces-radical-changes-to-mapping-policy-massive-step-tweets-pm-modi-101613378100233.html
15-02-2021||India||ED summons MMRDA commissioner in TopsGrup money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has issued summons to R A Rajeev, commissioner, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), in connection with the money laundering case linked to Rahul Nanda's security services firm, TopsGrup Security Services Limited (TGSSL) and Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik.According to ED, TGSSL signed a contract with MMRDA in 2014 according to which there were about 350 to 500 guards which were to be deployed at MMRDA sites on a monthly basis. Out of the same, only 70% of guards were actually deployed. However, the billing was done for all the guards according to contract.The ED had in the past stated in the court that it appears that TopsGrup obtained the contract from MMRDA in collusion with Sarnaik through illegal means by a well thought out strategy. The aim of these illegal maneuvers was to get additional inadmissible benefit by inflating the bills at the cost of MMRDA and illegal cash gratification to Sarnaik for facilitating this scam. Against this active role and criminal conspiracy, Sarnaik used to get 50% profit earned out of the said contract through Amit Chandole, Sarnaik's close aide.The ED now wants to record the statement of the Metropolitan Commissioner in connection with the alleged irregularities involving MMRDA.The MMRDA released a statement on the development on Monday saying, "The matter pertains to the tenders pertaining to Tops Security from 2014-17. The MMRDA chief or Metropolitan Commissioner has been summoned for recording evidence. Since the Metropolitan Commissioner in that period, Urvinder Singh Madan has retired, the current commissioner RA Rajeev will be visiting the ED office on behalf of MMRDA though the case pertains to his predecessor’s tenure."The MMRDA had earlier refuted all the allegations in its statement submitted to the Mumbai police's Economic Offenses Wing (EOW) which is also probing a case against TopsGrup.The MMRDA submitted that alleged irregularities in providing 500 security guards by (Rahul Nanda's) TOPS Grup Security Services Limited (TGSSL) are baseless. In fact there was no strength of 500 at any given time in three shifts in a day.The MMRDA's letter to the EOW states that there was no financial misconduct on its part while awarding contracts to the company for the security services and also making payment for the guards. All these works were done through a tendering process in accordance with the rules.Earlier Sarnaik and his son Vihang were questioned by the ED in the case. Last year the central agency raided various premises of Sarnaik and Tops in Mumbai and Thane.The ED had previously arrested Sarnaik's close associate Amit Chandole and Nanda's company's managing director M Shashidharan.Sarnaik and his family members have already secured relief from the Supreme Court that directed ED to not to take any coercive action against the Sarnaik family.(With inputs from Tanushree Venkatraman)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-summons-mmrda-commissioner-in-topsgrup-money-laundering-case-101613376974027.html
15-02-2021||India||UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath launches Abhyudaya scheme, says it will be guiding light for holistic development||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath inaugurated the Abhyudaya scheme on Monday via video conferencing. The chief minister at the launch emphasized that the scheme will aid holistic development by providing coaching facilities similar to that of Kota and Prayagraj to the interested candidates in other parts of the state who are not able to avail those services."Abhyudaya Yojana is a 'path pradarshak' (guiding light) for holistic development. When about 30,000 competitive exam prospects were stuck in Kota and Prayagraj due to Covid, we decided to have similar coaching facilities in the state," Adityanath said.Under the Abhyudaya scheme, free of cost coaching centres for the preparation of competitive government exams will be provided by the UP government. The coaching institutions are especially aimed at providing assistance to those candidates who are not able to take coaching for the exams due to their financial problems.The free-of-cost coaching institutes will be starting from tomorrow. Students can avail offline coaching and study material too.Also Read | Greta toolkit: Nikita Jacob moves HC for anticipatory bailFree guidance and teaching by senior IAS, IPS and PCS officers will also be provided to the aspirants. The coaching centre will provide every kind of facility from virtual doubt clarifying sessions, interview calls, career counselling to subject matter expertise.The free training centres will be set up in each district and will be operated under the chairmanship of respective Mandalayukta at each divisional headquarter of the state.The chief minister during the inauguration ceremony also said, "Coaching classes begin tomorrow, I want to assure everyone that these classes will help them achieve their goals. In 2020, the scheme was not only appreciated but a special package was also announced in the Union Budget.The state government scheme is aimed at ensuring quality exam preparation for all talented and hard working aspirants coming from diverse backgrounds like rural areas, families of poor income class and marginalized section, who are not able to afford and avail coaching services in private sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-chief-minister-yogi-adityanath-launches-abhyudaya-scheme-says-it-will-be-guiding-light-for-holistic-development-101613373406420.html
15-02-2021||India||Greta toolkit: Nikita Jacob moves HC for anticipatory bail||Advocate and activist Nikita Jacob, against whom a non-bailable warrant has been issued by a Delhi court for her alleged role in preparing the toolkit detailing digital support for the farmers’ protest, has moved an urgent transit anticipatory bail before the Bombay high court.The application while seeking protection from arrest for four weeks, has also sought interim protection from any coercive action and a direction to the Delhi Police to provide her with a copy of the FIR registered against her.According to advocate Abhishek Yende who appeared for Jacob before the bench of justice PD Naik, the Delhi Police had completed their search operation at Jacob’s residence and had also drawn up a panchnama on February 11 after seizing her electronic devices. Yende said Jacobs had cooperated with the investigators and as she is unaware of the allegations against her, she has applied for an urgent transit anticipatory bail, a copy of the FIR and interim protection from coercive action by Delhi Police.Also Read | In meeting with Twitter, ministry mentions Greta’s toolkit, US Capitol violenceThe application will now be heard on Tuesday, February 16.A non-bailable warrant was issued against Jacob in Delhi over the preparation of the toolkit which details the digital plan of action using various social media platforms like Twitter to allegedly garner support for the farmers’ protest as well as allegedly create anti-government sentiments among the masses.The toolkit came to light after environmental activist Greta Thunburg shared it on her Twitter account earlier in the month only to delete it later.Delhi Police have already arrested activist Disha Ravi in connection with the toolkit case on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/greta-toolkit-nikita-jacob-moves-hc-for-pre-arrest-bail-101613376949327.html
15-02-2021||India||Delhi: Petrol price up 26 paise, diesel by 29 paise||Petrol and diesel prices have gone up in the national capital and stood at ₹88.99 per litre and ₹79.35 per litre, respectively on Monday.As compared to yesterday, the price of petrol has become costlier by 26 paise while diesel price increased by 29 paise.Earlier, during her budget speech, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the imposition of Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess (AIDC) of ₹2.5 per litre on petrol and ₹4 per litre on diesel.The price of liquefied petroleum gas cylinder (14.2 kg domestic cylinder) has also increased by ₹50 per unit yesterday in Delhi.The LPG gas cylinder will cost ₹769 per cylinder in Delhi from today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-petrol-price-up-26-paise-diesel-by-29-paise-101613376517397.html
15-02-2021||India||Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani tests positive for Covid-19||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani, who fainted Sunday evening during an election rally in Vadodara, has tested positive for Covid-19 with mild symptoms, an official health bulletin said.Rupani, 64, fainted at a public meeting in Vadodara’s Nizampura area on Sunday evening while delivering a speech. News videos showed that he collapsed while holding the microphone and security personnel immediately prevented him from falling.The chief minister was immediately rushed to the state-run UN Mehta Institute of Cardiology and Research Centre on the New Civil Hospital campus.Also Watch | Gujarat CM faints on stage during rally, PM Modi calls to check on himIn a health bulletin on Monday, Dr RK Patel, Director of the Institute, stated, “The ECG, 2D echo and blood tests of the chief minister were normal last night [Sunday].”An RT-PCR test was conducted and its report Monday morning showed he tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Dr Patel said.He clarified in the health bulletin that Rupani has “mild symptoms and his condition is stable.” Dr Patel added, “His oxygen saturation, HRCT Thorax, IL-6 and D-Dimer are all normal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-tests-positive-for-covid19-101613376469428.html
15-02-2021||India||6-hour bandh by Congress over rising fuel prices brings Odisha to a halt today||Hundreds of vehicles were stranded on national highways across the state, trains remained stationary and vehicular traffic remained off the road as the Congress in Odisha called a six-hour bandh on Monday between 7am and 1pm to protest rising fuel prices and the farm laws.Led by Congress MLA Suresh Kumar Routray, the party workers also staged rail roko at the Bhubaneswar railway station from 7am while Congress leaders stopped traffic on the roads in the rest of the state. Public transportation came to a grinding halt in Bhubaneswar as Congress workers blocked the national highway NH-16 at Satsang Vihar leading to queuing of trucks, lorries and private vehicles.Also Read | Union minister cautions Odisha over AP holding rural polls in state territoryIn Cuttack, the busy Badambadi bus stand wore a deserted look as the buses stayed off the roads. The Capital Region Urban Transport that operates the fleet of Mo Bus services too suspended operations till 2pm.Educational institutions remained closed across the state due to the bandh. State government employees working in Bhubaneswar, however, reached their respective offices by 9.30am. “Both the Centre and the state government are imposing unreasonable taxes on fuel, leading to a steep hike in their prices which, in turn, has led to an increase in the prices of other essential commodities. During the United Progressive Alliance regime, the prices of petrol and diesel were below ₹70, but now they have reached almost ₹100, even as the prices of crude oil have come down in the international market. Odisha should reduce tax on petrol and diesel in order to give some relief to the people who are already facing hardship due to the pandemic,” said Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee president Niranjan Patnaik.Congress leaders claimed that they are allowing emergency vehicles, including ambulances, milk vans, fire fighting vehicles and wedding party vehicles, to ply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6hour-bandh-by-congress-over-rising-fuel-prices-brings-odisha-to-a-halt-today-101613376050906.html
15-02-2021||India||Group of foreign envoys set to visit J&K this week||A group of foreign envoys is scheduled to visit Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) this week and will be meeting top officials and politicians in the Union territory, said people aware of the matter, requesting anonymity.This will be the third visit of envoys from various countries, including European Union, since the revocation of Article 370 in August 2019. Officials privy to the development said that the diplomats could visit Srinagar this week and will also travel to Jammu for a series of meetings.“Yes, we have been told that diplomats are coming this week. The dates haven’t been given to us. It could be in the next few days,” said a senior government officer.Also Read | ‘Many changes made after Pulwama attack’: Inspector General CRPFAuthorities privy to the information said the diplomats will be briefed about the situation by senior Union territory officers, especially after Article 370 was revoked, and the situation along the Line of Control. The delegation will also be meeting some politicians and members of civil society, the newly elected District Development Council chairmen and some panchayat members.This is going to be third visit of foreign envoys in J&K. Last year, envoys travelled to J&K twice. The envoys, including diplomats of European Union, had met government officials, leaders of political parties, panchayat members and some journalists, who briefed the envoys about the situation in Kashmir post the revocation of Article 370. The envoys also travelled to Jammu and met members of civil society and politicians there. However, it is unclear whether, this time, envoys will be allowed to meet the leaders of regional parties, National Conference and Peoples Democratic Party, besides members of Parliament from Kashmir and former chief ministers.On Saturday, Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti had also alleged that she was stopped from visiting the family of Athar Mushtaq, who was killed on December 30, 2020, and was placed under house arrest, terming it normalcy the J&K government wants to showcase to the foreign delegation.Placed under house arrest as usual for trying to visit the family of Athar Mushtaq killed allegedly in a fake encounter. His father was booked under UAPA for demanding his dead body. This the normalcy GOI wants to showcase to the EU delegation visiting Kashmir. pic.twitter.com/xFkcqTGQyV“Placed under house arrest as usual for trying to visit the family of Athar Mushtaq killed allegedly in a fake encounter. His father was booked under UAPA for demanding his dead body. This, the normalcy GOI wants to showcase to the EU delegation visiting Kashmir,” she said in a tweet on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/group-of-foreign-envoys-set-to-visit-j-k-this-week-101613374911138.html
15-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Priyanka Gandhi demands release of Disha Ravi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Priyanka Gandhi demands release of Disha RaviBengaluru-based climate activist Disha Ravi’s arrest has led to widespread condemnation from the opposition as Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday demanded the release of the 22-year-old. Read more'England are not behind because of the pitch': Mark Butcher feels Chennai Test is 'beyond England'Former batsman Mark Butcher is not a fan of the turning Chepauk surface, but believes that is not the reason England find themselves behind India in the second Test in Chennai. Read moreBombay Begums trailer: Pooja Bhatt, Amruta Subhash are queens and victims of a relentless world. WatchThe first trailer for Netflix' upcoming drama, Bombay Begums is out. Starring Pooja Bhatt in the lead, the show marks her comeback to acting after many years. Read moreMan's proposal to partner after moving to new house may make you say awwIf you spend enough time on social media, chances are you’ve seen quite a few proposal videos. Case in point, this video which shows a man proposing to his partner the day they moved to their new home. Read moreDisha Ravi case: Opposition attacks govt; BJP leader compares activist to KasabA massive row has broken out over the arrest of 22-year-old activist Disha Ravi in the ‘toolkit’ case. Several Congress leaders lashed out at the Modi government and called for the immediate release of the activist. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-priyanka-gandhi-demands-release-of-disha-ravi-101613372429093.html
15-02-2021||India||Journalist Siddique Kappan, arrested last Oct while on way to Hathras, gets 5-day interim bail to meet ailing mother||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed journalist Siddique Kappan, who was arrested while on his way to Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras in October last year, five days’ interim bail to meet his ailing mother in Kerala.He shall visit Kerala under the vigil of armed guards of the UP Police, the top court held and asked him to not meet the public, except relatives, doctors and close family members. The top court has asked the Kerala Police to cooperate with the UP Police in this regard.The court has also restricted him from giving any interview to the media or posting anything on social media.Kappan had requested for bail citing the deteriorating health condition of his mother. His lawyer, Kapil Sibal, told the court that doctors had given up on her condition and said that she may not survive for long.Acting on humanitarian grounds, a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde allowed Kappan to travel to his home state and report back to the UP Prison by the end of the fifth day.Sibal, who pressed for the bail of the accused after his mother was not in a position to speak to him on a video conferencing call arranged by jail authorities in UP, accepted the conditions on Kappan's behalf.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the UP government, opposed the bail stating the health ground of Kappan’s mother was being used to circumvent the judicial process. The court, however, decided to step out and take the risk saying, "We are acting on purely humanitarian grounds because of the possible imminent death of his mother."Kappan was arrested by the UP police for his alleged involvement with Popular Front of India (PFI). He was reportedly found with material that was likely to disturb peace and tranquility in the state and instigate violence following the death of a Dalit girl in the Hathras district. The police had alleged that Kappan had nothing to do with journalism as the identity card found from him had expired long back.Kappan, who is the secretary of the Delhi unit of Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ), along with three other alleged Popular Front of India (PFI) activists, was booked on sedition and other serious charges in Mathura on October 5 last year while they were heading to Hathras where a 19-year old Dalit woman had allegedly been gang-raped and murdered. The journalists’ body had approached the Supreme Court seeking Kappan’s release from jail.Earlier in January, his family members had staged a sit-in protest in front of the Kerala Secretariat in Thiruvananthapuram demanding the intervention of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to set him free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/journalist-siddique-kappan-arrested-last-december-while-on-way-to-up-s-hathras-gets-5-day-interim-bail-to-meet-ailing-mother-101613373432316.html
15-02-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi demands release of Disha Ravi||Bengaluru-based climate activist Disha Ravi’s arrest has led to widespread condemnation from the opposition as Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday demanded the release of the 22-year-old saying that a young unarmed woman has struck fear in the hearts of ‘those who are armed’ in what can be understood as a veiled dig at Delhi Police.“Those who carry guns are now afraid of an unarmed girl, now that unarmed girl is emanating rays of courage,” according to translation of the Congress leader's tweet in Hindi.डरते हैं बंदूकों वाले एक निहत्थी लड़की से फैले हैं हिम्मत के उजाले एक निहत्थी लड़की से#ReleaseDishaRavi #DishaRavi#IndiaBeingSilencedEarlier in the day, chief ministers of Chhattisgarh and Delhi also demanded the release of Ravi who has been arrested for allegedly sharing a ‘toolkit’ which according to Delhi Police had details about protests to be carried out across India over farm laws. The same toolkit was tweeted by Swedish activist Greta Thunberg, but was later deleted after Ravi told Thunberg about the incriminating details, according to police.कायरता और फासीवाद उनकी विरासत है।#ReleaseDishaRaviArrest of 21 yr old Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on Democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime.Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal harshly criticised the arrest of the young woman from Bengaluru and said that her arrest is an ‘unprecedented’ attack on democracy. In a tweet, the Delhi CM said that supporting the agitating farmers is not a crime. “Arrest of 21-year-old Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime,” the Delhi CM said on Twitter.His party colleague and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh also condemned the arrest of Disha Ravi saying that the government chooses to punish those who "side with the truth" and "demand equal rights". He also said that the government chooses to term these acts as "against the interest of the nation".तानाशाही का अंत जल्द होगा पर्यावरण की रक्षा के लिये संघर्ष करने वाली #DishaRavi ने किसानो के हक़ में आवाज़ उठाई तो उसे देश द्रोही बना दिया गया, मोदी राज में सच बोलना और हक़ बोलना “देश द्रोह” है। pic.twitter.com/WvbsBkEPvyChhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel in a tweet condemned Ravi’s arrest and said that it is an act of cowardice on behalf of the government. He also used one of the trending hashtags on Twitter to support the demand for the climate activist’s release.Kapil Sibal, another Congress leader, said that India is strong enough to not get rattled by a tweet but the arrest of a 22-year-old woman shows that the government is ‘paranoid’. Sibal on Monday tweeted, “Is the state so paranoid that a 22-year-old is a national security threat ?”Disha Ravi Climate Activist Is the state so weak that a tweet threatens its security ?Is the state so paranoid that a 22 year is a national security threat ?Is the state so intolerant that it cannot tolerate youth standing with farmers ?Is this the “badlav” Modiji wanted?Bharatiya Kisan Union's Ugrahan wing too condemned the protests saying that police has chosen to attack those who want benefit of farmers.Haryana minister Anil Vij chose to condemn calls for Disha’s release saying that it does not matter who the person is but "anti-national" mindset should be "uprooted" from anyone’s mind at a very early stage.देश विरोध का बीज जिसके भी दिमाग में हो उसका समूल नाश कर देना चाहिए फिर चाहे वह #दिशा_रवि हो यां कोई और ।Delhi Police believes that Disha Ravi is one the key conspirators who played an important role in disseminating the ‘toolkit’ that led to the violence on Republic Day. Delhi Police on February 4 had begun investigation ‘against unknown persons’ for fomenting ‘disaffection and ill-will against the Indian government’ under the guise of supporting farmers’ unions in connection with the violence on January 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-demands-release-of-disha-ravi-101613373086755.html
15-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: 2 more bodies recovered; 151 people still missing||Rescue workers involved in the search and rescue operation in the 1.7 km tunnel at NTPC’s hydel power project in Tapovan have recovered two more bodies, taking the total death toll in Uttarakhand glacier burst to 53 till Monday morning. So far, eight bodies of about 35 missing workers have been recovered from the tunnel. About 151 of the total 204 people reported missing have yet to be traced. Chamoli district magistrate Swati Bhadauria said, “One of the two bodies was recovered at around 1.30 am and the other on Monday at around 7am, taking the death toll to 53.” Also Read | ‘No new lake, it’s part of bigger one that caused Chamoli disaster’: Experts“Out of the total bodies recovered, 25 have been identified. The search and rescue operation is still on inside the tunnel where workers have succeeded in clearing muck up to 140 metres,” she said. A team of another rescue workers is clearing sludge from another small underground tunnel beneath the 1.7km tunnel where about 30 of 35 workers are feared to trapped. The rescue workers had vertically drilled at the required depth of 12.7 metres to reach the smaller underground tunnel on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-glacier-burst-2-more-bodies-recovered-151-people-still-missing-101613371129248.html
15-02-2021||India||Amit Shah said BJP has to win in Nepal and Sri Lanka also: Tripura CM||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb has sparked yet another controversy after claiming at a recent party event that Union home minister Amit Shah had spoken about plans to expand BJP's influence in Nepal and Sri Lanka a few years ago.Deb claimed that when Amit Shah was the party president, he had shared plans of having BJP governments in Nepal and Sri Lanka during a meeting in Tripura."We were talking at a meeting in the State Guest House, when Ajay Jamwal (BJP's zonal secretary for northeast) said that BJP had come to power in several states. In reply, Amit Shah said that Nepal and Sri Lanka are still left. We have to win there as well," Deb said in a party programme in Agartala recently, a video of which has been widely shared.Deb claimed that the BJP has become the largest party in the world due to Amit Shah's leadership."The communists claimed that their party was the world's largest party. But Amit Shah made the BJP the largest party in the world," the chief minister said.Deb also claimed that the BJP would form government in Kerala and would change the trend of the Left and Congress coming to power alternately every five years. Like Kerala, BJP would form a government in Tamil Nadu.“In Kerala, there will be no CPM and Congress because Narendra Modi and Amit Shah have already reached there. BJP will come to power in Tamil Nadu too. There will be no government other than BJP," he said.Deb’s reference to Nepal and Sri Lanka drew a sharp response from the Congress which accused the BJP of interfering in the internal affairs of other countries.“This attitude of BJP is anti-national and anti-democratic. We respect our neighbouring countries and there is no justification to interfere in the internal affairs of these countries," vice-president of Tripura’s Congress unit Tapas De said on Monday.Under fire over Deb’s comment, the BJP said it has been spreading Indian culture and philosophy in different countries.BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said, "Our work to spread our Indian culture and philosophy in different countries apart from India started many days back. Contesting elections is not our prime agenda. We focus on winning the hearts of people of different countries."CPI(M) veteran leader and former party secretary Bijan Dhar declined to comment on Deb’s statement.Biplab Deb is no stranger to controversy. In April 2018 he said the internet existed in the days of the Mahabharata.In August that year, he also claimed that ducks raise oxygen level in water bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-said-bjp-has-to-win-in-nepal-and-sri-lanka-also-tripura-cm-101613370197794.html
15-02-2021||India||Yuvraj Singh booked for casteist remarks during Instagram live session||Eight months after Yuvraj Singh apologised for the “unintentional remarks” made during an Instagram live video, a first information report (FIR) was filed against the former India cricketer for his alleged casteist remarks against cricketer Yuzvendra Chahal in Haryana’s Hisar district on Sunday.Singh was booked on Sunday under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the SC/ST Act. The FIR was registered 8 months after a Hisar-based activist–advocate filed a complaint against the player for allegedly using the casteist remark during a live session with India opener Rohit Sharma in June 2020.Vikas Kumar, a spokesperson of the Hisar Police, confirmed that the police registered an FIR on Sunday.Yuvraj had reportedly made a remark during his Instagram live with Rohit Sharma in June 2020 on leg spinner Yuzvendra Chahal . The remark was apparently “misunderstood” and was widely shared on social media, triggering outrage.Also Read | Comeback: BCCI keeps Yuvraj waitingSingh later came out with an apology over the incident. Saying that he never believed in disparity, he apologised on Twitter for “unintentionally hurting sentiments” of people belonging to a particular caste.pic.twitter.com/pnA2FMVDXDHis post read, “This is to clarify I have never believed in any kind of disparity, be it on the lines of caste, colour, creed or gender. I have given and continue to spend my life for the welfare of people. I believe in the dignity of life and respect each individual without exception.”“I understand that while I was having a conversation with my friends, I was misunderstood, which was unwarranted. However, as a responsible Indian I want to say that if I have unintentionally hurt anybody’s sentiments or feelings, I would like to express apology for the same.”he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yuvraj-singh-booked-for-casteist-slur-during-instagram-live-session-101613370408886.html
15-02-2021||India||‘If A messages B…’: Supreme Court tells WhatsApp to give undertaking on data privacy||The Supreme Court on Monday asked WhatsApp to give an undertaking on oath that private data of users is not being shared with any third person. The court has issued notices to the Centre, WhatsApp and Facebook over the privacy row and listed the matter after four weeks.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said, "People have grave concern about loss of privacy. You (WhatsApp) may be a two trillion or three trillion company, but people value their privacy more than your money. It's our duty to protect people's privacy."The bench said, "You make a statement on oath. It can't be done by sharing data of Indians.... What we have heard and read in the media, people think if A messages to B the whole circuit to whom the message goes is known to Facebook/WhatsApp."The order came on an application by Karmanya Singh Sareen who had in 2016 moved the apex against the then privacy policy announced by WhatsApp, according to which it shared data with Facebook after the latter took it over. This matter is pending before a Constitution Bench.This application challenged the recent privacy rule introduced by WhatsApp which required Indian WhatsApp users to agree to their new rule allowing the company to share data with third party companies.Advocate Shyam Divan, representing the petitioner argued that Indian users are being treated unfairly as WhatsApp has a different privacy regime for European users.The application required the top court to order WhatsApp not to go ahead with its new policy till the Constitution Bench decides on it or the Centre comes up with Data Protection law.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for WhatsApp, denied that any private sensitive data is being shared and pointed out that the issue was pending before the Delhi High Court .Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informed the apex court, "Regardless of whether there is a law or not, right to privacy is part of fundamental rights. They (WhatsApp) must protect the right to privacy. They must not share data."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/give-undertaking-that-users-private-data-not-being-shared-supreme-court-tells-whatsapp-101613370033202.html
15-02-2021||India||UK minister for COP26 in India to advance partnership on climate action||The United Kingdom’s minister responsible for the United Nations Climate Change Conference 2021 or COP26, Alok Sharma, arrived in India on Monday for talks with interlocutors and captains of industry on strengthening the bilateral partnership on climate change. Sharma, who is a Cabinet minister and holds the post of president of COP26, is on his first visit to Asia after assuming the position. During the two-day visit, he will meet senior ministers, business leaders and civil society to discuss climate issues and to prepare for the COP26 summit in November. Sharma’s visit is expected to focus on India’s progress in climate action and clean energy transition. In recent years, India has played a key role in setting up the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI), which is co-chaired by the UK, and the International Solar Alliance (ISA). India’s expertise is “expected to be of great value to global discussions on a clean energy transition as part of COP preparations”, the British high commission said in a statement. Also Read | UK ‘thoroughly’ supports Biden over call for China to release Covid-19 dataDuring his meetings with business leaders, Sharma will highlight opportunities in the low carbon economy, existing commitments to achieve net-zero emissions and encourage influential businesses to promote the growing movement of corporate climate action throughout their sector and supply chain. Sharma will meet experts and young thinkers, to discuss challenges and solutions to climate change. “After a year of virtual meetings, the in-person visit signals a step-change in momentum to COP26 preparations, and reinforces Mr Sharma’s ambition to run an inclusive negotiating process that incorporates the views of all countries,” the statement said. Sharma MP said: “When it comes to climate action, India is a key partner and a global leader. Together we can make change happen – delivering real progress on reducing emissions and building global commitments. The UK and India are already a joint force for good against climate change, and we look forward to strengthening this partnership in the run up to COP26 and beyond.” British high commissioner Alex Ellis said Sharma’s visit is part of efforts to make COP26 a success and it will develop the bilateral climate partnership on clean and resilient development. “Hearing from the Indian government firsthand, as well as civil society and business, will be essential in informing the approach of the UK presidency as we work towards a comprehensive, ambitious and balanced outcome at COP26,” he added. Sharma is the third UK minister to visit India since December; he was preceded by foreign secretary Dominic Raab and trade secretary Liz Truss. The visits also paved the way for Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s visit later this year, during which climate cooperation will be a focus. As host of COP26, the UK has set a legally binding target to cut emissions to net-zero by 2050. Between 1990 and 2018, the UK nearly halved emissions while growing its economy by 75%, and it will completely cut coal-use in the power sector by 2025. The UK has also committed to double its international financing to £11.6 billion over the next five years, to help developing countries to take action on climate change. The UK is looking to its presidency of COP26 in 2021 and India’s presidency of G20 in 2023 to act as key platforms for implementing the Paris Agreement. The UK is also investing in India’s renewable and clean transport sectors, including through the joint Green Growth Equity Fund and multilateral funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-minister-for-cop26-in-india-to-advance-partnership-on-climate-action-101613367709837.html
15-02-2021||India||Disha Ravi’s arrest in 'toolkit case' unprecedented attack on democracy: Arvind Kejriwal||A day after Bengaluru-based activist Disha Ravi was sent to police custody for five days over her involvement in the ‘toolkit case’, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that her arrest is an unprecedented attack on democracy.“Arrest of 21 yr old Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on Democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime,” Kejriwal wrote on Twitter.Follow latest updates on farm stir here Ravi was arrested by the cyber crime unit of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru on Saturday as she was one of the editors of a toolkit that according to the police “indicates a copycat execution of a conspiracy” behind the January 26 violence during the farmers' tractor rally in the national capital.The police have alleged that Ravi shared the toolkit with Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, who posted it on Twitter, and later deleted it on the directions of the former after “its incriminating details accidentally got into the public domain”.Also Read: Who is Disha Ravi? Here’s how the 22-yr-old activist is linked to Greta Thunberg“In this process, they all collaborated with pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to spread disaffection against the Indian State,” the Delhi Police’s official handle posted on the microblogging site.A court on Sunday remanded the Bengaluru activist to five day in police custody. The police had sought a remand of seven days to “unearth her connections with the Sikhs for Justice”. Ravi, who has been named as a "key conspirator" by the police in the document's formulation and dissemination, broke down during the hearing and refuted allegations of conspiring against the government. She said she edited “just two lines” as she supported the farmers.The police are also on the lookout for two more suspects - Shantanu and Nikita - in the toolkit case and are conducting raids in Mumbai and several other places, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported.Ravi is associated with a climate activist group called Fridays for Future, which was started by Greta Thunberg in 2018. The Bengaluru-based activist started the India chapter of FFF in 2019 and heads the organisation in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disha-ravi-s-arrest-in-toolkit-case-unprecedented-attack-on-democracy-arvind-kejriwal-101613365664438.html
15-02-2021||India||Sikkim: Primary schools reopen as new academic session starts today||Primary sections of schools in Sikkim reopened on Monday after a gap of 11 months. The schools had been closed in March 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The state education department on Sunday issued a circular saying that classes from lower kindergarten to Class 5 in all government, government-aided and private schools will reopen from February 15.In Sikkim, classes from 9 to 12 had resumed from October 19 last year while classes from 6 to 8 had restarted from November 27.“Students would be allowed strictly with the consent of the parents and guardians on a voluntary basis. Schools at primary level will operate with 50% capacity, or alternatively on odd-even roll number basis,” said Bhim Thatal, director of elementary education and samagra shiksha in Sikkim.Also Read | 200,000 Kashmir trout ova dispatched to SikkimSchools with few students may operate with 100% capacity if there is sufficient space to maintain the social distancing norms. Schools will operate till 2pm on every working day. Hostel facilities may also be resumed following Covid-19 guidelines.Though the countrywide lockdown because of the Covid-19 pandemic was imposed from March 24, 2020, schools and educational in Sikkim declared closure of all educational institutes from March 18, 2020.“The reopening of primary schools coincides with the beginning of the academic session at all levels,” he added.As schools were closed for several months, the state government has done away with the two-month-long winter vacation to cover the syllabus. Normally in Sikkim, the new academic session begins after the winter vacation.Sikkim in east India has a population of almost 650,000. There are around 125,000 students, including 85,000 in government schools.Till date, the state has registered 135 Covid-19 deaths. The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases till Saturday was 6,116. Of this total, 5,826 persons have already recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-primary-schools-reopen-as-new-academic-session-starts-today-101613365608943.html
15-02-2021||India||15 surrendered Naxals tie the knot at ceremony organised by Dantewada police on Valentine's Day||The Police organised a mass wedding on Valentine's Day in which 15 surrendered Naxals tied the knot in Chattisgarh's Dantewada.The Dantewada Superintendent of Police (SP) Abhishek Pallava told ANI, "Today 15 surrendered Naxalites tied the knot here. Among them, there were many who fell in love while they were a part of the Naxal outfit but they were not permitted to marry.""The Dantewada police has been carrying out a 'Ghar Wapasi' campaign under which around 300 Naxalites surrendered within a time span of six months. The wedding ceremony was performed according to the culture and tradition of their tribe," stated the Dantewada SP.He further added that the surrendered Naxals happily participated in the wedding ceremony."On Valentine's Day today, this ceremony has marked the win of love over violence and fear," he added.A Naxal tying the knot at the ceremony told ANI, "We fell in love a year ago while both of us were working as Naxals. I had a reward of ₹5 lakh on my head while she had a reward of ₹1 lakh. We wanted to marry back then but we were prohibited from doing so. We were also not allowed to have children, therefore, they conducted sterilisation."Another Naxal, who had joined a Naxal outfit in 2019 and had surrendered recently, expressed happiness at getting married and said that he is thankful to the police for organising the mass wedding ceremony.The ceremony was held in the presence of the family members of the surrendered Naxals, police officers, soldiers, and other surrendered Naxals, the Dantewada police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-surrendered-naxals-tie-the-knot-at-ceremony-organised-by-dantewada-police-on-valentine-s-day-101613364578609.html
15-02-2021||India||UP trains MLAs for paperless House proceedings||Following in the footsteps of the Union government, the Uttar Pradesh government plans to present a paperless budget for 2021-22. The state has already held a three-day training programme for legislators which concluded on Sunday. The training was to prepare the MLAs for the assembly session beginning February 18.Legislative council chairman Manvendra Singh and deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma inaugurated and concluded the last day training session. Speaking on the occasion, Singh said, “We all know that technology is the way to progress. The more technical knowledge we have, the smoother our progress will be.” Also Read | Yogi Adityanath to launch ‘Abhyudaya’ scheme today: All you need to knowLauding the efforts of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, he said, “The chief minister has made commendable efforts for paperless Cabinet meetings and so all ministers were trained to operate the gadget. Now, all the legislators will participate in the budget session with tablets and iPads. It will make Uttar Pradesh the first state in the country to table a paperless budget.” Sharma said, “Several members are already using computers, laptops, iPads...They were trained in how to receive information, save it, make comments and forward the information when required.” Principal secretary, parliamentary affairs, JP Singh, principal secretary, legislative council, Rajesh Singh, and principal secretary, legislative assembly, Pradeep Dubey conducted the training programme with the support of National Informatics Centre experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-trains-mlas-for-paperless-house-proceedings-101613364892427.html
15-02-2021||India||Gujarat CM Rupani to be kept under observation for 24 hours, says officials||The test reports of Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, who had fainted during a rally in Vadodara, are normal, but he would be kept under observation in a hospital here for 24 hours, officials said on Monday.On Sunday, Rupani, 64, fainted on stage while addressing a rally in Nizampura area of Vadodara for the upcoming civic polls in the state, following which he was flown to Ahmedabad and admitted in a hospital."Rupaniji fainted due to tiredness and dehydration. We have done a thorough checkup and all his tests are normal," Dr R K Patel from the U N Mehta Hospital, where the chief minister is admitted, told reporters.State Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel said though Rupani is fine, he would be kept under observation for 24 hours.On Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi enquired about Rupani's health over phone, a statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office said.Modi told Rupani to get himself thoroughly checked and to take proper rest, it said.This was Rupani's third political rally during the day in Vadodara.Elections to six municipal corporations, including Vadodara, will be held on February 21, while those for various other municipalities, districts and taluka panchayats will be held on February 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-cm-rupani-to-be-kept-under-observation-for-24-hours-says-officials-101613364482966.html
15-02-2021||India||After Uttarakhand glacier burst, plantation drive conducted in J-K's Udhampur||Drawing lessons from the recent Uttarakhand glacier burst incident, a plantation drive was conducted at Prowa Jagir watershed area in Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur by the Integrated Water Management Programme (IWMP) to encourage plantation of trees and prevention of soil erosion.This drive was conducted on Sunday to avert Uttarakhand-like tragedy and control soil erosion taking place in the hilly areas. Under the drive, IWMP officials interacted with the locals and distributed mulberry and horticulture plants.Sapna Kotwal project manager, IWMP Udhampur said that plantation drive was conducted to spread awareness among the people on the issue of deforestation and soil erosion."Today we had a plantation drive for Prowa Jagir. Earlier, also we had a similar drive where we created ponds in association with MGNREGA. This is a very dry prone area. This area is heading towards soil erosion due to deforestation. While the plantation drive, we are spreading awareness among the people as this will also help with job creation and employment," Kotwal told ANI.Sandook Singh, one of the locals who participated in the drive said that by planting trees they will be able to save groundwater."We are doing a very fine job regarding integrated water management. Ponds are being made and trees are being planted. In the time to come, this drive will prove to be very useful. This is a hill area, by planting trees we will be able to save groundwater and prevent soil erosion," said Singh.Reiterating what Sapna Kotwal said, another participant stressed that the villages are trying to avert Uttarakhand-like disaster."In the forest area, we have planted 3,500 trees. We have seen how in Uttarakhand the landslides is taking place due to soil erosion. So we are trying to prevent that. We want the level of oxygen to increase along with the level of groundwater," said one of the participants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-uttarakhand-glacier-burst-plantation-drive-conducted-in-j-k-s-udhampur-101613363884450.html
15-02-2021||India||'Development of only two': Rahul Gandhi takes a dig at govt on LPG price hike||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday lashed out at the central government after a fresh hike in the price of liquified petroleum gas (LPG) domestic cylinder in Delhi. Accusing the Modi-led BJP government of aiding his crony capitalist friends by exploiting the public, he said that by looting the public, it's the development of only "two".Gandhi tweeted in Hindi while referring to a news headline about the LPG price hike.जनता से लूट,सिर्फ़ ‘दो’ का विकास।#LPGPriceHike pic.twitter.com/GHdNcQJFYqThis is the third time since December that the price of LPG domestic cylinders has been hiked. The cylinder, used for domestic cooking in households, will cost ₹769 per 14.2 kg in the national capital from 12 am on Monday after it has increased ₹50 per unit.This is the second time the price of the LPG cylinder has increased in the month of February. The price of non-subsidised LPG cylinders were increased by ₹25 in metropolitan cities on February 4 by the oil marketing companies.After the previous rise in prices, the price of non-subsidised LPG cylinders went up from ₹644 to ₹694.Also Read | Six-hour bandh in Odisha today, educational institutes closedThis hike in the cooking gas cylinder prices comes in the backdrop of skyrocketing petrol and diesel prices. Petrol cost has gone up and stands at ₹88.99 per litre, while diesel cost ₹79.35 per litre in Delhi, on Monday.Price of petrol has increased 26 paise and the price of diesel has increased by 29 paise today - the seventh consecutive hike in as many days.Gandhi has opposed the government on the new farmers' laws as well. During his address to farmers at Kisan Mahapanchayats in Rajasthan, he had repeatedly said that the government's sole purpose is to aid capitalist friends of the Prime Minister. He had said when the national economy suffered and plunged, the wealth of the "two" increased exponentially. For farm laws he had said that the Modi government through these laws wants to sell the agriculture sector to the big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/development-of-only-two-rahul-gandhi-takes-a-dig-at-govt-on-lpg-price-hike-101613359311968.html
15-02-2021||India||PM Modi condoles death of 16 labourers in 'heart-wrenching' truck accident in Maharashtra's Jalgaon||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday mourned the loss of lives in a road accident in Maharashtra. He also prayed for early recovery of those injured."Heart-wrenching truck accident in Jalgaon, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover at the earliest," the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a tweet.Heart-wrenching truck accident in Jalgaon, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover at the earliest: PM @narendramodiAs many as 16 people lost their lives, and five others were injured after after the truck in which they were travelling overturned in Jalgaon district on Sunday night.All 16 who were killed in the accident were labourers from Abhoda, Kerhala and Raver in the district and were travelling in a papaya-laden truck.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-condoles-death-of-16-labourers-killed-in-heart-wrenching-truck-accident-in-maharashtra-s-jalgaon-101613363226498.html
15-02-2021||India||Maharashtra reports 4,092 new Covid-19 cases, 40 deaths in 24 hours||Maharashtra recorded 4,092 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, which took the state's infection tally to 20,64,278, while 40 deaths pushed the toll to 51,529, the health department said.A total of 1,355 patients were discharged during the day. With this, the recovery count in the state grew to 19,75,603, it said.There are 35,965 active cases in the state at present.Currently, 1,74,243 patients are in home quarantine and 1,747 others in institutional quarantine, the department said in a statement.Maharashtra's Covid-19 recovery rate is 95.7 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.5 per cent, it added.With 48,782 tests conducted on Sunday, the overall test count of the state went up to 1,53,21,608.Mumbai city reported 645 cases on Sunday and four deaths. With this, the case count in the country's financial capital mounted to 3,14,076, including 11,419 deaths.In Mumbai division, which comprises Mumbai city and its satellite towns, the number of positive cases rose by 1,141 to 7,04,561, while 13 deaths took the fatality count to 19,685.Nashik city reported 122 new cases, Pune city 353, Pimpri Chinchwad 138.Aurangabad city and Hingoli did not report any new case. Aurangabad division did not report any death due to the infection.In Kolhapur division, only one death was reported in Ratnagiri.Except four deaths in Beed, no fatality was reported anywhere else in Latur division.Amravati city registered 430 new cases, Yavatmal 105, Nagpur city 437.The coronavirus figures in Maharashtra are as follows: Total case count 20,64,278, death toll 51,529, recoveries 19,75,603, active cases 35,965, tests conducted on Sunday 48,782, total test count 1,53,21,608.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-reports-4-092-new-covid-19-cases-40-deaths-in-24-hours-101613362507998.html
15-02-2021||India||Toolkit case: Disha Ravi first to be arrested, many others involved, say Delhi Police||The Delhi Police have said that Disha Ravi is one of the editors of a toolkit which is at the centre of a controversy after being posted by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg in connection with farmers' protest.Producing Ravi before a magistrate, the police said that this was the first arrest in the case. The police also told the court that the activist had allegedly edited the "toolkit" on February 3 and many other people are involved in the matter.The court sent the 22-year-old climate change activist to five-day police custody. She was arrested on Saturday.According to Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan, the police are looking for two more suspects - Shantanu and Nikita Jacob - and raids are being carried out in Mumbai and other places. News agency ANI cited Delhi Police to report on Monday that non-bailable warrants have been issued against them.Meanwhile, Disha Ravi broke down during the hearing on Sunday and said that the had only edited two lines in the document tweeted by Thunberg and that she wanted to support the farmers' protest. The police, however, rubbished her claim and said her role was more than editing two lines.The police have named Ravi a "key conspirator" in the document's formulation and dissemination. They also claimed that Ravi and others "collaborated with pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to spread disaffection against the Indian State"."She was the one who shared the toolkit doc with Greta Thunberg," the Delhi Police said in a tweet.Thunberg had shared the "toolkit" - a Google document - earlier this month to lend her support to the farmers' agitation against the three farm reform laws. In the document, various urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed which were needed to be taken to support the farmers' protest.Last week, the Delhi Police had sent a communication to Google seeking registration details and activity log of the account through which the "toolkit" was created and uploaded on the social media platform.Two e-mail IDs, one Instagram account, and one Uniform Resource Locator (URL) were mentioned in the toolkit and police have asked for details from the respective platforms.The police had registered an FIR against unidentified persons in connection with the creators of the "toolkit'.The ministry of external affairs (MEA) had hit out this month at "sensationalist social media hashtags and comments" by celebrities following posts from Thunberg and pop singer Rihanna, who also tweeted in support of the farmer protests, which have been going on near Delhi since November 26 last year.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toolkit-case-disha-ravi-first-to-be-arrested-many-others-involved-say-delhi-police-101613362012050.html
15-02-2021||India||FASTags must from midnight today: Here’s all you need to know||FASTags, which facilitate electronic payment of fee at toll plazas, have been made mandatory from February 15 midnight and vehicles not fitted with them will be charged double the toll at electronic toll plazas across the country. Here’s all you need to know about them:• Beginning February 15 midnight, all lanes in the toll plazas on National Highways shall be declared FASTag lanes.• This has been done to promote fee payment through digital mode, reduce waiting time and fuel consumption, and provide for a seamless passage through the fee plazas. • Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari said on Sunday that the government has already extended the FASTag registration deadline a few times and would not be extend it any further.• The ministry of road transport and highways had mandated FASTag for M&N categories of motor vehicles with effect from January 1 this year; it was extended to February 15 later.Also Read | NHAI does away with requirement of maintaining minimum amount in FASTag Wallet• Category ‘M’ is for a motor vehicle with at least four wheels used for carrying passengers.• Category ‘N’ stands for a motor vehicle with at least four wheels used for carrying goods though it may also carry people. • FASTag is a sticker attached to the windshield of your vehicle. It has a radio-frequency identification barcode that is linked to registration details of the vehicle.• It is valid for five years.• On passing a toll plaza, FASTag readers installed there will automatically deduct the required toll.• To buy a FASTag, you need to furnish vehicle registration documents, and personal ID for the KYC process. If you do it through the bank, you only need your registration certificate.• It can be bought via banks or e-commerce channels. It can also be purchased at some toll plazas across the country. • If you have bought it through a bank, the e-commerce partner would create an e-wallet. All you need to do is add money to the e-wallet. Likewise, for mobile payment banks, you can recharge using your debit/credit card, UPI or other payment options.• Those exempt from paying toll don’t need to use FASTag either. This includes judges, bureaucrats, lawmakers, ministers and emergency service workers.• As per the ministry, FASTag registration has reached 90%; only 10% people still need to get it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fastags-must-from-midnight-today-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-101613362428627.html
15-02-2021||India||India records 11,649 Covid-19 new cases, daily toll remains below 100||With 11,649 new cases reported in the last 24 hours, India’s tally of Covid-19 infections reached 10,916,589, according to figures released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Monday. The toll from the disease has gone up to 155,732 with 90 deaths recorded since Sunday. The fatalities due to the coronavirus disease have remained below 100 for the past three days and this is the ninth time this month.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereThe figures come in line with a declining trend in the number of daily new deaths since October 1, 2020. India’s case fatality rate currently stands at 1.43%, which the health ministry said, is one of the lowest in the world. As many as 17 states did not report any news deaths in the past 24 hours.The country’s active caseload, however, witnessed a rise of 2,070 cases since yesterday. The active Covid-19 cases in the country now stand at 139,637, which accounts for 1.26% of the total positive cases.Maharashtra on Sunday recorded over 4,000 cases after a gap of 39 days following which health experts have sounded an alarm stating that administration will have to increase tracing and testing and the citizens need to strictly adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour. They also suggested that areas where cases have witnessed an upward trend should be put on “red alert”.Meanwhile, as many as 10,621,220 people have so far recovered from the coronavirus disease across the country with 9,489 recoveries reported in the last 24 hours.The encouraging numbers come as the world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination drive is underway and so far at total of 82,85,295 health and frontline workers have been administered the shot. As many as 23,628 healthcare workers have also received a second dose of vaccine. “The country is witnessing a progressive increase in vaccination day by day,” the health ministry said in statement on Sunday.Also, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research(ICMR), 20,67,16,634 samples have been tested up to February 14 with 4,86,122 samples being tested on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-11-649-covid-19-new-cases-daily-toll-remains-below-100-101613362020677.html
15-02-2021||India||Personnel Ministry asks central govt workers to attend office on working days||All central government employees have been asked to attend office on working days, according to a Personnel Ministry order.The decision comes amid a significant decline in the number of active COVID-19 cases in the country, including in the national capital.However, all officers and staff residing in containment zones shall be exempted from coming to office till their containment zone is de-notified, the statement said.Until now, officers of the level of Under Secretary and above were only attending office due to the coronavirus-induced restrictions imposed in March.The Centre had in May asked 50 percent of its employees below the level of Deputy Secretary to work from their offices, while implementing different time slots in its effort to further check the spread of the coronavirus.The officers/staff shall follow staggered timings to avoid over-crowding in offices/workplaces as decided by the heads of department, it said.“The government servants at all levels are to attend office on all working days without any exemption to any category of employees,” said the order issued late Saturday to all the central government departments.Biometric attendance shall continue to be suspended until further orders, it said.The officers and staff who are residing in the containment zone shall work from home and shall be available on telephone and electronic means of communications at all times, it said.Meetings, as far as possible, may continue to be conducted with video-conferencing and personal meetings with visitors, unless absolutely necessary in public interest, are to be avoided, the order said.The Personnel Ministry, in another order, said that “all departmental canteens may be opened”.According to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday, the COVID-19 active caseload remains below 1.5 lakh.In Delhi, the active case tally on Saturday dropped to 1,041 from 1,053 the previous day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/personnel-ministry-asks-central-govt-workers-to-attend-office-on-working-days-101613360850356.html
15-02-2021||India||Who is Disha Ravi? Here’s how the 22-yr-old activist is linked to Greta Thunberg||The Delhi Police have arrested 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi for allegedly sharing the toolkit related to the farmers’ protests against Centre’s agricultural laws on social media. Ravi was arrested by the cyber crime unit of Delhi Police from her home in North Bengaluru on Saturday.The police have alleged that Ravi was the one who shared the toolkit document with Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg and that she is a key conspirator in the formulation and dissemination of the document that “indicates a copycat execution of a conspiracy behind the January 26 violence.” The Delhi Police said in a tweet, “She started WhatsApp Group & collaborated to make the Toolkit doc. She worked closely with them to draft the Doc.”Another tweet said, “In this process, they all collaborated with pro Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to spread disaffection against the Indian State.”Watch | Disha Ravi case: Opposition attacks govt; BJP leader compares activist to KasabThey added that Ravi later asked Greta to remove the main document after its incriminating details accidentally got into the public domain. “This is many times more than the 2 lines editing that she claims,” the Delhi Police wrote on Twitter.Who is Disha Ravi? How is she associated with Greta Thunberg?She is a 22-year graduate from Mount Carmel College in Bengaluru. She is part of a climate activist group called Fridays for Future, which was started by Greta Thunberg in 2018. Ravi started the India wing of Fridays For Future in 2019 and heads the organisation in the country.The activist had also coordinated various campaigns across India on climate change. She also organised protests in Bengaluru on climate issues and wrote in different media across the world on adverse impacts of climate change.What motivated Ravi?Her motivation to become a climate activist came from watching her grandparents, who are farmers and struggle with the effects of climate change, she said in an interview to Auto Report Africa in 2020.“She was very vocal about her views on climate change and the issues she felt about strongly,” a friend of Ravi told HT.What has Disha Ravi been booked for?Ravi has been booked for sedition, promoting enmity and criminal conspiracy over her alleged involvement in the 'toolkit' being investigated by the Delhi Police. A court on Sunday remanded the activist to five days in police custody.What is a toolkit?A toolkit is a social media document which explains an issue and action plans.Greta Thunberg had tweeted it while she extended her support to the ongoing farmers' protest. The ministry of electronics and information technology had earlier told Twitter that the toolkit was proof that a strong social media campaign was being planned outside India and Twitter was one of its platforms for mobilisation.Support pours in for Disha RaviThe Samyukta Kisan Morcha, former environment minister Jairam Ramesh and several activists from across the country on Sunday criticised the arrest of the 22-year-old climate activist.The Coalition for Environmental Justice in India called the Delhi Police's action "sinister" as there is no disclosure about her whereabouts. It released a statement signed by at least 78 activists from across the country which said the police's action "can be termed extra-judicial abduction".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-is-disha-ravi-here-s-how-the-22-yr-old-activist-is-linked-to-greta-thunberg-101613360074562.html
15-02-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Farm laws protests affect traffic at Delhi's borders and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders shut, traffic divertedDelhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained closed at multiple points on Monday as the ongoing farmers’ agitation entered its 82nd day on Monday. Read more here.Dacoits gun down passenger in bus robbery in JharkhandThe robbery occurred between 3.30 am and 4 am while the bus was on the way to Biharsharif, Bihar from Kolkata. Read more here. Opinion: Delhi must take the long view on Dhaka The relationship is robust, thanks to Sheikh Hasina. But to rely only on the skills of one leader may not be enough. Read more here. India vs England: 'This Chennai pitch is unacceptable at Test match level,' says Mark WaughThe 2nd day of the Test between the two teams saw the surface assisting spinners in troubling the batsmen. Read more here. When Randhir Kapoor spoke about separation with Babita, denied need for divorce: 'I don’t intend to get married again'On Randhir Kapoor's birthday, let us look at his long endearing friendship with wife Babita. Read more here. Watch: Gujarat CM faints on stage during rally, PM Modi calls to check on him||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-farm-laws-protests-affect-traffic-at-delhis-101613358398473.html
15-02-2021||India||UP health workers to get second Covid vaccine shot today||Health workers in Uttar Pradesh who were given first Covid vaccine dose on January 16 will be given the second dose on today. Those who missed the first dose in the earlier vaccination rounds will also get it today, said a health department officer. The state health and family welfare department has completed preparations in the 75 districts. Beneficiary names have been uploaded on the CoWin portal and messages have been sent to them to visit the vaccination centre to get the jab, said the officer cited above. In the first round, 22,620 health workers were given the vaccine. Also Read | Colleges, universities to reopen from Feb 15 in UPAdditional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal, said that the health department has been directed to inform the beneficiaries in advance. In all, 890,000 beneficiaries, including the health and frontline workers, were given the vaccine jab in the state in the eight rounds organised till last Friday. In the past 24 hours, 103 fresh Covid cases were reported in the state while 156 people were discharged from the hospitals after recovery. The state has also reported 590,000 recoveries since the pandemic struck in March last year, he said.Three deaths were also reported during the day; one each in Lucknow, Meerut and Lakhimpur Kheri, taking the total Covid death count in the state to 8,702, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-health-workers-to-get-second-covid-vaccine-shot-today-101613358588233.html
15-02-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath to launch 'Abhyudaya' scheme today: All you need to know||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will on Monday launch the Abhyudaya scheme to start free-of-cost coaching centres in the state. The event is likely to begin at 10 am.The scheme aims to provide assistance to all such students who want to prepare for these exams but are unable to do due to their financial status.The coaching centres will be first set up at the divisional level and then at the district level in the second phase.Here's everything you need to know about the Abhudaya scheme:*Adityanath had announced the launch of the scheme on January 24, the statehood day of Uttar Pradesh. "The coaching centres will give a new platform to youths and motivate them to scale new heights," he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-to-launch-abhyudaya-scheme-today-all-you-need-to-know-101613356984338.html
15-02-2021||India||Dense fog reported from Punjab; rainfall likely in Uttarakhand||Dense to very dense fog was recorded at many places in Punjab on Monday. There was shallow fog in Delhi.Visibility was less than 25 m at Amritsar, Patiala and Ambala; less than 200 m at Ganganagar and Nalia; less than 500 m in Delhi (Safdarjung), Bareilly and Kailashahar.Under the influence of a feeble Western Disturbance, isolated rainfall/snowfall is likely over Uttarakhand during February 14 to 17.Also Read | Minimum temperature dips at several places across KashmirDue to the influence of a trough in the lower level easterlies; light to moderate rainfall with thunderstorm and lightning is likely over Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh and Marathwada during February 17 to 18 and scattered rainfall over southern parts of Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha and Madhya Maharashtra during February 16 to 28. Hailstorms are also likely over some parts of Vidarbha on February 17 and 18 and over Chhattisgarh on February 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dense-fog-reported-from-punjab-rainfall-likely-in-uttarakhand-101613356907965.html
15-02-2021||India||Congress calls for bandh in Odisha over rising fuels prices, educational institutes closed||The Congress has given a call for Odisha bandh (shutdown) on Monday to protest against the rising fuel prices. The bandh will remain in place for six hours - from 7 am to 1 pm.The state government has closed all the schools, colleges and universities across Odisha for the safety of students. The technical institutes and industrial training centres will also not open their premises, School and Mass Education Minister SR Dash said on Sunday.The schools had reopened in Odisha on January 8, after a gap of nine months.The security too has been tightened across the state in view of the bandh. The state government has asked all its employees to reach office before 9.30 am, news agency PTI reported.All the buses will remain off the roads till the time the shutdown continues, the Odisha Bus Owners Association said.The president of the Odisha unit of the Congress, Niranjan Patnaik, had said on Sunday that all the essential services, movements of patients and marriage parties will be kept out of the purview of the shutdown.He also lashed out at the central government for rising prices of petrol and diesel accusing it of "imposing unreasonable taxes". Patnaik said that prices of essential commodities have shot up due to the spiralling fuel costs.Meanwhile, the prices of petrol and diesel increased for seventh consecutive day on Monday. Petrol price was increased by 26 paise per litre and diesel by 29 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers.This pushed retail rates, which differ from state to state depending on incidence of local sales tax and freight charges, to fresh high.After the latest round of hike, petrol is retailing at ₹88.99 a litre and diesel soared to ₹79.35 in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-calls-for-bandh-in-odisha-over-rising-fuels-prices-101613354773920.html
15-02-2021||India||Delhi police arrest 3 for duping CM Kejriwal's daughter in e-commerce fraud||Three people are arrested by Delhi Police for duping Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's daughter, a source told ANI on Sunday."Three accused named Sajid, Kapil, and Manvendra have been arrested for duping Arvind Kejriwal's daughter. One main accused is absconding who used to make fake accounts on e-commerce sites," said the source.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's daughter was duped of ₹34,000 on February 7 while she was selling a second-hand sofa online.According to the Delhi police's earlier statement, a case of cheating was registered at the Civil Lines Police Station."The person, who posted himself as a customer, asked her to scan a bar code after sending a small amount on her account. And when she scanned the bar code, the money debited from her account in two installments--first ₹20,000 and then ₹14,000," police had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-arrest-3-for-duping-cm-kejriwal-s-daughter-in-e-commerce-fraud-101613354799070.html
15-02-2021||India||Pangong Tso disengagement accord reduces military friction at Naku La||The impact of the disengagement by the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China on Pangong Tso has apparently led to an easing of tensions on Naku La, which saw friction and a face-off between the two militaries since May 2020. Situated south-west of the Kanchenjunga peak, the over 14,000-feet-high pass in north Sikkim had seen fisticuffs between the two armies on May 9, 2020, and as late as January 20, 2021, with injuries to troopers on both sides.While the Narendra Modi government is tight-lipped about Naku La, Hindustan Times, after talking to top military commanders and diplomats, has learnt that the just like the Pangong Tso disengagement, the easing of tensions on Naku La has been dictated by the highest levels in Beijing with a renewed effort to build trust and normalise relations. The decision-making authority in the PLA’s case is the Central Military Commission headed by President Xi Jinping, who is also the commander-in-chief of China’s defence forces.“The speed at which the PLA has moved its troops beyond Finger 8 on the north bank of Pangong Tso towards Srijap plains and beyond as well as withdrawal of no less than 220 Chinese light tanks from south banks of Pangong Tso clearly shows that the instructions have come from the highest level in Beijing,” said a former army chief. It is understood that Chinese disengagement is more or less complete on the north bank and the exercise on south banks is to move from the lake to the Kailash Range.According to a top Indian diplomat, Beijing’s decision to disengage from Pangong Tso starting on February 10 was not because its military positions were not tenable but to stop the downward spiral in bilateral relations since former Western Theatre Commander, General Zhao Zongqi, went on aggressive mode at Pangong Tso last May. “China had invested a lot in removing the 1962 conflict from Indian memory by making deliberate efforts to improve bilateral relations. All this went for a toss last May and a new generation of Indians born in the new millennium has again witnessed the perfidy of PLA and mistrust with China. Perhaps the disengagement is part of an effort to stem the rapid slide in bilateral ties,” said a senior official.According to senior military officers, Indian Army commanders raised the question of severe mistrust with their PLA counterparts, citing the continued friction at Naku La while the Pangong Tso disengagement agreement was reached on February 10. It is learnt that just to prove that the PLA was committed to genuine disengagement with the Indian Army, a battalion commander sought a meeting with his Indian counterpart at Naku La on the same day, assuring no further transgression from the Chinese side.In the past six years, PLA patrols have tended to come down the ridge past the Indian perception of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Naku La area as a result of which there have been physical face-offs. Although the Chinese base is well behind the ridge line, the PLA in the past has made an effort to cross Naku La and reach a wall constructed by local Indian graziers.“The face-off around Naku La has been a new development of past six years and any easing of tension bodes well for bilateral ties. Reports indicate that the PLA has gone back to its permanent base, a template used in disengagement in Galwan and Pangong Tso,” said the former army chief cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pangong-tso-disengagement-accord-reduces-military-friction-at-naku-la-101613338412066.html
15-02-2021||India||FASTag becomes mandatory from Feb 15 midnight: All you need to know||The government has made it mandatory for all four-wheeled vehicles across the country to have FASTags starting February 15 midnight. The ministry of road transport and highways has decided that all lanes in the fee plazas on national highways shall be declared as ‘FASTag lane of the fee plaza,’ according to a statement.Any vehicle not fitted with FASTag or vehicle without valid, functional FASTag entering into the FASTag lane of the fee plaza will be charged double the toll at electronic toll plazas, according to NH Fee Rules 2008.Here’s everything you need to know as FASTag becomes mandatory from tonight*FASTag, which was first introduced in 2016, has been made compulsory to promote fee payment through digital mode, reduce waiting time and fuel consumption, and provide for a seamless passage through the fee plazas.*The ministry of road transport and highways had mandated fitment of FASTag in M&N categories of motor vehicles with effect from January 1, 2021.*What are categories M and N? - Category ‘M’ stands for a motor vehicle with at least four wheels used for carrying passengers while category ‘N’ stands for a motor vehicle with at least four wheels used for carrying goods, which may also carry persons in addition to goods.*How it works? - FASTag uses radio-frequency identification (RFID), which enables automatic deduction of toll charges at NHAI toll plazas. The tag must be linked with the motorists’ adequately funded prepaid or savings or current account. After the tag account gets active, the motorists can affix the tag on the windscreen of their vehicles. It enables them to drive through toll plazas, without having to stop to pay.*No deadline extension- Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari has made it clear that the deadline for implementation of FASTag would not be extended further, and the vehicle owners should immediately adopt the e-payment facility. “The government had extended the FASTag registration date limit two-three times before and it would not be extended further. Now, everybody should immediately buy FASTags,” he said on Sunday.*Gadkari told reporters that FASTag registration has gone up to 90% on some routes and only 10% people are left. FASTag is also available on toll nakas and people should purchase and use it for seamless traffic, he said at the Nagpur airport.*Complaints- Some motorists on Maharashtra’s Sion-Panvel highway have complained that despite having balance in their accounts, they were not able to pay the toll and end up paying cash while a few others said that even as they make the payment through FASTag, the process takes a longer time, resulting in traffic snarls on the busy highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fastag-becomes-mandatory-from-feb-15-midnight-everything-you-need-to-know-101613353345884.html
15-02-2021||India||As Budget Session’s first half records near-zero Covid cases, House hopes better attendance||The first half of the budget session of Parliament showed signs of normalcy return on the health front. Covid-19 cases in parliament, among lawmakers and officials, dropped to near-zero — an encouraging trend for the two Houses.According to officials involved in the management of Covid-19 in Parliament, as many as 4,700 reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, known as the gold standard for diagnosis of the viral disease, were conducted on MPs, officials, media and security personnel before the session started on January 29.“Out of the 4,700 tests, only three MPs tested positive. All others results were negative,” an official said, requesting anonymity.Read more: ‘Highly productive’, says Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla as first phase of Budget Session endsThe results, officials added, were in sync with a sharp drop in number of active cases in India. The country reported only 13,082 new positive cases on January 29, the day the budget session started, a steep fall from 86,508 new cases on September 23 when the monsoon session was cut short by eight days. The first half of the budget session ended on Tuesday.Apart from 888 lawmakers in the two Houses, Parliament has more than 4,000 officials and staff. It also houses a large force of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) to enforce security. Since mid-January, a large number of construction workers have also been present in the complex for building the new parliament house.Read more: Budget session: 99% of allotted time usedMore MPs felt safe enough to attend House proceedings and join meetings of various parliamentary committees. The House panels were plagued by low attendance for a large part of 2020 as many MPs, who live outside Delhi, were reluctant to fly down to the national capital amid soaring a surge in Covid-19 cases.Officials added that in the past few months, attendance in parliamentary panel meetings had improved vastly from last year For l lack of quorum, many meetings were cancelled at the last minute, resulting in loss of time and public money.The next half of the session is scheduled to start from March 8 and officials added that another round of RT-CPR tests would be conducted before it starts. They also added that health safety protocols, including social distancing, dispersed seating arrangements and mandatory use of masks shall continue until the union health ministry officially declares that the pandemic is over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-budget-session-s-first-half-records-near-zero-covid-cases-house-hopes-better-attendance-101613341670990.html
15-02-2021||India||PM dedicates ₹6k-cr Kochi petrochemical complex to country||Prime Minister Narendra Modi dedicated to the nation on Sunday the Rs6000 crore petrochemical complex of oil major Bharat Petroleum and Ro-Ro vessels of Inland Waterways at Willingdon Islands in Kochi, asserting that these projects will fuel the country’s growth.On a brief visit to the poll-bound state, the Prime Minister also inaugurated the International Cruise Terminal “Sagarika” at Cochin Port; Marine Engineering Training Institute, Vigyana Sagar, Cochin Shipyard Limited and laid the foundation stone of Reconstruction of South Coal Berth at Cochin Port. Elections in the state are due in April-May this year.Addressing a public meeting in Kochi, the PM said actions of today will shape the country’s growth trajectory in years to come. “Our people have shown that with right opportunities they can do wonders. Let’s keep working towards creating more opportunities. Together, we will create an Aatmanirbar Bharat,” he said.The PM also hailed the support of the country’s citizens in fight against Covid-19 pandemic. “The last one -year the country faced enough challenges. Powered by 130 crore Indians, our fight against the Covid has been spirited. The whole globe is watching us now,” he said.He further exhorted start-ups to come up with innovative projects to boost domestic tourism.The PM also reached out to the Indian diaspora in the Gulf, particularly a large number of Keralites working there, saying that: “India is proud of its diaspora in the Gulf. During my visit to some of the countries like Saudi Arabia, Qatar and UAE I had meal with them and interacted to know their problems.”Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, governor Arif Mohamad Khan, petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan and his deputy Mansukh Mandaviya and Minister of State for external affairs V Muraleedharan also attended the meet.Speaking at the occasion, Vijayan said, “This is a happy occasion for us Keralites. A handful of projects are coming to life in our state today. While some are being dedicated to the nation, the foundation stone is being laid for others. Both state and central government are working together in all these projects.”Meanwhile, security agencies foiled an attempt of the Democratic Youth Federation of India, ruling CPI(M) youth wing, activists to release black balloons to protest recurring fuel price hike.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-dedicates-rs-6k-cr-kochi-petrochemical-complex-to-country-101613341294331.html
15-02-2021||India||Small convoys, new SOPs: How Pulwama changed CRPF tactic||Two years since Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) suicide bomber Adil Ahmad Dar rammed an explosive-laden car into a bus transporting Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) troopers on the national highway in Pulwama, killing 40 men, a lot has changed in terms of convoy movement and the way troops secure their camps in the Kashmir valley.Immediately after the deadly attack, which pushed India and Pakistan to the brink of war, the CRPF decided to overhaul its standard operating procedure (SOP) for convoys moving on the highways.Instead of moving in large convoys, like the one on February 14, 2019 with 78 vehicles, it was decided that personnel will move in smaller contingents with a maximum of 40 vehicles. A Superintendent of Police rank officer started commandeering the convoys and troops were ordered to strictly adhere to the “passenger manifest discipline” for each vehicle in the convoy.Read more: On second anniversary of Pulwama attack, JK police recover 7 kg IED in JammuFresh trainings, new SOPs, control of civilian traffic and use of bulletproof bunkers, drones and CCTVs; these are some of the strategic changes which the Central Reserve Police Force has made in these two years to avoid a repeat of the devastating 2019 Lethpora Pulwama attack, IG CRPF Deepak Ratan said on Sunday on the second anniversary of the attack. CRPF inspector general Deepak Ratan said that the force had made many changes in these two years.“There has been a change in our SOP and our equipment have also improved,” he said. Training has been modified keeping mind the contingencies that can crop up in Jammu and Kashmir. “ll of them have been kept in mind so that whenever terrorists strike they will get a befitting response,” he said.The IG said that the road opening parties (ROP) which would provide security to the highway have been given new training coupled with new SOPs.“It was done to prevent and stop the incidents (like Pulwama), the way a civilian vehicle filled with explosives had struck our convoy causing heavy damages. That is why the traffic on road during convoy movement is controlled, convoy limit has also been contained,” he said.Read more: 2 years of Pulwama attack: Ministers, other leaders pay tribute to CRPF soldiers“CCTVs have been installed at many points on the highway, drones are also being used. The movement of our vehicles generally takes places in bulletproof bunkers. Enough precautions as well as equipment have been installed to avoid such a type of incident,” he said.Since the attack, the majority of vehicles used for convoy movements have been upgraded to withstand bullets and low-intensity improvised explosive devices (IEDs). The ROPs (road opening parties), which are placed before the convoy moves on the highway, have been strengthened and trained for early warning mechanisms in identifying suspects who could attack the moving vehicles. Subsequently, there is better coordination between central intelligence agencies, Jammu and Kashmir police and the army on possible terror threats, people familiar with the developments said. Read more: The lessons from Pulwama | HT EditorialA major decision taken after the Pulwama attack was to restrict the movement of civilian vehicles on the highway when the convoys of security forces are on the move. The government has also allowed all personnel to take a flight to Srinagar from either Jammu or Delhi; air courier service for the central paramilitary forces has been increased by adding flights from Delhi to Srinagar via Jammu and back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/small-convoys-new-sops-how-pulwama-changed-crpf-tactic-101613340987001.html
15-02-2021||India||Cops announce ₹1 lakh reward for info on Sidhana in R-Day probe||The Delhi Police on Sunday announced a cash reward of ₹1 lakh for any information that may lead to the arrest of gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana, who is wanted for his alleged role in the violence that unfolded during the farmers’ tractor rally in the national capital on January 26.The Delhi police are conducting search operations to arrest Sidhana across Punjab, Haryana as well as the National Capital Region.Police are also looking into Sidhana’s connections with actor Deep Sidhu who was arrested earlier from Karnal in Haryana last week by a Delhi olice team.A senior police officer, who wished not to be named, confirmed that ₹1 lakh reward was announced for Sidhana on Sunday.Sidhana’s role in the January 26 violence surfaced after he released a video on social media demanding Sidhu to be reased. Sidhu was also carrying a cash reward of Rs1 lakh on his arrest.Police suspect that like Sidhu, Sidhana is also switching locations between Punjab and Haryana. Multiple teams of Delhi police’s crime branch and special cell are raiding possible hideouts to arrest Sidhana, officials said.On January 26, thousands of protesting farmers stormed Delhi that led to violent clashes between the security forces and farmers. A group of farmers also stormed the Red Fort on the day, and hosted religious flags there. More than 500 police personnel were injured in the clashes on Republic Day.The Delhi police have so far arrested at least 143 persons in 40 cases registered at different police stations related to the violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-announce-rs-1-lakh-reward-for-info-on-sidhana-in-r-day-probe-101613339249723.html
15-02-2021||India||Travel racket busted: Cops nab 59 for forging visas, passports||The police have arrested 59 persons in an operation launched in September last year to crack down on a racket that helped people travel abroad illegally on fake papers such as passports and visas, senior officers said on Sunday.Deputy commissioner of police (Delhi airport) Rajeev Ranjan said a special drive was launched last year after immigration officials confronted an increasing number of passengers who were deported from other countries for travelling on illegal documents.In 2020, 107 cases were registered and 134 passengers arrested in such instances. All of these were travelling through Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport, the DCP said. This year, the police have registered 23 such cases and arrested 28 passengers. These passengers were caught by immigration officials at IGI airport and were later handed over to the police.Most of such passengers were from Punjab, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, said a police officer, who was a part of the operation, based on the scrutiny of the travel papers and the questioning of the suspects. The officer said many of these did not match the profile and requirements to travel to their destination countries and therefore could not obtain a visa or a passport through legal channels. Many of these were caught on their arrival in India after being deported from the destination country for holding improper or fake visas or doctored passports, the officer said.Another investigator, who wished not to be named, said most people got in touch with the agents who made fake travel papers though common friends or acquaintances. He said it took the agents roughly a week or two to arrange fake visas.The police got its initial leads from the interrogation of the people arrested from airports. It emerged that gangs in Punjab, Gujarat and other states were engaged in an organised racket of preparing fake visas and passports to facilitate travellers who were ready to pay them anything between ₹50,000 to ₹5 lakh, depending on the destination.“Several teams were dispatched to various locations of Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Mumbai and Haryana to nab the identified suspects,” the officer said.The DCP said of the 59 men arrested so far at least 10 were “masterminds”. Most of these men are involved in cases reported in the pre-Covid time as during most part of 2020 international travel remained shut, he said.A third investigator said the suspects charged up to ₹1 lakh for a visa to West Asia and south-east Asian countries and a Schengen Visa for European countries and a visa to USA and Canada costed ₹3-5 lakh. “Charges for making fake passports were less – between ₹20,000 to ₹50,000 – but for visas, it varied depending upon the country of travel.While ₹50,000 to ₹1 lakh were charged for visas to Gulf nations and southeast Asian countries, they demanded ₹2-5 lakh for visas to Canada, USA or UK. The money charged for visas to European countries, Australia and countries like New Zealand even went up to ₹4-8 lakh. The payments were usually made in cash,” the officer said.DCP Ranjan said that the crackdown is continuing and that more arrests are likely in time to come.“We have recovered fake stamps which they used to prepare forged visa and passports. During questioning, the suspects told us that they mostly got clients from people who they knew and they charged money according to the country or how desperate a person was to travel abroad,” the DCP said.In the latest case, three people were handed over by the immigration officials at Delhi airport to the police on February 2. A man from Sitamarhi in Bihar was arrested at the airport for allegedly travelling to Maldives on fake employment visa. The man was caught around 8am at Terminal 3 after he was deported from Male airport for holding fake documents.The same day,two men belonging to Nuh in Haryana, were deported from Maldives for holding fake employment visa and were caught at the Delhi airport at 2am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/travel-racket-busted-cops-nab-59-for-forging-visas-passports-101613338867453.html
15-02-2021||India||New satellite to carry Bhagavad Gita, PM Modi’s photo||A copy of the Bhagavad Gita, a photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and the names of 25,000 individuals will be carried to space by the Satish Dhawan Satellite, or SD SAT, which will be launched at the end of the month by the polar satellite launch vehicle (PSLV).The nanosatellite, named after one of the founding fathers of India’s space programme and developed by SpaceKidz India, an organisation dedicated to promoting space science among students, will also carry three scientific payloads — one to study space radiation, one to study the magnetosphere, and another that will demonstrate a low-power wide-area communication network.“There is a lot of excitement in the group right now. This will be our first satellite to be deployed in space. When we finalised the mission, we asked people to send in their names that will be sent to space. And, within a week we received 25,000 entries. Of these, 1,000 names were sent in by people from outside India. There is a school in Chennai that sent in the names of everyone. We decided to do this because it will spark interest of the people in the mission and space science,” said Dr Srimathy Kesan, founder and CEO of SpaceKidz India.Read more: Isro tests satellites developed by private sector for the first timeThe people who sent in their names were given a “boarding pass”.Kesan added that they decided to send a copy of the Bhagvad Gita to space on the lines of other space missions that have carried holy books such as the Bible. “We have also added the name and photograph of the prime minister on the top panel with the words Atmanirbhar mission. This satellite has been completely developed and fabricated in India, including the electronics and circuitry,” she said.The names of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) chairperson Dr K Sivan and scientific secretary Dr R Umamaheswaran have been etched on the bottom panel.The satellite will be transported to the spaceport at Sriharikota on Sunday after some design changes were made following recommendations by ISRO. “We are conducting last-minute checks before sending over the satellite. We had to re-do the solar panel on the satellites after testing at ISRO because there was a problem with the resin and there was bulge on a few cells. But it was thought that the entire thing might ooze out in space in two to three days,” said Kesan.This is one of the two satellites developed by Indian startups that will be launched for the first time by ISRO after the country opened up the space sector to private entities in June last year.Read more: Isro to launch Brazilian, Indian satellites in first mission of 2021The PSLV-C51 mission, scheduled for February 28, will carry Brazil’s earth observation satellite Amazonia-1 as the primary satellite along with 20 co-passenger satellites, including a nanosatellite from ISRO, three UnitySats by an academic consortium, and a demonstration satellite by another start-up, Pixxel (incorporated as Syzygy Space Technologies).Pixxel plans to create a constellation of 30 earth observation satellites by December 2022 that will provide global coverage every 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-satellite-to-carry-bhagavad-gita-pm-s-photo-101613337234088.html
15-02-2021||India||22-yr-old activist, Disha Ravi, held for ‘protest toolkit’||Delhi Police’s cyber crime unit has arrested 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi from her house in North Bengaluru for allegedly sharing on social media the toolkit related to the farmers’ protests against the laws aimed at opening up trade in agriculture, police said on Sunday.Delhi police on Sunday said in a tweet that it was Ravi who had shared the toolkit document with Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg and later asked the latter to remove the document after its incriminating details accidentally became public knowledge.Ravi was arrested on Saturday night. Ravi, who was booked for sedition, promoting enmity and criminal conspiracy, among other offences, was produced at a city court on Sunday after which she was sent to five days in police custody.Delhi police’s additional spokesperson Anil Mittal confirmed that Ravi had been arrested from Bengaluru by a team of the special cell that is probing a conspiracy angle related to the toolkit document.“Investigation has revealed that she was one of the editors of the Google toolkit document and a key conspirator in the document’s formulation and dissemination,” Mittal said, adding that further investigations in the case were in progress. Police have not ruled out a possibility of more arrests in the case.Delhi police on February 4 registered a first information report (FIR) under sections 124A (sedition), 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) after Thunberg tweeted the toolkit while expressing her support to the farmers’ protest in India.The police have claimed that the toolkit was put together by a “pro-Khalistani group” named Poetic Justice Foundation. Thunberg later deleted the original tweet. The FIR was registered against the people who created and spread the toolkit.On Sunday, Delhi police, in a series of tweets, said that Ravi had started a WhatsApp group and collaborated in the effort to prepare the toolkit document.One of the tweets read, “Disha Ravi, arrested by CyPAD Delhi Police, is an Editor of the Toolkit Google Doc & key conspirator in document’s formulation & dissemination. She started WhatsApp Group & collaborated to make the Toolkit doc. She worked closely with them to draft the Doc.”One tweet said Delhi Police had taken cognizance of a ‘Toolkit Document’ found on a social media platform that predates and indicates a copycat execution of a conspiracy behind the January 26 violence in the capital during a tractors rally organised by protesting farmers.The call was to wage economic, social, cultural and regional war against India, the tweet said.Another tweet said, “In this process, they all collaborated with pro Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to spread disaffection against the Indian State. She was the one who shared the Toolkit Doc with Greta Thunberg.”The police also said that “she (Ravi) asked Greta to remove the main Doc after its incriminating details accidentally got into public domain. This is many times more than the 2 lines editing that she claims.”Ravi is founder of a group named Fridays For Future (FFF) and has a bachelor’s degree in business administration.According to the Delhi Police officials, Ravi is a key lead in the “toolkit” case as she had admitted during the initial interrogation to editing, adding some things in the toolkit and spreading it further.Last week, Delhi Police sent a communication to Google seeking registration details and activity log of the account through which a “toolkit” related to the farmers’ protest was created and uploaded on the social media platforms.Two e-mail IDs, one Instagram account, and one Uniform Resource Locator (URL) were mentioned in the toolkit and police had sought details from the respective platforms.Farmers have been protesting at different border points of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.They claim that the laws would weaken their bargaining power, leave them at the mercy of powerful agribusinesses and potentially lead to the dismantling of government-run farm produce markets and the system of minimum support prices for agricultural commodities.The Coalition for Environmental Justice in India said in a statement signed by at least 78 activists from across the country on Sunday: “Delhi Police’s actions are all the more sinister because the 21-year old was taken to Delhi from Bengaluru with no disclosure about her whereabouts, not even to her parents, an action that can be termed extra-judicial abduction.”Ravi sent to five days of police custodyA city court on Sunday allowed the police five days of custody to interrogate the 22-year-old.Metropolitan magistrate Dev Saroha remanded Ravi to custody of the Special Cell of the Delhi Police following her arrest from Bengaluru. The police had sought a remand of seven days to “unearth her connections with the organization, Sikhs for Justice and its founder Patwant Singh Pannu.”Ravi was not represented by any private counsel during the hearing, following which the city court provided her a Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) lawyer.During the hearing, she broke down and refuted allegations that she was conspiring against the government. She said she edited “just two lines” as she supported the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22yrold-activist-held-for-protest-toolkit-101613336381146.html
15-02-2021||India||Rural demand engine choking once again?||When India announced an almost complete lockdown beginning on March 25, 2020 to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infections, economic activity suffered a sharp disruption. So much so that even the nation’s air and rivers became the cleanest they had been in years. The only sector that was an exception to this disruption was agriculture. With expected growth of 3.4% in 2020-21, it has emerged as a critical buffer for an economy that is set to suffer its biggest contraction ever in the financial year ending March. Agriculture’s performance has been critical for both maintaining supplies as well as sustaining rural demand. Recently released high-frequency indicators suggest that the rural demand story might be heading into rough weather once again. The biggest reason for this seems to be the usual culprit, a worsening of the terms of trade against farmers. However, the weakness in labour markets in the cities is also contributing to the crisis. Here are four points that explain these trends.1. Food inflation has collapsed, but non-food prices continue to riseAccording to the Consumer Price Index (CPI) data for January, which was released on February 12, food inflation has collapsed in the past two months. It grew 9.5% in November 2020, 3.4% in December 2020 and fell to 1.9% in January 2021. Non-food inflation, on the other hand, continues to increase, the respective numbers being 5.2%, 5.4% and 5.5%. The developing situation is the stark opposite of what existed in the past year or so when food inflation had been higher than non-food inflation. This entails a worsening of the terms of trade, or the ratio of prices of products they sell and buy, for the farmers.2. Fall in food inflation is being driven by items which matter in the agri-production basketThe sharp moderation in food prices, to be sure, is not a secular trend. While prices of vegetables have fallen sharply, and cereal prices remain flat, prices of other food items such as pulses, edible oils and meat products continue to rise in double digits. This means that the economic pain of worsening terms of trade vis-a-vis the food sector is confined to those who produce cereals and vegetables. An analysis of crop-wise share in the value of output in agriculture shows that cereals and vegetables are the most important component: they account for more than half of India’s agricultural production basket. This means that the numbers of farmers who would gain from a rise in prices of pulses and edible oil would be much smaller than those who are suffering because of the weakness in vegetable and cereal prices.3. Real rural wages have been contracting for four months nowMonthly data on rural wages is the only government statistic to track labour markets on a high-frequency level. Given the practice of large-scale rural migration of unskilled workers, rural wages are considered to be a good proxy of conditions in urban labour markets as well. Real rural wages have been contracting continuously between August 2020 and November 2020 - the latest period for which data is available. When read with the fact that the October and November contraction has come on the back of an already low base, real rural wages contracted continuously between October 2019 and March 2020, the situation seems to be even more alarming. That non-agricultural wages have been falling at a faster pace than agricultural wages suggests that continuing weakness in urban markets – it is non-agricultural work which these labourers go and perform in cities – might be generating headwinds for wages in rural areas.4. RBI consumer confidence survey data corroborates the urban labour market weakness storyWhile India does not have an official source of high-frequency data on employment, the Reserve Bank of India’s Consumer Confidence Surveys (CCS) offer an insight into prevailing sentiment vis-a-vis employment and incomes in the cities. The CCS is conducted every two months in the 13 biggest cities of India, the latest round having been done in January 2021. Among other things, the CCS seeks responses on perception around incomes and employment compared to a year ago. On both these counts, the share of respondents who reported a deterioration far exceeded those who reported an improvement, dragging the net perception into negative territory. The fact that things have not improved despite removal of lockdown restrictions and economic activity related private indices such a Purchasing Managers’ Indices and the Nomura India Business Resumption Index doing very well suggests that employment and wages continue to be weak even though production might be improving.To be sure, experts have underlined the upside bias many high-frequency indicators including quarterly gross domestic product ( GDP) numbers could have. “Quarterly GDP data is less representative of informal sector, it could underestimate the extent of economic disruption and permanent scarring”, said a note by Samiran Chakraborty, chief economist India of Citi Research, while upgrading the growth forecast for 2020-21 GDP. Nomura economists Sonal Varma and Aurodeep Nandi noted that “labour and weak private capex conditions remain drags over (growth in) the medium term”.“A collapse in vegetable prices and cereal incomes being flat at a time when non-food prices are rising will put a squeeze on farm incomes and hence rural demand. The fact that increased duties in petrol-diesel are major contributors to non-food prices suggests that this worsening of terms of trade for agriculture is partly policy inducedm” said Himanshu, an associate professor of economics at the Jawaharlal Nehru University. “We will do well to not become complacent about rural demand when the rest of the economy is still on thin ice,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rural-demand-engine-choking-once-again-101613329219798.html
15-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand floods: 12 bodies found, no trace of 154 people still||Rescue personnel on Sunday recovered the bodies of five people trapped in the 1.7-kilometre-long main tunnel of NTPC Limited’s hydropower project in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, and found seven more elsewhere, taking the confirmed death toll to 50 in the devastating flash floods triggered by a rockslide and the formation of a glacial lake in the mountainous terrain.At least 154 more people are still missing exactly a week after the flash floods, which were immediately followed by the launch of the rescue operation. Around 35 people had been trapped inside the main tunnel and a smaller underground tunnel located beneath it.The five bodies in the tunnel were recovered after the rescue workers cleared slush inside to a distance of about 130 metres.Chamoli’s district magistrate Swati S Bhadauria said: “In the morning two bodies were first recovered inside the tunnel after clearing the muck to a distance of about 125-130 metres. Following that, three more bodies were recovered till Sunday afternoon.”Read more: Uttarakhand law to levy water tax on hydropower projects in state held valid“The administration has kept seven ambulances and a chopper on standby in case any of the workers is found alive from the tunnel,” Bhadauria added.A team of rescue workers is trying to drill its way to the smaller tunnel to rescue about 30 workers trapped inside, she said. “On Saturday, the rescue workers finished drilling vertically in the main tunnel to reach out to a small underground tunnel beneath it at a depth of 12.7 metres. They, however, hit slush after drilling to the required depth, which they have been pumping out to get inside to search for workers trapped inside it,” she said.Rescue workers recovered seven other bodies including six from Reni village near the Rishi Ganga hydel power project, which was the first one to be hit by the flash floods in Sunday’s disaster. One body was recovered from the Alaknanda river in Rudraprayag.Uttarakhand: ITBP constructs bridge to connect villages cut off in disasterNilesh Anand Bharne, deputy inspector general of police(law & order), said that out of the 50 bodies recovered so far, 25 have been identified.Read more: Uttarakhand: Man vandalised Shiv lingam as he was ‘not cured of ailment despite praying’“Of the 50 bodies, 41 were recovered from Chamoli district, seven from Rudraprayag and one each from Tehri Garhwal and Pauri Garhwal districts,” said Bharne.“Apart from the bodies, the rescue workers also recovered 23 human body parts. DNA samples of all the body parts and dead bodies have been collected to ascertain their identities.”The police officer said rescue workers have so far “cremated 32 bodies and 11 human body parts with complete rituals and respect. The rescue agencies have also videographed and photographed the jewellery, tattoo and other identity marks of the bodies found.”“The rescue workers are working tirelessly to recover the remaining bodies. The family members can contact helpline numbers- 01372-251487 and 9084127503 for any queries or help,” said Bharne.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-floods-12-bodies-found-no-trace-of-154-people-still-101613334685230.html
15-02-2021||India||0.25% health workers fully vaccinated: Govt||India has fully vaccinated 0.25% of its nearly one million health care workers against Covid-19, shows latest data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare released on Sunday.An estimated 92,61,227 health care workers were identified by the government to be vaccinated against Covid-19 under the national immunisation drive on priority, of which 23,628 have completed the two-dose regimen as per the provisional data available till Sunday morning.Among those health care workers who were vaccinated on January 16, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the Covid-19 vaccination drive across the country, and were eligible to receive the second dose on Saturday, at least 10% have been fully vaccinated so far.A total of 2,24,301 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Day 1 of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive, of which 23,628 were vaccinated on Saturday as government began administering the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccines approved for use in India. “We expect the numbers to pick pace once the weekend gets over. There is a window of 4 to 8 weeks for giving the second dose but sooner the dose is taken the better it is,” said Dr NK Arora, National Task Force on Covid-19 related initiatives.The national drugs regulator, Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has permitted two Covid-19 vaccines for use in India, and both the vaccines have a two-dose regimen.“The neutralising antibodies against the virus start developing at least two weeks aftertaking the second shot. It is proven beyond any doubt that vaccination imparts protection against Covid-19, and is the only way to achieve vaccine derived herd immunity against the disease,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonology and sleep medicine department, New Delhi’s AIIMS.“By April-May there are likely to be more Covid-19 vaccines manufactured in India, which will further boost the pace of vaccination. It will also help build vaccine confidence,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, public health expert, and, founder, Public Health Foundation of India.Meanwhile, India, for now, is not looking at reviewing the gap between the two vaccine doses of SII’s Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine.“The change in interval is not yet warranted,” said Dr Samiran Panda, head of epidemiology and communicable diseases division at the Indian Council of Medical Research.Dr Panda is also one of the members of the national task force on Covid-19 related matters.In all, 8.2 million beneficiaries have been vaccinated against Covid-19 in the country so far, the health ministry in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/025-health-workers-fully-vaccinated-govt-101613332844910.html
15-02-2021||India||Is compensation enough for man-made disasters?||A few days ago, farming and fishing communities in Nigeria were allowed to sue the Dutch company, Shell, in England. Their livelihoods, health and the ecosystem have been ruined by repeated oil spills. They didn’t expect much from the Nigerian courts. This news took my mind to communities around the Indian Oil owned Bhagjan oil well.On May 27th last year, following a leak, a terrifying blowout all but annihilated the area. Images of giant flames and intense smoke haunted India. The carcass of an endangered Gangetic Dolphin floated, skin peeled off. Thousands of locals fled, assets lost. Next door, two of the world’s most precious biodiversity hotspots reeled.The Dibru-Saikhowa biosphere reserve, home to birds found nowhere else, and Manguri Bheel, a unique wetland. Oil even reached the Lohit River. Compensation is in place, but one might ask if a one-time payment adequate. Is compensation a holistic, fair way to handle this blot on the planet?I think not. Indian Oil must obviously pay significant cash compensation to displaced communities. It must invest in impactful local livelihoods and education. Clean-ups are imperfect, but they must start.That’s not enough. Indian Oil must pay for unprotected land in a similar ecosystem in Assam, and nurture it with intense external monitoring. Our government should set in place a technically able team to monitor environmental and occupational safety in the extraction and manufacturing sector per se, reporting back to Parliament. Companies should deposit compensatory funds before they work. Nothing less is acceptable.(The writer is founder and director Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-compensation-enough-for-man-made-disasters-101613332532912.html
15-02-2021||India||Employee compensations likely to be tweaked as govt eyes new labour codes||The labour ministry has finalised rules under the four labour codes, or laws, and is likely to notify them to take effect from April. The country’s most wide-ranging labour reforms in decades will have an impact on both employers’ outgo and employees’ take-home salaries.Once implemented, the codes will prompt companies to restructure employee compensation packages or “cost to company” (CTC). Firms have will have to restructure salaries because, under the new rules, all allowances, such as leave travel, house rent, overtime and conveyance, have to be capped at 50% of the CTC. The Code on Wages 2019 has revised the definition of ‘wages’ which will now include three components: basic pay, (inflation-linked) dearness allowance and retention payment.According to the new definition, “wage” will exclude statutory bonus, pension and PF contribution, conveyance allowance, HRA, overtime and gratuity. If any of these exclusions, in aggregate, are in excess of 50% of an employee’s CTC , barring special allowance, the excess amount will be added back to the wage for calculation of social security benefits.Read more: Labour ministry finalises rules under 4 codes, reform to be a reality soonA wider definition of basic pay will likely increase social security contribution because firms compute their social security contribution on the basis of how wages are defined. This could however result in lesser net take-home for employees, analysts say. Since basic pay could be higher because monetary allowances will be capped at 50% of CTC, companies may have to incur increased costs towards provident fund and gratuity,. Employers in the private sector generally either contribute 12% of an employee’s basic salary and dearness allowance to the provident fund.During consultations between the labour ministry, various stakeholders expressed concern over the possible impact of the new definition of wages on a company’s outgo. “However, there will be no change in the definition of wages,” a labour ministry official said.Parliament has passed four labour codes one each on wages, industrial relations, occupational safety health and working conditions and social security, bringing changes to a large number of labour laws, some dating back to the pre-Independence era. The changes have simplified, rationalised and amalgamated 29 central labour laws into four codes.Read more: Centre’s new labour codes to allow 4-day work per weekThe rules are likely to clarify how gratuity is to be calculated. Gratuity is calculated on the last drawn salary of a worker. It is computed by taking into account 15 days’ of their salary for every year worked in the preceding five years. Employees receive gratuity on completion of five years of continuous service. However, under the new changes, even fixed-term contract workers completing a year of service will get gratuity,The official cited above said the new rules may allow gratuity to be calculated in two phases to limit outgo of companies. Gratuity earned till the time of the new law comes into effect is likely to be calculated on the basis of the older definition of wages. From the next fiscal onwards, gratuity will be calculated based on the new definition. “This is being called a grandfather clause and, if introduced, it will limit costs to firms and their financial burden. However, the new changes would impact statutory payouts as they are linked to how wages are defined,” said Sanjay Saran, the CEO of GoHire Pvt Ltd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ctcs-likely-to-be-tweaked-as-govt-eyes-new-labour-codes-101613332289666.html
15-02-2021||India||Farmers, Hindutva, businesses: The trinity of political economy||On January 27, farm leader Rakesh Tikait’s emotional appeal provided a fresh momentum to the farm protests, with Jats joining in large numbers. The Centre, fearing another January 26-like violent episode, responded with heavy police presence and barricades, and shutting down the internet in Delhi’s adjoining areas. These images added to the perception of State coercion, which led to global criticism, symbolised by the artiste Rihanna’s tweet. This, in turn, triggered a government response.But beyond these immediate responses, there is a deeper story of a shift in India’s political economy.Let us start with a simple question. Why did Tikait’s appeal, when faced with police attempts to vacate the protest site, go viral? Clearly, Jats perceived Tikait’s possible arrest or persecution as the State coming down on the legacy of his father, Mahendra Singh Tikait — a legendary farm leader, whose struggle earned him the status of a demigod in his community. When Rakesh Tikait was seen as facing the State’s might while fighting for a cause which his father championed, the community responded overwhelmingly.Read more: 'So much truth': Mahatma Gandhi's granddaughter lends support to protesting farmersRemember, the same Jat peasantry consolidated behind the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after the Muzafffarnagar riots of 2013. Even before the riots, Jat khap panchayats had gained notoriety for persecuting marriages in violation of what the community considered acceptable. Progressives who are, today, celebrating khap panchayats condemning farm laws used to describe them as medieval institutions back then. The BJP, having used the same khap institutions for its Hindutva project, is, now, in the unenviable position of discrediting them and inviting more backlash.But this does not necessarily mean that the dominant value system among Jats has undergone a shift. What is more likely is a shift in the dominant political contradiction. Jats may have been alarmed about the real or perceived clout of Muslims with a Samajwadi Party government in Uttar Pradesh. That is not the case anymore. Political friendships change with political equations. It is to be seen whether anti-BJP parties can exploit what seems to be the muting of Hindutva as the primary contradiction among a dominant peasant community such as the Jats. When clubbed with the discontent among other dominant peasant communities such as Patidars and Marathas, this can be a potential political game changer. But this is not inevitable. If the BJP continues to consolidate non-dominant communities, who have an antagonistic social relation with the dominant peasant groups, such attempts will fail. So the electoral implication of the current shift will hinge on how successfully the Opposition is able to manage the conflict between the landed and non-landed sections of the peasantry.Read more: Bengaluru activist Disha Ravi held in Greta Thunberg's protest toolkit caseLet us now come to the question of international liberal anguish over the protests. While the outpouring seems to be driven by State’s high-handed response, do remember that the origins of these protests are economic in nature as against the primarily identity-based discontent triggered by the Citizenship (Amendment) Act.Interestingly, the Indian State is acting in keeping with the economic orthodoxy, championed by capitalist countries of the West, in pushing for the farm laws. World Trade Organisation (WTO) rules prohibit India from expanding the scope or coverage of the minimum support price (MSP) system, a key demand of the farmers. While it is unfair to raise this question to celebrities, is liberal opinion in the West willing to support the material demands of Indian farmers, which go against the interests of what continues to be heavily subsidised export-oriented agriculture in advanced countries?This contradiction does not limit itself to agriculture. Both international and domestic capital would like to see greater deregulation in India. However, each such attempt is likely to trigger deeper domestic unrest. This happened during the push to allow greater room for land acquisition. Farm protests are driven by fears that big business will abuse its dominant position in the farm-economy. Privatisation of government banks and insurance companies, where trade unions still have some clout, is not likely to be smooth either.Watch: Mahatma Gandhi's granddaughter visits farmers' protest site in GhazipurEconomic reforms are not new. But, 30 years after the 1991 transition, what has changed? The Marxist perspective of character of the Indian bourgeoisie offers clues. After Independence, there was a broad consensus between the political and economic elite about a State-led growth strategy. Big business was willing to cede leadership to the State because it lacked access to capital and could not surmount the challenges of technology and competition from foreign producers.As the economy grew, at least a section of big capital in India gained the ability to compete. Their opposition to reforms dipped. To be sure, there have been attempts to tailor reforms, especially regarding allowing foreign competitors, to suit strategic needs of big business groups. But the big picture is of a new consensus between the State and big domestic capital to pursue reforms.The basic contradiction around reforms, in a way, has shifted from one between domestic and foreign capital to one between the organised and unorganised sector, where the former is interested in usurping a larger part of the surplus which is generated in the latter. Marxists describe this as the process of primitive capitalist accumulation. This process is likely to add to overall growth. However, it is also likely to leave a majority of stakeholders in the unorganised sector with less than what they were getting in the pre-reform phase.The BJP has attempted to politically neutralise any discontent from this distress with the implementation of various welfare schemes. While such programmes can attract the poorest of the poor, they are unlikely to pacify the more dominant elements in the unorganised sector. Although insignificant when compared to India’s big business, the economic standing of this class makes them less susceptible to such welfare inducements.Watch: 'On farmers’ protest, Canadian PM Justin Trudeau commended India's efforts': MEAThis class has, so far, suffered indirectly due to economic reforms. But it has not had reasons to directly confront them. The 1991 reforms, which altered the relationship between domestic capital, foreign capital and the State, have been called “reforms by stealth” — but worked because of their relatively limited scope. Those affected by reforms are a much larger pool now, and stealth isn’t an option. That the protests against the farm laws have erupted at a time when the non-farm economy has contracted and farming has emerged as a sort of employer of last resort might only have added to the sense of siege.All these developments mark the beginning of an impossible trinity for both sides in India’s political economy.The BJP can keep dominant peasant communities happy by focusing on Hindutva, but that is unlikely to help it in winning support from big business. The ideological commitment to belief in big-business led growth aside, the latter is crucial for the centralised political finance model that the BJP has institutionalised. And attempts to keep pushing Hindutva and reform are likely to ferment civic unrest, which is likely to draw international ire.For the BJP’s opponents, attempts to push social reform or radical secularism are likely to alienate the dominant Hindu social elite. Completely abandoning these principles is likely to push minorities towards their own political formations. Taking an outright hostile position against economic reforms will have costs — especially for the Congress, which too, has been historically dependent on big business funding. And not taking a critical position will lose it the support of the emerging constituencies of discontent.Indian politics is likely to be determined by how well both political camps handle these impossible trinities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-hindutva-businesses-the-trinity-of-political-economy-101613331779484.html
15-02-2021||India||Orders that set the bar: How Allahabad HC stood for civil rights||On Monday, January 25, the Supreme Court reminded the Uttar Pradesh government that a high court is also a constitutional court and cannot be taken lightly. The observation by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde followed a raft of significant judgments and orders delivered by the Allahabad high court when people knocked on its doors for having their fundamental rights protected.The Allahabad high court has risen to the occasion each time, reaffirming the importance of the rights to privacy and autonomy while safeguarding civil liberties. It has set an example of how a constitutional court must act when justice delivery is an imminent necessity and not a luxury that can wait. Amid a challenging political and social atmosphere in Uttar Pradesh, the Allahabad HC has stood tall. Here are some instances in corroboration of how the high court took a stand:Anti-CAA protesters’ posters/bannersThe HC had in March 2020 taken strong exception to banners being put up by the state government to recover damages from those allegedly involved in the destruction of public property during protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act,or CAA, in Lucknow. The court came down heavily on the “name and shame” policy of the government and called it “undemocratic” besides an infringement of the right to privacy.“In the present case, the cause is not about personal injury caused to the persons whose personal details are given in the banner but the injury caused to the precious constitutional value and its shameless depiction by the administration. The cause as such is undemocratic functioning of government agencies which are supposed to treat all members of the public with respect and courtesy and at all times should behave in a manner that upholds constitutional and democratic values,” a strongly worded HC order read.Calling the state government’s move an “absolute encroachment on personal liberty,” the HC ordered the UP government to immediately remove the hoardings and submit a compliance report to the court.Dr Kafeel Khan’s detention under the NSASix months after he was being on one charge or another, it was in September 2020 when Kafeel Khan got off the hook with the high court quashing his detention under the National Security Act. The HC ordered his immediate release, saying the UP government had done a “selective reading” of his allegedly anti-CAA speech at the Aligarh Muslim University. It emphasised that the medical doctor had called for national integrity and not incited violence while also noting there were no grounds to impose the NSA on him and extend his detention.“A complete reading of the speech prima facie does not disclose any effort to promote hatred or violence. It also nowhere threatens peace and tranquillity of the city of Aligarh. The address gives a call for national integrity and unity among the citizens. The speech also deprecates any kind of violence. It appears that the district magistrate had selective reading and selective mention for few phrases from the speech ignoring its true intent,” stated the HC order.Khan has been a vocal critic of the Bharatiya Janata Party governments at the Centre and in UP.Expresses concern over misuse of slaughter lawIn October, the high court had expressed concerns over the misuse of the Uttar Pradesh Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act, 1955 to target innocent persons and lack of forensic evidence to prove that recovered meat was beef.While granting bail to Rahmuddin, a person who had been booked for cow slaughter, the HC said: “The Act is being misused against innocent persons. Whenever any meat is recovered, it is normally shown as cow meat (beef) without getting it examined or analysed by the forensic laboratory. In most of the cases, meat is not sent for analysis. Accused persons continue to remain in jail for an offence that may not have been committed at all.”It observed that there was a need to take care of old or non-milking cows which are abandoned by owners if the law against the slaughter of cows is to be implemented in letter and spirit.Right to choose life partner a fundamental rightDays before the UP government notified the anti-conversion ordinance amidst a clamour against so-called love jihad, the high court delivered a landmark verdict on the sanctity of inter-faith marriages in November 2020.“Right to live with a person of his/her choice irrespective of religion professed by them is intrinsic to right to life and personal liberty,” said the court, adding interference in a personal relationship would constitute a serious encroachment into the right to freedom of choice of the two individuals.“To disregard the choice of a person who is of the age of majority would not only be antithetic to the freedom of choice of a grown up individual but would also be a threat to the concept of unity in diversity,” said the HC, as it quashed an FIR lodged by a man against his daughter’s husband, whom she married after conversion to Islam.The court also observed that its two previous rulings against marriages performed after alleged conversions were not good in law since they failed to take into account the rights of liberty, equality and privacy.Women have right to live on own termsBy a judgment in December, the Allahabad high court reunited a Hindu woman with her Muslim husband, underlining that “she has a choice to live her life on her own terms”. The court decided a habeas corpus plea filed by the man, who complained his wife had been sent to her parents against her wishes by the Nari Niketan or Child Welfare Committee (CWC).“As the corpus (woman) has attained the age of majority and she has a choice to live her life on her own terms and she has expressed that she wants to live with her husband, she is free to move as per her own choice without any restriction or hindrance being created by third party,” held the court in its judgment. The court also quashed an FIR registered against the man for allegedly abducting the woman.Abuse of power in Tablighi Jamaat caseThe high court was critical of the invocation of Section 307 (attempt to murder) under the Indian Penal Code against a person from Mau who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Delhi’s Nizamuddin in March 2020.“From a perusal of the material, charge sheeting the applicant under Section 307 IPC prima facie reflects abuse of the power of law,” said the HC as it stayed the criminal proceedings against the man concerned.The court also directed the police officers to file personal affidavits to justify invoking Section 307 from the facts of the case.Govt drops anti-conversion charge after HC protectionIn December, the high court restrained the state government from arresting a 32-year-old Muslim man from Muzaffarnagar district -- one of the first to be charged under UP’s controversial anti-conversion law. The man was charged with having an affair with the wife of a Hindu man. The court had then said: “Victim is admittedly an adult who understands her well-being. She, as well as the petitioner, have a fundamental right to privacy and being grown-up adults who are aware of the consequences of their alleged relationship.”Later, in January, the state government told the high court that the police had dropped charges against him since no evidence was found during investigation. “During investigation no evidence was found that the accused Nadeem was having any illicit relation with the woman.Further, during investigation, no evidence was found in support of the allegation that Nadeem was trying for her religious conversion as alleged by the complainant,” its affidavit stated.Notice before interfaith marriages not mandatoryDelivering yet another progressive ruling earlier this month, the high court ruled that the publication of a notice of intended marriage under the Special Marriage Act (SMA) and inviting objections was not mandatory. The court said that any additional burden in law on a couple only on account of having an inter-faith marriage would be a violation of their right to equality, dignity and privacy.Interpreting the SMA in the backdrop of the recent Supreme Court judgments on privacy and liberty, the HC said that it shall be optional for the parties to the intended marriage to make a request in writing to the marriage officer to publish or not to publish a notice for inviting objections from the public at large.“Making such publication mandatory would invade in the fundamental rights of liberty and privacy. It would also affect the couple’s freedom to choose marriage without interference from state and non-state actors”, held the HC.Anti-conversion ordinance scrutinyThe high court has shown its resolve to examine the constitutionality of the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, despite repeated attempts by the state government to take away the issue from its jurisdiction. Responding to a bunch of petitions, the state government’s additional advocate general had first requested the HC not to examine the law because similar petitions were pending before the Supreme Court. But to no avail. The HC not only shot down a plea for adjournment, but it also asked the government to file its affidavit in response to the petitions in order to bring its stand on record. The UP government had to then submit its affidavit.Getting no relief from the HC, the state government took recourse to the Supreme Court and filed a transfer petition. It requested the top court to stop the HC from scrutinising the ordinance.But this endeavour also failed. On Monday, the top court declined to entertain its transfer petition and directed the state to go before the HC on February 6 when the case will be heard next.While it is yet to rule on the constitutional validity of the controversial ordinance against forced conversion, the Allahabad high court, by frequently stepping in to underscore the significance of fundamental rights, has undoubtedly been able to generate a sense of confidence about due legal process culminating in a justice-oriented decision||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orders-that-set-the-bar-how-allahabad-hc-stood-for-civil-rights-101613330605965.html
15-02-2021||India||JMM preps for polls in neighbouring Bengal, wants to contest 25 to 30 seats||With poll dates for the assembly election in West Bengal likely to be announced soon, the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) has stepped up preparations to field candidates in the neighbouring state.On Sunday, the West Bengal state committee of the regional party of Jharkhand met at Sildah to chalk out poll strategies. West Bengal assembly poll in-charge of JMM Supriyo Bhattacharya and general secretary Bittu Murmu along with party legislators from Jharkhand Ramdas Soren, Sabita Mahto and Samir Mahanty attended the meeting.This was the first state committee meeting after JMM working president Hemant Soren launched the party’s poll campaign from Jhargram on January 28.The JMM is eyeing to contest 25 to 30 seats in Bengal. On Sunday, the state committee chipped in for about 40 seats, said Pradesh committee general secretary Bittu Murmu. He did not disclose the seats identified, however. The JMM had contested 22 assembly seats in the 2016 state polls in West Bengal.He said the party leaders discussed local issues. The top priority of contesting the assembly polls is to stop the wheels of the BJP juggernaut that is on a roll, he said.Sharing details, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said directives were given to form booth committees and fringe organizations having local appeal. The party is also keen on roping in former MLA Chunibala Hansdah's daughter Birbaha Hansdah and to field her as party candidate from Binpur assembly seat.The JMM, however, was silent on any alliance. “Till date there is has not been any talk of an alliance,” said Murmu. Bhattacharya however said, “Talks are on with some political parties, we will disclose it after the poll notification.”The JMM has put on hold the announcement regarding the proposed rally in Raghunathpur in Purulia district. Hemant Soren is likely to attend the rally.According to JMM leaders, the party is yet to finalize the dates in view of the forthcoming budget session of Jharkhand assembly beginning February 26. It would be announced next week, they said. The JMM is also planning to hold rallies in Jalpaiguri, Siliguri and Alipurduar in north Bengal, apart from Birbhum, Bankura and Medinipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jmm-preps-for-polls-in-neighbouring-bengal-wants-to-contest-25-to-30-seats-101613327234479.html
15-02-2021||India||LPG price hiked by ₹50 per cylinder in Delhi, to cost ₹769 from today||The price of liquefied petroleum gas domestic cylinder in Delhi was raised by ₹50 per unit on Sunday, the third increase in LPG rates since December last year.The new price of ₹769 per 14.2 kg LPG cylinder will be applicable in the national capital from 12am tomorrow.On December 1, 2020, the price was hiked by a similar ₹50 per cylinder, followed by a hike of ₹50 again on December 16 due to firming of international prices.The price of non-subsidised LPG cylinder was increased to ₹694 per 14.2-kg cylinder from ₹644 earlier, according to a price notification of state fuel marketing companies.Prior to that, the price had remained unchanged at ₹594 a cylinder since July. This was the same rate at which subsidised LPG refills are also sold.Since May last year, most cooking gas customers have not received subsidies as the combination of international oil price collapse and domestic refill rate increases brought parity between subsidised and market rates.The price of LPG gas cylinders is determined by state-run oil companies and is revised on a monthly basis. Depending on international fuel rates and US dollar-rupee exchange rates, the prices can go up or down.The rise in price of LPG comes at a time when petrol and diesel prices in India have touched an all-time high.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lpg-price-hiked-by-rs-50-per-cylinder-in-delhi-to-cost-rs-769-from-tomorrow-101613315450328.html
15-02-2021||India||PM Modi inaugurates key projects in Chennai ahead of assembly polls||On his first visit to Chennai, after the BJP formalised its alliance with the ruling AIADMK in poll-bound Tamil Nadu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday inaugurated a slew of infrastructure projects, while his speech bore elements of a mass outreach.At Chennai’s Jawaharlal Nehru stadium, Modi quoted Tamil philosopher Subramanian Bharati to recall the Pulwama attack that happened two years ago. “Inspired by his (Bharati’s) vision, India has undertaken a massive effort to become self-reliant in the defence sector,” said Modi after handing over the indigenous battle tank Arjun Mark 1A to the Indian army. “A tank made in Tamil Nadu will be used on our northern borders to keep the nation safe. This showcases India's united spirit – Bharat's Ekta Darshan.”Modi’s speech stressed on Atma Nirbhar—self-reliance in the defence and infrastructure sector and of provisions in the Union Budget for Tamil Nadu-- ₹63,000 crore set aside for phase-2 of Chennai's metro. It is “one of the largest projects sanctioned for any city in one-go,” the Prime Minister said.He appreciated the state’s farmers “for record food grain production and good use of water resources” quoting Tamil poet Avvaiyar on water conservation which he said is a global issue. Modi's speech highlighted the Centre's schemes that have benefitted Tamil Nadu and outlined the BJP's poll plank in the southern state where it has a meagre presence. Modi often quotes Tamil philosophers and poets on public platforms which is the saffron party's defence against criticism that it is a ‘north Indian party’. In January, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had attacked Modi, BJP and the RSS claiming that they were disrespecting Tamil people.Modi announced that the Centre has accepted the demand of the Devendrakula Velalar community that they should be known by their heritage name, a day after a bill to modify the list of Scheduled Castes in Tamil Nadu was introduced in the Lok Sabha on Saturday. The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order (Amendment) Bill 2021 as proposed by the state government would group together seven castes to be known as Devendrakula Velalar which exist separately presently. “I can never forget my meeting with representatives of the Devendrars in 2015 in Delhi,” Modi said.“Colonial rulers took away their pride and dignity... They told me- they pleaded and pleaded to Governments but nothing changed. I told them one thing. I said that their name Devender rhymes with my own name- Narendra. I understand their emotions. This decision is more than a change of name. It is about justice, dignity and opportunity.”Speaking on the longstanding problems faced by fishermen in the high seas, Modi said that during his tenure more than 1600 fishermen were released after being apprehended by Sri Lanka. “Currently, there is no Indian fisherman in Sri Lankan custody.”He announced that the Jaffna Cultural Centre built by India would open soon. “The issue of Tamil rights has also been taken up by us consistently with Sri Lankan leaders,” Modi said. “Our Government has always taken care of the welfare and aspirations of our Tamil brothers and sisters in Sri Lanka. It is my honour to have been the only Indian PM to visit Jaffna,” he said listing development work for the minority Tamils living in the island nation.The Prime Minister inaugurated a 9.05 km Chennai Metro Rail Phase-I extension, completed at a cost of Rs. 3770 crore. Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) announced that passengers could travel free along this line after the inauguration until 11am on February 14. Modi also unveiled railway electrification of single line section of 228 km several districts completed at a cost of ₹423 crore which is expected to save Rs.14.61 lakh per day on fuel cost and a fourth Railway line between Chennai Beach and Attipattu laid for ₹293.4 crore.He also laid the foundation stone for two projects-- the renovation of the Grand Anicut Canal System crucial for irrigation in the delta districts to be taken up at ₹2,640 crore and a Discovery Campus to come up at IIT Madras for ₹1000 crore in the first phase. “These projects are symbols of innovation and indigenous development. These projects will further the growth of Tamil Nadu,” Modi said.Modi was flanked by Governor Banwarilal Purohit, chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami, deputy chief minister O Paneerselvam at the event which was attended by leaders of their alliance partners and the public. Palaniswami and Paneerselvam spoke of the cooperative federal structure between the AIADMK-led state and BJP-led central government.After reaching the Chennai airport, Modi had taken a chopper and a convoy by road to reach the venue where he was welcomed by AIADMK and BJP cadre. Modi caught an aerial glimpse of the on-going test match between India and England in the city’s MA Chidambaram stadium- a picture of which he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-key-projects-in-chennai-ahead-of-assembly-polls-101613308377086.html
15-02-2021||India||Ex-CJI Ranjan Gogoi’s remarks on judicial system worrisome: Sharad Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday said that Rajya Sabha MP and former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi’s statement on the judicial system was shocking and has become a cause of worry for everyone.Barely a week after Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded the judiciary for safeguarding peoples’ rights and personal liberty, Gogoi criticized the judicial system saying that the judiciary in India is in a “ramshackled” state.“Last week I read that the country's judicial system is the best. The statement was made by the Prime Minister in a meeting with Supreme Court judges. Obviously, we all felt happy about it but the remarks of Gogoi who is also the former CJI and was nominated by the central government in the Parliament, are shocking. I don’t know if, in a way, he (Gogoi) tried to bring out the truth but it is certainly a matter of concern for all,” Pawar told reporters in Pune.On Thursday, the former CJI was quoted as saying that if one goes to Indian courts they have to wait endlessly for a verdict. “How important the judiciary is as a constitutional body need not be emphasized. You want a 5 trillion-dollar economy, but your judiciary is ramshackled,” Gogoi said at a conclave organized by India Today.Earlier this month, addressing an event to mark the golden jubilee of Gujarat High Court, Prime Minister Modi had said that the country’s Supreme Court has become number one in the world in conducting hearings through video-conferencing. He has also said that the judiciary has always interpreted the Constitution positively to strengthen it further. It always performed its duty, be it safeguarding the rights of people of the country or when a situation arose when national interest or when any situation arose where national interest needed to be prioritised, he said.Gogoi was nominated on March 16 last year by President Ram Nath Kovind, four months after his retirement in November 2019. He is the first former CJI to become a nominated member of the Rajya Sabha.His most significant judgment was in the Ram Janmabhoomi case, where he led a bench which granted the disputed land in Ayodhya to the Hindu parties, paving the way for the construction of the Ram Temple, a key political agenda of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/excji-ranjan-gogoi-s-remarks-on-judicial-system-is-worrisome-sharad-pawar-101613300027949.html
15-02-2021||India||‘Come what may, CAA won’t happen’: Rahul kicks off Assam poll campaign||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the party will not allow implementation of Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) at any cost and will work to protect Assam’s interests if the party returns to power in the poll-bound state.Addressing a rally at Boarding Field in Sivasagar, he said the legislation, which seeks to grant Indian citizenship to religious minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan, was a ploy by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to divide the people.“We are wearing a ‘gamocha’ (traditional Assamese towel) today where letters CAA have been written and marked with a cross. It signifies that come what may, CAA won’t happen. Illegal immigration is an issue, but Assam’s people have the capability to resolve this problem together with talks,” Gandhi said.There’s fear among a large section in Assam that if CAA is implemented it would lead to large scale influx of people from Bangladesh. Violent protests against the legislation in the state in December 2019 claimed five lives.Stressing that Congress will uphold and defend the Assam Accord (signed in 1985 after a six-year agitation against illegal immigrants from Bangladesh), Gandhi said the BJP was trying to do away with the accord, divide the state and implement CAA.Accusing the ruling BJP-led government in the state of exploiting the tea garden workers and giving benefit to businessmen from Gujarat, Gandhi promised that if the Congress comes to power in the state it will increase the daily wage of tea workers from present ₹167 to ₹365.“A mere ₹167 to tea workers and tea gardens to Gujarat businessmen. That’s why BJP wants to divide the state so that its resources can be stolen and given to others,” he said.Gandhi recalled how he learned a lot about Assam’s diverse communities, languages and cultures from former chief minister Tarun Gogoi (who died last November) during his visits to the state.“The BJP government at Centre has hurt the people of Assam by putting Gogoi who gave his entire life for the state in the same category of Padma awardees list with a bureaucrat who had served the Prime Minister Modi’s office. This was not a right thing,”Gogoi was named as a recipient of Padma Bhushan, the third highest civilian honour in the country, this year. Retired bureaucrat Nripendra Mishra who served as a principal secretary to the Prime Minister between 2014 and 2019 was also given the same honour.Gandhi continued with his recent jibe, ‘Hum do, Hamare Do’ (We two, Our two) and said that the country was being run by four people at present. Without taking names he added that like in the Centre, two persons were controlling everything in Assam.“We are a people’s party. If we come to power, the hatred being spread by BJP will disappear. We will take every section of the people irrespective of their caste, religion, language and status along with us and will create jobs for youths of Assam,” he said.“Remote control might be good for a television, but not when it comes to running a state like Assam. The present chief minister is remote controlled from Nagpur and Delhi and takes orders from there. That’s why we want to remove this government,” Gandhi added.Chattisgarh Chief Minister and party observer for Assam Bhupesh Baghel, party’s state in-charge Jitendra Singh, Lok Sabha MPs Gaurav Gogoi, Pradyut Bordoloi and Abdul Khaleque, party state president Ripun Bora and other senior leaders attended the rally.Gandhi’s rally comes three weeks after Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed a rally at Jerenga Pathar in Sivasagar district on January 23 and distributed land allotment certificates to 106,000 landless families.Jerenga Pathar, a historic site where Joymoti, an Ahom princess, sacrificed her life in 17th century to protect the life of her husband Prince Godapani, who went on to become a king of the Ahom dynasty.The site of Gandhi’s rally, Boarding Field, is in the middle of Sivasagar town and close to heritage structures of the Ahom dynasty, which ruled Assam for six centuries from the 13th to the 19th. Earlier called Rangpur, Sivasagar was one the one of the capitals of the dynasty.The Congress, which ruled the state for three consecutive terms between 2001 and 2016 with Tarun Gogoi at the helm, is aiming to overthrow the BJP-led ruling coalition with an alliance stitched with five other parties.The All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), which has 14 MLAs in the 126-member assembly, newly formed Anchalik Gana Morcha (AGM) and three Left parties (CPI, CPI-M and CPI-ML) are part of the alliance.Besides losing power, Congress, which won 26 seats in 2016, has also witnessed several setbacks in recent months due to deaths, by-poll losses and defection.Former chief minister Tarun Gogoi died in November, two sitting MLAs of the party quit and joined BJP in December and last month another lawmaker passed away taking the party’s strength down to 19.In their rallies in Assam in recent weeks, both PM Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah have targeted the Congress accusing it of failing to bring peace and prosperity to Assam despite ruling the state for decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-allow-caa-implementation-at-any-cost-rahul-gandhi-tells-voters-in-assam-101613296997901.html
15-02-2021||India||On second anniversary of Pulwama attack, JK police recover 7 kg IED in Jammu||On the second anniversary of Pulwama terror attack, a seven kg improvised explosive device (IED) was recovered near the Jammu Bus Stand on Sunday, s senior police official said.The IED was recovered from KC Chowk adjacent to the Jammu Bus Stand. The police official who did not wish to be named said that a militant identified as Suhail Bashir of Al-Badr outfit, was also arrested from the bus stand area. Suhail hails from Pulwama.The timely detection of the IED averted a possible tragedy because the bus stand normally remains crowded. The device was detected acting on specific information, the official said.The IED recovery comes close on the heels of the arrest of two top terrorists from Kunjwani in Jammu and Bari Brahmana area of Samba districts. But it also exposed chinks in the security grid.Zahoor Ahmad Rather, a top terrorist affiliated with The Resistance Front (TRF) who was wanted in connection with the killing of three BJP workers and a policeman in south Kashmir last year, was arrested in Bari Brahmana area of Samba on Saturday.Earlier on February 6, self-styled commander of the Lashkar-e-Mustafa (LeM), Hidayatullah Malik, alias "Hasnain", was held from the Kunjwani area of Jammu."Obviously there are now attempts by Pakistan and various terror outfits to create disturbance in Jammu region", the police officer said.Jammu and Kashmir’s Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said a commander of Lashkar-e-Mustafa, which is a front of the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) was recently arrested in Jammu's Kunjwani."He revealed that several hideouts have been stationed in Jammu to spread militancy. They receive weapons from Pakistan, send them to Kashmir and other areas", said the DGP.Two years ago on this day, a JeM suicide bomber rammed an explosive-laden car into a CRPF convoy in Pulwama, killing 40 troopers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-second-anniversary-of-pulwama-attack-jk-police-recover-7-kg-ied-in-jammu-101613295623225.html
15-02-2021||India||Arunachal honours Major Ralengnao Khathing who brought Tawang under Indian rule||Seventy years after he brought Tawang under Indian rule by reaching the area located near McMahon Line and unfurling the tricolour there, Arunachal Pradesh government on Sunday honoured Major Ralengnao Khathing with a memorial.Arunachal Pradesh Governor Brig (Retd.) BD Mishra laid the foundation stone of the memorial at Tawang, coinciding with the day Khathing is believed to have hoisted the Indian flag in Tawang in 1951. The state government also awarded Arunachal Ratna award to Khathing.Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu, Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma, Union minister of state for sports and youth affairs Kiren Rijiju, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and family members of Khathing were present on the occasion.“Arunachal is elated to honour its true hero Major Ralengnao ‘Bob’ Khathing with Arunachal Ratna, the highest civilian honour of the state,” chief minister Pema Khandu tweeted after the event.Khathing, who was more popular as Bob, is relatively an unknown figure for most of India and even parts of Arunachal Pradesh. But people in Tawang still remember him with respect for establishing Indian control over the area when the threat of China loomed.“Not many of us are aware of Major Khathing and his contribution to Arunachal Pradesh. Once the memorial is constructed, visitors will come to know about him and his contributions,” Khandu had said last month while announcing the plan to honour the hero with a memorial.The memorial will highlight Khathing’s life and will also showcase traditions of the local Monpa tribe.Born at Ukhrul in Manipur in 1912, Khathing had served in the British Army in the Second World War. He was awarded the Military Cross and received the Member of British Empire (MBE) as well.After Independence, he was appointed as an assistant political officer in November 1950 in Tirap division and was posted in Pasighat in Arunachal Pradesh (known earlier as North East Frontier Agency-NEFA).It is believed that he started an arduous journey on foot from Charduar on January 17, 1951 with a team of soldiers from 5 Assam Rifles, traversing difficult and inhospitable terrain to reach Tawang on February 6.Also Read: China ramping up military infra in Tibet, Xinjiang for LAC operations“To establish Indian presence up to the extent of the McMahon Line, which was demarcated as the border between India and Tibet in 1914, under the terms of the Shimla Treaty, required covering the area by foot over very difficult terrain,” an Arunachal Pradesh government release said last month.“Khathing and his troops of 5 Assam Rifles successfully accomplished this. He then met and interacted with a number of ‘gaonburhas’ (village headmen) and quickly and effectively established authority over Tawang. Indian administrative presence was thus established in this remote part of the country,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arunachal-honours-major-ralengnao-khathing-who-brought-tawang-under-indian-rule-101613283503359.html
15-02-2021||India||Omar says he and family put under house arrest||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and National Conference vice president, Omar Abdullah on Sunday morning claimed that the government has put him and his father Farooq Abdullah under house arrest without any reason and termed this as "new J&K.""This is the “naya/new J&K” after Aug 2019. We get locked up in our homes with no explanation. It’s bad enough they’ve locked my father (a sitting MP) & me in our home, they’ve locked my sister & her kids in their home as well," Omar Abdullah tweeted while posting a picture of a bullet proof bunker vehicle placed outside his house.Terming this as a new model of democracy, Omar said the government did not give any explanation to his family members."Chalo, your new model of democracy means that we are kept in our homes without explanation but on top of that the staff that works in the house aren’t being allowed in and then you are surprised that I’m still angry & bitter," Omar said in another tweet.The police did not refer to house arrest but said movements of VIPs have been discouraged in view of the second anniversary of the Pulwama terror attack that killed 40 CRPF troopers."There shall be no Road Opening Party on ground. Due to adverse inputs, movement of VIPs/Protected Persons has been discouraged and all concerned were informed in advance not to plan a tour today," a police spokesman said.On Saturday another former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti was not allowed to move from her official Gupkar residence.Mufti had also alleged that she was stopped from visiting the family of Athar Mushtaq, who was killed in a controversial encounter on December 30 ,2020, and was placed under house arrest.“Placed under house arrest as usual for trying to visit the family of Athar Mushtaq killed allegedly in a fake encounter. His father was booked under UAPA for demanding his dead body. This the normalcy GOI wants to showcase to the EU delegation visiting Kashmir,” she said in a tweet.Teenager Athar Mushtaq, a resident of Pulwama, was killed along with two others Ajaz Maqbool (22) from Pulwama and Zubair Ahmad (24) from Shopian in a controversial encounter with security forces on December 30 at Lawaypora Srinagar. While security forces said that the trio was affiliated with militants and were given a chance to surrender, their families said they were innocent.She also released a 2:06 minute video in which she was apparently not being allowed to move out of her Gupkar residence in Srinagar while an official from administration was citing ‘security issues’ as the reason.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omar-abdullah-claims-he-is-under-house-arrest-in-new-model-of-democracy-101613282519337.html
