23-02-2021||India||4 school students killed, 6 injured in Bihar as bus rams SUV||Four school students were killed, and six others were seriously injured when a bus rammed an SUV in which they were travelling on the Begusarai-Rosera state highway 55 on Tuesday night, police said. The victims were tenth standard students who had been appearing in the matriculation examination currently underway.The SUV driver was critically injured in the collision.The accident took place near Sagi More under Khodawandpur police station around 9.30pm. The deceased and injured belonged to Begusarai, the police said.Eyewitnesses said there were around a dozen students in the SUV who were travelling from Rosera to Bithan block in Samastipur. As the SUV reached near Zero Mile (Sagi More), a bus coming from the opposite direction collided with it killing four students on the spot and injuring six others.The injured have been admitted to the nearby Rosera sadar hospital while two of them referred to PMCH in critical condition. The families of the deceased have been informed about the incident, said Begusarai range deputy inspector general (DIG) of police Rajesh Kumar.He said that all the deceased were residents of Ujan village under Bithan block.The DIG also said that the driver and cleaner of the bus escaped from the spot.Agitated over the incident, locals blocked the road and set the bus on fire. They shouted slogans against the administration and alleged that police reached the spot an hour after the incident. When local police arrived at the spot, a mob chased them away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-school-students-killed-6-injured-in-bihar-as-bus-rams-suv-101614102452370.html
23-02-2021||India||'Divisive mentality': Shivraj Singh on Rahul Gandhi's north-south remark||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday took a jibe at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, accusing his party of playing divisive politics, and questioned if his party wanted to divide the country into North and South.Chouhan was speaking about a remark made by Gandhi in Thiruvananthapuram where he was talking about his experience in a different type of politics."Not Rahul, it's his divisive mentality that is speaking. It is the same Congress that divided the country into India and Pakistan on the basis of religion," Chouhan said, in a video shared by ANI."Do they now want to divide it into North and South? People will not let such efforts succeed," the chief minister said.Gandhi, while speaking at the concluding rally of the 'Aishwarya Yatra', led by Leader of Opposition in the Kerala Assembly Ramesh Chennithala, said he learnt a lot from Kerala and understood a bit about the "wisdom of the people" here.The Congress leader said that he found the politics practised in Kerala refreshing as opposed to that of the northern part of the country."For the first 15 years, I was an MP in the north. I had gotten used to a different type of politics. For me, coming to Kerala was very refreshing as suddenly I found that people are interested in issues and not just superficially but going into detail in issues," Gandhi said.The Wayanad MP added that being a politician in Kerala has been a learning experience and pleasure."I was talking to some students in the US and I said that I really enjoy going to Kerala. It's not just affection but the way you do your politics. If I might say so, the intelligence with which you do your politics," Gandhi said.So, for me, it's been a learning experience and pleasure, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/divisive-mentality-shivraj-singh-on-rahul-gandhi-s-north-south-remark-101614100322250.html
23-02-2021||India||Union Minister Shripad Naik to be discharged from hospital on February 24||Union Minister Shripad Naik will be discharged from a hospital in Goa's Bambolim on February 24.According to a statement by his office issued on Monday, "Union Minister Shripad Naik will be discharged from Goa Medical College Hospital, Bambolim on February 24."On January 28, the hospital authorities informed that the health of Union Minister Shripad Naik is stable and he was recovering well.Naik has been in the hospital since January 11, after he met with an accident at a village in Ankola Taluk of Uttar Kannada district in Karnataka.Accompanied by his wife and personal assistant, Naik was on his way to Gokarna from Yellapur. His wife Vijaya Naik and the personal assistant died in the accident.On January 19, Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju was given the responsibilities of Union Minister of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) Shripad Yesso Naik, who is in hospital and undergoing treatment after a road accident.President Ram Nath Kovind temporarily assigned the Ministry of AYUSH (independent charge) to Rijiju, a decision taken on the advice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Rijiju will hold Naik's responsibilities until he resumes work after recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-shripad-naik-to-be-discharged-from-hospital-on-february-24-101614100397645.html
23-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi says BJP going soft on Left Front leaders under probe in Kerala||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday claimed that the BJP government at the Centre was going soft on Left Front leaders embroiled in several cases and accused the Marxist-led government in Kerala of practicing nepotism.Addressing the concluding session of the opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala’s state-wide yatra ahead of the assembly election, he said nepotism is the guiding spirit of the government and jobs are reserved only for Left sympathisers and workers in Kerala.“If you are a Left worker job is ensured. One can even sit at the CM’s office and smuggle gold. Nobody is there to prevent you. If you hold the CPI (M) flag you can smuggle gold sitting at the CM’s office,” he saidGandhi said that when the Left Front assumed power five years ago it said it would make the state perfect. He said the party has only made its organisation and workers perfect leaving many educated youth high and dry.He also accused chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan of not being interested in talking to job aspirants agitating outside the state secretariat.“Many youngsters are on fast for many days. The CM is least interested because they are not Left workers or sympathisers but genuine job aspirants. How can he ignore them like this? he asked.He cited slow progress in cases against Left leaders to buttress his point that the BJP was soft on the ruling dispensation in Kerala.“Central agencies are investigating many cases in Kerala. We know the fate of some of them. Why are they going so slow? Everyone can make out the reason why these cases are getting slow,” he said.Congress leaders in the state had earlier raised similar allegations pointing out tardy progress in gold smuggling, money laundering and other cases being probed by central agencies.Gandhi also pointed out that the MoU between the government owned Kerala shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation and US-based EMCC International Corporation for ₹2950 crore deep sea fishing project was cancelled on Monday after the opposition raised serious irregularities in the deal.“Like the present regime we won’t sell you. We will protect you and ensure your livelihood,” he said. He said the Congress-led United Democratic Front is busy making a people’s manifesto under the leadership of Shashi Tharoor and it will address aspirations of all and take the state to a new level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-says-bjp-going-soft-on-left-front-leaders-under-probe-101614099239941.html
23-02-2021||India||Covid-19: Night curfew imposed in Maharashtra's Aurangabad till March 8||In wake of a continuous surge in Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra Police Commissioner Shailesh Naval on Tuesday announced a night curfew in Aurangabad from 11 pm to 6 am till March 8.The essential services are exempted from the curfew."Aurangabad has witnessed a rise in Covid-19 cases. There are reports of people gathering at places in large numbers and using masks very rarely. It has been decided that curfew to remain imposed from 11 pm-6 am from February 23 to March 8. Essential services are exempted," said Nikhil Gupta, Aurangabad Police Commissioner."During this period, essential commodities, and industries, have been excluded and in the next phase, a decision will be taken on the weekly and vegetable markets," he added.As many as 132 Covid-19 cases were detected in the district on Monday, while 111 people were recovered from the disease and one patient succumbed to the virus.At present, 941 patients are undergoing treatment in the district. The total number of patients in the district has reached 48,770, while so far 46,574 patients have been recovered. The cumulative death toll stood at 1,255.In view of the Covid-19 situation, the administration has emphasised on Covid-19 testing, which has been started at 15 centers of the city. There will be 24-hour RT-PCR testing at 4 centers.According to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Maharashtra has 54,306 active cases with 19,99,982 recoveries. As many as, 51,806 people have died so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-night-curfew-imposed-in-maharashtra-s-aurangabad-till-march-8-101614099153688.html
23-02-2021||India||‘Take Covid vaccine or else…’, Odisha warns healthcare and frontline workers||With around 90,000 healthcare and frontline workers of the targeted 5.43 lakh who registered for Covid-19 vaccination yet to be vaccinated, the Odisha government on Tuesday warned that those who are willfully refusing the same without any genuine ground, will no longer get the privileges granted to them.In a letter to all the Collectors and District Magistrates, and Commissioners of Bhubaneswar, Cuttack. Berhampur, Sambalpur and Rourkela Municipal Corporations, additional chief secretary of health and family welfare department, PK Mohapatra said despite repeated instructions and opportunities given, some registered healthcare workers and frontline workers have not taken the first dose of Covid vaccine.“Over 85% of healthcare workers have been vaccinated and the vaccination of frontline workers is ongoing with good coverage. Odisha is in third position with reference to Covid-19 vaccination of HCWs and FLWs at the national level,” said Mohapatra.He said all health care workers and front line workers who have been registered for vaccination but are now willfully refusing the same without any genuine grounds (of a contra-indication condition) will henceforth cease to enjoy the privileges granted by the Government in case of Covid infection such as free treatment, the period of isolation/treatment being counted as duty, financial and other benefits in case of death.“Odisha has claimed Covid-19 vaccine doses from Govt of India as per the numbers of health care workers and front line workers registered for vaccination If the allocated vaccines are not fully utilised, then the state would be missing out on a critical opportunity to fight the pandemic. Further, those health care workers and front line workers who remain unvaccinated put both their community and their workplace at risk of Covid transmission,” the health secretary said, asking the district officials to take steps to ensure that all HCWs & FLWs take the Covid-19 vaccine within the timeline given by MoHFW.Earlier this month, the Cuttack district administration had threatened to withhold salaries of healthcare workers if they did not get vaccinated.In a letter to the officials of Cuttack's SCB Medical College and Hospital, chief district medical officer, superintendent of Sishu Bhawan and CMC Commissioner, Cuttack district collector Bhabani Shankar Chayani had said as a large number of health workers/anganwadi workers have registered under different establishments were not turning up for the vaccination, their salary/remuneration/stipend for the month would not be drawn.The letter was withdrawn after the threat of withholding salaries triggered outrage.The vaccination has slowed down among the anganwadi workers in several districts as many of them are hesitant and unsure of its efficacy. Several anganwadi workers are also hesitant to take the shot as they feel there is no point in taking the vaccine when Odisha is reporting less than 100 Covid-19 cases everyday and the number of active Covid-19 cases have dropped below 1000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-covid-vaccine-or-else-odisha-warns-healthcare-and-frontline-workers-101614096753078.html
23-02-2021||India||Congress, SDA allies in Puducherry to stage demonstration against Centre||The Congress and constituents of the Secular Democratic Alliance (SDA) in Puducherry will stage a demonstration here on Wednesday to protest the alleged 'murder of democracy' by the Centre holding it responsible for the fall of the V Narayanasamy-led government here.Leaders of the Congress and other parties affiliated to the SDA in the union territory would take part in the protest.The Congress, which heads the alliance in the union territory, alleged in a release that the BJP-led NDA had nominated three legislators, lured some MLAs and issued threats of probe by central agencies to topple the government that had completed four and half years in office here with the support of the DMK.Accusing the government at the centre of indulging in "murder of democracy in Puducherry", the Congress said in the release that the SDA would hold the demonstration to condemn the designs and machinations of the BJP-led NDA.Former Chief Minister Narayanasamy and his erstwhile ministerial colleagues, leaders and workers of the parties in the SDA would participate in the demonstration, the release said.The government in Puducherry fell after the Chief Minister Narayanasamy resigned ahead of the confidence vote on Monday following a spate of resignations of party MLAs and a DMK legislator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-sda-allies-in-puducherry-to-stage-demonstration-against-centre-101614096764730.html
23-02-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi's speech in Mathura interrupted after protest over rape case in Rajasthan||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's speech in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura was interrupted after a group of people started protesting at the venue. The protest was about a rape case in Rajasthan, where Congress government is in power.Some of the people were seen carrying placards demanding justice for the victim, an 11-year-old girl. The placards read "Beti ko Nyay Do (give justice to our daughter)". The protesters also claimed that the girl has been running pillar to post for one-and-a-half-years but nobody is listening to her.#WATCH | A group of people raised slogans during Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's address at a farmers' rally in Mathura, seeking her intervention in a rape case in Bharatpur, Rajasthan. She got down from the stage & listened to the grievances of the demonstrators. pic.twitter.com/FTfVlC8kUZAccording to Congress leaders, the incident took place in Bharatpur where the girl was allegedly gang-raped. She chose to highlight the matter in Mathura as Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was there. The Congress leader listened to the girl and later took her to Vrindavan in her car.Congress MLA Pradeep Mathur said that Vadra also spoke to Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and gave "words of assurance to the girl".Vadra was in Mathura to address a Kisan Panchayat - one of the several the Congress party plans to organise in 28 districts of the state - to raise a voice against the farm laws and to support farmers' demand to repeal them.Uttar Pradesh Congress had launched the 'Jai Jawan Jai Kisan' programme in the region on February 10 from Saharanpur in a Kisan Panchayat which was addressed by Priyanka Gandhi. Since then, senior leaders are addressing Kisan panchayats from district to tehsil level.The event is being looked at as Congress' attempt to gain political ground in the state.Priyanka Gandhi had earlier addressed a Kisan Panchayat in Saharanpur where she took on the central government over the three farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year.She has also been attacking the Centre over rise in fuel prices. On Saturday, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre should name the day petrol and diesel prices do not rise as "achha din" as all other days are "expensive"."The BJP government should rename that day of the week as 'achha din' when diesel and petrol do not increase. Because, due to rising inflation, the rest of the days are 'expensive days' for common people," she said in a tweet in Hindi.The Congress has been demanding that tax on petrol and diesel be reduced and the common people given relief in prices of fuel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-s-speech-in-mathura-interrupted-after-protest-over-rape-case-in-rajasthan-101614096294157.html
23-02-2021||India||Climate activist Disha Ravi released from Tihar jail||Climate activist Disha Ravi, who was arrested in connection with the toolkit case, was released from Tihar jail on Tuesday night after a city court granted her bail.“Disha was released after jail authorities completed all formalities regarding her release,” official said.Earlier in the day, a city court granted bail to 22-year-old Ravi, terming the evidence produced by police as “scanty and sketchy”.Ravi had been arrested by the Delhi Police's Cyber Cell from Bengaluru on February 13.The Cyber Cell had lodged an FIR against "pro-Khalistan" creators of the "toolkit" for waging a "social, cultural and economic war against the Government of India".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/climate-activist-disha-ravi-released-from-tihar-jail-101614096482717.html
23-02-2021||India||Government wants no dissent at all: CPI(M) on completion of one year of Delhi riots||CPI(M) politburo member Brinda Karat alleged on Tuesday that the government wants no dissent at all and it equates anti-nationalism with it.Speaking on the completion of a year since the northeast Delhi riots, she alleged that "there has been a deliberate subversion of justice as truth has been hijacked to serve political interests and save BJP leaders"."The government wants no dissent at all and according to its dictionary, dissent equals anti-nationalism, and anti-nationalism becomes patriotism if you wear a saffron scarf and carry a BJP flag," Karat said.The Left leader said BJP's Kapil Mishra, who has been accused of making inflammatory speeches ahead of the riots, has said if required, he would do it again."This shows how the government in power has given protection to its leaders who gave inflammatory speeches," she said.Karat said the Communist Party of India (Marxist) demands an independent, impartial probe into the Delhi riots.She said agencies should question the role of the police and asked how Delhi was allowed to burn for five days under the eye of the Union home minister himself.The party also released a report on the riots, detailing the sufferings of the victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-wants-no-dissent-at-all-cpi-m-on-one-year-of-delhi-riots-101614095407704.html
23-02-2021||India||Assam militant wanted for multiple killings returns from Myanmar to surrender||One of Assam’s most wanted militant leaders, Ingti Kathar Songbijit, who headed the Peoples’ Democratic Council of Karbi Longri (PDCK) in the Karbi Anglong region, laid down arms in Guwahati on Tuesday.The militant, who was earlier the chairman and commander-in-chief of National Democratic Front of Bodoland (Songbijit), a Bodo rebel group, once carried a bounty of ₹10 lakh on his head.Along with Songbijit, 1,039 other militants belonging to five militant outfits of Karbi Anglong - PDCK, Karbi Longri North Cachar Hills Liberation Front (KLNLF), United People's Liberation Army (UPLA), Karbi Peoples’ Liberation Tiger (KPLT) and Karbi Liberation Front (KLF) surrendered in front of chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal at a function in Guwahati.“I welcome all of you to the mainstream after giving up arms. We must now all work together towards a peaceful and prosperous Assam. The government will do all it can to ensure that you are rehabilitated well,” Sonowal said.The militants laid down a total of 338 arms including 58 assault rifles, 4 light machine guns (LMGs) and over 11,000 rounds of ammunition.The surrender by the militants from different outfits is expected to bring lasting peace to the hill districts of Karbi Anglong, West Karbi Anglong and Dima Hasao.A formal ceasefire agreement with Songbijit’s PDCK and the other four outfits is expected to be signed on Thursday at Karbi Anglong in presence of Union home minister Amit Shah, said an official who did not wish to be named.Songbijit, who had set up base in neighbouring Myanmar after leaving NDFB (S) and forming PDCK almost six years ago, is reported to have entered India earlier this month after expressing willingness to lay down arms and join the peace process.Tuliram Ronghang, chief executive member of Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council (KAAC) is believed to have orchestrated Songbit’s return to the peace process.Songbijit has several cases lodged against him with the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for killing non-Bodos and advasasis in at least eight different incidents between 2014 and 2015.Last week, JK Lijang, chairman of PDCK, had issued a statement declaring unilateral ceasefire of hostilities in order to resolve the political conflicts among stakeholders.The outfit sought general amnesty from all criminal charges against its cadres and compensatory financial grant for their rehabilitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-militant-wanted-for-multiple-killings-returns-from-myanmar-to-surrender-101614094611573.html
23-02-2021||India||Indian Railways to run 11 new special trains. Here is full list||The Indian Railways will soon run 11 more special trains to various destinations for the convenience of passengers. According to a post on the official Twitter handle of Western Railways, the department took this decision in order to ease the traffic on the respective routes. "For the convenience of passengers and to avoid congestion on specific routes, Western Railways has decided to run 11 more special trains (commercial trains) for various destinations. Apart from this, the frequency of Indore-Daund Special Baram Barata train (train number 02944/43) has been increased from three days a week to six days a week," the tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read.यात्रियों की सुविधा और अतिरिक्त भीड़ के सुचारु समायोजन हेतु पश्चिम रेलवे द्वारा विभिन्‍न गंतव्‍यों के लिए 11 और अतिरिक्‍त स्‍पेशल ट्रेनें चलाने का निर्णय लिया गया है।इनके अलावा, ट्रेन नंबर 02944/43 इंदौर-दौंड स्पेशल की बारम्‍बारता सप्ताह में तीन दिन से बढ़ाकर छह दिन कर दी गई है। pic.twitter.com/qXFZBihYFE Here is the list of the special trains-1. 09009/09010 Mumbai Central-New Delhi Duranto Superfast Special (Bi-weekly)09009 will depart from Mumbai Central every Monday and Friday at 11 PM. It will reach New Delhi ay 3:55 PM the next day w.e.f. February 26. 09010 will leave from New Delhi on every Tuesday and Saturday at 10:10 PM. It will reach Mumbai Central at 3:35 PM the next day w.e.f. February 27. The train will stop at Vadodara, Ratlam and Kota in both directions.2. 09289/09290 Bandra Terminus-Mahuva Superfast Special (Weekly)09289 will depart from Bandra every Friday at 4:45 PM. It will reach Mahua at 6:45 AM the next day w.e.f. Feb 26. 09290 will depart from Mahuva every Saturday at 7:20 PM and reach Bandra at 9:30 AM the next day w.e.f. Feb 27. The train will stop at Borivali, Vapi, Surat, Vadodara, Anand, Ahmedabad, Viramgam, Surendranagar, Botad, Dhola, Dhasa, Liliya Mota, Savarkundla and Rajulastations in both directions.3. 09293/09294 Bandra Terminus-Mahuva Superfast Special (Weekly)09293 will depart from Bandra every Wednesday at 4:45 PM and reach Mahuva at 6:45 AM the next day w.e.f. March 3. 09294 will depart from Mahuva every Thursday at 7:20 PM and reach Bandra at 9:30 AM the next day w.e.f. March 4. The train will halt at Borivali, Vapi, Surat, Vadodara, Anand, Ahmedabad, Viramgam, Surendranagar, Botad, Dhola, Dhasa, Liliya Mota, Savarkundla and Rajulastations in both directions.4. 09336/09335 Indore-Gandhidham Superfast Special (Weekly)09336 will depart from Indore every Sunday at 11:30 PM and reach Gandhidham at 2 PM the next day w.e.f. Feb 28. 09335 will depart from Gandhidham every Monday at 6:15 PM and reach Indore at 8:55 AM the next day w.e.f. from March 1. The train will halt at Dewas, Ujjain, Ratlam, Dahod, Godhra, Ahmedabad and Viramgam stations in both directions. 09336 will have an additional halt at Nadiad.5. 09507/09506 Indore-Ujjain Special (Daily)09507 will depart from Indore daily at 6 PM and will reach Ujjain at 8:05 PM the same day w.e.f. March 1. 09506 will depart from Ujjain daily at 8 AM and reach Indore at 10:40 AM w.e.f. March 4. The train will stop at Laxmibhai Nagar, Mangliya Gaon, Barlai, Dewas, Naranjipur, UndasaMadhawpu, Karchha and Vikramnagar in both directions.6. 09518/09517 Ujjain-Nagda Special (Daily)09518 will depart from Ujjain daily at 7 AM and reach Nagda at 8:25 AM the same dat w.e.f. from March 2. 09517 will depart from Nagda daily at 6 PM and reach Ujjain at 7:40 PM the same day w.e.f. March 3. The train will halt at Naikheri, Asloda, Palsora Makrawa, Unhel, Piploda Bagla and Bhatisuda in both the directions.7. 09554/09553 Ujjain-Nagda Special (Daily)09554 will depart from Ujjain daily at 8:40 Pm and reach Nagda at 10:10 PM w.e.f. March 1. 09553 will depart from Nagda daily at 11:35 PM and reach Ujjain at 1:05 AM the next day. The train will stop at Naikheri, Asloda, Palsora Makrawa, Unhel, Piploda Bagla and Bhatisuda in both the directions.8. 09341-09342 Nagda-Bina Special (Daily)09341 will depart from Nagda daily at 11:10 AM and reach Bina at 10 PM the same day w.e.f. March 2. 09342 will depart from Bina daily at 7 AM and reach Nagda at 5:30 PM the same day w.e.f. March 3. The train will stop at Piploda Bagla, Unhel, Palsora Makrawa, Aslaida, Naikheri, Ujjain, Pingleshwar, Tajpur, Shivpura, Tarana Road, Maksi, Chauhani, Shajapur, Sarangpur, Parhana Mau, Udyankheri, Pachor Road, BiyavraRajgarhm SinduriyaKachari, Chachaura Binaganj, Kumbhraj, Radogarh, Vijalpur, Rithiyai, Mahugara, Guna, Maban, Pagara, Pilighat, Shadhoragaon, Ratikheda, Ashok Nagar, Honotia Pipalkhera, Orr, Rahatwas, Pipraigaon, GuneruBamori, Mungaoli, Kanjai, Semarkheri and Mahadeokhedi in both directions.9. 09545/09546 Ratlam-Nagda Special (Daily)09545 will depart from Ratlam daily at 10 AM and reach Nagda at 11 AM the same day w.e.f. March 2. 09546 will depart from Nagda daily at 8:35 AM and reach Ratlam at 9:30 AM the same day. The train will stop at Bangrod, Runkhera, Khachrod and Berawanya.10. 09528/09527 Bhavnagar Terminus-Surendranagar Special (Daily)09528 will depart from Bhavnagar daily at 5 AM and reach Surendranagar at 9 AM the same day w.e.f. March 1. 09527 will depart from Surendranagar daily at 6:30 PM and reach Bhavnagar at 11 PM the same day. The train will stop at Bhavnagar Para, Vartej, Sihor Gujarat, Songadh, Sanosra, Dhola, Ujalvav, Alampur, Ningala, Lathidad, Botad, Kundi, Ranpur, Vejalka, Chuda, Limbdi, Wadhawan City, Joravarnagar and Surendranagar Gate. The train comprises Second Class seating coaches. 11. 09534/09533 Bhavnagar Terminus-Surendranagar Special (Daily)09534 will depart from Bhavnagar daily at 2 PM and reach Surendranagar at 6:05 PM the same day w.e.f. March 1. 09533 will depart from Surendranagar daily at 9:40 AM and reach Bhavnagar at 1:30 PM the same day. The train comprises Second Class seating coaches. The train will halt at Bhavnagar Para, Vartej, Khodiyar Mandir, Sihor Gujarat, Songadh, Sanosra, Dhola, Ujalvav, Alampur, Ningala, Lathidad, Botad, Ranpur, Chuda, Limbdi, Wadhawan City, Joravarnagar and Surendranagar Gate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-to-run-11-new-special-trains-here-is-full-list-101614094472238.html
23-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: CJI asks petitioner to not address Supreme Court judges as 'Your Honour' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Don’t address Supreme Court judges as ‘Your Honour’: CJI to petitionerJudges of the Supreme Court are not to be addressed as “Your Honour”, said Chief Justice of India Sharad Arvind Bobde on Tuesday, explaining that such salutation befits judges of the Supreme Court of the United States or the magistrate courts in our country. Read moreKohli's response to question on breaking Dhoni's captaincy record is a winnerVirat Kohli is destined to go down in history as a man with plethora of individual and captaincy record. A win in the third Test against England will make him the most successful Indian Test captain at home. Read moreKangana Ranaut says she turned down 'item songs' by Sanjay Leela Bhansali, Farah Khan; lashes out at 'B-grade hyenas'Actor Kangana Ranaut has said that she turned down 'item numbers' in films by Sanjay Leela Bhansali and Farah Khan. Read moreTara Sutaria plays perfect white bride in ₹3lakh lehenga for her 'new chapter'Tara Sutaria and white are a match made in heaven, and the Student of the Year 2 actor is often seen in the angelic colour, be it Indian wear or western wear. Read moreAlert cop saves woman from being crushed under train at Lucknow. WatchAn alert constable is being hailed as a hero after a video of her saving a passenger from being crushed under a moving train was shared online. The video was posted on the official Twitter profile of the Ministry of Railways. Read morePetrol, diesel prices: 'PM Modi coward' says Congress; minister explains taxesPriyanka Gandhi Vadra called Prime Minister Narendra Modi a 'coward' for refusing to take responsibility for the high fuel prices, and instead blaming previous governments. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-cji-asks-petitioner-to-not-address-supreme-court-judges-as-your-honour-101614092727354.html
23-02-2021||India||Centre signs $304 million pact with AIIB for power transmission network in Assam||The Centre on Tuesday signed an agreement with Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) for borrowing $304 million (over ₹2,200 crore) to improve power transmission network in Assam.According to an official release here, the fund will be utilised for the 'Assam Intra-State Transmission System Enhancement Project', aiming to improve reliability, capacity and security of the power transmission network in the state.The total estimated cost of the project is $365 million, of which $304 million will be financed by the AIIB and rest by the state government, it said."The loan from the AIIB has a five-year grace period and a maturity of 24 years," the release said.The project aims to strengthen Assam's electricity transmission system by constructing 10 transmission substations, laying transmission lines, upgrading 15 existing substations, transmission lines and the existing ground wire to optical power ground wire."The programme will strengthen the existing intrastate transmission network of Assam by augmenting it with newer networks to achieve affordable, secure, efficient and reliable 247 power. This will, in turn, bring the state closer to ensuring long-term sustainability of its electricity supply," it added.The northeastern state is currently witnessing energy deficit, specially in peak hours, and one of the main reasons for this is congestion of electricity distribution and transmission networks.The Assam Electricity Grid Corporation Ltd (AEGCL), the sole transmission utility in Assam, is responsible for operation, maintenance and development of the transmission system in the state.AEGCL currently operates 66 substations with 6,882 megavolt-ampere capacity and its transmission network comprises 5,701 circuit kilometers of transmission lines.The AIIB is a multilateral development bank with a mission to improve social and economic outcomes in Asia. It began operations in January 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-signs-304-million-pact-with-aiib-for-power-transmission-network-in-assam-101614093392032.html
23-02-2021||India||Protest in Odisha assembly against fuel price hike||Protests against soaring prices of petrol and diesel, which has touched its all time high in the state, were heard both inside Odisha Assembly and outside it on Tuesday as the opposition parties demanded reduction in tax by the Centre and state to ease the burden of the consumers.They blamed both central and state governments for the situation.NSUI activists staged a demonstration here blaming the BJP-led government at the Centre for the fuel price hike, while some Congress MLAs cycled to the Assembly as a mark of protest.The party's lawmakers - Suresh Kumar Routray, Taraprasad Bahinipati and Adhiraj Panigrahi were seen riding bicycles on Lok Seva Marg on their way to the Assembly to attend the budget session.The opposition party also moved a notice for discussion on the fuel price hike in the state which was debated for about 90 minutes.Both the Central and Odisha governments are equally responsible for the fuel price hike. Both fail to feel the people's plights, Bahinipati, the Congress whip said.Blaming Prime Minister Narendra Modi for creating Bure Din (bad days) for the citizens instead of Acche Din (good days) promised by him, Congress MLAs demanded that both the governments reduce tax rates to provide relief to the people who are already struggling due to the situation due to the pandemic.The agitating Congress members also pointed out that the fuel price hike has not only hit the traders, but also farmers, students, daily wage earners and other sections of the society.Odisha Finance Minister Niranjan Pujari said the tax collected on fuel by the state government is utilised for the welfare of poor people.He said GST had been imposed on all materials and services in the state barring crude oil, petrol, diesel, aviation fuel, natural gas and liquor.The Centre is collecting ₹32.90 from a litre of fuel, while Odisha government is levying ₹21.40 as 32 per cent VAT on it, he said.Pujari suggested that the Centre withdraw infrastructure cess and agricultural infrastructure development cess, ₹18 and ₹2.50 per litre respectively, to reduce fuel price.Pujari said the price of 1 litre petrol in Bhubaneswar on Tuesday is ₹91.66. While ₹33.68 is the base price fixed by the oil marketing companies, the central excise duty is ₹1.40. The additional excise duty is ₹11.Taking all these taxes into account, the central government charges ₹32.90 per litre while the states share is ₹21.40 towards 32 per cent VAT, Pujari clarified.In Bhubaneswar the price of 1 litre of diesel on Tuesday is ₹88.63. The Centre takes ₹31.80 from this amount, while Odisha gets ₹ ₹18.90 as 28 per cent VAT, Pujari said.The minister also informed the House that the price of petrol is ₹98.96 in Bhopal, ₹97.34 in Mumbai, ₹91.12 in Kolkata, ₹92.90 in Chennai, ₹94.54 in Hyderabad and Patna, ₹93.25 in Thiruvananthapuram and ₹97.47 in Visakhapatnam.Congress lawmaker Suresh Kumar Routray said the Odisha government should reduce VAT on petroleum products like in West Bengal and Chhattishgarh.Bahinipati raised questions on ruling BJDs silence on fuel price hike. When there was a raise of only 10 paise in the price of petrol, the BJD workers had hit the streets. This is not happening in Odisha now as BJD and BJP have joined hands to exploit the people.Defending the central government, BJP deputy leader in Assembly B C Sethi said that the allegations made by Congress are "politically motivated".He, however, echoed the Congress demand for reduction of VAT by the state government.Sethi said as there is no one present from the ministry of petroleum and natural gas, there is no point in holding the discussion in the Assembly.The BJP lawmaker rejected the Congress allegation that the people are annoyed with Modi and claimed that as per a recent survey about 91 per cent of them appreciate him.BJP whip Mohan Majhi also defended the Centre and claimed that the funds raised from fuel price hike is being spent for welfare schemes. As many as 15.34 lakh poor people had been provided with free cooking gas in Odisha during the pandemic.Let Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik set an example by reducing the fuel price, Majhi said.Utkal Petroleum Dealers Association secretary Sanjay Lath said the fuel price hike in the state is the highest so far.A report said that petrol price has touched a record high of ₹100.29 (premium) and ₹97.14 (normal petrol) per litre in Kalimela block of Malkangiri district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protest-in-odisha-assembly-against-fuel-price-hike-101614092569839.html
23-02-2021||India||More pvt hospitals to be utilised for increasing vaccination coverage: Govt||The Centre on Tuesday said that more private hospitals will be utilized to increase the speed and coverage of Covid-19 vaccination in the coming days.Responding to a query during a press briefing here, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said out of 10,000 hospitals being used for administering the vaccines in a day, 2,000 hospitals are private.“Approximately 10,000 hospitals are being used for administering vaccines in a day. Out of these, 2,000 hospitals are private. This shows how essential is the private sector and it plays the role of a force multiplier which is acknowledge by the government. In the coming days, more private sector hospitals will be utilized to increase the vaccination coverage and speed,” Bhushan said.He also said that private sector is playing a vital role in many of the government’s health programs.“Out of the 24,000 hospitals under the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojna which are providing cashless treatment, 11,000 hospitals are of private sector. From last two years private sector is involved. Similarly, the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) is completely based on private sector except the dispensaries. More than 800 private hospitals are already a part of CGHS,” Bhushan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-pvt-hospitals-to-be-utilised-for-increasing-vaccination-coverage-govt-101614092647788.html
23-02-2021||India||Don’t address Supreme Court judges as ‘Your Honour’: CJI to petitioner||Judges of the Supreme Court are not to be addressed as “Your Honour”, said Chief Justice of India Sharad Arvind Bobde on Tuesday, explaining that such salutation befits judges of the Supreme Court of the United States or the magistrate courts in our country.The remark came while the CJI, heading a three-judge bench, was hearing a public interest petition filed by law student Shrikant Prasad. As soon as the petitioner, who sought filling up of vacancies in subordinate judiciary, addressed the bench as “Your Honour”, the CJI stopped him, and said, “You either have the US Supreme Court or the magistrate court here in your mind when you call us ‘Your Honour’. We do not want you to address us as ‘Your Honour’.”This is the second instance when CJI Bobde has spoken out against the use of “Your Honour”. He expressed the sentiment in August 2020 when addressed as “Your Honour”.The Bar Council of India (BCI) Rules, which regulate uniform standards of professional etiquettes to be followed by lawyers across the country, had in 2006 amended the law making it binding on lawyers to address judges of High Courts and Supreme Court as “Your Honour” or “Your Lordship”.In Part VI of the BCI Rules Governing Advocates, Chapter IIIA was added by way of a Gazette notification in May 2006 which said, “..Consistent with the obligation of the Bar to show a respectful attitude towards the Court and bearing in mind the dignity of judicial office, the form of address to be adopted whether in the Supreme Court, high courts or subordinate courts should be as follows - “Your Honour” or “Hon’ble Court” in Supreme Court and High Courts and in the Subordinate Courts and Tribunals it is open to the Lawyers to address the Court as “Sir” or the equivalent word in respective regional languages.”This amendment carried an explanation with it for introducing this change. It said, “As the words ‘My Lord’ and ‘Your Lordship’ are relics of British colonial past, it is proposed to incorporate the above rule showing respectful attitude to the Court.”Since this amendment, the Full Bench of the Rajasthan High Court in July 2019 resolved that lawyers shall be requested to “desist” from addressing judges of the High Court as “My Lord” and “Your Lordship”. Clearly, the High Court allowed the use of “Your Honour”.Lawyer bodies of the Kerala High Court and the Punjab & Haryana High Court have issued resolutions in line with the BCI amendment shedding the practice of using “My Lord” and “Your Lordship”. State Bar Councils are already bound by the 2006 Gazette notification.On one hand, while the Rules permit the use of “Your Honour”, the preference shown by the CJI in being addressed by anything other than “Your Honour” has put lawyers in a fix. In 2014, a petition was filed in the Supreme Court by a lawyer Shiv Sagar Tiwari seeking a uniform standard to be adopted across all courts in the country for addressing judges of the higher courts and subordinate judiciary. Citing the 2006 BCI Rules laying down uniform standards, Tiwari demanded that the practice of addressing Supreme Court and High Court judges as “My Lord” and “Your Lordship” must end.The top court refused to pass any order. Leaving this choice to the lawyers instead, the bench added a caveat that any form of addressing the judges should be dignified and respectful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-address-supreme-court-judges-as-your-honour-cji-to-petitioner-101614092591489.html
23-02-2021||India||India’s hasn’t changed its mind on Chinese investment, will make no exceptions: Officials||India is not considering any proposal to allow any Chinese company to invest in India, people aware of the matter said on Tuesday, rebutting reports that New Delhi could clear 45 investment proposals from China. The report came against the backdrop of easing of tensions due to disengagement at Pangong Tso, one of the many friction points between troops of the two countries over the last nine months.“This report is factually incorrect. The government has not cleared investment from China at any level. There is no such proposal either,” the official said, pointing to a Reuters report that indicated that New Delhi was set to clear 45 investment proposals from China.The government has only cleared three foreign investment proposals from Hong Kong. Two of these are investments from Japanese companies, the third is a Non-Resident Indian group, the official said.Also Read: Indian officials explain why buzz around Prez Xi’s India visit is misplacedA foreign ministry official said any suggestion that New Delhi was ready to abruptly change its stand on foreign investment from China was grounded in an inadequate appreciation of New Delhi’s position on the border friction in the Ladakh sector.India has always maintained that peace and tranquillity at the border is a prerequisite for developing bilateral relations. The two countries have taken early steps to restore normalcy at the Ladakh border but they need to travel some distance between status quo ante is restored.New Delhi had last year responded to China’s aggressive manoeuvres in Ladakh by erecting barriers to the flow of investment from countries that share land borders with India and made it mandatory for companies based in these countries to get special approvals to get government contracts.Of the three proposals of companies based in Hong Kong that have been cleared includes Nippon paints headquartered in Japan. The foreign investors proposing investment, in this case, include Nippon Paint Holdings Co. Ltd, Japan, Nipsea International Limited, Hong Kong - it is a 100% subsidiary of Nipsea Holdings International Limited whose ultimate beneficial owners are, among others, the Goh family who are citizens of Singapore, Netherlands and Australia; and FraserHong Kong.Another FDI proposal, which is cleared is of Citizen Watches (India) Private Limited which is 100%held by Citizen Watches Company Limited, Japan.The third FDI proposal relates to Netplay Sports Private Limited, which is involved in sports, amusement and recreation activities. The foreign investors, in this case, include Allshores Capital Limited, Hong Kong owned by 2 NRIs, Sandeep Singh and Ashwin Mehta; and Rajeev Leekha, also an NRI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/trending/indias-hasn-t-changed-its-mind-on-chinese-investment-will-make-no-exceptions-101614092083010.html
23-02-2021||India||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh says sale of Patanjali's Coronil without certification will not be allowed||The sale of Coronil tablets of Patanjali will not be allowed in Maharashtra without "proper certification", state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Tuesday.The statement came a day after the Indian Medical Association (IMA) expressed shock over the "blatant lie of WHO certification" for Coronil tablets which Patanjali claims is an evidence-based medicine to fight COVID-19.While the IMA also demanded an explanation from Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan in whose presence the medicine was launched, the World Health Organization clarified that it had not reviewed or certified the effectiveness of any traditional medicine for the treatment of COVID-19.Without naming anyone, Deshmukh said on Twitter that it was "highly deplorable" that two senior Union ministers endorsed the drug."The #IMA has questioned the said `clinical trials' of #Coronil & WHO refuted the false claims made by #Patanjali Ayurveda for giving any certificate regarding its effectiveness for #Covid19 treatment," Deshmukh said."...selling of #Coronil without proper certification from competent health organizations like #WHO, #IMA and others will not be allowed in Maharashtra," the minister said.Yoga guru Ramdev's Patanjali Ayurved had on February 19 said the Coronil tablet had received certification from the Ayush Ministry as a medicine supporting COVID-19 treatment as per the WHO's certification scheme.However, Patanjali's managing director Acharya Balkrishna later said "We want to clarify to avoid confusion that our WHO GMP compliant COPP certificate to Coronil is issued by DCGI, Government of India" and "WHO do not approve or disapprove any drugs".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anil-deshmukh-says-sale-of-coronil-will-not-be-allowed-without-certification-101614091752678.html
23-02-2021||India||Government says 2 new variants not behind Covid-19 surge in Maharashtra, Kerala||Two variants of SARS-CoV-2 -- N440K and E484K -- have been detected in Maharashtra and Kerala but there is no reason to believe presently that they are responsible for the surge in cases in some districts in these two states, the Centre said on Tuesday.One of the two variants has also been detected in Telangana.Addressing a press conference here, NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul said that 187 people have tested positive for the UK strain of SARS-CoV-2 in the country so far, while six people have detected with the South Africa variant. Also, one person has tested positive for the Brazil variant strain.“Both the N440K and E484K variants of SARS-CoV-2 have been detected in Maharashtra. In Kerala and Telangana also these variants have been found. Also, three other mutated strains -- one each from UK, South Africa and Brazil are already present in the country. But there is no reason for us to believe, on the basis of scientific information, that they are responsible for the upsurge of the outbreak in some districts of Maharashtra and Kerala,” Paul said.Reporting only detection does not lead to any attribution for a phenomenon on the ground because to relate the occurrence of a virus mutation to change in disease pattern, other epidemiological information and clinical information has to be linked to these mutants, Paul said, adding, “because otherwise these (mutations) happen but they have no influence on the pandemic.”He said the behaviour of mutations is being constantly and closely watched in the country and 3,500 strains have been sequenced so far.“When we are doing sequencing, we are looking for any abnormal shift in the virus character. We have been watching the mutants.“Today, based on the information and as analyzed and understood by a very eminent scientific advisory group of Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG), we would like to underline the fact that we do not see attribution of mutant strains to the upsurge of the infection being seen in some districts. But this is work in progress. We will continue to watch the situation with full responsibility,” Paul said.The SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) was established in December end for laboratory and epidemiological surveillance of circulating strains of SARS-CoV-2 in the country.Stating that a large proportion of the population is still vulnerable, Paul stressed that Covid-19 appropriate behaviour like wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, hand washing and not getting into mass gatherings should be followed.Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that a total of 1,17,54,788 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in the country till Tuesday 1 pm, with 1,04,93,205 getting the first dose and 12,61,583 being given the second dose.Bhushan said that 12 states and union territories, including Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Odisha, have administered first dose of COVID-19 vaccine to more than 75 per cent of the registered healthcare workers, while 11 states and UTs, including Karnataka, Telangana, Delhi, Punjab and Chandigarh, have administered the first dose to less than 60 per cent of healthcare workers.Two states, Kerala and Maharashtra, account for 75 per cent of total active Covid-19 cases in country, and six people have been detected with South Africa strain of SARS-CoV-2 in India so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-says-2-new-variants-not-behind-covid-19-surge-in-maharashtra-kerala-101614090916645.html
23-02-2021||India||India commences supply of Covid-19 vaccines to Africa under Covax facility||India on Tuesday commenced the supply of 'Made in India' Covid-19 vaccines to Africa under the Covax facility."Fulfilling our commitment to help the world with Covid-19 vaccines, supplies of Made in India vaccine commence today for Africa under Covax facility," Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Anurag Srivastava tweeted.Covid-19 Vaccines Global Access, abbreviated as Covax, is a global initiative aimed at equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines led by the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization, the World Health Organisation (WHO), the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, and others.Last month, the MEA announced that India plans to supply 1 crore or 10 million vaccine doses to Africa and 10 lakh to United Nations health workers under GAVI's COVAX facility.WHO South-East Asia tweeted photos of the first shipment being loaded onto a truck at Serum's manufacturing facility in Pune."The first batch of Covid-19 vaccines for #COVAX rolled out from @SerumInstIndia, in Pune, on Tuesday morning," WHO South East Asia tweeted.India has supplied a total of 229.7 lakh doses of coronavirus vaccine to the global community as of last week, according to the MEA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-commences-supply-of-covid-19-vaccines-to-africa-under-covax-facility-101614091082756.html
23-02-2021||India||Mumbai's daily Covid-19 infection tally falls to 643, Maha witnesses spike||Mumbai on Tuesday recorded 643 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a decline in caseload for second consecutive day, according to state health department. On Monday, the city had recorded 761 cases, down from 921 a day before. The number of total cases in the city now stands at 320,532.Mumbai also recorded eight deaths on Tuesday, marking a departure from the zero deaths recorded on Monday. With Tuesday's toll, Mumbai’s death toll reached 11,454.However, unlike Mumbai, Maharashtra witnessed a slight increase in the tally of daily infections on Tuesday. The state recorded 6,218 new cases of Covid-19, recording a little over 1,000 cases more than the 5,210 cases it had reported on Monday. The state has carried out a total of 15,860,912 Covid-19 tests till date, according to state health department.The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has warned the people of Mumbai that cases will be filed against those breaking home quarantine rules. The BMC had announced the creation of containment zones in buildings with over five Covid-19 cases. Authorities have also been asking citizens to abide by Covid-19 precautions. Many states have made it mandatory for travellers from Maharashtra to carry negative test certificates, owing to the continued spike in cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbais-daily-covid-19-infection-tally-falls-to-643-maha-witnesses-spike-101614090028363.html
23-02-2021||India||After Savitri, Maharaj becomes second leopard at SGNP to get radio collar||A six-year-old male leopard at Mumbai’s Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) was radio-collared and released into the wild on Monday, two days after a female of the species became the first to be fitted with such a collar, park authorities said Tuesday.This is a part of the first phase of leopard radio-collaring work being carried out at SGNP to track and understand the animal’s movement, said park Director G Mallikarjuna. A total of five leopards will be radio-collared in the first phase.The leopard that was radio-collared on Monday has been named Maharaj after Chhatrapati Shivaji. Earlier on Saturday, Savitri became the first leopard in Mumbai to be radio-collared, named after the social reformer and educationist Savitribai Phule.The two-year-long project to radio-collar leopards was initiated in 2018 when the park authorities signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Wildlife Conservation Society – India (WCS). The Maharashtra government gave its nod in August 2019 following which the two-year project was to be completed in 2021. But with the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, there was no movement on this front last year. The work finally began last week.“We are hoping that this activity will help us understand leopards better,” said Mallikarjuna.The collars work by sending a signal to a satellite, which obtains the time and date of the signal sent from the collar and this information is transmitted back to the researchers who can go and investigate where the animal is and what it is doing.The key features of this project are to obtain knowledge on how humans and leopards interact with each other and how they adapt to the presence of each other. This will also help obtain information on how leopards move across the major roads such as the Ghodbunder road, understand their use of space and time in the SGNP landscape, and provide management recommendation with respect to the way they move in the landscape and conflict mitigation based on the results of the study.Dr. Vidya Athreya from WCS, said, “This project at SGNP will give us more insights because in Mumbai a high density of people live in such close proximity to big cats. It will also help us track their pathway and understand how they cross busy roads such as the Ghodbunder Road. This will then help us manage them better to bring down mortality.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-savitri-maharaj-becomes-second-leopard-at-sgnp-to-get-radio-collar-101614088387579.html
23-02-2021||India||‘Doosri Indira Gandhi’: Priyanka greeted by supporters in Vrindavan in video shared by Congress||Waiting for the Congress' general secretary Priyanka Gandhi at his doorstep at the nook of a lane in Vrindavan near Mathura, a man sat patiently in a chair. Gandhi, on the other hand, had already entered the street surrounded by her security officials and was responding to the 'Radhe Radhe' greetings from locals.On seeing Gandhi, the man jumped from his chair and brought out a garland and decorated jacket to offer as a gift.The incident occurred on Tuesday during Gandhi's visit to the Banke Bihari temple in the city, a video of which was shared by the Congress on its social media handle.श्रीमती @priyankagandhi जी को श्री बाँके बिहारी जी के मंदिर की तरफ जाते समय स्थानीय लोगों का अभूतपूर्व जन आशीर्वाद मिला।#किसान_की_आवाज़_काँग्रेस pic.twitter.com/rheVLfe9Q7Comparing Gandhi to her grandmother and India's first and only female prime minister, the man said, "Yeh doosri Indira Gandhi hai, yeh desh ko chalayegi... (She is second Indira Gandhi, she will administer the country like her)."The response came from the local as he was stopped by the security guards when they told him to keep some distance from the "important Congress leader".As he garlanded Gandhi amid nods from neighbours in the thin lane, the man said that Congress has worked hard but others are now benefitting from their toiling."...Mehnat kari hai aap logo ne, mauj kha rahe hai doosre log. Yehi kehna hai humara bas (you worked hard while others are enjoying fruits of the labour. I only want to say this)," he said.During her visit to Uttar Pradesh, Gandhi held a kisan panchayat in Mathura, as the party eyes to campaign against the farm laws and back farmers' demand to repeal these laws. The Kisan Panchayats will be held in 28 districts of Western Uttar Pradesh.Addressing the gathering in Pali Kera, Gandhi attacked the government over ongoing farmers agitation and said, "Farmers have been fighting for their rights, sitting on Delhi’s borders for 90 days, 215 farmers were martyred. The government cut their electricity supply, water supply, beat them up but did not hear them out.""The Prime Minister, who has traveled to every corner of the world during his tenure, could not reach the borders of Delhi," Gandhi said, serving a scathing remark against PM Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doosri-indira-gandhi-priyanka-gandhi-greeted-by-local-in-vrindavan-101614084247278.html
23-02-2021||India||BJP set to sweep Gujarat civic polls; PM Modi tweets thank you, Amit Shah calls it 'one of the best results'||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday appeared on course to retain power in six municipal corporations in Gujarat, winning 334 of the 576 seats where results were declared till 5 pm.Gujarat municipal election: Track live updatesPolling for Ahmedabad and five other civic corporations was held on February 21. The counting of votes began on Tuesday morning and is still underway.Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed the results and said it is always an honour to serve Gujarat."Thank you Gujarat! Results of municipal elections across the state clearly show the unwavering faith people have towards politics of development and good governance. Grateful to the people of the state for trusting BJP yet again. Always an honour to serve Gujarat," he tweeted.Thank you Gujarat! Results of municipal elections across the state clearly show the unwavering faith people have towards politics of development and good governance. Grateful to the people of the state for trusting BJP yet again. Always an honour to serve Gujarat.Union home minister Amit Shah called the results as one of the best in Gujarat."BJP has won around 85 percent of the seats it contested. Congress has suffered badly in this election. Congress won only 44 seats across Gujarat, while BJP bagged 44 seats in Bhavnagar corporation alone," he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Chief minister Vijay Rupani and his deputy Nitin Patel had earlier expressed gratitude to the voters and BJP workers for the results."The grand victory of the BJP in these elections is the victory of the people of Gujarat. This is a grand victory of the politics of development of Prime Minister Narendra Modi," Rupani said.In a series of tweets, Rupani had said, “I thank voters of all the six metros. I thank all the BJP workers who have worked hard in this election. I assure the people of Gujarat that the BJP will not let the trust placed in the BJP go to waste. The government will not spare any effort for the development of 6 Municipal Corporations in the coming days.”“By handing over the responsibility of city development to the Bharatiya Janata Party in the corporation for years, the people of Gujarat have made it a subject for the political analysts to study that the term anti-incumbency does not apply to Gujarat,” he had said in his other tweets.While Congress has won 36 of the declared seats so far, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), a new entrant in these elections, could win 12 seats. The AAP had fielded 470 candidates across the six corporations.The counting of votes is being held for 192 seats across 48 wards in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, for 120 seats across 30 wards in the Surat Municipal Corporation, 76 seats across 19 wards of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation, for 72 seats across 18 wards in the Rajkot Municipal Corporation, 52 seats across 13 wards in the Bhavnagar Municipal Corporation and 64 seats across 16 wards in the Jamnagar Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-municipal-corporation-election-results-2021-bjp-set-to-retain-power-101614087942123.html
23-02-2021||India||Toolkit didn’t call for violence, says judge who ordered Disha Ravi release||Delhi judge Dharmender Rana who ordered the release of climate activist Disha Ravi on bail frowned at the “scanty and sketchy investigation” by the police, defended the right of citizens to disagree with the government and underlined that any claim, even if false, exaggerated or even with the mischievous intent, “cannot be stigmatised being seditious unless they have a tendency to foment violence”.“In my considered opinion, Citizens are conscience keepers of government in any democratic nation. they cannot be put behind bars because they choose to disagree with the State policies. The offence of sedition cannot be invoked to minister to the wounded vanity of the governments,” additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana said in his order granting bail to Disha Ravi.Ravi was arrested from Bengaluru on February 13 by Delhi Police for allegedly creating and sharing the protest toolkit backing the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s new farm laws. Delhi Police has claimed the toolkit was created and shared “to tarnish India’s image” and that “pro-Khalistani” elements were included in the document.
23-02-2021||India||Soldier dies, 2 others injured in freak mishap in firing range in J-K’s Akhnoor||A gunner of the army's artillery regiment died and two others were injured in a freak mishap at a field firing range during a live fire training in Akhnoor sector of Jammu district on Tuesday, a defence spokesperson.The deceased has been identified as gunner Sayan Gosh of the artillery regiment, a native of Nagdaha village in the 24 Parganas North district of West Bengal.The defence spokesperson said that gunner Sayan Ghosh suffered fatal injury in an accident during a live fire training at the firing ranges in Akhnoor sector on Tuesday around 10.30 am.During the live fire training, the barrel of a 105 mm gun suddenly burst and the flying splinters hit three soldiers including gunner Sayan Ghosh.“While Sayan Ghosh succumbed to his injuries, the condition of two other soldiers is stated to be stable. They are out of danger and are undergoing treatment at a garrison hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soldier-dies-2-others-injured-in-freak-mishap-in-firing-range-in-j-k-s-akhnoor-101614087248240.html
23-02-2021||India||Punjab: Curbs on gatherings from March 1; Covid testing to be ramped up||In view of rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Punjab, chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday ordered fresh restrictions in the state from March 1. The decision was taken after Singh chaired a high-level meeting to review Covid-19 situation in the state.According to the new rules, the number of people allowed in indoor gatherings will be capped at 100, while for outdoor gatherings it will be kept at 200.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageStrict enforcement of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks and social distancing has to be followed, the chief minister said, adding that testing in the state will be ramped up to 30,000 a day. At least 15 contacts should be tested per positive case, he said, and ordered strict monitoring by Covid Patient Tracking Officers (CPTOs) and review by the health department.Singh also authorised the district collectors to impose night curfews in hotspots in their areas and also said a decision on reducing occupancy in cinema halls will be taken after March 1."Private offices and restaurants shall be encouraged to display last tests done for all employees," he said.Taking stock of vaccination status, the CM underlined the need to carry out an information, education, and communication campaign to promote 100 per cent coverage of healthcare and frontline workers. He also directed the health department to plan for and strategise the roll-out of vaccines for the elderly and those with comorbidities.Also Read | Follow Covid-19 protocols: Punjab, Maharashtra urge amid rising cases Earlier, in a presentation, health secretary Hussan Lal said that Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Patiala, SAS Nagar and SBS Nagar had shown a spike in positivity in recent days, triggering concerns of a possible fresh Covid wave in the state.According to KK Talwar, who is heading the state government’s expert group on Covid, a detailed analysis was being done on the recent spike in positivity rate, which suggested an increase in cases among young people. At the current rate, the positivity rate could go up to 4% in two weeks, translating into 800 cases per day, he said, stressing on the need for urgent preventive measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-curbs-on-gatherings-from-march-1-covid-testing-to-be-ramped-up-101614085258843.html
23-02-2021||India||‘My trust in judiciary has increased’, says Disha Ravi’s mother||Climate activist Disha Ravi’s mother said that her trust in the judiciary has increased after her daughter who was arrested in the tool kit case earlier this month was granted bail by a Delhi court on Tuesday.“All I want to say is that I’m feeling a sense of relief, and I’m very happy. The trust I had in the judiciary of our country has increased. These were difficult days, I am glad Disha got bail,” said Manjula, mother of the 22-year-old activist.A Delhi court on Tuesday granted bail to the activist calling the evidence produced by the police “scanty and sketchy.”Disha stays with her mother in north Bengaluru’s Soladevanahalli. When asked if Disha will be returning to Bengaluru, Manjula said there has been no communication on this from the lawyers yet.“I don’t know whether she will be returning soon. I just know that she got bail and I am happy,” she said.Vineeth Vincent, a friend of Disha, reacted via text saying: "Today's decision feels like a good start to many better decisions to come. We need this in order for the judiciary to uphold our democracy."Clifton Rozario, a Bengaluru-based lawyer said that the court has done a complete takedown of the case filed by the Delhi police. “When the government is weaponizing criminal laws like UAPA and sedition, it is the court that has to stand to protect the liberties of citizens. It has done so in this case. However, there are many more like Nitin Raj, Umar and those arrested in Bhima Koregaon case who are awaiting similar justice,” he said.Disha was arrested from her residence in Bengaluru on February 13 by the Delhi police following an FIR filed on February 4 charging her with sedition, promoting enmity among people and a criminal conspiracy among others and was flown to Delhi late that evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-trust-in-judiciary-has-increased-says-disha-ravi-s-mother-101614084920988.html
23-02-2021||India||In Disha Ravi case, judge cites Rig Veda: 'Our civilisation never been averse to ideas from varied quarters'||The judge of the Delhi court, who granted bail to climate activist Disha Ravi on Tuesday, cited from Rig Veda - the oldest of the four Vedas revered by the Hindu community."This 5000-year-old civilisation of ours has never been averse to ideas from varied quarters. Even our founding father accorded due respect to the divergence of opinion by recognising the freedom of speech and expression as an inviolable fundamental right," additional sessions judge Dharmendra Rana said.The right to dissent is firmly enshrined under Article 19 of the Constitution of India, justice Rana said and further added, "In my considered opinion, the freedom of speech and expression includes the right to seek a global audience."Talking about the toolkit, which the police said was part of a global conspiracy to defame India, the judge said that he was shown two hyperlinks present in the Google Doc which had links to two websites where he couldn't find anything objectionable.He also refused the public prosecutor's argument that the material in second website was "seditious" in nature. "The imputations maybe false, exaggerated or even with a mischievous intent but the same cannot be sitgmatized beig seditious unless they have tendency to foment violence," said justice Rana.He also said that the police are in the process of collecting more evidence and so they cannot be allowed to further restrict the liberty of a citizen on the basis of propitious anticipations. "The resistance to bail plea seems to be more ornamental in nature," said the judge.Ravi was arrested from Bengaluru on February 13 and has spent six days under police custody and three under judicial remand. She is the founder of the local chapter of Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg's movement.After her arrest, the Delhi Police had claimed that Ravi was involved in producing and disseminating an action plan that sparked violence during farmers' protests in Delhi. Her lawyers had said the arrest was illegal and there was nothing seditious in the toolkit.She was granted bail today subject to furnishing two sureties of ₹1 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-disha-ravi-case-judge-cites-rig-veda-our-civilisation-never-been-averse-to-ideas-from-varied-quarters-101614083418035.html
23-02-2021||India||Odisha Congress MLAs cycle to state assembly in protest against fuel prices||Congress legislators in Odisha on Tuesday rode bicycles to the state assembly protesting against the rising fuel prices and demanded that the state government slash taxes on petrol and diesel, much like Chhattisgarh and Bengal have.The price of petrol is currently the highest in Kalimela of Malkangiri, where it is being sold at ₹97.45 per litre. In Bhubaneswar, it is being sold at ₹91.64 per litre.Jeypore MLA Tara Bahinipati and Khariar MLA Adhiraj Panigrahi rode cycles from Congress Bhawan to the state assembly where the budget session is on. Similarly, Jatni MLA Suresh Routray too rode the bicycle.“Chhattisgarh and West Bengal have reduced the prices. Why shouldn’t Naveen Patnaik in Odisha? Is he bearing the cost from his own pocket?... We are protesting this way to show the CM and PM Modi how the price hike in petrol and diesel rates is affecting the common man. We demand both Centre and state to slash the fuel price,” said Bahinipati.Bahinipati said the Central and the Odisha government are equally responsible for the fuel price hike. "Both the governments lack humanity. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has created ‘Bure Din’ for the citizens instead of ‘Acche Din’ promised by him earlier. Everyday, prices of petrol and diesel continue to witness a hike. It is burning a hole in the pockets of the common man. Both, state and Centre should immediately reduce taxes and provide relief to the people,” added Bahinipati.Fuel prices, which vary from state to state depending on local sales tax or VAT, are now at record highs in the country, prompting cries for a cut in excise duty to ease the burden on consumers.Congress MLA Adhiraj Panigrahi said, “Oil price rise has affected all sections of people. I appeal to the members of BJP and BJD, including chief minister Naveen Patnaik, to use cycles to understand the problems of the common man.”Yesterday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, in a tweet, reminded people that crude oil prices have not risen but fallen, and accused the Modi government of emptying the pockets of the common man to fill the pockets of its friends for free.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said the steep rise in petrol prices is a vexatious issue and referred to the various aspects involved in the pricing.The Centre and States, Sitharaman said, need to work together and figure out a way to keep the retail prices at a reasonable level.State-owned fuel retailers — Indian Oil Corporation Ltd (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) — had on January 6 resumed daily price revision after nearly a month-long hiatus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-congress-mlas-cycle-to-state-assembly-in-protest-against-fuel-prices-101614083398559.html
23-02-2021||India||Anti-incumbency does not apply to Gujarat: Vijay Rupani amid lead in civic polls||With the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leading in all the six civic body seats in Gujarat, chief minister Vijay Rupani thanked voters and reiterated that his government will focus on the development of the municipal corporations. “I thank voters of all the six metros. I thank all the BJP workers who have worked hard in this election. I assure the people of Gujarat that the BJP will not let the trust placed in the BJP go to waste. The government will not spare any effort for the development of 6 Municipal Corporations in the coming days,” Rupani said in a tweet in Gujarati.He added that BJP’s lead in the six municipal corporations shows that anti-incumbency does not apply to the state of Gujarat. These elections were being seen as a test for Rupani ahead of the assembly polls in the state next year.Read more: Rajya Sabha bypolls: BJP wins both seats from Gujarat, 1 of them held by Ahmed Patel“By handing over the responsibility of city development to the Bharatiya Janata Party in the corporation for years, the people of Gujarat have made it a subject for the political analysts to study that the term anti-incumbency does not apply to Gujarat,” CM Rupani added.The BJP put up a winning performance in all the six civic bodies and was ahead in the early trends. According to the latest trends, out of the 192 seats in Ahmedabad, the BJP was leading in 81. In Surat, the BJP won 93 seats and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) bagged 27 seats out of 120. Out of the 76 seats in Vadodara, the BJP was leading in 36 seats and Congress in nine. In Rajkot, the BJP was leading in 48 seats out of 72 seats. Out of the 64 seats in Jamnagar, the BJP was leading in 23, both Congress and the AAP in four. In Bhavnagar, the BJP was leading in 30 seats and Congress in eight, out of 52 seats of the municipal corporation.Read more: 'Breach in BJP's citadel': AAP celebrates making inroads in Gujarat civic pollsPolling for elections to municipal corporations of Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar was conducted on Sunday. The counting of votes is being held for 192 seats across 48 wards in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, for 120 seats across 30 wards in the Surat Municipal Corporation, 76 seats across 19 wards of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation, for 72 seats across 18 wards in the Rajkot Municipal Corporation, 52 seats across 13 wards in the Bhavnagar Municipal Corporation and 64 seats across 16 wards in the Jamnagar Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antiincumbency-does-not-apply-to-gujarat-vijay-rupani-amid-lead-in-civic-polls-101614082489525.html
23-02-2021||India||MP govt hands over health centres to pvt medical college in Indore, sparks row||The Madhya Pradesh government plans to hand over some of its primary and community health centres to private partners to improve public health infrastructure, medical education minister Vishwas Sarang said Tuesday.The government has already launched a pilot project in Indore.“On a pilot basis, the Madhya Pradesh health department has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Sri Aurobindo Institute of Medical Science (SAIMS), Indore to hand over a community health centre (CHC) in Sanwer, Indore to the latter. If it works, then we will hand over more centres to private partners under PPP mode,” Sarang said.“The state government wants to give the best health facilities to common people at minimum cost. If private partners are ready to run PHC and CHC at no profit and no loss, it is good for the common people,” he added.An officer of MP health department, who is not authorized to talk to the media, said, “The authorities of SAIMS showed interest in taking over CHC. The health department granted permission under the pilot project. If it works, some other PHC and CHC will run on PPP Mode. The private partners will develop infrastructure and improve the facilities. The private partners will not charge any money from the patients but they will earn money through Ayushman Bharat Scheme.”According to the order, “The medical college will improve infrastructure by introducing machines for dialysis, phototherapy, sonography, neonatal care and others. The private medical college is also developing an ICU with 10 beds. In case of referral, an ambulance service will also be provided to patients. Apart from government health department staff, medical college’s specialists and junior doctors will also give their services at the CHC."Vinod Bhandari, director of SAIMS said they would change the face of the community health centres under the pilot project.“We want to help the state government in improving infrastructure and we got permission only a week ago. We have started developing infrastructure at CHC. We will change the face of CHC and people of more than 150 villages will benefit from it. The health department has asked us not to charge anything from the patients. We will provide treatment to the patients under Ayushman Bharat scheme.”“We will also provide training to government staff and MBBS qualified doctors at CHC. In future, we will develop more CHC under PPP mode,” said Bhandari.But the government’s plan has come under fire from health activists who accused it of privatizing healthcare and questioned its intentions.“This project is nothing but backdoor privatization of public health facilities in MP. Earlier, the health department tried to run government health facilities in Dewas and Alirajpur through PPP Mode but it failed. The services which should be free for people now the private partners will charge money from the government for the treatment under Ayushman Bharat scheme,” aid Jan Swasthya Abhiyan convener Amulya Nidhi.Another activist Upsana Behar said, “This pilot project has so many flaws. The CHC has been handed over to SAIMS without any tender. It was more like the private medical college sought permission from the government to run a CHC and without any transparency, the government granted permission. In case of referral, all the patients from CHC will be referred to SAIMs and that only means the staff at CHC will work as agents of SAIMS.”"All these things raise questions on the intention of the state government. If the state government doesn't have any malafide intention, then they should adopt a clear and transparent process," she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-hands-over-health-centres-to-pvt-medical-college-in-indore-sparks-row-101614082005343.html
23-02-2021||India||Tamil Nadu interim budget presented amid opposition walkout||Amid the walkout by opposition parties--DMK and Congress-- Tamil Nadu Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam on Tuesday presented the year 2021-22 interim budget in the state assembly.During his budget speech, Panneerselvam said that Tamil Nadu is expected to register positive growth of 2.02 per cent at 2011-12 constant prices in 2020-2021. "This is against an all India negative growth of 7.7 per cent," he saidHe urged the government of India to release all the performance grants due to Tamil Nadu based on the 14th Finance Commission recommendations without further delay and said the Central government has increased the share of cesses and surcharges substantially along with reducing the basic duty component in the levy of Union Excise Duties on petrol and diesel in May 2020."Although revenue to the Centre on account of various levies on petrol and diesel saw a growth of 48 per cent in the period from April-November, 2020 over the same period in 2019, Tamil Nadu has received 39.40 per cent less in the corresponding period as a share of Union Excise Duties on petrol and diesel. I personally urged the Union Finance Minister in the pre-Budget meeting held on January 18 that all cesses and surcharges should be merged with the basic rate of tax so that the States receive their due share as devolution from the Central taxes," said Panneerselvam.He said that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami also took up the issue with the Government of India."Despite this, in the Union Budget for 2021-22, the agricultural infrastructure development cess has been levied by further reducing the basic exercise duty on Petrol and diesel. We strongly urge the government of India to merge all cesses and surcharges with the basic rate of taxes and ensure that states receive their legitimate share of the revenue," he added.The Deputy Chief Minister announced ₹22,218.58 crore for the rural development sector in the interim budget. He also said that the state government has incurred a total expenditure of ₹13,352.85 crores for handling the Covid-19 pandemic, and out of the 413 recommendations given by the economic expert committee, the government has implemented 273 of them.Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and Congress MLAs staged a walkout from the Tamil Nadu Assembly during the presentation of the interim budget.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-interim-budget-presented-amid-opposition-walkout-101614081486554.html
23-02-2021||India||Red Fort violence: Deep Sidhu sent to 14-day judicial custody||A Delhi court on Tuesday sent actor-activist Deep Sidhu, arrested in connection with Red Fort violence on Republic Day, to 14-day judicial custody. He was arrested for his involvement during the clashes on January 26 in the farmers' tractor parade against the Centre's three new agri laws.Sidhu was previously sent to police custody on February 16 after extension of his custodial interrogation. The police officials said it was required for further investigation and to identify other accused persons in the case.He is facing charges of rioting, attempt to murder, criminal conspiracy, dacoity, culpable homicide among various other sections of Indian Penal Code.Accusing him as one of the main rioters, the police had said, "He was instigating the crowd. He was also one of the main rioters. Several social media accounts need to be searched to identify the co-conspirators."The police had also claimed that there are videos where Sidhu can be seen at the site of the incident."He can be seen coming out with the person who hoisted the flag and congratulating him. He came out and gave speeches in loud hailers and provoked the crowd there. He was the main instigator. He instigated the crowd due to which violence occurred. Several policemen were injured in the violence," they had said."Also his permanent address is given as Nagpur but several places need to be visited in Punjab and Haryana to unearth further details," the police had told the court.The court had on February 9 sent Sidhu to police custody for seven days after the police alleged he was one of the main instigators of the violent incidents at the Red Fort.Sidhu's lawyers, however, claimed he had nothing to do with the violence and was at the wrong place at the wrong time.Sidhu has been arrested for several offences under the Indian Penal Code including rioting (147 and 148), unlawful assembly (149), attempt to murder (120-B), criminal conspiracy (120-B), assaulting or obstructing public servant (152), dacoity (395), culpable homicide (308) and disobedience to order promulgated by public servant (188).He has also been arrested under sections of the Arms Act, Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act.The police had announced a cash reward of ₹1 lakh for information leading to Sidhu's arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-fort-violence-deep-sidhu-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody-101614081688904.html
23-02-2021||India||India's Covid-19 positivity rate declining, trend of less deaths seen: Govt||The Union health ministry on Tuesday said that India's cumulative positivity rate is on decline as mapped in the daily and weekly trend."The cumulative positivity rate is 5.19%. This is declining continuously. Positivity rate — cumulative as well as weekly and daily — is declining across the country," health ministry secretary Rajesh Bhushan said.Bhushan also said that India has inoculated at least 1.17 crore people — 1.04 crore have been administered first dose and 12.61 lakh second dose — across the country."The active cases continue to be less than 1.50 lakh. If you look at the average of deaths taking place daily, it was 92 last week- a trend of less than 100 deaths," Bhushan said in a weekly press briefing.Flagging the two areas of concern, the health ministry had last week singled out Kerala and Maharashtra as India's challenge in controlling the daily caseload. In continuation with that, the officials again highlighted the two states and said, "There are still 2 states that have 75% active cases -Kerala and Maharashtra. Kerala has 38% of the total active cases of the country while Maharashtra has 37% of the total active cases."Karnataka has 4% and Tamil Nadu has 2.78% active cases, Bhushan said.India has 194 people infected with three known strains first found in the UK, South Africa and Brazil, officials said."A total of 187 individuals have been reported infected with UK strain, six people with South African strain and one with Brazilian strain till date," Dr VK Paul, NITI Aayog's health member said.He added that the two variants have been found in India's three states."There are two variants in Maharashtra being talked about - N440 K variant and E484 K variant. These variants have been reported in Maharashtra, Kerala and Telangana," Paul said.The think-tank's health official said that the Covid-19 variants reported from other countries are not responsible for surge in Kerala and Maharashtra's tally."Based on the information available to us, yes these variants are there in the country. But there is no reason today for us to believe, on basis of scientific information, that these are responsible for upsurge of outbreak that you see in some districts of Maharashtra and Kerala," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-positivity-rate-declining-trend-of-less-deaths-seen-govt-101614080947104.html
23-02-2021||India||Kushinagar gets DGCA clearance, becomes third international airport in UP||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday announced that Uttar Pradesh got its third international airport in the form of Kushinagar. In a tweet, Puri said that this will help boost tourism in the region."Kushinagar Airport gets necessary clearances from DGCA to become 3rd licensed international airport of UP. Will boost tourism in the region & facilitate travel on Buddhist circuit by providing direct aviation connectivity to the city where Lord Buddha attained Mahaparinirvana," Puri said in his tweet.Kushinagar Airport gets necessary clearances from DGCA to become 3rd licensed international airport of UP. Will boost tourism in the region & facilitate travel on Buddhist circuit by providing direct aviation connectivity to the city where Lord Buddha attained Mahaparinirvana. pic.twitter.com/PhQsp9RLJ3The airport is located in the vicinity of several Buddhist cultural Sites like Sravasti, Kapilvastu and Lumbini. The other two international aisports in Uttar Pradesh are Chaudhary Charan Singh International Airport of Lucknow and Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport of Varanasi. Another one ie being built in Jewar, Greater Noida.The announcement comes a day after the state government presented ₹5.5 lakh budget for the coming financial year.Many development projects, including airport, were the special focus in UP finance minister Suresh Khanna's outlay for next year. He announced that a sum of ₹101 crore has been earmarked for an upcoming airport in Ayodhya that has been named Maryada Purushottam Shri Ram Airport.Khanna said that the state government was working on the mantra of making UP self-reliant and said a number of campaigns had been launched to establish the rule of law in the state. He also spoke about the industrial reforms that make setting up of industry easy in UP and improved connectivity in schools/colleges by development of digital villages to make the youth aware about education and employment scenario in the world.In June last year, Centre had given its go ahead to upgrade the Kushinagar airport to an international one.Kushinagar itself is a Buddhist cultural site and declaration as an “international airport” will offer improved connectivity, wider choice of competitive costs to the air-travellers. It will result in boosting of domestic/international tourism and economic development of the regions. It will be an important strategic location with the international border close by, the government had said in a statement.The government said Kushinagar draws around 200-300 devotees from Thailand, Cambodia, Japan, Myanmar, etc who come to offer prayers on any given day.The “Buddhist Circuit” is a key pilgrimage destination for 530 million practising Buddhists across the globe, the statement had noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kushinagar-gets-dgca-clearance-becomes-third-international-airport-in-up-101614081315668.html
23-02-2021||India||Kerala CM writes to PM Modi on Karnataka travel restriction||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, urging him to look into the restrictions imposed by Karnataka on passengers arriving from his state."Imposing restrictions of inter-state movement of people by states is contrary to instructions of Govt of India, which are at present holding the field," Vijayan said in the letter.The Karnataka government has reinstated stricter control for people coming from Kerala in view of increasing Covid-19 cases there. To be allowed entry, the transit passengers will have to produce a negative RT-PCR test certificate taken not more than 72 hours before commencement of the journey, according to Karnataka government order.The Karnataka government has sealed many roads, including national highways. health and police personnel are on duty at the four borders of Talapady in Mangalore taluk, Saradka in Bantwal, Nettanige-Mudnuru in Puttur taluk, and Jalsoor in Sullia, to verify test certificates.Similar restrictions have also been imposed on people travelling from Maharashtra. Five checkpoints have been set up along the Karnataka-Maharashtra border that falls within the district of Kalburgi.Vijayan, in his letter, drew attention to the “undue hardships” faced by students, patients going to Karnataka for medical concerns, and trucks carrying commodities, at the inter-state borders.The Kerala chief minister concluded his letter by requesting the Prime Minister’s attention to the Karnataka government’s decision so that such hardships can be avoided.Manipur on Tuesday too imposed restrictions on passengers travelling by air from Kerala and Maharashtra, by making testing on arrival mandatory at Bir Tikendrajit International Airport in Imphal from February 24 onwards.Kerala recorded 2,212 new coronavirus cases on Tuesday, marking a decline from the 4,070 cases recorded on Monday. The districts of Kozhikode registered the highest number of cases at 374, followed by the districts of Alappuzha (266) and Ernakulam (246).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-writes-to-pm-modi-on-karnataka-travel-restriction-101614080739330.html
23-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: ITBP to close its Covid care centre within a week and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.ITBP to close its Covid care centre, world's largest, within a weekThe Indo-Tibetan Border Police Force (ITBP) has said that it will close its 10,000-bed Covid-19 care centre in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur. It is called Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre. Read moreLakha Sidhana, Jan 26 violence accused on run, spotted at farmers' rally in PunjabGangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana, who was accused of instigating violence in the national capital on Republic Day, was spotted at a farmers' rally in Bathinda's Mehraj. Read moreBiden admin rolls back Trump-era stringent citizenship test in another policy reversalThe Biden administration on Monday announced another reversal of Trump-era policy by reverting to an earlier 2008 civics test module to make the path to US citizenship more accessible. Read moreIndia a victim of terrorism, leading global action against it: S JaishankarExternal Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday said action against terrorism is only possible when it is understood that terrorism can never be justified nor equating its perpetrators with victims. Read moreIndia Predicted XI for 3rd Test: Pink ball might force Kohli to make two changesThe third Test between India and England will get underway in Ahmedabad's Sardar Patel Stadium (Motera) from Wednesday. This will be the first international match at the revamped stadium which now has the largest capacity among cricket stadiums in the world. Read moreHyundai unveils Ioniq 5 with concept look, ultra-fast charging technologySouth Korean auto major Hyundai has unveiled the Ioniq 5 electric crossover that was showcased in concept form as the 45 Concept two years back. It is the first-ever electric mid-sized crossover from the car manufacturer and based on the OEM’s Electric-Global Modular Platform (E-GMP) architecture. Read moreAbhinav Shukla reveals why he and Rubina Dilaik wanted a divorce: ‘I forgot to bring her coffee’There has been much talk about Rubina Dilaik and Abhinav Shukla’s marriage getting a fresh lease of life, courtesy Bigg Boss 14. In a new interview, he made a startling revelation about what exactly had gone wrong between them. Read moreSara Ali Khan prefers salwar kameez from Sarojini over brands she can't affordSara Ali Khan is one of the most relatable Bollywood star kids, he is funny and goofy, and the 25-year-old Coolie No 1 actor does not take herself too seriously, which is quite refreshing. The Love Aaj Kal actor recently graced the cover of a magazine and looked absolutely gorgeous in the high octane fashion shoot. Read morePune eatery's oddly specific list for customers leaves people giggling hardEvery restaurant has their own set of rules for the visitors. Such a list from a Pune eatery has now left people laughing out loud – and all because of how oddly specific it is. Shared on Twitter, the image of the menu is from a place called Irani Café. Read moreWatch: US lauds India’s role in producing life-saving vaccines for the world||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-itbp-to-close-its-covid-care-centre-within-a-week-101614077932981.html
23-02-2021||India||Pak spouses of Kashmiri men protest in Srinagar, seek citizenship or deportation||Stranded for a decade, a group of women from Pakistan and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) who had married Kashmiri men and traveled to Jammu and Kashmir after the 2010 announcement of an amnesty policy for former militants by the then chief minister Omar Abdullah protested in Srinagar on Tuesday demanding travel documents and citizenship or deportation to Pakistan.Dozens of women along with their families including small children, raising slogans and demanding justice, protested at Press Enclave Srinagar and then marched towards the city centre Lal Chowk, the business hub of the city.“For the past 10 years we have been protesting peacefully again and again. We came here from Pakistan when the rehabilitation policy was announced. Our husbands brought us here and for the past decade there has been no forward movement on that rehabilitation policy – neither were we given citizenship nor did we get any travel documents,” said Saira Javed, a woman protestor from north Kashmir.“Our demand or request to the government is that if they accept us please provide us travel documents and citizenship and if not then they should deport those who want to go back and for those who want to stay, something should be done to them,” she said.The police intervened at Lal Chowk where the women were demanding an audience with the administration including Srinagar’s deputy commissioner Shahid Choudhary. A magistrate level officer then arrived to meet the protesters and some of them accompanied him to the DC’s office.The protesters dispersed after that and a woman claimed that the DC assured them that their demands will be raised at the appropriate forum.The protesters are part of the hundreds of women who came here with their Kashmiri husbands after the then chief minister Omar Abdullah announced a return and rehabilitation policy for former militants who were living in PoK.Many young Kashmiri men had crossed the Line of Control (LoC) into PoK in the 1990s to get arms training after insurgency started in Kashmir valley. Some had given up violence, married there and started their lives afresh.There are no official figures about the number of those who returned to Kashmir. The women say 400 of them came to Kashmir with their husbands.“The issue is that we don’t have any documents or any identity in these 11-12 years. The only identity we have is that of being the wife of a militant. Neither we nor our children can go anywhere. Neither can we send our kids to study outside. Next time there will be a bigger protest and all 400 of us will come out if the government won't listen to us,” said another protestor.Last week, some of these women had addressed a press conference to highlight their plight.Owing to opposition from Pakistan, coupled with the then Indian government’s assertion that there were ‘practical issues’ involved in implementing the rehabilitation policy, the returning men and their families were forced to take Nepal route and then by road to Kashmir with authorities going soft on the travelers.The informal entry meant there was no official recognition of their families or any documents which would help them to travel and acquire education.“Why aren’t we allowed to meet our grandparents when all other children in Kashmir can meet them? What is our fault,” said a young girl accompanying the protesters.The women said that many of the women have been divorced and husbands of some others have died.“I came here in 2012. My mother died recently and I could not go to see her one last time. Our biggest problem is that we can’t meet our relatives and family members. Parents of many women died during these years but they could not go there and see them,” said Saba Fayaz, another protestor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-spouses-of-kashmiri-men-protest-in-srinagar-seek-citizenship-or-deportation-101614076673978.html
23-02-2021||India||India a victim of terrorism, leading global action against it: S Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday said action against terrorism is only possible when it is understood that terrorism can never be justified nor equating its perpetrators with victims.The foreign affairs minister also said that India has championed the global fight against terrorism having faced it as a long-standing victim.Jaishankar was addressing the high-level segment of the 46th session of the Human Rights Council in Geneva."As a long-standing victim, India has been at forefront of global action against terrorism. It's possible only when there's a clear realisation, including in bodies dealing with human rights, that terrorism can never be justified nor its perpetrators ever equated with its victims," the minister said.He added that while there is a need for everyone to come together to overcome these challenges, reform in multilateral institutions and mechanisms is also important to deal with the evil effectively.Terrorism, Jaishankar said, continues to be one of the gravest threats to humankind.Lauding India's efforts in supplying Covid-19 vaccine globally, Jaishankar said, "India has pledged its vaccine manufacturing capacity to make vaccines accessible and affordable to all."From Bangladesh to Brazil and from Morocco to Fiji, the pharmacy of the world is supplying millions of vaccine doses to more than 70 countries, the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-a-victim-of-terrorism-leading-global-action-against-it-s-jaishankar-101614076978060.html
23-02-2021||India||Amid Covid-19 spike, Maharashtra minister defies Covid-19 norms||Maharashtra's forest minister Sanjay Rathod was seen visiting the Pohradevi Temple in Washim district amid tight security during which many of his supporters thronged his vehicle creating a commotion. In the midst of rising coronavirus infections in the state, Rathod’s supporters were seen in a video posted by news agency ANI flouting social distancing and face mask norms as they gathered around his vehicle. The supporters also clashed with the police and security personnel had to use batons to disperse the crowd, the video showed.#WATCH | Crowd gathers as Maharashtra Minister Sanjay Rathod's convoy reaches Pohradevi temple in Washim district; police baton-charge to disperse them. #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/Mh479pV6FhThe Shiv Sena leader travelled by road from his residence in Yavatmal to the Pohradevi Temple in neighbouring Washim, where he sought blessings and took part in rituals. Rathod is also the guardian minister of Yavatmal where strict restrictions have been imposed after the spike in Covid-19 infections. Along with Amravati, Yavatmal is also witnessing a surge in Covid-19 infection prompting authorities to impose strict measures to curb the spread.As the video surfaced on the internet, many people on social media sites criticised the minister’s sudden visit to the temple amid the surge in Covid-19 cases. "The strict guidelines are only for the common man, temples are blamed for rising in cases, but all this for a criminal is OK for the MVA govt," wrote one user on Twitter."Covid restrictions and safety measures only for a common Man?" asked another user.@OfficeofUT @uddhavthackeray @AnilDeshmukhNCP ....Covid restrictions and safety measures only for comman Man...??? Why and how so much gatherings are allowed???? Shocking...Meanwhile, Maharashtra’s tally of the coronavirus disease stood at 21,06,094 as of Monday evening. The death toll in the state at 51,806. It had reported 6,971 cases on Sunday in the highest single-day count in nearly four months. Out of this, 761 were reported from Mumbai city. However, after registering more than 6,000 Covid-19 cases for three days in a row, Maharashtra reported a dip in the number of daily infection on Monday as 5,210 people contracted the virus.Experts and government officials have attributed the resurgence of Covid-19 to the laxity shown by people of the state after relaxations in the Covid-19 restrictions and the reopening of social activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-spike-maharashtra-minister-defies-covid-19-norms-101614076723696.html
23-02-2021||India||Moments after Mamata Banerjee leaves, CBI team reaches Abhishek's house; wife questioned for an hour||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday examined Rujira Banerjee, the wife of Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee, in connection with the coal pilferage case.The CBI reached Abhishek Banerjee's residence in Kolkata just before noon and the examination went on for around an hour, news agency PTI reported.Also Read: Supreme Court to hear if CBI can probe coal scam caseThe questioning began soon after chief minister Mamata Banerjee visited the house of Abhishek, who is her nephew.Also Watch: Mamata visits her nephew's housePTI reported that the CBI team sought to ascertain Rujira Banerjee's financial accounts. The team left around 1.15 pm amid a heavy police presence.The CBI had served notice to Rujira Banerjee on Sunday and Abhishek's sister-in-law Menaka Gambhir in connection with the case. While Gambhir was examined on Monday, Banerjee had told the central agency that she will be available for examination between 11 am and 3 pm on February 23.The developments come months ahead of the assembly elections in the state with Trinamool Congress calling it political vendetta.The CBI had on November 28 last year carried out a massive search operation at number of locations across four states - West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh - after registering a case against a person named Anup Majhi alias Lala.It is alleged that Lala, the alleged kingpin of the scam, is involved in illegal mining and theft of coal from leasehold mines of Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) in Kunustoria and Kajora areas.Premises of two general managers and some other officers of ECL, CISF and Indian Railways were also raided by the CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hours-after-mamata-banerjee-leaves-cbi-team-reaches-abhishek-s-house-wife-questioned-for-an-hour-101614077667981.html
23-02-2021||India||Lakha Sidhana, Jan 26 violence accused on run, spotted at farmers' rally in Punjab||Gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana, who was accused of instigating violence in the national capital on Republic Day, was spotted at a farmers' rally in Bathinda's Mehraj.Sidhana, who has been on the run since January 26, also gave a speech at the rally and said that the agitation called by the farmers will be intensified.Accused of allegedly perpetrating violence in Delhi last month, Sidhana is wanted by the Delhi Police which has announced a bounty of ₹1 lakh for any information leading to his arrest. Sidhana, also known as Lakhbir Singh, however, has denied the charges of instigating the protesters to climb the Red Fort. He has told news agency PTI that on January 26, he had only marched up to the Outer Ring Road.Also read: Who is former gangster Lakha Sidhana, accused of R-Day violence?Last week, Sidhana in a video on social media, appealed to people to participate in his programme in a large number.“We have been agitating for the last seven months. Now, this stir is at its peak and in this connection, we are holding a big programme in village Mehraj in district Bathinda on February 23,” Sidhana said in the video.“I appeal to all Punjabis living in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan to participate in lakhs so that the central government comes to know that youth are not dejected, broken, but are ready and will fight for their rights till last breath,” he stated.Sidhana, who was once a dreaded gangster, had several cases registered against him in Punjab and was jailed many times. He had even unsuccessfully contested the 2012 assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakha-sidhana-jan-26-violence-accused-on-run-spotted-at-farmers-rally-in-punjab-101614073204868.html
23-02-2021||India||These states require a negative RT-PCR test for entry||Several states have made it mandatory for visitors to produce Covid-19 test if they are coming from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh amid a surge in the cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Several states have even imposed fresh restrictions on interstate travel. Most of these restrictions were in place in the middle of 2020 but were gradually eased when the number of Covid-19 cases came down.Some states now require RT-PCR tests for visitors, especially those who are arriving by air, in an effort to limit the spread of new coronavirus variants.Here are all the states that need a negative RT-PCR test on or before arrival:MaharashtraWhile travelling to Maharashtra from Gujarat, Delhi-NCR, Goa, Rajasthan and Kerala, travellers will need a negative RT-PCR test and this is applicable to all travellers irrespective of their mode of travel. For air passengers, the test report has to be within 72 hours prior to the flight. For rail passengers, the report should be within 96 hours before their train.KarnatakaFor travellers from Maharashtra or Kerala, a Covid-19 negative certificate is now mandatory in Karnataka. This is applicable to everyone irrespective of the mode of travel, including private vehicles. For air passengers, the test report has to be within 72 hours prior to the flight. For rail passengers, the report should be within 96 hours before their train.UttarakhandThe Uttarakhand government made the Covid-19 test mandatory for people coming from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh in the wake of a surge in coronavirus cases in these states.ManipurThe northeastern state has made the Covid-19 test mandatory for passengers coming from Maharashtra and Kerala. This applies to passengers coming by air and will be in place from February 24.AssamAll passengers coming into Assam, irrespective of their mode of travel, need to conduct a swab or antigen test on arrival.MeghalayaPassengers travelling to the state will either need to present an RT-PCR test (not earlier than 72 hours prior to arrival) or will have to undergo a test at the airport.MizoramThe state also requires a negative Covid-19 report from all passengers. Failure to produce the same will result in the passengers undergoing screening at the entry point with a rapid antigen test.OdishaAll passengers above the age of 55 years need to present a rapid antigen test on arrival in the state.TripuraAll passengers need to undergo a Covid-19 test on arrival in the state. The test is free of cost.Jammu & KashmirPassengers from all states arriving in Srinagar need to provide a negative RT-PCR test.LadakhA negative Covid-19 report on arrival (not earlier than 72 hours prior to arrival) is required for all passengers arriving in Ladakh.Himachal PradeshThe state does not need the RT-PCR test for passengers but the district of Lahaul and Spiti requires travellers using cabs or private transport, to provide an RT-PCR test conducted 72 hours to 96 hours before entering the valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-states-require-a-negative-rt-pcr-test-for-entry-101614075749023.html
23-02-2021||India||Delhi judge finds police probe sketchy and scanty, grants bail to Disha Ravi||A Delhi court on Tuesday granted bail to 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi, who was arrested in connection with the toolkit case."Considering the scanty and sketchy evidence on record, I do not find any palpable reason to breach the general rule of bail against a 22-year-old young lady, with absolutely blemish free criminal antecedents and firm roots in the society, and send her to jail," the court said.Delhi Police had accused Ravi of creating the online toolkit - a Google document - in support of ongoing farmers' protest in the country and claimed she is part of global conspiracy to create unrest and trigger violence in the guise of farmers' stir against the three agriculture laws.On Monday, she was sent to one-day police custody after a three-day judicial remand and spending five days in police custody. Ravi was arrested on February 13.Also Read | There is undeclared Emergency in India: Sanjay Raut on Disha Ravi arrestThe police sought her custody again yesterday saying they want to confront Ravi with other accused in the case - activists Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk. She was brought to the Delhi Police Cyber Cell for the same earlier on Tuesday.Both Muluk and Jacob were booked for alleged sedition along with Ravi, but got transit bail from Bombay High Court. They were both on Monday questioned at the Delhi Police's Cyber cell office in Dwarka, a senior police officer said. The probe agency said that they may arrest Jacob and Muluk as well in the future if there is a requirement.Also Read | ‘Just because I speak to a secessionist doesn’t make me one’: Disha to courtRavi was volunteering for Fridays for Future (FFF) India, an organisation founded by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, and used to help with the organisation's event management work in Bengaluru. The contentious toolkit was first shared by Thunberg on Twitter but later deleted. However, the teen activist extended support to Ravi and tweeted, "Freedom of speech and the right to peaceful protest and assembly are non-negotiable human rights. These must be a fundamental part of any democracy." The tweet was posted with the hashtag 'StandWithDishaRavi'.Meanwhile, Muluk on Tuesday moved a Delhi court seeking anticipatory bail. His application is likely to come up for hearing Wednesday before Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-court-grants-bail-to-activist-disha-ravi-in-toolkit-case-101614075461004.html
23-02-2021||India||‘Actor on tractor’: Union minister Pralhad Joshi questions Rahul Gandhi over APMC, farm law||Union minister for parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi on Tuesday questioned Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over the absence of agricultural produce market committee (APMC) in Kerala and the new law concerting farmers in Punjab. Joshi also accused the Congress leader and Left parties of hypocrisy ahead of polls in five states and a Union territory.The senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader’s remarks come a day after Gandhi held a tractor rally in his constituency in Kerala’s Wayanad against the Centre’s three new farm laws. “Rahul Gandhi is trying to become 'actor on tractor'. If you are in favour of APMC, then, why is there no APMC in Kerala,” news agency ANI quoted minister Joshi as saying.Also read | Rahul Gandhi targets Centre, says it is imposing its will and power on judiciaryJoshi also pointed that a new law brought by the Congress government in Punjab can potentially send a farmer behind bars. “Rahul Gandhi, your government in Punjab has brought a law under which a farmer who breaks the agreement. He could be sent to jail,” the minister said during a press conference in Kerala’s capital of Thiruvananthapuram.Similar comments were made by Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on February 6 during his address in the Rajya Sabha. “Punjab Contract Farming Act provides for jail and fine up to ₹5 lakh for the farmers. In the act made by the government of India, the farmer can come out of contract farming at any time,” Tomar had said in the Upper House.Gandhi, busy with political rallies in poll-bound Kerala and Puducherry, had attacked the Centre on Monday. “These three [farm] laws are designed to destroy the agriculture system in the country and give the entire business to two or three friends of PM Modi,” he had said.Joshi also asked Gandhi to clarify his position on why the Congress party has a different alliance in different states and said politics is not just for grabbing power and having "some alliance here and some alliance there,"“The Left Democratic Front (LDF) and United Democratic Front (UDF) are fighting in Kerala. 'Kushti' in Kerala, 'dosti' in Delhi and other places. See the hypocrisy of these parties. TMC chief Mamata Banerjee is supporting Congress in Delhi but not doing the same in West Bengal as Congress has become a liability on various regional parties," Joshi.Also read | When will petrol and diesel prices drop? Oil minister Pradhan weighs in"Hypocrisy of the Left is that they are supporting Congress in Delhi, West Bengal. They (Congress and Left) are friends in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu also. You don't want to believe Politburo in Kerala but you choose to do in West Bengal: I ask Rahul Gandhi do you believe in democracy or hypocrisy,” he said.Kerala, along with West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, is scheduled to hold assembly elections in April-May. Leaders of the Congress and BJP have been paying visits to the southern state ahead of the polls. Gandhi is in Kerala to attend a programme to mark the culmination of padayatra being undertaken by state Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and other programmes on February 22 and 23.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has also visited the state and had flagged off the BJP's Vijaya Yatra from Kasaragod last week. Other BJP national leaders will also be in Kerala to attend the Vijaya Yatra rally in various districts. Union home minister Amit Shah will attend the concluding session of the rally on March 7 in Thiruvananthapuram.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-on-tractor-union-minister-pralhad-joshi-questions-rahul-gandhi-101614075036444.html
23-02-2021||India||Fragmentation of tiger habitat is leading to inbreeding, low survival: Study||A new research paper has concluded that fragmentation of habitat has already disrupted the natural evolutionary process in wild tigers and will continue to do so in future as anthropogenic pressures increase, leading to higher inbreeding and lower survival.A team of researchers from Stanford University, the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) in Bengaluru, and various zoological parks and wildlife NGOs sequenced 65 genomes from four of the surviving tiger subspecies—Amur tigers, Bengal tigers, Sumatran tigers and Malayan tigers—over a period of three years to gain insight into the genomic variation in tigers.The study published in journal of Molecular Biology and Evolution published on February 16 suggests that these four tiger subspecies are genetically distinct but there is inbreeding among Indian tigers, which is a result of isolated populations due to habitat loss. “What the paper points out is that although Indian tigers as a whole (all Indian tigers looked at in this study) have the highest amount of variation compared to any other subspecies, some Indian tigers do show signs of possible inbreeding or founding events (loss of genetic variation). We do not see this, by comparison, in the Russian far east or Amur tigers. They have very low variation, but individuals do not appear to be inbred,” explained Uma Ramakrishnan, co-senior and co-corresponding author, NCBS. Another co-author from India is YV Jhala, Wildlife Institute of India’s faculty of wildlife science dean.Also Read | Mumbai’s Byculla zoo reopens after Covid shutdown, draws 1,400 visitors on Day 1Several individual tigers in India had low genetic variation, suggesting possible inbreeding, but tigers from northeast India were the most different from other populations in India.Genomes of Amur tigers suggest adaptation to the extreme cold, while those of Sumatran tigers suggest adaptation based on body size, which is comparatively smaller. “The tiger is an excellent example of the myriad historic events that sculpt species’ genomic diversity and points to the importance of understanding this diversity as we attempt to stave off extinction of our most precious species on Earth. While some populations demonstrate the importance of adaptation to local conditions, other evidence suggests that particular populations may suffer the effects of climatic change in the Anthropocene,” co-senior author Elizabeth Hadly of Stanford University said in a statement issued by NCBS.The study suggests that extreme fragmentation and high human population density in India has resulted in isolated populations, where individuals may be more likely to mate with relatives (inbreeding). In contrast, despite low Amur tiger population densities in the Russian Far East, individual movement is not hindered by significant barriers and there is less inbreeding.“Tigers will continue to lose genetic variation. Further, inbreeding due to living in small and isolated populations could cause inbreeding depression, or lowered survival. We do not have any evidence for inbreeding depression yet, but it is something we should study,” Ramakrishnan added.The paper has recommended managing local populations by minimising anthropogenic pressures as a conservation strategy for future. “In summary, ongoing human impacts like fragmentation will likely continue to disrupt natural evolutionary processes in wild tigers. Managing local populations to minimise human impact may be the key to species survival, and the important conservation strategy for the Anthropocene. Additional historical and genomic sampling may provide an informed roadmap for genetic rescue and augmentation.”Genetic variation is like money in the bank: the more you have, the better your chances of survival in the future. Population bottlenecks decrease genetic variation, especially in endangered species, the NCBS statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fragmentation-of-tiger-habitat-is-leading-to-inbreeding-low-survival-study-101614075757765.html
23-02-2021||India||In bail plea, Nodeep Kaur claims she was 'beaten and tortured' by police||Labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur in her bail plea before the Punjab and Haryana High Court has claimed that she was severely beaten up at a police station after her arrest by the Sonipat police last month.The 23-year-old activist, hailing from Punjab's Muktsar district, has also claimed that her medical examination was not conducted in violation of section 54 of the Criminal Procedure Code.Kaur is currently lodged in Karnal jail in Haryana.The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday had adjourned the hearing on her bail plea and posted the matter for February 24.In the bail plea filed through her counsels Arshdeep Singh Cheema and Harinder Deep Singh Bains, Kaur stated that she was falsely arraigned as accused in an FIR lodged under various sections, including 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC.In her petition, the labour rights activist claimed that she was "targeted and falsely implicated" in the case as she was successful in generating massive support for the ongoing farmer movement against the Centre's three new farm laws.Kaur, who is a member of the Majdoor Adhikar Sangathan, said they mobilized people for a protest at Kundli in Sonipat district against Centre's new farm laws.The plea alleged that the mobilisation of local labourers in support of farmers annoyed the administration and a plan was devised to stifle the protest.The bail plea stated that on January 12, the petitioner and MAS members marched towards a factory for demanding payment of pending wages of some workers.The high court was informed that they were manhandled by a group formed by the Kundli Industrial Area, an association of industrial owners.In the meantime, a team from Kundli police station led by the station house officer reached there and immediately on their arrival, they grabbed the petitioner by her hair and dragged to the side, according to the plea.This angered the protesters and the situation became worse when the police resorted to lathi charge on peaceful protesters. A scuffle ensued and the petitioner tried to pacify the situation but to no avail, it said.The petitioner alone was caught and arrested by police officials. She was beaten, tortured and suffered multiple injuries, it claimed.The petitioner was taken to the police station in the absence of any woman police official and was beaten up by police officials, the plea alleged.Kaur was arrested in Haryana's Sonipat on January 12, the Haryana police had earlier said.Sonepat police officials had also said that a police team was attacked with sticks when they reached the site and some policemen sustained injuries in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bail-plea-nodeep-kaur-claims-she-was-beaten-and-tortured-by-police-101614073439736.html
23-02-2021||India||Manipur: Passengers from Maharashtra, Kerala to be tested for Covid at airport||Due to the recent resurge of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra and Kerala, all passengers travelling by air from these two states will be tested when they arrive at Bir Tikendrajit International Airport in Imphal February 24 onwards.K Rajo Singh, director of health services, government of Manipur, issued a notification in this regard on February 22.Meanwhile the office of the chief medical officer of Imphal west district has taken up necessary steps to implement the new steps at the airport.“At present we’re working on it. We’ll be able to give details after sometime,” the chief medical officer said on the phone.Also Read | How states are stepping up as Covid-19 cases riseThe northeastern state had decided to discontinue Covid-19 testing of incoming air passengers at the airport with effect from December 18 last year.The state Covid-19 task force had taken a decision in this regard during its meeting on December 14, 2020, the then government order sai,d adding that the percentage of air passengers testing positive for Covid-19 had reduced to about 1 % and targeted testing is not considered essential when the positivity rate is below 2 %.Earlier, with the decline of Manipur’s Covid-19 active cases, the state authority had also decided to close down six Covid Care Centres opened in five districts.As of Monday, the cumulative number of Covid-19 cases in the state is 29,240 while the numbers of active and recovered cases are 49 and 28,818 respectively. The recovery rate reached 98.55 %, according to the officials of the health department.So far 581,461 people were screened at various entry points into the state, while 543,414 individuals were tested for the disease, said officials.In another development, 41,706 persons, including healthcare workers and frontline workers, have received Covid-19 vaccine shots in Manipur so far, as per the latest official information.So far, the total number of healthcare workers vaccinated with the first dose of Covishield is 29,616, said an official source. A total of 1,798 healthcare workers were vaccinated with a second dose of Covishield in the state, the source added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-passengers-from-maharashtra-kerala-to-be-tested-for-covid-at-airport-101614073597619.html
23-02-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi’s new mantra for IIT students: Self-Three||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday urged students to move forward following the mantra of Self-Three. Addressing the 66th convocation of IIT Kharagpur in West Bengal virtually, Modi said, “ You will face many questions on the road you have chosen – is this the right path? Will there be a loss? Will there be a waste of time? The answer to these questions is Self-Three: Self-awareness, self-confidence and selflessness. Identify your capabilities and move forward with a selfless attitude.” Modi said that India can become a major player in the field of science, technology, research, and innovation in the world. “In the fight against Corona, the software solutions developed by IIT are helping the country. You will have to work on health front. I am not just talking about gadgets. I am taking about an ecosystem. We have to give solutions to the nation starting from prevention to cure,” he said. Also Read | PM Modi pushes PPP model for ‘aatmanirbhar’ health sectorThere is a huge market of personal health care equipment as people have started monitoring their blood pressure, sugar and oxygen levels at home, he said. “We also need to come up with technologies which can offer affordable and accurate solutions,” he added. Floating the idea of a clean cooking movement based on solar power, the Prime Minister also said at least 250 million households in India still use chullah [traditional clay stove]. “If we get success here, then the search for cheaper batteries for electric vehicle can be cross subsidised. Who else can do this work if not the youths of IIT?” he asked. Referring to the recent Uttarakhand glacier burst, Modi said the country needs to think how to make its infrastructure resilient, starting from small houses to big bridges. “IITs should not just remain as Indian Institute of Technology but should work to become Institute of Indigenous Technology and take it to the next level. The more our IITs do research and come up with solutions to meet the challenges of India, the more they would become a medium of global application,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-s-new-mantra-for-iit-students-selfthree-101614073237769.html
23-02-2021||India||Focus on addressing global issues: PM Modi asks students at IIT Kharagpur||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) have to play the role of ‘Institutes of Indigenous Technologies’ in the future. The Prime Minister said that if IITs start addressing the problems India is currently facing then it will also gradually be able to address global issues. He added that India’s large population provides a huge opportunity for entrepreneurs to exercise their ideas.“IITs have to be taken to the next level so that they not only remain Indian Institute of Technology (IITs) but also become Institutes of Indigenous Technologies. If IITs address problems that Indians are facing then they can also address global issues. If experiments are successful in India, then globally they are bound to be a success,” the Prime Minister said while addressing the 66th convocation of IIT Kharagpur in West Bengal.He said that as engineers students of IIT have the ability to study problems at different levels. He said that engineers can study the pattern of a problem and can provide long term solutions. “As an engineer, you have the ability to move things from patterns to patents. That is, in a way, you have the vision to see subjects in more detail. In this way, you have the vision to see subjects in a more detailed way,” the Prime Minister added.PM Modi in his address also asked students to practice three mantras. He said that students should follow the goals set by them in their lives by following the mantras of self-confidence, self-awareness and selflessness. “You have to become startups to bring about a change in the lives of people. You have to work on self three - self-awareness, self-confidence and selflessness. You should recognise your potential and move forward, move ahead with full confidence, move ahead with selflessness,” he said.During his address, PM Modi also asked students to develop infrastructure which can withstand the effects of natural disasters. “Climate change is a major challenge before the world. India drew the attention of the world to the issue of disaster management. You can see what happened recently in Uttarakhand. We should focus on improving disaster-resilient infrastructure that can withstand natural disasters,” the Prime Minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-addressing-global-issues-pm-modi-asks-students-at-iit-kharagpur-101614072798064.html
23-02-2021||India||Days after dip in Sangam, Priyanka Gandhi continues outreach in Nishad community||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday tweeted in support of the Nishad community in Uttar Pradesh. Gandhi, who is the party's general secretary in-charge of UP, had visited Prayagraj on Sunday to meet the members of the community.“The real claimants and protectors of the river are the people of the Nishad community. In Banswara, Prayagraj, we will fight against the oppression of UP police and for the rights of Nishad society. The Nishad families whose boats have been demolished will be provided with a financial assistance of ₹10 lakh,” Gandhi said in a series of tweets.Gandhi announced that Congress will organise a ‘Nadi Adhikar Yatra (Right to the river rally) in support of the Nishad community. Adding that since Nishads have a primary right over the resources of the river, a cooperative society should be formed for legalising and regulating sand mining activities in the Yamuna river. “Congress will take out the Nadi Adhikar Yatra for the rights of the Jan Nishad community. Nishads have the primary rights over the resources of the river. With this idea in mind we demand the formation of a Nishadraj Cooperative Society for sand mining activities,” she tweeted.The Nishad community is a caste group listed under Other Backward Classes (OBC) in UP. It subsumes many castes and subcastes, such as the Mallahs, Binds, Manjhis, Kewats, Kashyaps, Turhas, Majhwas, Bathams, among others. These communities are all primarily engaged in fishing and boating, as well as farming along the river banks. Many Nishads are also engaged in daily-wage labour such as sand mining.Nishads are heavily dependent on the tourism industry as they ferry tourists in the famous ghats of Varanasi and Prayagraj. In early February during a drive against illegal sand mining in the Yamuna river, the UP police had damaged boats plied by the community.In 2013, the National Green Tribunal stopped the extraction of sand from rivers using heavy machinery, but companies continued mining activities using small boats. The UP government had in June 2019 banned the use of small boats in sand mining, which coupled with the pandemic induced lockdown financially crippled the river-reliant Nishad community. Nishads have been demanding mining contracts for its community members from Yogi Adityanath’s government.Gandhi had lent her support to their demands during her Prayagraj visit. "If the mining mafia is allowed to mine here, why can't those, who live here, who have a right on contracts, on this land, on this river, work here," she had said.In the 152-member assembly of UP, Nishads hold considerable sway. In both the 2014 and 2019 general elections, Nishads had supported the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Nishad Party president’s son Praveen Nishad is a sitting member of Parliament, who joined BJP after walking out of the Samajwadi Party-Bahujan Samaj Party alliance in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/days-after-dip-in-sangam-priyanka-gandhi-continues-outreach-in-nishad-community-101614072525218.html
23-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand: Covid-19 test mandatory for people arriving from five states||The Uttarakhand government on Tuesday issued an order to make the Covid-19 test mandatory for people coming from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh in the wake of a surge in coronavirus cases in these states."Due to the rise in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, travellers from these states have to undergo testing on arrival in Uttarakhand at state borders, railway stations and Dehradun airport," said Dehradun District Magistrate.The decision was taken in face of a sudden rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in several states.Meanwhile, India on Tuesday registered 10,584 new Covid-19 cases and 78 deaths in the last 24 hours, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) said.With the new cases, the coronavirus tally in the country has reached 1,10,16,434 including 1,47,306 active cases and 1,07,12,665 discharges. The death toll has mounted to 1,56,463 with the loss of 78 lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-covid-19-test-mandatory-for-people-arriving-from-five-states-101614072117535.html
23-02-2021||India||Toolkit case: Shantanu Muluk moves Delhi court for anticipatory bail||Shantanu Muluk, who is accused along with Disha Ravi in connection with allegedly being involved in sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers' protest, Tuesday moved a Delhi court seeking anticipatory bail.The application moved by Muluk is likely to come up for hearing Wednesday before Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana.Muluk had got transit bail from Bombay High Court on February 16 for 10 days.He, along with Ravi and another accused Nikita Jacob, was booked for alleged sedition and other charges.Ravi was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru and brought to Delhi. Her police custody ends today.Muluk and Jacob are currently on transit bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toolkit-case-shantanu-muluk-moves-delhi-court-for-anticipatory-bail-101614072198379.html
23-02-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal wants farmers to commit suicide, alleges BJP's Meenakshi Lekhi||BJP leader Meenakshi Lekhi on Monday slammed Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and said that Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal wants farmers to commit suicide."Kejriwal wants the farmer to keep committing suicide. The condition of the farmers continues to deteriorate. It is Kejriwal who speaks the language of middlemen," said Lekhi.The BJP leader reiterated that Kejriwal wishes that the farmer keeps committing suicide, should never get a better price for their crops and their condition continue to worsen."The farm laws have been brought out to exclude middlemen and their corrupt practices. However, Kejriwal ji opts to speak in favour of these middlemen. I do not think that he is working in our country's interest or in the interest of the farmers. Kejriwal ji's comments must be investigated," she said.Also Read | AAP to hold 'Kisan Mahasammelan' in Punjab's Moga district on March 21On February 21, after a meeting with farmer leaders from Western Uttar Pradesh at Vidhan Sabha, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal called the Centre's new farm laws "death warrant for farmers" and said these laws will bring farming under the control of "a few corporates".Farmers have been protesting at the different borders of the national capital since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arvind-kejriwal-wants-farmers-to-commit-suicide-alleges-bjp-s-meenakshi-lekhi-101614071363067.html
23-02-2021||India||R-Day violence: Farmer leaders’ arrest triggers protests in Jammu||Angry protesters on Tuesday blocked a busy road in Jammu and shouted slogans against the Bharatiya Janata Party government in protest against farmer leaders Mohinder Singh and Mandeep Singh’s arrest. The Delhi Police arrested the two late on Monday for their alleged involvement in the January 26 violence at Delhi’s Red Fort during the tractor rally organised as part of protests against the three farm laws passed in September.Mohinder Singh, 45, heads the Jammu & Kashmir United Kisan Front.Also Watch | R-Day violence: J&K United Kisan Front chairman among 2 arrested by Delhi Police“Angry over their arrests, people blocked Digiana Ashram Road for over an hour and created a law-and-order situation. We pacified them and involved community elders to defuse the situation. Thereafter, they lifted the blockade and dispersed peacefully,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named.Mohinder Singh’s family said he was called to Jammu Gandhi Nagar police station and they were later informed about his arrest. Angry protesters rushed to the police station when the news about the arrest broke. The family insisted Mohinder Singh has never visited Red Fort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rday-violence-farmer-leaders-arrest-triggers-protests-in-jammu-101614072037504.html
23-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi targets Centre, says it is imposing its will and power on judiciary||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi once again targeted the central government on Tuesday and accused it of imposing its will and power on the judiciary in Delhi. Gandhi also said that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government is "not allowing the judiciary to be or do what it must." "Not just courts, they do not allow discussions in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha either and drop elected governments repeatedly," Gandhi said in Mallapuram."For the first time, winning the election means losing and vice-versa," the Congress leader, who is on a two-day visit to poll-bound Kerala, said.Gandhi’s comments come a day after Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy resigned after falling short of the majority in the assembly. The Narayanasamy government lost the majority after five Congress and one Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) legislators resigned. Since 2019, Congress has lost power similarly in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh.It also comes in the backdrop of farmers' protests continuing for more than two months now. The farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are agitating against the contentious farm laws which were passed by the voice vote in Parliament in September last year amid uproar by opposition.The central government has projected the laws as "historic reforms" in the agriculture sector that will work in favour of farmers by removing middlemen and giving them the freedom to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, farmers fear that it will put them at the mercy of the big corporates and will remove the Minimum Support Price (MSP).Earlier in the day, Gandhi had slammed the government for its plans to privatise railways. Terming it as a "threat to millions of poor people who travel using our railways", Gandhi said, "It is also going to create a problem for millions of employees who work for the Railways.""Railways are a fundamental part of our country. Railways do not belong to one person, they belong to the whole country. It allows millions of people to travel cheaply...I noticed in the last Budget that the government is intent on privatising this Indian asset," he also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-targets-centre-says-it-is-imposing-its-will-and-power-on-judiciary-101614070974894.html
23-02-2021||India||'Breach in BJP's citadel': AAP celebrates making inroads in Gujarat civic polls||The Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday went into a celebratory mode after making inroads in Gujarat civic poll elections. As the counting is still on, the party claimed to have won eight seats in Surat Municipal Corporation in what the party is describing as breaching 'BJP's citadel'.According to the latest updates, as officially confirmed by the state election commission, out of 120 seats in Surat, BJP has won 12 and four seats have gone to AAP, while Congress so far has still not opened its account in Surat.Follow live updates of Gujarat municipal election 2021 countingAAP breaches BJP's citadel.Wins 8 seats in Surat as of now.🔹4 seats of Ward no. 4🔹4 seats of Ward no. 16Leading on several other seats all across Gujarat.Kejriwal's 'Delhi Model' is giving hope to Gujarat.#GujaratLocalBodyPollsસુરત વોર્ડ નંબર 16 માં આમ આદમી પાર્ટી પેનલ વિજેતા બની..અભિનંદન.Not only in Surat, but the party was also performing well in other seats as well. "Kejriwal's 'Delhi Model' is giving hope to Gujarat," the party tweeted.From its AAP Gujarat handle too, it tweeted and congratulated the candidates.The ruling party of Delhi has been on an upward trajectory in increasing its footprints at the national level. In the recent civic elections of Goa and Kashmir, AAP made gains.AAP candidate Hanzel Fernandes won a panchayat election seat in Goa. AAP leader Mehraj Malik won the DDC polls from the Kahara constituency in Doda, though he contested as an Independent candidate.This is the first time that AAP contested in all seats in the civic body election in Gujarat. Several prominent AAP leaders have been given charge of the party in respective states. Atishi was in charge of Gujarat.The party has already announced its plan to contest in the assembly elections of several states, including Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breach-in-bjp-s-citadel-aap-celebrates-making-inroads-in-gujarat-civic-polls-101614070712914.html
23-02-2021||India||Indian officials explain why buzz around Prez Xi’s India visit is misplaced||South Block is flummoxed by reports about Chinese President Xi Jinping’s possible visit to India for the Brics summit as neither the dates nor the format has been decided given that the coronavirus pandemic is showing no signs of abating, people aware of the matter said.The buzz around President Xi’s possible visit to the summit of the five-nation group comprising Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa was triggered by positive comments of the Chinese spokesperson about relations with India on Monday. The spokesperson also expressed Beijing’s support to host this year’s meeting though he hadn’t responded to a direct question about President Xi’s visit to Delhi.Pangong Tso disengagement: Why China blinked?Indian officials said that it was too early to speculate.“The dates of the BRICS summit have still not been decided. Once the date and the format, virtual or physical, has been decided by India, only then consultations will be held with Russia, China, South Africa and Brazil. As it is, President Vladimir Putin and President Xi Jinping are not travelling outside their countries due to the global pandemic,” said a senior official at the ministry of external affairs.Diplomats based in Moscow told Hindustan Times that the no Brics dates were mentioned by visiting foreign secretary Harsh Shringla to his Russian interlocutors either. “Not even the dates of the annual India-Russia summit have been finalised due to the pandemic,” said a senior diplomat.India assumed the rotating chairmanship of the Brics forum on January 1, 2021, taking over from Russia, which hosted the last summit as an online event in November 2020 because of the Covid-19 pandemic.India’s assumption of Brics leadership, the third time since the group was formed in 2006, comes at a time when New Delhi’s relations with Beijing are facing their worst challenge in decades. Troops of the two neighbours had been engaged in a standoff for over nine months and have only now started disengaging from one of the friction points; the south and north banks of Pangong lake.While Beijing would like to portray that it was business as usual after the Pangong Tso disengagement, Indian military commanders are not so convinced and are still wary of the intentions of PLA commanders till such time there is complete peace along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Also Read: What Pangong means for Asian geopoliticsChina’s approach all along the past nine months has been to delink the bilateral relationship with border friction to revive the economic relations. The Indian stand is quite the opposite and stresses that peace and tranquillity on the border is the prerequisite to a normal bilateral relationship. It is in this context that India wants status quo ante to be restored all along the LAC before the revival of ties, a position that has been agreed to by Chinese interlocutors during the backchannel talks.While much of the speculation around President Xi possible visit for the Brics summit has been flagged as a breakthrough in bilateral relations, officials underline that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has shown no signs of withdrawing troops from anywhere along the 3,488 km long LAC except Pangong Tso. The Chinese military infrastructure build-up all along the eastern sector across Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh is showing no signs of receding with the PLA redeploying forces for tactical reasons. There is no change of force in either the Depsang Bulge area or the Gogra-Hot Springs area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/buzz-around-prez-xi-s-visit-surprises-india-says-no-dates-for-brics-summit-yet-101614070583354.html
23-02-2021||India||Jammu & Kashmir LG Manoj Sinha says agriculture sector to get more share in budget||The agriculture sector in the Union Territory will get more share of the budget component in future as a unique sustainable agriculture plan has been developed in Jammu and Kashmir, which currently caters to all developmental needs without compromising future potential, said Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday.Sinha, yesterday attended Horti-Expo 2021 at Police Auditorium in Gulshan Ground in the Valley, which was initiated by the Horticulture Department of the UT to make farmers aware of the new technologies of farming adopted by other states."We initiate this fair at an individual level and invited other states including Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh delegations to presented their stalls. Our aim is to make farmers aware of what is happening around the country," Ram Savak, Director Horticulture Jammu told ANI.A huge number of farmers took parts in the fair, Tejandar Singh, a farmer said: " It is a good initiative in which farmers get aware about what other states are doing for good crops. It is a good step for the development of the farmers."Speaking on the occasion the LG said, "The promotion of local produce and taking it to the global market is one of the key focus areas of the J&K government and it is making continuous efforts to increase the resources and market linkages to further strengthen the horticulture sector. The UT government would continue striving hard to provide the best and advanced technologies to farmers as the welfare of the farmer community and increasing their income manifold is its priority."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-lg-manoj-sinha-says-agriculture-sector-to-be-get-more-share-in-budget-101614070196572.html
23-02-2021||India||When will petrol and diesel prices drop? Oil minister Pradhan weighs in||Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Tuesday prices of petrol and diesel have gone up after fluctuation in the international markets and will eventually come down. “Due to an increase in prices of crude oil in international markets, consumer price (for petrol and diesel) has risen. This will soften gradually. Global supply was reduced due to Covid in turn affecting production as well,” Pradhan was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“We are consistently requesting the GST Council to include petroleum products under its purview as it will benefit people. But it is their call to take,” the oil minister added.Petrol and diesel prices have been increasing continuously for more than 10 days and in some states, the price of petrol has even crossed ₹100. Petrol price has already surged past the ₹100-mark in some places in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, states which levy the highest Value Added Tax (VAT) on the fuel. The price of petrol touched an all-time high of ₹97 per litre in Mumbai last Saturday and the diesel rate crossed the ₹88-mark. It was the 12th straight day of price hikes and the largest daily increase since oil companies started to revise rates on a daily basis in 2017.Also read | Why are prices of petrol and diesel increasing? Petroleum minister explainsPetrol and diesel prices were up again in the national capital and stood at ₹90.83 and ₹81.32 per litre, respectively on Tuesday. Petrol price was raised by ₹25 paise while that of diesel by ₹35 paise. The price of liquefied petroleum 14.2kg domestic cylinder was also raised by ₹50 per unit in Delhi on February 14, taking the cost of LPG gas to ₹769 per cylinder.Opposition parties have held protests in different parts of the country over the rise of prices of diesel and petrol. Congress president Sonia Gandhi last Sunday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to convey "every citizen's anguish and deep distress regarding the spiralling fuel and gas prices."Also read | Jharkhand petroleum dealers body demands reduction of VAT on dieselResponding to Gandhi’s letter, Pradhan pointed out the issue of taxation in Rajasthan and Maharashtra, states where the Congress party is in power on its own or as part of an alliance. “Sonia ji must know Rajasthan and Maharashtra have maximum tax. Earnings of Centre and state were negligible during the lockdown,” Pradhan said after Gandhi's letter to PM Modi over rising fuel prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-will-petrol-and-diesel-prices-drop-oil-minister-pradhan-weighs-in-101614069991560.html
23-02-2021||India||SC adjourns hearing on CBI plea against discharge of Kerala CM, others in graft case||The Supreme Court Tuesday adjourned the hearing on CBI's plea against the discharge of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and two others in a graft case related to awarding of a contract to Canadian firm SNC-Lavalin when he was the power minister.A bench headed by Justice U U Lalit deferred the matter to April 6 after Additional Solicitor General S V Raju, appearing for the CBI, sought adjournment in the matter."I am engaged in a part heard matter in another court. Please have it next week," the ASG said.The bench then posted the hearing to April 6.The case pertains to allegations of corruption and causing a loss of ₹374.50 crore to the state Exchequer in awarding of a contract to SNC-Lavalin when Vijayan was the power minister in 1996.The top court had earlier asked the CBI to come up with very strong grounds against the discharge of Vijayan and two others in the SNC Lavalin graft case.The high court and the lower court have held that they should not be tried in the matter.The CBI said this was a cross-appeals matter filed in 2017 and it will file a comprehensive note giving the factual aspect of the matter.On August 23, 2017, the Kerala High Court had upheld the discharge of Vijayan in the SNC Lavalin graft case, saying the CBI had "wrongly picked" him as prima facie there was no case against him. The high court had also upheld the discharge of two others in the case while rejecting the CBI's plea that their full-fledged trial was necessary to prove the conspiracy.The high court's verdict had come in a revision petition filed by the CBI in 2014 challenging the discharge of Vijayan and five others in the case by a special CBI court in Thiruvananthapuram.The CBI special court, Thiruvananthapuram, had in November 2013 discharged Vijayan and others.The probe agency had filed the charge sheet in the case arguing that there was sufficient evidence to prove the charges against the accused.The discharge by the special court was 'illegal', CBI had stated in its revision petition.The special judge had ruled that the CBI had failed to prove the charges of conspiracy and corruption levelled against Vijayan and other accused.The CBI had argued before the high court that a trial was must to prove the conspiracy in giving the contract to revamp the power projects to the Canadian firm when Vijayan was power minister in 1996.Claiming that the conspiracy was hatched at different stages in awarding the contract, the CBI had assailed the lower court order discharging Vijayan and six others and said a full-fledged trial was necessary to prove the conspiracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-adjourns-hearing-on-cbi-plea-against-discharge-of-kerala-cm-in-graft-case-101614069867022.html
23-02-2021||India||PM Modi pushes PPP model for ‘aatmanirbhar’ health sector||India is now preparing to be aatmanirbhar (self-reliant) in the health sector, with focus on the public private partnership (PPP) model, to better deal with health emergencies and improve access to healthcare for all, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi while discussing health allocation in the Union Budget on Tuesday.“The amount allocated for the health sector in this year’s budget is unprecedented, and is an attempt to provide better healthcare services to every citizen of this country. The last year was a test, particularly for the health sector, but I am happy to announce that India managed to pass the test successfully as it managed to save lives and create testing infrastructure in a few months, with currently 2,500 labs active for Covid-19 testing and 210 million tests administered so far,” said Modi.What is PM Modi’s ‘self-3’ solution for students? Watch to find outGiving credit to the private sector as well, Modi said the successful handling of Covid-19 pandemic in India has been possible because of the collaboration between the government and the private sector.Also Read | How states are stepping up as Covid-19 cases rise“Covid-19 has taught us that we don’t have to just fight this pandemic but also be prepared to handle such epidemics in the future. We have to keep India ready for any eventuality, which is why it is equally important to strengthen the health sector. From medical equipment to medicines, from ventilators to vaccines, from scientific research to surveillance infrastructure, and from doctors to epidemiologists, we have to focus on each and every segment so that we are better prepared to deal with any health emergency in future,” Modi said.He added that PM Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojna (PMANSBY) has been initiated keeping this focus in mind.“Under this scheme, from research to testing and treatment, the idea is to establish an advanced ecosystem within the country. PMANSBY will increase our strength in every spectrum. Based on the 15th finance commission recommendations, our local bodies will get more than ₹70,000 crore to strengthen health sector services. The government’s focus is not merely on investing in the health sector but also to ensure health services are accessible in the remotest parts of the country,” he said.Modi also mentioned that the government was aware that investing in the health sector would also increase employment opportunities in the long run.“The world has noticed India displaying its strength in the health sector during the pandemic in great detail,. Globally, the reputation and trust in India’s health sector has reached the next level. We have to be future-ready keeping in mind this trust. In future the demand for Indian doctors, nurses and paramedics globally is going to further increase. Made-in-India medicines and vaccines have also garnered trust among global community. We have to make preparations keeping this in mind,” said Modi.He also said that India’s medical education system will become more popular and more students will come to study medicine here, and that needs to be encouraged.“Due to Covid-19, India gained expertise in manufacturing ventilators and other equipment. The country will have to act fast to be able to handle the global demand, especially to make cost-effective medical devices that the world needs,” he said.Emphasising on public-private partnerships, Modi said that the government’s budget is a catalytic agent but it will work better if everyone cooperates.Modi also said that the government’s approach towards the health sector was holistic. “Earlier, the health sector was handled in a fragmented manner but our government has adopted an integrated approach towards health, which is why we are not merely focusing on treatment but also wellness. From prevention to cure, we have adopted an integrated approach,” said Modi.To keep India healthy, Mode added, the government has adopted a four-pronged strategy.“The first strategy is the prevention of illness and promotion of wellness, for which there have been initiatives such as Swachch Bharat Abhiyan, focus on yoga, care and treatment facilities for pregnant women and newborns, drinking water and sanitation etc. The second strategy is to make effective and affordable treatment accessible for the poorest of the poor, for which there are Ayushman Bharat insurance and Jan Aushadhi schemes. The third focus area is improving health infrastructure and increasing the quantity and quality of healthcare professionals, for which the government has made efforts in the past six years to expand AIIMS and AIIMS-like institutions in remote states; and the fourth strategy is to look for solutions in a time-bound manner and in mission mode, such as immunisation coverage or achieving the tuberculosis elimination target of 2025 etc.,” said Modi.Another focus area, said Modi, is Ayush. He added that India’s traditional medicines are becoming popular globally, and Ayush needs to be expanded further as India’s traditional medicines are herb-based with no side-effects.“It is a moment of pride for India that WHO is starting its global centre of traditional medicine in India. WHO has announced it and it is under process. It is time to take accessibility and affordability to the next level,” he said.Modi also said that the use of advanced technologies in the health sector also needs to be increased, with a special focus on digital health mission. This transformation is necessary for India to become aatmanirbhar (self-reliant).“India may be called the pharmacy of the world, but even today we are reliant on foreign countries for raw material of drugs and medical devices, which hampers the process of providing cheap drugs and medical equipment to the poor. We have to look for a solution to this problem, as India needs to be made self-reliant in this field. Steps are being taken, that was also mentioned in the budget, and companies are being provided production-linked incentives for producing raw material for drugs and medical devices in the country; and mega parks for manufacturing drugs and medical devices are also getting a good response. We have to reach every single citizen,” said Modi.India will be working at different levels, be it creating wellness centres, district hospitals, critical care centres, health surveillance infrastructure, advanced laboratories, or telemedicine facilities.“When centre, state governments, local bodies and the private sector come together then we will get better results. We have to devise solutions together and fast in the health sector, keeping in mind the poor of the country,” said Modi.He also said that from April 1 all initiatives announced in the Union Budget will be implemented across the country, and February and March should be used for making preparations for implementing all initiatives mentioned in the budget.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pushes-ppp-model-for-aatmanirbhar-health-sector-101614069576865.html
23-02-2021||India||Daily Covid-19 deaths fall below 100; no new fatality in 21 states, UTs||India reported 78 patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) succumbed in the last 24 hours, which has taken the country’s death toll to 156,463, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday. Out of the 78 new fatalities, 18 people died in Maharashtra, 16 in Kerala and 15 in Punjab, according to the health ministry’s data. Maharashtra has reported 51,806 deaths, Tamil Nadu 12,466, Karnataka 12,299, Delhi 10,901, West Bengal 10,251, Uttar Pradesh 8,716 and Andhra Pradesh has seen 7,167 fatalities since the pandemic started in the country.According to the health ministry’s data, 21 states and Union territories have not reported any Covid-19 deaths between Monday and Tuesday morning. These are Madhya Pradesh, Assam, Rajasthan, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, Lakshadweep, Manipur, Sikkim, Tripura, Ladakh, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli.Also read | World is looking up to India's health sector, especially after Covid-19: PM ModiThe Union health ministry has said that more than 70% of the deaths have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),” the ministry said on its website.Also read | How states are stepping up as Covid-19 cases riseIndia has recorded a steady decline in the number of daily new deaths and there have been less than 100 fatalities in the month of February so far.India's reported 10,584 new Covid-19 cases, down from 14,199 on Monday morning and now the country’s tally stands at 11,016,434. According to the health ministry on Tuesday morning, there are 147,306 active cases of the coronavirus disease, lower than 150,055 reported on Monday morning. There has been an increase in the number of active cases of Covid-19, which the Centre has claimed is due to a spike in the number of daily infections in Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh.Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh have been asked by the Centre to ramp up testing and monitor new strains of the infection after a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases across the country. The Centre has cautioned states about rising cases of the coronavirus disease and said that Covid-19 protocols and guidelines must be followed strictly to check the spread of the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-covid-19-deaths-fall-below-100-no-new-fatality-in-21-states-uts-101614068092247.html
23-02-2021||India||Maharashtra records sudden jump in Covid-19 cases, triggers panic||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s office on Sunday morning announced he will address the state that evening at 7pm. As soon as the message was aired on television, tweets, Facebook posts, WhatsApp messages across Mumbai, Pune, and other cities wondered whether another lockdown was in the offing amid what has been unofficially been referred to as the second wave of Covid-19.From February 10, Maharashtra, which was until then witnessing a flattening of both new and active cases, began recording a jump in infections. From February 1 to 9, Maharashtra recorded an average of 2,489 cases a day. In the same period, active cases fell from 43,701 to 34,640. Due to faster recovery numbers, active cases fell to 30,265 on February 11.But from February 10, the number of infections has only risen. Since then, until February 22, Maharashtra has added 59,937 new cases, averaging 4,610 cases daily. Active cases have risen to 53,113. As many as 22,848 cases have been reported in 11 days.Also Read | How states are stepping up as Covid-19 cases riseIn terms of the proportion of deaths, too, Maharashtra is the worst-hit in the country. On Friday, 44 of India’s 100 Covid-19 deaths (44%) were in Maharashtra. Overall, of the 144,329 deaths recorded in India till February 22, Maharashtra accounts for 53,113 or 36.8%.The government and the local bodies have been alarmed at the rise, most of which has been reported in Vidarbha, Pune, and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which includes Thane district, one of the largest in India.What has led to the spike?Health department officials say that they have been unable to pinpoint the exact reasons for the sudden surge. Some of them attribute it to laxity in Covid-appropriate behaviour, weather, a possible mutation of the virus in the Vidarbha region, local elections, and social events such as weddings that were put on hold in 2020.The health department has sent over 350 random samples from the worst-affected districts for genome sequencing to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune to “better understand if there was a mutation of the virus.”Earlier this month, a genome sequencing study by the BJ Medical College in Pune suggested an E484K in one sample from Amravati and N440K mutation in another from Yavatmal. The state government on February 19 denied the presence of any foreign mutants in Amravati, Yavatmal and Pune districts.As per the state health department data, Akola’s active cases have more than doubled between February 15 and 22 from 809 to 1,981. Amravati’s active cases rose from 3,090 on February 15 to 5,404 on February 22.Mumbai, too, reported a jump of 11.42% in active cases between February 10 (5,372) and February 22 (5,986). Mumbai’s overall caseload is now 319,889, the highest for any city in the country, except if you count Delhi as a city and not a state where the caseload on February 22 was 638,028.Maharashtra’s state surveillance officer, Pradeep Awate, said besides faster transmission and cold weather that is conducive for the increase in viral activity, laxity and increased movement of people could have led to the spike in cases. “There have been functions, get-togethers, weddings with 500-1000 attendees. In January, we had elections to over 14,000 Gram Panchayats, where the turnout was 80%. The movement of people has increased, coupled with a lack of Covid-appropriate behaviour. This has led to an increase,” he said.Awate added that the reports that there was mutation were unfounded. “The medical college where the samples were sent was unauthorised. Meanwhile, we are still studying the sequencing. Over 350 samples from Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal, Pune, etc, have been sent to NIV in Pune,” he said.Rahul Pandit, a member of the state task force, echoed Awate’s assessment. He added this is just a “blip” in the first wave, which can be brought under control if protocols are strictly followed.“There are a complex set of things that triggered this spike,” he said. “I do not think this is a second wave. This is a blip in the first wave, which had never really gone away. If we go back to our Covid-appropriate behaviour and with micro-geographic lockdowns, I think we will see the cases come down in a two-week period. But this should happen in the true spirit. If this is not followed, then this can turn really ugly,” Pandit warned.He said cities such as Amravati, Yavatmal, Akola, etc, had not seen viral activity as much as the state had seen in the earlier part of the outbreak. Amravati (both the city and district) has never seen such a rise during the entire pandemic. Even when the cases peaked in the state in September, the situation in the district was not like it is today.On September 11, when the state reported the highest cases--24,886--the district had 545. On February 20, 21 and 22, it reported 1,055, 926 and 649 cases. The positivity rate of the district is 29.8.%.In regions such as Vidarbha bordering Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand, social activities like weddings put on hold for almost a year due to Covid restrictions have been blamed for the spike.“With the relaxation of the lockdown and start of the vaccination, people started behaving carelessly,” said Suresh Asole, district health officer, Akola. “People have been attending wedding and family functions without wearing masks. This may have contributed to spreading the virus to a large population. Along with that, we have increased the daily testing. So, with more testing, the daily count of new Covid-19 cases would increase.”Similarly, in the MMR, which includes Mumbai and six neighbouring cities, and Pune district, the cases have surged over the last few days. MMR reported a jump of 45.29% in its active caseload between February 15 and 22. The Thane district, which has five municipal corporations and a substantial rural belt, has seen an increase in active cases by 26.5% during the same period.Authorities said cases have gone up after local train services were opened to the general public from February 1. Over three million people have been travelling daily on the trains that run across Mumbai and parts of MMR.Pune district saw a 52% rise in active cases.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) took stock of its preparedness on Monday, four days after it issued a new set of strict guidelines for the city. It warned cases will be filed against those breaking home quarantine rules. BMC said new containment zones will be created in buildings with over five Covid-19 cases. It will allow the police to penalise people for not wearing masks in public places.Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “The availability of beds is at 75% now. We took stock of laboratories, jumbo Covid facilities, private hospitals and have decided to maintain the preparedness that was there in September... The laboratories have been directed to turn in reports within 24 hours. They must ensure proper contact details with PIN code mentioned so that tracing patient does not take more time.”Pandit said the protocol to contain the rise in cases is no different for Mumbai and MMR than the rest of the states. “It is no different than what we are doing in other places. We have controlled it once and we can do it now. Masking and micro containment zones will help tremendously,” he said.The overall mortality rate in the state has decreased from 2.56% on January 1 to 2.47% on February 21. Also, districts like Pune, Amravati, Yavatmal and Akola that are recording the highest positivity rate in the state have also witnessed a decrease in mortality during the same period.“Since the start of February, the state-wide testing has been increased. With the rise in testing, it is accepted that the new Covid-19 cases would also increase. So, there is nothing to be scared of,” said Shashank Joshi, member of the state Covid-19 task force.He said in Amravati, the mutation can be a reason for the faster spread of the virus. “But so far, we have not seen any mutation in Mumbai or Pune. However, samples have been sent for analysis so. We have to wait for that.”Unlike the beginning of the pandemic, the severity of infection among patients has gone down. “Though recently the number of admissions has increased, we are not witnessing many deaths,” said St George’s Hospital medical superintendent Akash Khobragade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-sudden-jump-in-covid-19-cases-triggers-panic-101614066816825.html
23-02-2021||India||Toolkit case: Delhi court to rule on Disha Ravi's bail plea today||A Delhi court is likely to pronounce its verdict on Tuesday on the bail plea of climate activist Disha Ravi, arrested by the Delhi Police in connection with the toolkit case. The Delhi Police allege that the online document was created to defame India and spread misinformation among people.Earlier in the day, Ravi was brought to the Delhi Police Cyber Cell office to be confronted with the two other suspects -- Shantanu Muluk and Nikita Jacob. Both are now out on transit bail and police say they may arrest them again if need be.On February 21, the court heard the arguments during which police have Ravi's bail plea vehemently, while her counsel has rubbished all the charges levelled against her.During the hearing, the judge asked the police whether there is evidence that proves the link between the tool kit and Republic-Day violence in Delhi. Additional solicitor general (ASG) SV Raju, appearing on behalf of the Delhi Police, replied that the document will have to be read along with the hashtags and links it contained, which were meant to "instigate people asking them to come on streets thus resulting in public disorder". The police further said that they have arrested seven people and an investigation is on."The toolkit says that people should join the march of Republic Day. Police gave permission for the march and if I call people to join the march, then can I be called seditious?" Ravi’s counsel asked while rejecting the allegations of instigating violence.The 22-year-old Ravi used to volunteer for Fridays for Future (FFF), an organisation founded by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg. She used to help with the organisation's event management work in Bengaluru. The document was first publicised by Thunberg on Twitter.Ravi was arrested on February 13 night along with two other activists. The police have claimed that the toolkit was in support of the farmers’ agitation against the three contentious laws and created with an aim to spread misinformation and incite unrest. Police also alleged a link between the tool kit and the clashes that occurred in the national capital on Republic Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toolkit-case-delhi-court-to-rule-on-disha-ravi-s-bail-plea-today-101614065589425.html
23-02-2021||India||Study suggests loss of habitat is leading to inbreeding of Indian tigers||While Indian tigers have the highest genetic variation compared to other subspecies of the feline across the world, their populations continue to be fragmented by loss of habitat, leading to inbreeding and potential loss of this diversity, says a new study that may inform conservation strategies."As human population started expanding, so also their signatures on the land. We know that some of these signatures would result in disrupting the ability of tigers to move," Uma Ramakrishnan, co-author of the research, published in the journal Molecular Biology and Evolution, told PTI.According to Ramakrishnan, molecular ecologist and assistant professor at the National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bangalore, this habitat loss from human activities leads to tigers being "hemmed into their own protected area.""Now, they can only mate with the other tigers in their own population. Over time, this will result in inbreeding, they will end up mating with their relatives," she explained."Whether this inbreeding compromises their fitness, their ability to survive, we do not yet know," the molecular ecologist added.While genetic diversity across a population improves their chances of survival in the future, the study said population fragmentation of tigers can decrease this variation, and endanger them further.Although tigers have received significant conservation attention, the scientists said very little is known about their evolutionary history and genomic variation, especially for Indian tigers.With 70 per cent of the world's tigers living in India, the researchers said understanding the genetic diversity of tigers in the country is critical to the feline's conservation worldwide.The results of their three-year long study offer insights into genomic variation in tigers and the processes that have sculpted it.Based on the results, the scientists believe there have been relatively recent divergences between subspecies, and intense population bottlenecks that may have contributed to inbred individuals.According to the NCBS scientist, maintaining structural connectivity, enabling tigers to move between protected areas can help overcome these bottlenecks."This would require the right types of habitat between protected areas, for example having densely populated human settlements would not work. Further, there also needs to be functional connectivity, that tigers do actually move," Ramakrishnan added.In the study, the scientists sequenced whole genomes from 65 individual tigers from four subspecies of the feline, and conducted a variety of population genomic analyses that quantify genetic variability.They investigated the partitioning of genetic variation, possible impacts of inbreeding, and demographic history, and possible signatures of local adaptation.While the total genomic variation in Indian tigers was higher than in other subspecies, the study found that several individual tigers in the country had low variation, suggesting possible inbreeding.According to the research, tigers from northeast India were the most different from other populations in India"Given our results, it is important to understand why some Bengal tigers appear inbred and what the consequences of this are," said Anubhab Khan, co-first author of the research.The study showed recent divergences between tiger subspecies, within the last 20,000 years, which the scientists believe is concordant with increasing human impacts across Asia and a transition from glacial to interglacial climate change in the continent.However, the scientists believe this finding needs to be investigated further with expanded data and analyses of more tiger genomes."Most studies focusing on species of conservation concern use limited numbers of specimens to try to gain understanding into how genomic variation is partitioned," said Ellie Armstrong, co-first and co-corresponding author of the study from Stanford University in the US.  "It is clear from our work here, and a growing number of other studies, that it is crucial to increase our sampling efforts and use caution when interpreting results from limited sample sizes," Armstrong added.According to Ramakrishnan, the genomic variation of Indian tigers continues to be shaped by the ongoing loss of connectivity."Population management and conservation action must incorporate information on genetic variation. I hope doing so will help India maintain the gains in tiger conservation achieved so far," Ramakrishnan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/study-suggests-loss-of-habitat-is-leading-to-inbreeding-of-indian-tigers-101614064865294.html
23-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: BJP ahead as votes are counted for Gujarat municipal polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Gujarat municipal elections: Early trends indicate big gains for BJPAfter counting of votes for six municipal corporations in Gujarat began at 9am, early trends till 11am showed that ongoing farmers protest, fuel price rise are not likely to dent the ruling BJP's vote bank locally. Read MoreCongress’ balancing act in Rajasthan: Navigating Ram Temple and HindutvaWith its proactive approach in getting mining clearance from the Centre for a particular stone. Read MoreHow states are stepping up as Covid-19 cases riseSeveral states, including Maharashtra and Karnataka, have reimposed partial restrictions and warned of a lockdown if people continue to flout safety protocols related to Covid-19. Read MoreElon Musk no longer the world's richest man. Loses $15.2 billion after a tweetTesla CEO Elon Musk is no longer the world’s richest person after Tesla shares slid 8.6% on Monday. Read More'NZ players have always been overlooked for 2nd-rate Australians in IPL,' says Simon Doull after Conway's 99* in 1st T20At the Indian Premier League 2021 auction, New Zealand batsman Devon Conway found no takers. Read MoreWatch: She uses scratch card to say ‘I’m pregnant’, husband’s reaction is pure joyA video of a man’s reaction after finding out his wife is pregnant has now left people smiling and also a little emotional. Read MoreMasaba Gupta shares her homemade hack for skin brightening and awakening | WatchFamous for her stellar costume designs and tagged as ‘Queen of Prints’, Indo-Caribbean fashion designer Masaba Gupta. Read MoreKareena Kapoor's baby boy seen sleeping in nanny's arms in first pic, mother-son get discharged from hospital. WatchKareena Kapoor and her newborn baby have been discharged from the hospital.They were spotted leaving the Breach Candy Hospital in Mumbai with her husband, actor Saif Ali Khan and their son, Taimur. Read MoreR-Day violence: J&K United Kisan Front chairman among 2 arrested by Delhi PoliceThe Delhi Police arrested two key accused from Jammu for their alleged involvement in the violence at the Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor parade on January 26. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-ahead-as-votes-are-counted-for-gujarat-municipal-polls-and-all-the-latest-news-101614062721126.html
23-02-2021||India||Kapil Sibal slams Centre, questions 'poriborton' in West Bengal||Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Tuesday took a jibe at the Central Government, saying that will the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) introduce a similar change that it brought after 2014 including demonetisation.Taking to Twitter, Sibal said: "Modiji In a public meeting in West Bengal allegedly said: " .. will bring ' ashol poriborton ' (real change) in Bengal..."The Congress leader, in his tweet, then listed out some of the changes brought under his prime ministership from 2014, such as "notebandi (demonetisation), 'note' bank politics, topple governments, persecute those who oppose, sell dreams, data manipulation ...etc.""Poriborton?" said Sibal in his tweet.While addressing a public rally in West Bengal on Monday, PM Modi hit out at the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) saying that the state will not be able to progress if syndicate rule and "tolabaji (extortion)" continue to persist.Also read: Modi, Shah to raise BJP’s poll pitch in election-bound Bengal"Development in West Bengal not possible as long as cut money culture, syndicate rule and "tolabaji" (extortion) persists. BJP government should be formed not just for political 'poribartan' (political change), but 'ashol poribartan' (real change) in Bengal. Lotus will bring that 'ashol poribartan' that youth aims for. Our youth is living with the hope of this 'Ashol Poriborton' (real transformation), and thus, we need to form the BJP government in Bengal," he said.He also alleged that the monetary benefits of schemes in West Bengal never reached the poor as "TMC does not care the poor, needy and women of the state."This comes amid an intense tussle between the TMC and the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls this year.Elections for 294 Assembly seats in West Bengal are likely to take place in April-May this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kapil-sibal-slams-centre-questions-poriborton-in-west-bengal-101614056297980.html
23-02-2021||India||Congress’ balancing act in Rajasthan: Navigating Ram Temple and Hindutva||With its proactive approach in getting mining clearance from the Centre for a particular stone being used in the construction of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya, the Rajasthan government is sending a signal on how the Congress will navigate the issue of Hindutva, according to party leaders and political observers.Pink sandstone mined from the Banshi Pahadpur hills in Bharatpur district of Rajasthan was being supplied to Ayodhya for the construction of the Ram temple. Mining in this area was banned after it was notified as a sanctuary in December 1996. The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) had been pressuring the Bharatpur district administration for resuming the supply of the stone since September-October 2020, soon after the process of temple construction began.Also Read | Ayodhya’s ‘Maryada Purushottam Sriram airport gets ₹101 crore in budgetSensing the issue might snowball against it, the Congress-led state government, at the end of January, initiated the process to de-notify the forest area. A survey, which had found that there were no animals or forests in the area, was made the basis for seeking the de-notification from the Union ministry of forest and environment. In seeking the de-notification after a 24-year ban, the Congress government apparently did not want to be seen as a hurdle in the construction of the temple.Earlier, this month, the student outfit of Congress, National Students’ Union of India launched a campaign, ₹1 Ram Ke Naam, to collect monetary contributions from students for the construction of the temple.The Rajasthan government’s move has prompted Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders to claim that it showed that the Congress had accepted Hindutva. For its part, the Congress has claimed that it was the original proponent of the Ram Temple and is keen to take credit for respecting the Hindu faith.Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said, “If the stone is going for Ram temple, then what is wrong with it? The Congress is not anti-Hindu, and we all believe in Ram. The Congress is always into positive politics and respects all religions. We are happy that the stone from Rajasthan is being used in building the temple. We have never stopped any work. The BJP stalls work, and Congress starts it.”A second minister in the Ashok Gehlot government, who did not wish to be named, said illegal mining was rampant in the area and seeking a de-notification was a long pending demand of the labourers and traders. “There is no flora and fauna, and reserving the area was of no use. There is no other way of employment in this area. Earlier also proposals to de-notify the mining were submitted but nothing happened. But now, the government of India wants stone and state wants revenue and employment,” he said.But he admitted that with denotification, the party was also trying to send the political message across India that it was not anti-temple as being projected by the BJP. “It was during Rajiv Gandhi’s tenure that doors of Babri Masjid were reopened, and prayers were allowed,” he said.VHP state general secretary Suresh Upadhyay said they welcomed the government’s response on the matter. “We had urged the government to send proposal to the government of India to de-notify the area. We welcome the state and Central governments’ response, who promptly acted on the request, which paved way for the Ram temple,” he said A BJP lawmaker on condition of anonymity said the demand for stone was long-pending and made by many Hindu outfits. “The temple has to be made in a time-bound manner and requires stone. If the state stalled or delayed [the de-notification], certainly the opposition would flare the issue in and outside the assembly,” he said.State BJP chief Satish Poonia concurred, “Our party unit, social organisations, and saints had approached the administration for the supply of the stone. The memorandums had been submitted to the administration. Besides, the government had this apprehension that delay would make it an issue.” Political analyst Shyam Sunder Sharma said the Congress and BJP both need the Hindutva issue politically. “The Rajasthan chief minister is an experienced leader, and wise enough to foresee that any delay in such issues can give the opposition a chances to corner them. The CM doesn’t want that the opposition to accuse the government of delaying the process or being a hurdle in the temple construction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-balancing-act-in-rajasthan-navigating-ram-temple-and-hindutva-101614062555754.html
23-02-2021||India||Gujarat municipal elections: Early trends indicate big gains for BJP||After the counting of votes for six municipal corporations in Gujarat began at 9am, early trends showed that ongoing farmers protest, fuel price rise are not likely to dent the ruling BJP's vote bank locally. In all six civic bodies — Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar — BJP was ahead. As the counting proceeded, BJP won 36 seats and Congress nine. According to the latest trends, out of 192 seats in Ahmedabad, BJP was leading in 81, Congress in 15 and the AIMIM in two. In Surat, out of 120 seats, BJP was leading in 50 seats, Congress in 10 and the AAP in 19 seats. Out of 76 seats in Vadodara, BJP was leading in 36 seats, Congress in nine. In Rajkot, BJP was leading in 48 seats out of total of 72 seats.Out of 64 seats in Jamnagar, BJP was leading in 23, both Congress and AAP in four. In Bhavnagar, BJP was leading in 30 seats and Congress in eight — out of 52 seats of the municipal corporation.In a surprise, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) opened its account in Jamnagar for the first time. The party won three out of four seats in Ward 6 of Jamnagar Municipal Corporation.Follow live updates of Gujarat civic polls countingElections were held on Sunday for 192 seats across 48 wards in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, 120 seats across 30 wards in the Surat Municipal Corporation, 76 seats across 19 wards of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation, 72 seats across 18 wards in the Rajkot Municipal Corporation, 52 seats across 13 wards in the Bhavnagar Municipal Corporation and 64 seats across 16 wards in the Jamnagar Municipal Corporation.Ahmedabad recorded the lowest turnout of 42.51 per cent, while Jamnagar saw the highest turnout of 53.38 per cent, followed by 50.72 per cent in Rajkot, 49.46 per cent in Bhavnagar, 47.84 per cent in Vadodara and 47.14 per cent in Surat. Of the total 1.14 crore voters registered in these major cities of Gujarat, 52.83 lakh had cast their ballots, the SEC said in a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-municipal-elections-early-trends-indicate-big-gains-for-bjp-101614061155865.html
23-02-2021||India||Travel restrictions, ban on gatherings and more: How states are stepping up as Covid-19 cases rise||Several states, including Maharashtra and Karnataka, have reimposed partial restrictions and warned of a lockdown if people continue to flout safety protocols related to Covid-19 amid fear of a second wave of infections. Some state governments have also said they will screen visitors from high-risk areas. The Centre has cautioned states about rising cases of the coronavirus disease and said that Covid-19 protocols and guidelines must be followed strictly to check the spread of the infection.Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh have been asked by the Centre to ramp up testing and monitor new strains of the coronavirus after a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases across the country.India recorded 10,584 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 78 deaths in the last 24 hours, which have taken the country’s tally to 11,016,434, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday.Here's what states are doing to contain the further spread of the coronavirus disease:MaharashtraThe worst-hit state in the country, which is witnessing a surge in infections, has imposed a one-week lockdown in Amravati and night curbs in Pune. The Maharashtra government has issued clampdown orders in Mumbai, Nagpur, Pimpri Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Akola, Yavatmal, Washim and Buldhana. It has also asked people to strictly follow Covid-19 norms, including wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. All religious, social and political gatherings have been prohibited in the state and political protests have also been stopped temporarily.Also read | Thackeray to meet BMC officials amid spike in Covid casesChief minister Uddhav Thackeray has warned of a stricter lockdown amid a spike in Covid-19 cases.RajasthanThe Rajasthan government has imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) in Jodhpur till March 21. The gathering of four and more people has been prohibited in public places in the city and for public gatherings such as marriages, only 100 people will be allowed in Jodhpur city limits. Essential services and schools and colleges will, however, stay open.KarnatakaThe Karnataka government has reinstated stricter control of transit passengers from Kerala in view of increasing Covid-19 positive cases. Authorities sealed many roads, including national highways, and restricted entry only for those with Covid-19 negative certificates. The Dakshina Kannada authorities sealed all borders from Monda, except four to cross over, PTI reported.According to Karnataka officials at the borders, those who wish to enter the state have to produce Covid-19 negative certificate through an RT-PCR test taken 72 hours before travelling. Health and police personnel are on duty at the four borders of Talapady in Mangalore taluk, Saradka in Bantwal, Nettanige-Mudnuru in Puttur taluk and Jalsoor in Sullia, to verify and allow people's entry into Karnataka.Also read | Bengaluru apartment sealed; Karnataka ups vigil as Covid cases rise in KeralaKalaburagi district administration has issued a travel advisory for Maharashtra. Five check posts have been set up at the Karnataka-Maharastra border in the district. Travellers from Maharashtra, who enter Karnataka through the border at Afzalpura and Aland have to submit an RT-PCR negative test.Tamil NaduTamil Nadu on Monday said surveillance in districts bordering Kerala has been intensified and it has been made mandatory for all returnees by flight to compulsorily undergo RT-PCR test.The state’s health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan expressed concern over non-compliance by people, including those who gather for political rallies and appealed to them not to lower the guard as five states in India have recorded an increase in cases. "Wearing masks and maintaining social distancing should strictly be followed. It was noticed during certain political meetings that the cadres did not wear face masks or follow social distancing. Such an offhand attitude could lead to unpleasant consequences," he said, according to PTI.Apart from surveillance camps, thermal screening will be carried out in the border districts and cluster testing will be done in Chennai, Coimbatore and Chengalpattu districts, Radhakrishnan said. All the passengers arriving by flight should have RT-PCR negative certificates. "Passengers from the UK, Brazil and South Africa will be subjected to TR-PCR test upon arrival," Radhakrishnan said.Madhya Pradesh and GujaratThese states have also sounded a high alert across all adjoining districts and will also conduct thermal scanning of all those travelling from the high-risk state of Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-states-are-stepping-up-as-covid-19-cases-rise-101614060328858.html
23-02-2021||India||Video of jail guard assaulting Chhattisgarh doctor goes viral, doctors on strike||Enraged over the assault on a doctor at Bhim Rao Ambedkar Hospital, Raipur by a jail guard, the Junior Doctor’s Association of Raipur boycotted routine out-patient department (OPD) services along with all elective procedures on Tuesday.The association further said if no satisfactory action is taken against the jail guard in the next 24-hours, the doctors will withdraw from all emergency services from Wednesday. The association is demanding immediate termination of the accused jail guard and strict action against duty police officers. A letter in this regard was written to the dean of Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College by Indresh Yadav, the president of Junior Doctor’s Association.On Monday, a jail guard, Shatrughan Rao assaulted a doctor after a verbal spat over the alleged delay in attending a prisoner, a Maoist.The video of the spat went viral on social media. Subsequently, doctors and technicians staged a dharna outside Maudhapara police station demanding action.Chhattisgarh health minister TS Deo tweeted to say that orders for strict action against the accused has been given."The video of the ruckus at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Raipur is very shocking and unacceptable. Orders have been issued for strict action against the jail guard involved and also for a transparent investigation of complete matter," said DeoHe went on to say that the matter will be treated with "total seriousness" and any violence or ill behavior against our health workers is "totally intolerable".Meanwhile, talks between the dean and the association were going on since Monday.Also Read:MP, Chattisgarh witness spike in daily cases of Covid-19Later, police registered an FIR against Rao and started investigation. Raipur's superintendent of police, (SP), Ajay Yadav said action has been taken after the incident on Monday.“We have booked the accused jail guard under section 186 and 353 IPC and other laws of Chhattisgarh government. Investigation is going on in the case,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/video-of-jail-guard-assaulting-chhattisgarh-doctor-goes-viral-doctors-on-strike-101614060118875.html
23-02-2021||India||Amid push for Indian apps, an alternative to WhatsApp in the works||Three domestic mobile messaging applications, two developed by the government and one by the army, are likely to be pitched to the Prime Minister Office (PMO) as an alternative to the popular messaging application, WhatsApp, as privacy concerns shroud its latest privacy policy update, officials familiar with the matter said.The three mobile applications include Secure Application for Internet (SAI), developed by the army and launched in October last year; Sandes, developed by the National Informatics Centre with the first version being released in August last year, and SAMVAD, developed by the Centre for Development of Telematics.While all three applications have been around for at least a year, an official familiar with the matter said that the Prime Minister may put his weight behind one of the applications after the presentations are completed. “All the three applications will co-exist,” the official said. “After presentations are done, PMO will decide the future course, which may involve PM pitching for one for secure messaging.”Also Read | WhatsApp to launch public outreach exercise to push policyHT reached out to the PMO, but did not receive a response immediately despite several attempts. The push for domestic apps comes at a time when WhatsApp is in the crosshairs of the government over its privacy policy update. Critics have said it would allow WhatsApp to share more data with its parent company, Facebook, without giving users the opportunity to opt-out of it. The ministry of electronics and information technology on January 19 wrote to WhatsApp CEO Will Cathcart expressing “strong concerns” over the policy and asked the company to roll it back. Last week, the Supreme Court also issued a notice to WhatsApp, asking it to explain its plans, with a remark that Indians highly value their privacy.Homegrown apps have an advantage over companies such as WhatsApp as the data is stored locally in servers, which is considered more secure.An army official familiar with the matter said that the SAI mobile application was almost out of the trial stage and would eventually be opened up to other government departments. At present, the mobile application has 18,000 users and is not open to the public. “The application was developed in June 2018,” the official said. “It is very likely to be pitched as an alternative to WhatsApp in the near future.”In a press statement issued in October last year, the army had said that the application supports “end to end secure voice, text and video calling services for Android platform over internet”. “The model is similar to commercially available messaging applications like WhatsApp, Telegram, SAMVAD and GIMS and utilises end to end encryption messaging protocol. SAI scores over on security features with local in-house servers and coding which can be tweaked as per requirements,” the statement said.It added that the application had been vetted by a CERT-in empanelled auditor and the Army Cyber Group, and would be utilised pan Army to “facilitate secure messaging within the service”.The army official, quoted above, added that the advantages of the app include server located within the country, a complete command and control of the eco-system and integrated indigenous encryption algorithms.The second application up for a presentation is SAMVAD, which, at present, is being tested by the central government and state government agencies. A second official familiar with the matter said that the app has collected feedback to create an ecosystem that helps ease organisational issues for the government. It also offers multiple levels of encryption, including user-end encryption. Unlike the other apps, SAMVAD also provides a separate dashboard where users can choose to access news regarding a particular subject.“The app also has options such as disappearing messages and confidential message,” the second official. “There has been very positive feedback from the agencies.” It also offers non-forwardable messages. Organisations can use the interface to create a group for seamless interaction.The official added that the greatest advantage is that since the application has been designed internally, any changes required can be made easily. “Moreover, the app has been designed for heavy load. Tomorrow if it has one million users, it won’t crash. The data is stored in the country, which ensures utmost security for departments that need to keep data completely confidential.”The third mobile application in the fray is Sandes, earlier known as Government Instant Messaging System (GIMS). Developed by the National Informatics Centre, the application also provides end-to-end encryption and in-house servers. All the information on GIMS will be stored in a government-based cloud. The application was launched last year and is still in the trial stage. The first official mentioned above said that Sandes has nearly 80,000 users.A third official familiar with the matter said that the government was closely monitoring the app’s progress.On Monday, Sandes was number seven on the Apple app store in the social networking category. According to the information provided on the app store, NIC has declared that Sandes collects contact information, user content, identifiers, diagnostics and other data, and links it to the user’s identity. “Sandes combines all the features of govTalk and GIMS,” a fourth official said. “In terms of alerts and sharing of data and information, Sandes is exactly like WhatsApp and a lot of officials are using it to communicate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-push-for-indian-apps-an-alternative-to-whatsapp-in-the-works-101614059377016.html
23-02-2021||India||5 killed in two separate road accidents in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana||Five persons were killed in two different road accidents in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana on Tuesday morning, the police said.In Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur district, three persons, including two construction workers and the driver of a mini goods carrier they were travelling in, were killed when the vehicle hit a tree and overturned.According to the Vinukonda police, the Tata Ace vehicle, carrying close to 25 workers from Yemmiganur in Kurnool district, skidded off the road and hit a road-side tree before turning turtle near Andugula Kothapalem village at around 5.30 am.Three persons died on the spot and 20 others sustained injuries. The two construction workers were identified as Ernala Srinivas and Bhimayya. The name of the driver and the age of the victims were yet to be ascertained, the police said, adding that the workers were travelling from Kurnool to Guntur for some construction work.The police deployed a crane for rescue work. “The injured were shifted to Vinukonda government hospital for treatment. Investigation is on,” said police officer.In another road accident in Telangana’s Peddapalli district, two persons were killed and two others were seriously injured, when the car they were travelling in, hit the road divider and overturned at Malyalapalli village on Hyderabad-Peddapalli Rajiv Rahadari highway on Tuesday morning, the police said.According to Ramagundam sub-inspector of police S Sailaja, the deceased were identified as Kotha Srinivas and Kotha Rambabu, both gold merchants from Narasaropet in Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur district.Also Read: Andhra gram panchayat elections concludes with 81.78% voting in fourth phaseTwo others identified as Santosh Kumar and Santosh Babu were grievously injured and they were immediately shifted to the government hospital in Karimnagar town.“The merchants were carrying gold ornaments worth more than ₹1 crore. The staff of the ambulance service (toll free number 108), who were shifting the injured and the bodies of the victims to the hospital, noticed the bag of gold ornaments and sincerely handed it to the police station,” the SI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-killed-in-two-separate-road-accidents-in-andhra-pradesh-telangana-101614059022002.html
23-02-2021||India||A look at British architect Edwin Lutyens’ imprint beyond Delhi||A little over 100 years ago, the British architect-town planner Edwin Lutyens was given a rather significant brief — to design the imperial seat of power and its environs in the newly formed Indian capital city, New Delhi. Today, as the Central Vista redevelopment project aims to revisit Rajpath and the Central Vista avenue and build new structures to suit the needs of modern governance, the vision of Lutyens—and his partner, Herbert Baker — has become a subject of much debate.While it is true that Lutyens had a strong sense of history and the design of his public buildings in Delhi, such as the Rashtrapati Bhavan, is deeply influenced by their location, it is also important to remember that the architect was prodigiously prolific designing hundreds of structures around the world, including a castle, a bridge, and even affordable flats, in the post War era.Here are five other buildings Lutyens designed:Cenotaph at Regina, SaskatchewanAt the end of the First World War, Lutyens erected a temporary memorial at Whitehall in London; an empty sarcophagus elevated on a plinth, ornamented with stone flags and laurel wreaths. The design quickly became popular with British territories overseas looking for a model for creating their own memorials for absentee soldiers killed in the war. In 1926, the Canadian city of Regina unveiled the cenotaph at Victoria Park, an elegant variation of the original sketch Lutyens had made for Whitehall. Of course, his most famous cenotaph lies in the Capital city and remains an important part of our Republic Day celebrations to this date.Also Read | Central Vista: Govt starts work on Rajpath redevelopmentBritish Ambassador Residence, Washington DCLutyens first visited America in 1925. Despite being neck-deep with the construction in Delhi, his office produced 68 drawings between 1925-27 and work commenced in 1928. The building is in many ways a scaled-down version of the Viceroy’s House (what we now call the Rashtrapati Bhavan) in Delhi, with a similarly detailed door, handles, mirrors, columns, and high ceilings. The exterior, however, is quite the opposite, with the sense of a country home in an idealised English country garden.Social Housing, Grosvenor Estate, LondonBetween 1929 and 1935, Lutyens designed a multi-storey building for affordable housing in Pimlico, London. Already commissioned by the Duke of Westminster to design Grosvenor House, he drew up the plans for flats surrounding a central courtyard. The bold checkerboard geometry of the plastered wall and exposed brick on the facade is uncharacteristic of Lutyens, who always preferred classical details, some of which can be seen on the entrance porticos.Castle Drogo, DevonAll architects succumb to the whims and fancies of rich, eccentric clients at least once in their careers and Lutyens was no exception. In Julius Drewe, a self-made retailing millionaire, he met a scale of ambition perhaps only exceeded in the princely palaces at Delhi. Between 1911-31, Lutyens designed a castle that easily confounds the casual observer, with most assuming it to be from medieval times.Hampton Court Bridge, LondonNormally dismissive of architectural intent, Lutyens’ design for this bridge is uniquely influenced by Christopher Wren, the architect of many of London’s beloved and important buildings. Completed in 1933, the bridge is the fourth on the same site, surprisingly replacing an older bridge made in wrought iron. His brick-clad, three-arched design was made in reinforced concrete and stands to this day.Amit Khanna teaches at the School of Planning and Architecture, New Delhi, and has a special focus on the transformation of cities. He is founder, AKDA, an architecture and urban design firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-look-at-british-architect-edward-lutyens-imprint-beyond-delhi-101614059015343.html
23-02-2021||India||Chamoli glacier burst: Uttarakhand to declare 135 missing persons ‘dead’||Uttarakhand health department, under the directions from Centre, has decided to declare those missing in the February 7 Chamoli disaster, as “dead”, officials said on Monday. Of the initial 204 people missing in the Chamoli disaster, search and rescue workers have recovered 69 bodies while 135 are still missing. Following a notification issued by the state health secretary Amit Negi on Sunday evening, the government has invoked the Birth & Death Registration Act, 1969, under which the designated government officer will issue death certificates of the missing people to their family or relatives. The notification stated, “In normal circumstances, the birth and death certificates are issued to a person at the place where he is born or died. But in exceptional circumstances, like the Chamoli disaster, if a missing person is possibly dead beyond all possibilities of being alive but his body is yet to be found, in that case the authorities could declare him dead by issuing the death certificate to his family members after a required inquiry.” Also Read | Expert team widens mouth of Rishiganga lake by 15ft to prevent repeat tragedyFor the purpose of issuing death certificate, the government has divided the missing people in three categories. “The first category has the residents of the area near the site who went missing from the site. The second has those from other districts of state who were present at the site while the third category comprises tourists or people from other states who were present at the site,” said Negi in the notification. He added, “Under the process, family members will have to submit an affidavit regarding the missing person along with all the necessary details to the designated government officer concerned who will then issue the death certificate after proper inquiry. This will help in settling compensation for the families of those missing.” On February 7, a glacier breach at Joshimath in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district triggered a massive flood that hit two hydropower projects near the Naina Devi National Park, about 300 kilometres north of Dehradun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chamoli-glacier-burst-uttarakhand-to-declare-135-missing-persons-dead-101614058776024.html
23-02-2021||India||World is looking up to India's health sector, especially after Covid-19: PM Modi||Congratulating both government and private health sectors of the country in fighting Covid-19 pandemic in the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said, "Last year was a test for the country as well as the world. We have been successful in this fight and the credit also goes to private sectors.""Covid-19 has taught us that we need to be prepared for future diseases too. So it is important to strengthen all aspects of the health sector — from medical equipment to medicine, from ventilators to vaccine, from doctors to epidemiologists," PM Modi said, terming this year's budget allocation to the health sector as "unprecedented".Covid vaccination: People over 60 likely to be allowed to self-registerThis is the time to take accessibility and affordability to the next step, the PM said as he said how India's health sector has been an example in front of the world. "In the coming days, the World's dependence on India will only go up. India's medical education, Indian doctors, nurses will soon be in high demand. We need to keep this in mind," PM Modi said.The world has taken note of the strength of India's health sector, PM Modi said. "We have to be prepared for this growing demand from the world. In the coming days, students from other countries will be flocking to India to study medicine and we should encourage that," he said."Government's budget allocation is a catalytic agent. On the ground, things will change when we all work together. Our approach towards the health sector is different from that of the previous government. Our approach is holistic as it encompasses cleanliness, nutrition, wellness, the prevention of diseases and all other allied sectors. Before, the health sector was fragmented," PM Modi said addressing a webinar on the effective implementation of the provisions of Budget 2021 in the health sector.Drawing a parallel between Covid-19 and tuberculosis, PM Modi said, "If the same preventive measures are taken against TB, we will be able to free India from TB by 2025 as TB too spreads from the droplets of an infected person.""There might be some sections which did not get the expected allocation, but this is not the last budget. So it is time to get going and put the money to the best use as fast as possible," PM Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-sector-got-unprecedented-allocation-in-budget-2021-says-pm-modi-101614057041207.html
23-02-2021||India||India’s daily Covid-19 cases fall, active caseload drops below 150,000||India's daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) fell to 10,584 and fresh fatalities remained below 100 for the thirteenth time this month, taking the country’s tally to 11,016,434, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday. There were 78 fatalities in the last 24 hours, which have taken the death toll to 156,463, the health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8am. There are 147,306 active cases of the coronavirus disease on Tuesday morning, lower than 150,055 reported on Monday morning, data also showed.Active cases of the coronavirus disease had done up by 4,421 on Monday morning to go back over the 150,000 mark for the first time in 17 days and register the steepest rise since the end of November last year. India’s active caseload was 455,555 on November 27. Active cases were last recorded above the 150,000 mark, at 151,460, on February 5.The health ministry has said that the surge in active cases is due to a spike in the number of daily infections in Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh.Also read | Bengaluru apartment sealed; Karnataka ups vigil as Covid cases rise in KeralaThe Centre has cautioned states about rising cases of the coronavirus disease and said that Covid-19 protocols and guidelines must be followed strictly to check the spread of the infection. Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh have been asked by the Centre to ramp up testing and monitor new strains of the infection after a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases across the country. Meanwhile, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh will review the Covid-19 situation in the state with health experts and senior officers on Tuesday.As Covid-19 cases continued to rise, several states, including Maharashtra and Karnataka, have reimposed partial restrictions and warned of a lockdown if people continue to flout safety protocols. Some state governments have said they will screen visitors from high-risk areas.Also read | Prohibitory orders imposed in Jodhpur city to contain coronavirus casesWith 13,255 discharges between Monday and Tuesday morning, the number of recovered people has gone up to 10,712,665 and the recovery rate has climbed to 97.24%, according to the health ministry.The health ministry also said that 11,745,552 people have been vaccinated against the coronavirus disease since January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-fall-active-caseload-drops-below-150000-101614056752391.html
23-02-2021||India||Decoding PM Modi’s pre-poll run in Bengal and Assam||Voters in West Bengal, where the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has gone on a war footing against the Mamata Banerjee government, and Assam, where the saffron camp wants its coalition government to continue, have had a special visitor thrice over the last 30 days — Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Modi’s plane landed in each state on January 23, February 7 and February 22 and BJP leaders are planning his fourth visit on February 28. During these day-long tours, Modi not only inaugurated projects and welfare schemes as prime minister but also sent strong political messages as the BJP’s face. The location of Modi’s events, be it political or administrative, also gave a glimpse of BJP’s geographical priorities in the upcoming state elections. So what are the broad patterns that can be gleaned from the PM’s pre-poll visits to eastern India? Owning Bengal’s icons Modi’s first visit to Kolkata in this period, on January 23, was focused entirely on the Centre’s decision to celebrate the birthday of freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose, Bengal’s cultural icon, as Parakram Diwas, or day of valour, but the political subtext was hard to miss. The Trinamool Congress, for its part, celebrated January 23 as Desh Nayak Diwas (day of the national hero) while the Forward Bloc, the party Bose formed in 1939, observed Desh Prem Diwas (day of patriotism). This competitiveness was in stark display when Banerjee disapproved the raising of the Jai Sri Ram slogan by BJP supporters present at Modi’s main event. That was the last time she shared the dais with Modi. Also Read | PM Modi to inaugurate super specialty hospital at IIT Kharagpur todayThe visit — and the tussle — represented a deeper battle. The BJP is keen to own and appropriate a Bengal icon, at a time when the Trinamool is accusing the BJP of being a party of “outsiders” with no organic connection to the state. The slogan of Jai Sri Ram — which so irked the CM — is a feature of the same battle; it has become a rallying cry for the BJP, particularly among the subaltern, while the TMC sees it as out of tune with Bengal’s cultural vocabulary. Vikas, welfare, identity in AssamOn the same day, the PM then visited Assam, where he distributed land allotment certificates to 106,000 landless indigenous families who will get seven bighas (a bigha is equal to 14,400 sq. ft.) of agricultural land and another bigha for building a house. In urban areas, people will get 1.10 katha while in Guwahati, the state will allot 1.50 “katha”. In Assam, a “katha” is equal to 2,880 sq. ft. In 2016, this was BJP’s electoral promise, and the party clearly wanted to be seen as “delivering” before the polls. The move also aligns with the BJP’s attempts to tap into the indigenous vote, and build on its politics of welfare. Significantly, Modi also addressed a rally at Jerenga Pathar, a historic site where Joymoti, an Ahom princess, sacrificed her life in the 17th century to save her husband, Prince Godapani, who later became a king of the Ahom dynasty. “Jerenga Pathar is the ‘balidan-bhoomi’ (land of sacrifice) of Joymoti. We are taking steps to include this land in a list of five iconic archaeological sites in the country,” Modi told the crowd. But with it, he was sending a signal to the broader Ahom community, as well as acknowledging the cultural distinctiveness and rich history of the state. Also Read | Will make more trips till poll dates out: PMModi’s next visit to Assam on February 7 was marked by his rally at Dhekiajuli, launch of an ambitious road network project and laying the foundation stones of two medical college and hospitals to be built at a cost ₹1,122 crore in Biswanath and Charaideo districts. The Asom Mala statewide road project will cost another ₹5,500 crore. This was clearly an attempt to showcase the infrastructure and development-oriented political messages of the party. But that day, the big takeaway from Modi’s public remarks was his allegation, at a tea garden, that an international campaign is on to tarnish the image of the Indian tea industry to which Assam’s contribution is sizeable. “I want to tell these conspirators from Assam’s soil that the country will never allow their plans to succeed. Our tea workers will win this fight as these attacks are not capable of countering their hard work,” he said. The PM also spoke about giving ₹3,000 each to 750,000 tea garden workers and praised the Union budget which allocated ₹1,000 crore for tea garden workers in Assam and West Bengal. The PM appeared to be attempting multiple messages here — a signal to the rest of the country about the looming “foreign conspiracy”, a key tenet of the government’s response to global tweets in solidarity with the farm protests, and a signal to Assam that only the BJP can protect the tea industry and cares for it. Selecting Dhekiajuli for Modi’s rally was also significant. In September 1942, police gunned down 17 people in this town in Sonitpur district during the Quit India movement. Modi did not miss the symbolism. “This is the land where the people of Assam defeated the invaders, showcased their unity, power and valour. In 1942, the freedom fighters of Assam sacrificed their lives for our freedom and the honour of the tricolour,” Modi said in his address. Experts feel that while the meeting at Sivasagar was held to address Ahom votes, the one at Dhekiajuli focused more on tribal people who work for the tea industry. The BJP has been promising to grant scheduled tribe status to both along with four other communities. Nearly 1.1 million workers are employed in around 800 large tea gardens in Assam. They can influence poll results in 35-40 of Assam’s 126 assembly seats. Similarly, Ahom votes play a crucial role in Upper Assam districts. “The BJP has been able to influence the tea tribes with a number of policies of which their political representation is a part,” said professor of political science at Gauhati University, Akhil Ranjan Dutta. “Though the party managed to win some seats in the Ahom strongholds in the last Lok Sabha and assembly polls, the margins of victory were not high. The PM’s rally in Sivasagar was an attempt to consolidate Ahom votes,” Dutta added. Winning over South BengalModi’s visit to Haldia in Bengal’s East Midnapore district on February 7 was significant. The district is in the eye of a political storm since December 19 when former cabinet minister Suvendu Adhikari joined the BJP. His elder brother Dibyendu Adhikari, the TMC Lok Sabha member from Tamluk in East Midnapore, was present when Modi inaugurated some major power and road projects that day while their father, Sisir Adhikari, the TMC’s most senior Lok Sabha member from the district’s Kanthi seat, skipped the event citing illness. With the TMC in control of all 16 assembly seats in East Midnapore, which has Muslim and well as tribal voters, the Adhikari family now plays a crucial role for the BJP. Banerjee has decided to contest the Nandigram assembly seat that Suvendu Adhikari represented. Also Read | Focus should be on providing defence equipment to smaller nations: PM ModiAlthough the saffron camp won seven of the eight Lok Sabha seats in the north Bengal region in 2019, these seats comprise only 56 of the state’s 294 assembly segments, and that is why there is now focus on south Bengal. “South Bengal, which accounts for the remaining 238 assembly seats and where the BJP was ahead of the TMC in only 87 in 2019, will decide the fate of Bengal,” a senior executive of IPAC, the company owned by Banerjee’s election strategist Prashant Kishor, told HT. At the BJP rally on February 7, Modi talked of East Midnapore district’s contribution to Bengal’s history but focused on development in entire south Bengal as well as east and north-east India. At the government event, he launched an LPG import terminal built by Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited at a cost of ₹1,100 crore. “The project will provide LPG to Bengal and other states in east and north-east India,” said Modi.He also launched the 348 km Dobhi-Durgapur Natural Gas Pipeline section, which is part of the Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga project and will help revive the HURL Sindri (in Jharkhand) fertiliser plant, supply gas to Matix Fertiliser Plant at Durgapur in Bengal’s West Burdwan district, and provide gas to industrial, commercial and automobile sectors as well as domestic consumers in major towns of Bengal. The PM returns to the east On his third visit to Assam on February 22, Modi launched several oil and gas projects, inaugurated an engineering college and laid the foundation stone of another. He accused the erstwhile Congress governments of treating the north bank of Brahmaputra in a step-motherly manner. After his plane touched down in Bengal later that day, Modi called for “asol paribartan” (real change) while mounting an attack on the TMC at a rally in Hooghly district where the BJP would win only one Lok Sabha seat in 2019. Later, he flagged off some railway projects, including the extension of the north-south Metro corridor, which connects Kolkata to its adjoining areas where the BJP could not make much headway in 2019. “Development of Bengal is not possible as long as extortionists rule. No investor will come to Bengal,” Modi said in Hooghly in a bid to connect with the region’s jobless industrial workers. The ruling party’s leader in the Rajya Sabha, Derek O’Brien, tweeted the image of a decade-old press release which said Banerjee, who was then Union railway minister, introduced 34 projects, including the ones Modi inaugurated. An examination of the venue for the PM’s speeches, political messaging, and the projects he has chosen to unveil indicate that not only are elections in Bengal and Assam are high up on the agenda for him, and the BJP is betting a mix of development, infrastructure, identity-based pride, specific welfare measures for specific communities, and its broader nationalist appeal to win Bengal and defend Assam. With the PM promising to return to them states before elections are announced in early March, even before the campaign has officially begun, Narendra Modi has set the stage for the BJP’s outreach to voters in the two states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decoding-pm-modi-s-pre-poll-run-in-bengal-and-assam-101614056555582.html
23-02-2021||India||Rains lash some parts of Kashmir, wet spell to last till February end: IMD||Rains in northern parts of Kashmir since early morning have brought down the temperature. IMD has forecast a wet spell including rain and snow beginning Tuesday till the end of February."Under the influence of two Western Disturbances, scattered and widespread rain and snow is most likely in J&K during Feb 22 to end of the month. This system is to affect north Kashmir, Western Ladakh in next two days, central, south kashmir, Pirpanchal and Jammu from 25 Feb onwards," Director, IMD Sonum Lotus said.He said due to a change in weather conditions there could be heavy rains at some places on February 25 and 26 which may cause a disruption in flights on February 26th.Western Disturbances – winds blowing from the Mediterranean mostly bring rains or snow in the valley.After a harsh winter in January, Kashmir witnessed dry weather for the past more than two weeks as day temperatures hovered around 8 to 9 degrees above normal in summer capital Srinagar and other places.Kashmir has been experiencing the harshest winter in 30 years with temperatures plunging to record levels in the month of January. On January 31, Srinagar recorded a temperature of minus 8.8 degrees C, lowest since the January of 1991.Also Watch: J&K delimitation controversy; why NC MPs boycotted meet; J&K LG's swipeThere were a number of snow spells as well as chilly nights causing water bodies and water pipes to freeze for weeks.Kashmir’s winter pans out in three stages, starting with the 40-day intense period from December 21(Chillai Kalan) followed by 20 more days that are less intense (Chillai Khurd) and lastly 10 days of mild cold (Chille Bache).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-lash-some-parts-of-kashmir-wet-spell-to-last-till-february-end-imd-101614056286639.html
23-02-2021||India||Covaxin phase 3 efficacy data likely out in two weeks: Bharat Biotech||The interim efficacy data for the phase 3 trial of Covaxin, the first made-in-India Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, is likely to be out in next two weeks, said Bharat Biotech in a conference on Monday.Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have co-developed Covaxin, which is one of the two Covid-19 vaccines currently approved for use in India by the national drugs regulator.“We moved so fast, but unfortunately we missed the efficacy time point. Had we done the phase 2/3 combined, we would have captured efficacy faster. But anyhow, we should be coming out in two weeks with the efficacy point data,” said Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director, Bharat Biotech, at the BioAsia 2021 conference.Also Read | Not only Maharashtra, Kerala; 5 other states report sudden spike in Covid casesCovaxin is the first indigenously developed vaccine against Covid-19 and was granted restricted use in emergencies and authorisation for sale in India early January this year by the national regulator, despite the lack of phase 3 efficacy data.The grant of approval without the phase 3 efficacy data had drawn a lot of criticism, with the government clarifying on different platforms that the vaccine was safe to use.“In a non-emergency situation, safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data are required. Existing pandemic situation with high mortality, available science, and a lack of definitive treatment are considered by a subject expert committee for accelerated approval that is in our legal provision. In a pandemic situation, we consider restricted use based on safety, and immunogenicity data while the phase 3 trial is still ongoing,” Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR, explained after the approval was granted.“Immunogenicity data generated through the phase 2 clinical trial serves as a surrogate for efficacy, and the Clinical Trials Rule 2019 provides for considering phase 2 results to guide approval. The subject expert committee guides the DCGI [Drugs Controller General of India] in the process of decision-making for restricted use in an emergency,” he said.The indigenous, inactivated vaccine is developed using whole-virion inactivated vero cell-derived platform technology that contains the dead virus, incapable of infecting people but still able to instruct the immune system to mount a defensive reaction against an infection.According to the company, it is looking at scaling up production to nearly 40 million doses in a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-phase-3-efficacy-data-likely-out-in-two-weeks-bharat-biotech-101614056374950.html
23-02-2021||India||Haryana Cong to move no-confidence motion against BJP-JJP govt||Amid the ongoing farmers' protest against the Central agri laws, Congress leader and former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday said that the party has decided to bring a no-confidence motion against the BJP-JJP government in Haryana.The Congress leader claimed that two independent MLAs who were supporting the Haryana government, have withdrawn their support."We will bring a no-trust motion against the government as it has lost the trust of people and MLAs. Two Independent MLAs who were supporting the government have withdrawn their support. Some MLAs of their alliance party said this is the most corrupt government," Hooda told reporters."We will get to know who stands with whom when we will bring in the no-confidence motion against the Manohar Lal Khattar government," he added.The comments came days after Hooda held a march to the Governor's house and demanded a special session of Assembly to move a no-confidence motion against the government."We are going to meet the Governor to demand a special session of the state Assembly. We will move a no-confidence motion against the government as it has lost the faith of the people in the state over the farm bills," Hooda had said.The Haryana Assembly's Budget session is set to begin on March 5.Farmers have been protesting at the different borders of the national capital since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-cong-to-move-no-confidence-motion-against-bjp-jjp-govt-101614052382665.html
23-02-2021||India||6 killed, 3 injured in road mishap in Bihar's Katihar||Six members of a family were killed and three others were injured when the car they were travelling in collided with a truck on National Highway 31 in Bihar's Katihar on Tuesday morning, the police informed.According to the police, the accident took place near the Kursela police station area.The three injured are in critical condition and currently undergoing treatment at the primary health centre in Kursela, said the police.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-killed-3-injured-in-road-mishap-in-bihar-s-katihar-101614054547781.html
23-02-2021||India||6 killed in blast at quarry site in Karnataka’s Chikkaballapur: Report||At least six people were killed when the gelatin sticks they were trying to dispose of exploded accidentally at a stone quarry site in a village in Karnataka’s Chikkaballapur district early on Tuesday, according to reports. The accident, which took place a month after a similar one, was reported from Hirenagavalli near Peresandra, PTI cited police officials as saying.“Pained by the loss of lives due to a mishap at Chikkaballapur in Karnataka. Condolences to the bereaved families. Praying that the injured recover quickly,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s office tweeted.The state’s health minister K Sudhakar, who represents the Chikkaballapur constituency, visited the spot. Sudhakar, according to PTI, said the bodies of the victims were badly mutilated and scattered all over the place.According to PTI, quarrying was stopped by the police on February 7 after local residents complained against the rampant use of gelatin sticks. The contractor was warned not to use gelatin following a raid a few days ago, PTI reported.Sudhakar said stringent action would be taken against the owners of the mines, who had stored the explosives illegally, and that police are investigating the matter.Six people were killed on January 22 in a similar accident at a quarry site in Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa's hometown of Shivamogga.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-killed-in-blast-at-quarry-site-in-karnataka-s-chikkaballapur-report-101614053907554.html
23-02-2021||India||Puducherry CM resigned ahead of floor test: What may happen now||Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy resigned on Monday ahead of a floor test to prove his majority weeks before assembly elections are due in the Union Territory. Here is all you need to know about the emerging political situation in Puducherry:•The All-India NR Congress and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam have a majority of 14 lawmakers including three nominated MLAs of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 33-member House.• But they are unlikely to stake a claim to form the government, and the President’s rule is imminent.• The Narayanasamy government lost majority when five Congress and one Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) legislators resigned in the run-up to the trust vote.• It had the support of 12 lawmakers including two DMK MLAs, an independent legislator and speaker VP Sivakozhundu. The Speaker votes only when there is a tie.Also Read | Another thin majority, another defeat• With the collapse of the government, the Congress now is not a part of the government in any southern state or Union Territory.• Since 2019, the Congress has lost power similarly in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh.• In an hour-long speech in the assembly, Narayanasamy attacked the BJP-led Centre and recently ousted lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi for colluding with the Opposition and topping his government.• Narayanasamy and his loyalists argued that the nominated members could not vote. Soon after, Narayansamy and his 11 MLAs walked out.• Narayanasamy, who had been at odds with Bedi since 2016, had appealed to the President to recall her.• Puducherry BJP president V Samithan said that while no move was discussed so far to stake claim to form the government, the party’s national leadership will take a decision.• Former chief minister and opposition leader N Rangasamy said the government lost “because they didn’t deliver on their promises but they are blaming the Centre”.• Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to visit Puducherry on February 25 to inaugurate government projects.• He will later head to Tamil Nadu’s Coimbatore district to participate in a BJP rally in the poll-bound state.• DMK chief MK Stalin called the government’s fall a “murder of democracy”. He said his party will move court if the BJP tries to delay polls in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherry-cm-resigns-ahead-of-floor-test-what-may-happen-in-union-territory-now-101614053434500.html
23-02-2021||India||Smriti Irani buys land in Amethi, takes a dig at Congress||Union minister Smriti Irani has purchased land in Amethi where she will build her residence, in an apparent bid to cement her ties with her Lok Sabha constituency. This also makes her only the third MP from Amethi who would have a residence there.Irani arrived in Amethi on Monday to complete the formalities of the purchase. She has bought 11 biswa land for ₹12.11 lakh from local resident Phoolmati Devi to honour the promise she made in the Tiloi area of Amethi soon after defeating then Congress president Rahul Gandhi in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. She also announced that people from each village of Amethi and Rae Bareli would be called for the bhoomi pujan (groundbreaking ceremony), the date of which is not decided yet. Once the paperwork was done for the land, a couple of kilometres away from main Gauriganj town, Irani took a dig at the Congress which has held the seat multiple times but none of its MPs has had a base here. “The people who poured their love and blessings on me wanted an MP who is available among them. In corona times, too, we connected with the people through e-chaupals and, before that, I reached out to them through programmes like Didi Aapke Dwar (Didi at your doorstep),” said Irani, who is locally known as didi [elder sister] among the people. Also Read | To enhance accountability, Cabinet clears changes to Juvenile Justice ActShe added, “People always wondered if they will ever have an MP who would reach out to the villages. At least, I consider myself fortunate that I was able to fulfil this.” Irani’s decision makes her only the third MP from Amethi to also have a residence there. Interestingly, her 2019 Lok Sabha win from Amethi was also the third Congress defeat on this seat since it came into being. The other two MPs who chose to have a residence here being the only two non-Congress MPs to have held this seat. They are: Ravindra Pratap Singh of Janata Party, who won the post-emergency 1977 election, and Sanjay Sinh of the BJP who defeated Congress leader Captain (retired) Satish Sharma in 1998 elections.For political observers, Irani’s decision to buy land in Amethi, just two years after her win and less than a year before the UP assembly elections, shows BJP’s intent to keep its grip on this former Congress bastion that it wrested in 2019. “Politics is all about symbolism and this surely is a powerful one. For the locals, it would mean that their MP intends to be among them. While its overall impact remains to be seen, it surely is a move that would be talked about. The land has been purchased, the house would take some time to be built and the idea of their didi wanting to be among them would be reinforced in the interim,” said veteran journalist Irshad Ilmi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smriti-irani-buys-land-in-up-s-amethi-to-build-home-in-her-lsconstituency-101614051634382.html
23-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Expert team widens mouth of Rishiganga lake by 15ft to prevent repeat tragedy and all the latest||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Expert team widens mouth of Rishiganga lake by 15ft to prevent repeat tragedyThe 30-member expert team succeeded in widening the mouth of the lake, formed upstream Rishiganga river in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district due to flash floods, by about 15 feet, leading to faster drainage, which is likely to prevent a repeat of the tragedy, according to state disaster response force (SDRF) commandant Navneet Bhullar. Read moreSeveral Delhi borders remain closed due to farmers’ protest, traffic divertedSeveral borders of the national capital with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) remained closed for vehicular movement on Tuesday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three new farm laws. Read moreFuel prices rise after 2 days, petrol & diesel up by 25 and 35 paise in DelhiState-run oil marketing companies (OMC) on Tuesday announced a hike in fuel prices, after keeping rates unchanged for two straight days, according to news agency ANI. Read moreIndia vs England: Virat Kohli one century away from surpassing Ricky Ponting and creating world recordIndia captain Virat Kohli will be on the verge of surpassing former Australia captain Ricky Ponting and creating a world record when he steps out to bat in the upcoming third Test against England at the Motera Stadium in Ahmedabad. Read moreBigg Boss 14 runner-up Rahul Vaidya reveals why he proposed to Disha Parmar on national televisionOne of the highlights of singer Rahul Vaidya’s Bigg Boss 14 journey was his romantic proposal to actor Disha Parmar on her birthday. Read moreNewlyweds donate blood to save girl’s life, Uttar Pradesh cop shares taleThe Internet is filled with stories which showcase the kind gestures of others and capture the true essence of humanity. They have the power to instantly fill your heart with a warm feeling. Read moreRecipe: Bring smiles to breakfast table with this scrumptious vegan French ToastAs you soak in the morning breeze with the windows open, before getting to the day’s tasks, we have a recipe of scrumptious vegan French toast to give the perfect kick to start your day. Read moreCovid spike: VIP wedding attended by top netas; Pawar, Fadnavis faces actionAmid Maharashtra Covid spike, a mega wedding was attended by top netas. NCP chief Sharad Pawar, BJP's Devendra Fadnavis and Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala reportedly attended the wedding. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-expert-team-widens-mouth-of-rishiganga-lake-by-15ft-to-prevent-repeat-tragedy-and-all-the-latest-news-101614049318655.html
23-02-2021||India||Bengaluru apartment sealed; Karnataka ups vigil as Covid cases rise in Kerala||The Covid-19 situation in Karnataka has not become worrying yet, but as the state shares border with both Maharashtra and Kerala — states where Covid-19 has made a sudden resurgence — the authorities are taking pre-emptive measures to avoid imposing restrictions on the movement of people, in case the situation worsens.In Bengaluru, a Covid-19 alert has been sounded at SJR Watermark Apartments, where 10 Covid-19 cases have been found between February 15 and 22, PTI reported. Based on the finding, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike has declared six contagious blocks as a containment zone. Sanitisation has been carried out in the apartment premises and a health team with four doctors has been deployed.The apartment at Bellandur, a suburb in south-east Bengaluru, comprises nine blocks and has a population of around 1,500. The other three blocks are situated at a distance from these six blocks and have not reported any Covid-19 case.Covid-19: Gujarat, MP to screen select inter-state travellers at bordersA few days ago, another Covid-19 cluster was reported at Manjushree Nursing College in Bengaluru as around 40 samples collected from there had tested positive.On Monday, Karnakata reported 317 fresh infections with Bengaluru urban reporting 181 cases — the highest among districts. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 4,03,943, followed by Mysuru 53,941 and Ballari 39,221.Out of the five fatalities that the state recorded on Monday, three were from Bengaluru Urban one each from Dharwad and Tumakuru.On Sunday, Karnataka became one of the top five contributors to India's daily caseload with 413 new infections, following Maharashtra, Kerala and Tamil Nadu.The state has already taken several actions to not allow the rise to spread. Among the new cases found in Bengaluru apartment, some have recent travel history in Kerala. But apart from imported Covid-19 cases, there have been cases that can be traced to weddings, gatherings, reports have said.What Karnataka is doing to check Covid-19 spread> Marshalls will now be deployed in marriage halls to ensure proper adherence to Covid-19 protocols.> Catering services will have to get mandatorily tested before they serve a wedding event.> Mandatory negative RT-PCR test for people travelling from Maharashtra and Kerala.On restrictions/lockdown if necessaryKarnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar has said the authorities are trying to avoid a situation like Maharashtra. However, BBMP chief Manjunath Prasad earlier said that lockdown will be the only option if people fail to maintain social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-apartment-sealed-karnataka-ups-vigil-as-cases-in-kerala-maha-rise-101614050462753.html
23-02-2021||India||India permits Imran Khan's aircraft to use its airspace for travel to Sri Lanka||India has allowed Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan's aircraft to use Indian Air Space, according to informed sources.Imran Khan will be travelling to Sri Lanka on his maiden visit on February 23.In 2019, Pakistan had denied opening its airspace for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's flights to the US and Saudi Arabia citing alleged human rights violations in Kashmir.India took up the denial of permission to VVIP flight with an International Civil Aviation Organisation.Under normal circumstances, the VVIP aircraft are granted permission by countries. However, Pakistan's denial of permission to VVIP aircraft was an aberration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-permits-imran-khan-s-aircraft-to-use-its-airspace-for-travel-to-sri-lanka-101614050417026.html
23-02-2021||India||Working with ministries to address NRIs’ demand for postal voting: EC||The Election Commission (EC) is working with the ministries of law and external affairs to address the long-standing non-resident Indians (NRIs) demand for postal voting rights, the poll watchdog said on Monday.The statement came after chief election commissioner Sunil Arora met UAE-based entrepreneur Shamsheer Vayalil, who has filed a plea in the Supreme Court for the rights.A person aware of the matter said Vayalil met Arora amid reports that the government planned to implement postal voting rights for NRIs in non-Gulf countries in the first phase. “If the federal government and EC rule in favour of the demand raised by him, then NRIs in the Gulf countries will also be able to vote in the upcoming elections in Kerala, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, and Puducherry,” said the person on condition of anonymity.An estimated 1.8 million people from Kerala alone work in West Asia.Also Read | Oppn may not stake claim, Cong sets eyes on electionsVayalil said the EC acknowledged and appreciated the legal battle demanding the rights in which he has been involved. “The EC has assured that the issue of NRI voting rights is under the consideration of the EC and the government.”The government is planning to implement postal voting on a pilot basis for NRIs in the US, Canada, New Zealand, Japan, Australia, Germany, France and South Africa.A government functionary said the external affairs ministry supports the idea of allowing the postal balloting but the decision rests with the poll watchdog.NRIs have been pushing for allowing them to vote via Electronically Transmitted Postal Ballot System saying they are denied the right to vote unless they travel to their constituencies.The Supreme Court last week issued notices to the Centre and the EC on the plea for allowing postal voting and e-voting for NRIs and other migrants.Armed forces personnel, those involved in essential services, people with physical disabilities, voters aged above 80, and Covid-19 patients are allowed postal voting.There are 450 million NRIs and other migrants as per the 2011 census. But just about 10,00,00 Indians living abroad are registered as voters. NRIs say their fundamental rights to work and live in places of their choice are impinged upon by the condition of voting physically in their constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/working-with-ministries-to-address-nris-demand-for-postal-voting-ec-101614050494084.html
23-02-2021||India||Court asks Uttarakhand government to submit details of Mahakumbh preparations||Uttarakhand high court on Monday directed the state government to submit a detailed affidavit on its preparations for implementation of the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) released by Centre on Kumbh and what yet remains to be done by March 3.The court also directed Uttarakhand chief secretary to submit details such as how many frontline workers were given Covid-19 vaccination in Haridwar and how much medical staff is available for Kumbh.The division bench comprising chief justice RS Chauhan and justice Alok Kumar Verma gave these directions while hearing a bunch of PILs filed by Sachdanand Dabral, Dushyant Mainali, and Rajendra Arya related to various issues regarding the fight against the Covid-19 epidemic in the state.Shiv Bhatt, counsel of Sachdanand Dabral said the court was not happy with the affidavit on Mahakumbh.“The court has directed the state government through Mela officer and chief secretary to file an affidavit by March 3 on preparations completed so far and yet to be completed, and para-wise details about the implementation of the SOP issued by Centre on January 22 this year. The court has sought details about the number of frontline workers that have been vaccinated so far and the list of Kumbh related infrastructural works completed and yet to be completed,” said Bhatt. The next hearing in the matter has been fixed on March 5, 2021.One million visitors are expected to attend the Mahakumbh on routine days while about five million are expected for Shahi Snaans (royal baths). The Centre issued the SOPs on Mahakumbh last month after the state government approached it for the same on the order of Uttarakhand high court.The SOPs make it mandatory for all the devotees to carry an RT-PCR negative test report for Covid-19, done within 72 hours. It also says that all the devotees should get a medical report from a competent medical authority near their house on the lines of Amaranth Yatra before attending the mega-event in Haridwar. It has asked the state government to ensure that the aforementioned reports are checked by the Mela authorities and to not allow anyone without them. Similarly, it has also asked the state government to discourage devotees aged above 65 years, pregnant women and children under 10 years of age from attending the event. It also asked the state to only deploy vaccinated healthcare and frontline workers at the Mahakumbh to ensure their protection from the disease.Also Read: Expert team widens mouth of Rishiganga lake by 15ft to prevent repeat tragedyBefore the epidemic, over 12 crore pilgrims were expected to participate in the four-month-long Mahakumbh. However, now, given the epidemic, it is not clear yet how many pilgrims would actually turn up for the Kumbh, whose duration is proposed to be limited to one month or so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-asks-uttarakhand-government-to-submit-details-of-mahakumbh-preparations-101614048340447.html
23-02-2021||India||Light rain, thunderstorm to impact western Himalayas for next 3-4 days||A shallow fog was reported from some places of northwest India on Tuesday morning. Light rain and thunderstorms are likely to impact the western Himalayan region for the next 3-4 days, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Visibility at 5.30am at Amritsar was 200m; Patiala 500m; and Delhi (Palam & Safdarjung) 1,000m each.Temperatures are likely to rise over the plains of northwest India. “As February is coming to an end, we are expecting a rise in both maximum and minimum temperatures. The maximum temperature is likely to be 30 to 31 degree C (°C) while the minimum is likely to be 12 -13°C in the next 3 to 4 days. A Western Disturbance is impacting the Western Himalayan region. Once that moves away, there will be a marginal and brief drop in temperatures in the national Capital as cold northwesterly winds will be blowing. Otherwise, it’s likely to get warmer now,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre. Also Read | Expert team widens mouth of Rishiganga lake by 15ft to prevent repeat tragedyOn Monday, the maximum temperature was 28.9°C, 4°C above normal, and the minimum temperature was 11°C, 0 degrees above normal. Under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance, widespread rainfall or snowfall is very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad; scattered rainfall/snowfall is likely over Himachal Pradesh in the next three days and fairly widespread rainfall for the subsequent two days while scattered rainfall or snowfall is also likely over Uttarakhand during the next five days. Thunderstorm or lighting is very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan & Muzaffarabad during the next five days and over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand between February 23-26. Isolated hailstorm is likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad on February 24 and 25; Himachal Pradesh on February 25 and 26 and over Uttarakhand during February 23 to 26.Most parts of northwest India recorded poor to very poor air quality. Delhi’s air quality index on Tuesday morning was 266 in poor category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-rain-thunderstorm-to-impact-western-himalayas-101614048333836.html
23-02-2021||India||Closely following reports of India, China troop disengagement: US||The US has said it is closely following reports of troop disengagement between India and China and continues to monitor the situation.The remarks by the State Department on Monday came as the armies of India and China began disengagement of troops locked in over eight-month-long standoff in eastern Ladakh.Both countries have reached a mutual agreement for disengagement of troops from the most contentious area of North and South Pangong Lake.Also Read | Anti-India propaganda continues online in China“We are closely following reports of troop disengagement. We welcome the ongoing efforts to de-escalate the situation,” State Department spokesperson Ned Price told reporters at his daily news conference.“We will, of course, continue to monitor the situation closely as both sides work towards a peaceful resolution,” he said, responding to questions on reports of disengagement of Indian and Chinese troops from Pangong lake area of Ladakh.Also Read | India-China disengagement: ITBP to continue patrolling in non-friction pointsThe border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry even as the two sides continued military and diplomatic talks.Military commanders of both the armies held the 10th round of talks on the Chinese side of the Moldo/Chushul border meeting point on February 20.A joint statement issued at the end of a lengthy round of talks said the two sides positively appraised the smooth completion of disengagement of frontline troops in the Pangong Lake area, noting that it was a significant step forward that provided a good basis for resolution of other remaining issues along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Western Sector.“We're continuing to monitor the situation. We certainly welcome the reports of de-escalation and we're closely following those initial reports of troop disengagement,” Price said.The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet, while India contests it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/closely-following-reports-of-india-china-troop-disengagement-us-101614046903543.html
23-02-2021||India||Covid-19: Gujarat, MP to screen select inter-state travellers at borders||Maharashtra and Karnataka were the first two states to impose restrictions on people travelling from other states to arrest the sudden rise in the number of Covid-19 infections. Now, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh too have decided to keep an eye on those who are coming from neighbouring states — especially by roads.In the peak of the Covid-19 wave in 2020, several states closed borders with neighbouring states where the infection was spreading faster.Apart from Maharashtra and Kerala — the largest contributors to India's daily caseload of Covid-19 — Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, J&K, Chhattisgarh are reporting a higher number of cases.Karnataka has mandated a negative RT-PCR report for people travelling from Maharashtra and Kerala. Maharashtra, on the other hand, has made negative RT-PCR mandatory if one is travelling from Gujarat, Delhi-NCR, Goa, Rajasthan and Kerala.Madhya PradeshMadhya Pradesh has decided to up the border vigil as many devotees from Maharashtra visit Madhya Pradesh crossing the border by road on the occasion of Mahashivratri. It has been decided that people coming to Madhya Pradesh from Maharashtra will be subjected to mandatory thermal screening.Madhya Pradesh had hit the peak with over 2,000 daily cases in September 2020, which gradually subsided. But since the past one week, the state is reporting more than 200 Covid-19 cases daily.GujaratGujarat has decided to set up border check posts to screen people coming from neighbouring states, including Maharashtra, especially on roads.Apart from setting up border check posts at entry points, the state government has also decided to start screening passengers arriving at major railway stations like Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot and Bhavnagar from different parts of the country by trains.Screening booths will also be created at all the major airports of Gujarat.On Monday, Gujarat registered 315 new Covid-19 cases — with Ahmedabad reporting 72, the highest, followed by Vadodara, 66, Surat 52 and Rajkot 42.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-cases-rise-gujarat-madhya-pradesh-to-strengthen-border-checks-101614044515434.html
23-02-2021||India||Expert team widens mouth of Rishiganga lake by 15ft to prevent repeat tragedy||The 30-member expert team succeeded in widening the mouth of the lake, formed upstream Rishiganga river in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district due to flash floods, by about 15 feet, leading to faster drainage, which is likely to prevent a repeat of the tragedy, according to state disaster response force (SDRF) commandant Navneet Bhullar.“In a daring effort, the team has widened the mouth of the lake in a very difficult terrain, which has increased the discharge from the lake. Due to this, the chances of lake burst or Chamoli-like tragedy happening again have been averted. And our team members are still camping there to try to widen the mouth further,” Bhullar said.An avalanche triggered by a glacier burst over upper Himalayan regions in Chamoli district on February 7 damaged two hydel power projects on Rishi Ganga river and possibly killed 150 people. The sludge from the flash flood also blocked the flow of Rishiganga and created a lake which experts fear could burst to create another tragedy. Scientists, Indian military personnel, Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and disaster management personnel and experts analysed the lake including its depth before widening its mouth proportionately from 20 feet to around 35 feet.“The special equipment, quick deployable antenna (QDA) based on satellite communication, has been set up there and it is helping us to have real-time communication with the expert team,” Bhullar added.The expert team formed by state chief secretary Om Prakash, includes scientists from the Uttarakhand Space Application Centre and Geological Survey of India, apart from officers from ITBP and SDRF. They had left for the lake area on Friday and reached there on Saturday.When inputs first came that a lake was forming again upstream Rishiganga, SDRF's eight-member high altitude rescue team (HART), which included six persons who had scaled Mount Everest in 2018 and Navneet Bhullar, was sent to the area for ground survey. The team sent one of its members, Manoj Joshi, to widen the lake mouth to some extent. He succeeded in widening it by around six feet, with the help of a rope.Also Watch: Navy divers, in IAF helicopter, measure glacial lake depth in Tapovan“It was a very dangerous incline and widening it (the lake mouth) was difficult. I could widen it by a few feet only,” said Manoj Joshi, an Everest summiteer, Joshi.On Sunday, a quick deployable antenna (QDA) was flown to the lake area in a chopper for the expert team to communicate from the remote terrain. Earlier on Saturday, an air force chopper took two navy divers to the lake to measure the depth of the lake. They used their hand-held echolocation devices for measuring the depth, found to be around 8 to 9 metres, according to SDRF DIG Ridhim Aggarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expert-team-widens-mouth-of-rishiganga-lake-by-15ft-to-prevent-repeat-tragedy-101614045878993.html
23-02-2021||India||What Covid-19 taught us about state of our prisons||By Justice Madan LokurThe pandemic taught us, and continues to teach us. In the context of prison reforms, one of the biggest lessons we learnt is that it is indeed possible to decongest prisons.On March 11, 2020 the World Health Organization declared Covid-19 as a pandemic. In less than a week, the Supreme Court (SC) took suo motu cognisance of the pandemic and noted that the occupancy rate of our prisons is 117.6%. In some places, like in Uttar Pradesh, it was as high as 176.5%. Additionally, the rate of ingress and egress of prisoners, staff, visitors and lawyers was very high. For these reasons, the SC observed that prisons were “fertile breeding grounds for incubation” of Covid-19.The India Justice Report 2020 (IJR) released last month provides a good analysis that could form the basis of a sustainable programme of decongesting prisons. The report points out that undertrials constitute nearly 70% of all prison inmates. In 35 states and UTs, the share of undertrial inmates was above 50%. Over five years, the share of undertrial prisoners shows an increasing trend in 23 states/UTs.As per the High Powered Committees, appointed by the Supreme Court in March 2020 “to determine which class of prisoners can be released on parole or an interim bail for such period as may be thought appropriate”, prisoners (convicted and under trial) facing a maximum punishment of up to seven years or less, could be considered for release. Similarly, the Under Trial Review Committees (UTRCs) were directed to meet every week to take necessary decisions in accordance with that judgment.The Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI) found that the cumulative impact of the directions given by the SC resulted in the overall occupancy in prisons coming down to 93.3% between April 1 and June 30. Inspite of that about 27% prisons across the country were still overcrowded. It is noteworthy that an effort to decongest prisons was successful in reducing the overcrowding, and quite likely resulted in a decline in the spread of the virus. So why can’t this be done the rest of the time? If video-conferencing facilities had been operational across the country perhaps many more prisons would have been decongested. According to the IJR, as of December 2019, only 16 States/UTs had 90% of their jails equipped with VC facilities. Five of the large and mid-sized states were less than 50% equipped: Kerala (42%); Rajasthan (38%); West Bengal (32%); Karnataka (31%) and Tamil Nadu (9%).In 2018, the SC set up a three-member committee to look into prison reforms as well as to examine the functioning of the UTRCs, a district-level oversight mechanism to conduct periodic reviews of undertrials. More than two years later, a bulk of UTRCs remains partially operational. Coming to the issue of adequate human resources, vacancies at all levels continue to haunt prison administration, worsening the condition of inmates. IJR records that nationally, medical staff vacancies have risen from 35% (as of Dec 2016) to 41% (as of Dec 2019). The Model Prison Manual 2016 mandates a minimum of one medical officer for every 300 prisoners and one full-time doctor in central prisons. In half the States/UTs about 1 in 4 positions remains empty. Uttarakhand had no sanctioned medical officer appointed.Our criminal justice jurisprudence shifted long ago from being custodial, punitive and deterrent to correctional, rehabilitative and restorative. Many states have not thought in these terms and IJR informs us that there are no sanctioned posts of welfare/ probation officers, psychologists, lawyers, counsellors, social workers and so on in some states. This has resulted in skewed figures where nationally there is one probation/ welfare officer for 1617 prisoners and one psychologist/ psychiatrist for 16,503 prisoners. These shortfalls are indicative of a mindset that dehumanizes persons in prisons; relegating them to the recesses of our mind, undeserving of good medical care.Magistrates and judges need to consider prison conditions and whether they are in consonance with Article 21 of the Constitution, which guarantees life and personal liberty to all.Justice Madan Lokur is a former judge of the Supreme Court of India, and is currently a judge in the Supreme Court of Fiji. The India Justice Report 2020 released by Tata Trusts examines the state of justice delivery across prisons, judiciary, legal aid and police.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-covid-19-taught-us-about-state-of-our-prisons-101614046131817.html
23-02-2021||India||Karate association secy held for forgery to avail govt privileges||Mumbai police have arrested the secretary of the Karate Association of India (KAI), Bharat Sharma, from Delhi in connection with a cheating and forgery case registered in 2019 for an elaborate fraud he is suspected to have committed.Sharma and other office bearers of KAI allegedly forged documents and fraudulently represented themselves as representatives of the All India Karate-Do Federation (AIKF) to the World Karate Federation (WKF). They then got the AIKF’s name changed to KAI and got it fraudulently recognised by the WKF, the police said.Sharma and his colleagues made false representations to the ministry of youth affairs and sports and the Indian Olympic Association (IOA), enjoyed many privileges and received government funds, the police complaint states. HT reached out to Kiren Rijuju, the sports minister, who said he was aware of the case, but did not offer any comment.Ananda Hodage, senior inspector of MRA Marg police station in Mumbai, confirmed Sharma’s arrest.“Sharma, who was arrested on February 13 from Delhi, has been charged with sections 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) 471 (using as genuine a forged document) 419 (cheating by impersonation), 420 (cheating), 34 (common intention) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code. Presently he is in police custody. He would be produced in court on Tuesday,” said assistant police inspector Himmat Jadhav, who is investigating officer of the case.Mumbai police are likely to elaborate on how much money was siphoned off in the fraud in their second remand application on Tuesday to seek further custody of Sharma. Officials did not provide any more details on Monday. Sharma has been arrested on a complaint filed by Nandji Prasad, secretary of the AIKF. Prasad stated in the FIR, a copy of which is with HT, that AIKF is a recognised trust that encourages young talent in karate and also trains and grooms potential karatekas for the Asian Games and other International Olympic Committee-recognised tournaments. Karate was made a part of the Olympics for the first time in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, deferred until this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic, with eight gold medals on offer.“KAI is an illegal body and they also got recognition from the government showing the World Karate Federation etter in 2014,” alleges Nandji Prasad, the general secretary of AIKF.The sports ministry declined to comment on the issue.The FIR filed by Prasad also names Thiyagarajan and another KAI office bearer, Virat Vaccha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karate-association-secy-held-for-forgery-to-avail-govt-privileges-101614045471341.html
23-02-2021||India||Another thin majority, another defeat||For the Congress, winning an election is important but these days the margin of victory seems to be more important.The collapse of its government in three states displays the party’s vulnerability when pitted against an aggressive Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). It was Karnataka (the Congress was in a coalition with the Janata Dal-(Secular) in 2019, then Madhya Pradesh in 2020, and finally Puducherry on Monday.“The striking similarity in three states — all with narrow majority (for the Congress) — is that the use of the BJP’s specialised technique, i.e. using unconstitutional means to create artificial majority in their favour,” said senior Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi, who had fought the Karnataka case in court.But some leaders also believe that the episodes also underline the Congress’s inability to keep its flock together in a crunch situation. In Madhya Pradesh, the Congress government did have a wafer-thin majority of just seven MLAs, but the party failed to address the issues of Jyotiraditya Scindia, who joined the BJP in March 2020.Similarly, in Puducherry, many local leaders had an uneasy relationship with V Narayanasamy, who resigned from the chief minister’s post on Monday, right from the beginning. A Congress leader based in Chennai alleged that “the perception was that the CM had been paratrooped from the party headquarters and the central leadership only listens to him”.In states where the party has a comfortable majority, the Congress has been able to avert crises. In August 2020, the Congress government in Rajasthan was threatened after fissures widened between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and deputy CM Sachin Pilot. Pilot and his loyal MLAs even left Rajasthan and camped in neighbouring Haryana, putting the Congress leadership on the tenterhooks.“We managed to handle the situation as the Congress was way ahead of the BJP in the assembly. Even in Chhattisgarh, there are strong frictions but the legislative strength of the party make us feel comfortable,” said a senior party strategist.Some senior leaders of the party also feel that the real test of party’s crisis managers is not when there is a wide majority in the legislative house but when the stakes are high and numbers are low.“We definitely need to improve internal management. After all, we came to power in MP after 15 years, but lost our government in 15 months,” said another senior leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-thin-majority-another-defeat-101614045099403.html
23-02-2021||India||Even pop stars concerned over farmers’ plight, but not central govt, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who is on a two-day visit to his parliamentary constituency in poll-bound Kerala, on Monday said the whole world has expressed concern over the plight of Indian farmers but the Prime Minister was unable to understand their pain and heed their cries.“We have pop stars commenting on the situation of the farmers, but the Indian government is not interested. The government is not going to take back these laws unless it is forced to. These three laws are designed to destroy agriculture system in the country and give entire business to two or three friends of PM Modi,” said Gandhi after taking out a tractor rally in Wayanad in solidarity with agitating farmers.“Agriculture is the only business that belongs to Bharat Mata and a few people want to own this business,” he said, urging people to force the government to take back the three laws that are “detrimental to the farming community”. He drove the tractor from Thrikaripatta to Muttil covering six kilometres.After his Wayanad trip, Gandhi will also attend the concluding session of Kerala opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala’s rally in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday.State leaders have asked Gandhi to campaign extensively in the elections due to be held in April-May. During the 2019 general elections, when the party had delivered its best result winning 15 of the 20 seats, Gandhi had taken a position of not criticising the LDF government too much. Now, party leaders have asked him to shed his soft posture and go all-out against the arch-rival in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/even-pop-stars-concerned-over-farmers-plight-but-not-central-govt-says-rahul-101614044867813.html
23-02-2021||India||Oppn may not stake claim, Cong sets eyes on elections||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which described the collapse of the V Narayanasamy government in Puducherry as the closure of “the worst chapter” in the Union territory’s history, said on Monday it will not stake a claim to form the government.Assembly elections are due in the UT of Puducherry in April-May along with four states — Assam, West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu.“We will not try and form a government at this stage. With the people’s blessings in the forthcoming elections and [Prime Minister Narendra] Modiji’s leadership, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) will form a government with the BJP and its alliance partners, All India NR Congress and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, in May,” Puducherry BJP president V Saminathan said.The Puducherry government fell on Monday as Narayanasamy resigned ahead of a confidence vote with his ruling coalition slipping below the majority mark due to the recent resignations of Congress MLAs and a Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) legislator.With two Congress legislators already defecting to the BJP since January, there are speculations that more could follow suit. “For the past two years, there have been some people who have shown interest in joining the BJP; and this is not surprising since the Congress lacks leadership,” said a senior BJP leader, requesting anonymity.Even though the BJP is still in a nascent phase in the UT and relies heavily on its allies, the party is hoping to benefit from the joining of influential leaders. “There may not be a dramatic increase in the vote share or the number of seats, but even small additions make a difference...,” said the leader quoted above.Union minister Arjun Ram Meghwal, who is the election in- charge of the UT, tweeted: “Puducherry is celebrating as it becomes free from the misgovernance & corruption-ridden regime of Congress. This moment will be marked as a significant milestone in the growth trajectory of #ProsperousPuducherry #CongressMuktPuducherry.”On the other hand, the Congress hoped to turn the tide in the elections. In the assembly, Narayanasamy said former lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi, who was removed on February 16, and the central government colluded with the Opposition to topple his government. He said the Centre did not grant statehood to Puducherry despite requests. The Congress hoped the charge that the BJP “manufactured rebellion” in the UT can also be clubbed with the allegations of high-handedness by Bedi. A senior leader based in Chennai added that a frontal attack on the BJP is the “best option”.Senior Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi said, “In the present case, the impact of the toppling of the government will be less lethal for the simple reason that elections are round the corner and this will arouse great sympathy for the Congress in Puducherry.”Setting the tone for the poll campaign, Dinesh Gundu Rao, Congress’s incharge for Puducherry and Tamil Nadu, tweeted: “BJP4India kills democracy again. Using ED, IT & other agencies, spending crores of rupees they have toppled an elected govt. @INCIndia will go to the people, the people of Puducherry will give a befitting reply in the elections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-may-not-stake-claim-cong-sets-eyes-on-elections-101614044552146.html
23-02-2021||India||SC to hear if CBI can probe coal scam case||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to examine whether the (CBI) could investigate a coal smuggling case in which a notice has been served to Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee’s wife.Apart from Abhishek’s wife Rujira Banerjee, the agency also served a notice on his sister-in-law Maneka Gambhir. CBI officials on Monday questioned Gambhir at her residence in Kolkata.The top court decided to ascertain the validity of a February 12 order of the Calcutta high court which permitted the CBI to continue its probe in the state despite the chief minister Mamata Banerjee-led state government, in November 2018, withdrawing general consent to the agency for carrying out probes in West Bengal.The Calcutta HC order was passed ny its division bench on the appeals filed by the CBI and Anup Majee, an accused in the case, who has now filed a petition in the apex court.The bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah issued a notice to the CBI on the question whether these petitions before the division bench were legally maintainable and if the high court could pass the order on the CBI probe.During the hearing, the West Bengal government, through senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, disputed the CBI’s jurisdiction, saying that the state was contemplating to file an appeal in the apex court to challenge the order on the CBI probe.Singhvi pointed out that the state government withdrew consent for the CBI to investigate in West Bengal in November 2018, and hence the agency could not carry out its probe in this case.Majee, director of a private company has been named as an accused in the case lodged in November 2020 of corruption and criminal breach of trust with regard to illegal mining and pilferage of coal from leasehold area of Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL) in certain parts of West Bengal. ECL is a wholly owned subsidiary of Coal India Ltd, a Public Sector Undertaking.Majee, in his petition filed through advocate Jaikriti S Jadeja, challenged the HC order on the ground that the accusations related to transportation of the illegally extracted coal from West Bengal to other states, besides illegal mining in the “railway areas”, which is under the union government.Appearing for Majee, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi contended: “The entire case is politically motivated. I have also been summoned by the Enforcement Directorate…The question of CBI’s authority must be determined.”Singhvi supported Rohatgi “on the point of law”. “Why should the CBI come and investigate after the withdrawal of consent by the state government? We are already looking into this case and the state police is competent of investigation,” he said.The bench sought to know from the senior lawyers about any specific rule that allowed order of a single judge to be challenged before a division bench in the Calcutta high court since such intra-court appeals in criminal cases were disallowed in other high courts.Rohatgi replied that the division bench could not have heard an appeal against the single judge’s order but since both his client and CBI had gone to the division bench, the petition was now moved before the Supreme Court to protect his client from arrest.However, the bench said no interim order on protection from arrest could be passed without hearing the CBI on the point whether the petitions before the division bench of the high court were maintainable or not. The court then issued a notice to the CBI, calling upon the agency to make submissions on March 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-if-cbi-can-probe-coal-scam-case-101614044270204.html
23-02-2021||India||National herald case: Delhi HC seeks Reply from Sonia and Rahul||The Delhi high court sought responses from Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, former party president Rahul Gandhi and others in the National Herald case and stayed the proceedings in the trial until April 12.The order came on a private complaint filed by BJP leader Subramanium Swamy seeking to lead additional evidence before the court.Justice Suresh Kait issued notice to the Gandhis, Congress general secretary Oscar Fernandes, Suman Dubey, Sam Pitroda and Young India (YI), seeking their stand on Swamy’s plea.According to Swamy’s complaint, Associated Journals Limited (AJL), owner of National Herald, had taken an interest-free loan of ₹90.25 crores from the Indian National Congress.Swamy alleged that Congress leaders conspired to misappropriate funds by paying only ₹50 lakh, through which Young India Pvt Ltd (YI) obtained the right to National Herald. The leaders had denied the allegations.Advocate Satya Sabharwal, appearing with Swamy, said the trial was stayed till April 12.Swamy moved HC aggrieved by a trial court order of February 11 that declined, for now, his plea to lead evidence against the Gandhis and others in the case.HT could not reach the Congress for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-herald-case-delhi-hc-seeks-reply-from-sonia-and-rahul-101614043622134.html
23-02-2021||India||Turkey to help build naval vessels at Vizag shipyard||Visakhapatnam-based Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL) is expecting an order from the Indian Navy by the year-end for building five mammoth naval support vessels with transfer of technology from a Turkish shipbuilding firm, people familiar with the development said on Monday.The project, estimated to cost between $1.5 billion and $2 billion, will involve transfer of technology from Anadolu Shipyard, part of the TAIS consortium of Turkey, with which HSL signed an agreement for technical collaboration last year.HSL is expected to deliver the first fleet support vessel (FSV) to the navy within four years of the go-ahead, with the other ships to be delivered at the rate of one every 10 months to 12 months. The vessels will be 230 metres long and have a displacement of 45,000 tonnes. FSVs carry fuel and other supplies for warships.“The agreement with the Turkish consortium will kick in after HSL gets an order from the Indian Navy. If all goes well, that could happen by October 2021. Several Indian vendors will also be involved in the project,” said one of the people cited above, requesting anonymity.Unlike other projects of this type, which usually witness at least one of the vessels being constructed in the country providing the technology, the Turkish side has decided to go ahead with transfer of technology from the initial stages and back the Make in India initiative by constructing all five vessels at HSL, said a second person, who too declined to be named.“Turkey’s shipyards are fully booked for a long time and there is nothing to lose by transferring technology and having all the vessels built in India. Turkish engineers will come to India to assist with the project,” the second person said.Maritime affairs expert Rear Admiral (retired) Sudarshan Shrikhande said: “There is a need for the navy to have fleet support ships. While HSL may have a sort of a collaborative arrangement for transfer of technology and building these in Visakhapatnam, one is not aware if a contract may be in the offing or whether discussions are continuing.”TAIS, which is a member of Turkey’s largest industrial group, and HSL concluded an agreement for cooperation in the first quarter of last year, after the issue had been under a cloud for some time because of Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s criticism of the Indian government’s decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in 2019. Questions were raised in some quarters because of the strong defence ties between Turkey and Pakistan.Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said, “Turkey under President Erdogan has focused on building commercial relations with all countries. This pragmatism is being seen in this effort to collaborate with India despite the proximity with Pakistan. India wants to build its naval capabilities and Turkey has a defence industry that is very advanced.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/turkey-to-help-build-naval-vessels-at-vizag-shipyard-101614043364955.html
23-02-2021||India||India, France to hold naval drills||India and France will cement their defence cooperation in April when the Charles de Gaulle aircraft carrier strike force will conduct exercises with INS Vikramaditya in two phases in the Arabian Sea and Indian Ocean, according to people familiar with the matter.The dates of the exercises are being scheduled between the two navies, the people added.The nuclear-powered French carrier force, comprising two frigates and one support ship, has for several months been on mission “Clemenceau 21”, which deals with fighting terrorism in the Mediterranean, Indian Ocean and Arabian Sea/ Persian Gulf.According to Indian Navy officers aware of the developments, the Western Fleet with its newly appointed commander Rear Admiral Ajay Kochhar will conduct advanced exercises with the French carrier task force. While Charles de Gaulle is a 42,500 tonne aircraft carrier with Rafale M fighters on board, INS Vikramaditya is a conventionally powered aircraft carrier with displacement of 44,500 tonne and has MiG-29K aircraft on board.April will also see renewed engagement with France with foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian visiting India to deliver a lecture at a think-tank and engage in a political dialogue. Both India and France have convergence over freedom of navigation in the Indo-Pacific, with Paris appointing a special envoy for the region.To add to this will be the arrival of seven Rafale jets from France between April 19 and 23, after which the first squadron of the French omni-role fighter will be completed at the Ambala airbase. The remaining 18 fighters will be deployed at Hashimara in the eastern sector to cover the strategic Siliguri corridor.India and France have strengthened their bilateral relationship with convergence in the UN Security Council and building the Indian Air Force’s capacity through the purchase of medium transport aircraft and multi-role transport tankers.The two countries have also joined hands in development of air independent propulsion for conventional submarines for future Indian submersible ships.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-france-to-hold-naval-drills-101614043125884.html
23-02-2021||India||SC raps Centre over delayed reply to RTI plea||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre why it had not filed its response to a petition challenging the constitutional validity of amendments to the Right to Information Act despite being asked to do so in January last year.“This is a very important matter,” remarked a bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah.The petition challenging the RTI (Amendment) Act of 2019 and the RTI (Term of Office, Salaries, Allowances, and Other Terms and Conditions of Service) Rules 2019 was filed in the top court by senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Jairam Ramesh.“Notice was issued on the petition on January 31, 2020. What have you been doing for over a year,” the bench remarked as advocate Kanu Agarwal, appearing on behalf of solicitor general Tushar Mehta, sought an adjournment to file a response by the Centre.The bench said: “Having regard to the fact that this matter has been pending for over a year, let the reply be filed within a short period. List after two weeks.”In January last year, the court had granted Centre four weeks’ time to file a response. Ramesh, in his petition, filed through advocate Sunil Fernandes submitted that the amendments to the RTI Act go against the objective sought to be achieved by the parent Act.According to the petition, the amendments brought about by Parliament in July 2019 permitted the government to fix the tenure, salaries, allowances and terms of service of the Chief Information Commissioner and Information Commissioners of the Central Information Commission (CIC) and State Information Commissions (SECs).This was achieved under the Right to Information (Term of Office, Salaries, Allowances and Other Terms and Conditions of Service) Rules, 2019 by which the tenure of members of CIC and SICs had been reduced from five years to three. The Rules also affected the salaries of the Chief Information Commissioner and information commissioners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-raps-centre-over-delayed-reply-to-rtiplea-101614042438387.html
23-02-2021||India||Unethical to promote Patanjali’s Coronil without checks: IMA||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Monday criticised the promotion of Patanjali’s ayurvedic drug Coronil as “unethical” and a “blatant deceiving of the people of the country”.This comes days after the company relaunched its medicine as the “first evidence-based medicine for Covid-19.”“How can a drug be effective for prevention, treatment and rehabilitation from the disease? If Coronil is effective for prevention, why (is the) government spending ₹35,000 crores for vaccination?” the association said in a statement.“As per the code of act of Medical Council of India, which (is binding) on every modern medical (practitioner), no doctor can promote any drug.”Also Read | Patanjali claims Coronil gets Ayush Ministry certification as per WHO schemeThe relaunch of the medicine took place on Friday in the presence of the Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari.“We are delighted and proud to state that Coronil has been granted a CoPP license by DCGI, in accordance with the WHO GMP quality approvals,” tweeted Acharya Balakrishna, chairman of Patanjali Ayurved.Following this, the World Health Organisation’s South East Asian Region had to issue a clarification stating, “@WHO has not reviewed or certified the effectiveness of any traditional medicine for the treatment #Covid19.”In June, when the company first launched the product, the AYUSH ministry directed the company to stop advertising the product till the claim was verified. The company then submitted initial data of its trial at the National Institute of Medical Sciences, Jaipur.The study has recently been published in the journal Phytomedicine and states that 71% of the patients recovered after being administered the treatment as compared to 50% in the placebo group at day 3.At day 7, 100% of those administered the treatment recovered while only 60% of those in the placebo arm did.Doctors on social media have contended that the sample size for the experiments was too small and anyone with severe disease (those with oxygen saturation of less than 90% or acute respiratory distress syndrome) were excluded from the study.The parameters for “recovery” were not defined, several experts said, questioning the paper released by Patanjali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unethical-to-promote-patanjali-s-coronil-without-checks-ima-101614023963099.html
23-02-2021||India||Suspect in rape case that ousted a CM finally held||After 22 years, Odisha Police have arrested the third and the last accused in a gang rape case that triggered state-wide outcry and led to the ouster of then Congress chief minister JB Patnaik in 1999, officials said on Monday.Police said 50-year-old Bibekananda Biswal, alias Biban, was picked up from Maharashtra’s Aamby Valley township on Sunday. He was working as a plumber, allegedly masquerading as a man identified as Jalandhar Swain, said Bhubaneswar-Cuttack police commissioner Sudhansu Sarangi.“After getting a tip-off on Biswal, we started ‘Operation Silent Viper’ to catch hold of him. With the help of Pune Rural police, we tracked him down...,” Sarangi told the press in Bhubaneswar.Sarangi said Biswal got an Aadhaar card and a new voter identity card made in his fake name. “He used to send money to his family. He was asking his family to get a death certificate made so that Biban Biswal can be shown as dead in police records. We have informed the CBI about his arrest and waiting to hand him over,” Sarangi said.Biswal, Padia Sahoo, then 26, and Dhirendra Mohanty, then 25, were named in the gang rape of Anjana Mishra, then 29, on a desolate stretch of a highway connecting Cuttack and state capital Bhubaneswar on the night of January 9, 1999. The three intercepted her and her journalist friend while they were on their way to Bhubaneswar. Her friend was held at gunpoint.The incident came about a year and half after Mishra, the estranged wife of an Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer, accused Indrajit Ray, the then Odisha advocate general, of molesting her in his chamber. In her first information report (FIR), Mishra alleged that top functionaries of the government ordered the rape to silence her.The gang rape of Mishra became a politically sensitive case and eventually led to the stepping down of then CM JB Patnaik at the insistence of the Congress high command.As the news of Biswal became public, Mishra demanded that he be hanged till death. At a press conference in Bhubaneswar on Monday, she accused the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing the case, of denying her justice.“Over the years, multiple attempts have been made to eliminate me. My house (Bhubaneswar) was vandalised. I was not allowed to stay in my house. I am forced to live with my mother (in the same city),” Mishra, who has separated from her husband, said. She alleged that Biswal evaded arrest for years due to a section of Congress leaders backing him.Congress legislator Suresh Routray, however, dismissed the charge. “It is a laughable allegation. We are happy that Biswal has been arrested,” said Routray.At the time of the incident, Mishra was locked in a marital dispute with her husband. On July 11, 1997, she visited the chamber of then advocate general Ray to discuss a case of dowry harassment.Later, she alleged that Ray tried to sexually harass her.On February 2, 2000, a CBI court in Bhubaneswar found Ray guilty of molesting Mishra and sentenced him to three years of imprisonment and handed him a ₹5,000 fine. He was arrested the same day but released minutes later on a bail bond of ₹40,000 and two sureties. He appealed against the order in a higher court, but died in 2008 before the judgment was out.In her FIR, Mishra accused CM JB Patnaik of engineering the gang rape so as to scare her into withdrawing the case against Ray, a friend of the Congress leader. As opposition parties mounted pressure for his resignation, JB Patnaik quit his post on February 17, 1999. In April 2000, assembly elections were held and a government by the Biju Janata Dal, which is still ruling the state, came to power.Sahoo and Mohanty were arrested in January 1999, days after the crime. The Orissa high court ordered a CBI investigation into the gang rape case and a charge sheet was filed that May. In April 2002, a CBI court in Bhubaneswar sentenced Sahoo and Mohanty to life imprisonment and fined each of them ₹5,000. The high court upheld that verdict in 2010. Sahoo died in 2020, while Mohanty is serving his sentence in special jail of Bhubaneswar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspect-in-rape-case-that-ousted-a-cm-finally-held-101614023166218.html
23-02-2021||India||Police get Disha’s custody for a day||A Delhi court asked the Delhi Police on Monday to produce climate activist Disha Ravi before it again on Tuesday as it sent her to one day’s custodial interrogation during which she will be confronted with co-accused, lawyer Nikita Jacob and engineer Shantanu Muluk, in connection with the toolkit case related to the farmers’ protest on Delhi’s borders.The bail plea of the 22-year-old is pending before additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana, who is expected to pass an order on the petition on Tuesday.Chief metropolitan magistrate Pankaj Sharma sent Ravi to one day’s custodial interrogation by the Delhi Police special cell, saying the remand was being granted for a shorter period than the five days sought by the police because she only has to be confronted with Mumbai lawyer Jacob and Pune-based engineer Shantanu Muluk.Also Read | Order on Disha’s bail reserved for TuesdayRavi was produced at the end of her three-day judicial custody. The police had sought a remand for five days to confront Ravi with Jacob and Muluk.“As the case involves the allegations of vituperous campaign to spread hatred and dissatisfaction to disturb peace and tranquility, to undermine sovereignty, integrity and security, the investigating authority must be provided fair time and chance within the ambit of law to reach out to truth through custodial interrogation and confrontation.“However, at the same time, a balance has to be struck with individual’s right and considering the same, police custody remand of the accused is deemed necessary for a shorter period than required by police as only confrontation of accused with other co-accused is sought and accordingly, accused is remanded to one day {in} police custody…,” the judge said.Ravi was arrested on February 13 in connection with an online toolkit which Delhi Police claimed was created by her in support of farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws.Jacob and Muluk were granted transit pre-arrest bail by courts in Mumbai.On Monday, appearing for the police, public prosecutor Vikas Singh told the court the department required Ravi’s custody to question her along with the two other accused in the case who joined the probe on Monday.He said the present request for police custody was not punishment, but rather would be helpful to Ravi because she was shifting the blame onto the other two accused.The police, in its remand application, said that from the collective confrontation of the accused, the role played by each of them in deletion of the original Toolkit document would come to light.Ravi’s lawyer Siddharth Agarwal opposed the demand saying she has already been questioned by the police and facts conveyed in the earlier remand application remained the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-get-disha-s-custody-for-a-day-101614022472776.html
23-02-2021||India||India plans to speed up vaccine jabs as second Covid-19 wave looms||The Union government is planning to take the rate of coronavirus vaccinations to 5 million a day in the next four to six weeks, an official who is part of the key task force overseeing vaccinations said, while adding that this could include doubling the number of daily vaccination at a particular location to 200.The move is meant to speed up the process when the next and the largest cohort of recipients — members of the general public who are at greater risk due to their age and existing illnesses — begin to be covered.“Currently the system was warming up to check functioning of the software. Now that it has been proven that the software is able to handle the load, it is just a matter of time before the numbers are scaled up,” said Dr NK Arora, member, National Task Force, on Covid-19 vaccine related initiatives.The urgency of ramping up the drive has been compounded by strong signs since last week that the country may be entering its second wave of Covid-19 infections. The number of active cases is now back above 150,000, after being lower for two weeks. The number has risen for five consecutive days till Sunday. It was under 150,000 for two weeks after February 7.Four states have seen a significant jump in their active cases this month. In Maharashtra, the number grew from under 32,000 on February 11 to 54,000 as on Sunday. Punjab’s active cases rose from 2,300 on February 12 to 3,000 on Sunday. In some major regions, such as Andhra Pradesh and Delhi, the number of active cases has hit a plateau after falling continuously till around the same time.Maharashtra minister Nitin Raut on Monday said strict restrictions have been set in place in Nagpur district due to the recent surge in cases there. Schools, colleges and coaching classes will remain shut from Tuesday till March 7, as will marriage halls. Social, political and cultural events will not be permitted and major markets will not open on Saturdays and Sundays till March 7.Also Read | No new Covid-19 deaths in Mumbai for first time in 11 monthsThe districts of Akola, Amravati, Nagpur, Pune, Mumbai and Thane districts have reported the biggest increase in their case load.In Akola, this number has gone up by 145% between February 15 and Monday. It rose by almost 75% in Amravati, Nagpur by nearly 62% and Mumbai by over 45% in the same period.In March, the country will face a tougher challenge in delivering doses than it does now. The government wants to begin covering people above the age of 50 and those with a particular set of illnesses that make them more vulnerable to Covid-19. Their number is expected to be around 270 million.“Initially we had targeted to immunise about 300,000 individuals every day, the reason being we wanted to identify all hiccups so that those could be ironed out. The country has the capacity to immunise 500,000 to 800,000 individuals per day, which means we would be setting up 50,000 to 100,000 immunisation sites. The country has the experience of immunising 170 million children within a week several times in a year for over two decades now under its national pulse polio immunisation programme, so the capacity is there,” said Dr Arora.As on Monday, the country has given 11.8 million doses since kicking off the drive on January 16. At first, health workers were being covered and since February 2, front line workers such as police and firefighters are being administered vaccines.The government had set a deadline for February 20 to give all registered health workers at least their first doses but gave an extension of four days for mop up rounds. On Monday, officials said eight states have given first doses to at least 75% of its health care workforce: Bihar (84.97%), Tripura (83.4%), Odisha (82.26%), Chhattisgarh (80.48%), Uttarakhand (77.59%), Jharkhand (77.26%), Uttar Pradesh (76.38%), and Himachal Pradesh (76.12%).“The initial effort to vaccinate health care workers and frontline workers was a good idea as it helped in knowing how well the digital platform worked. It is good to know in the beginning itself if there are any glitches, and can be addressed before a larger section of beneficiaries is vaccinated,” said Dr MC Misra, former director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi.Dr Arora agreed that once the performance of the digital platform has been successfully evaluated in real time, it is feasible to scale up. “It is a marathon that we are trying to run and will pick up pace gradually. Everything will depend on the digital platform, Co-WIN, as it is a new software and we had to see how it functioned in real-time. Now that the platform has been streamlined, we can scale up in no time,” Dr Arora added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plans-to-speed-up-jabs-as-second-wave-looms-101614021609151.html
23-02-2021||India||Will make more trips till poll dates out: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Monday suggested that the schedule for this summer’s assembly elections could be announced by the Election Commission in the first week of March, even as he flagged off new projects in Assam and West Bengal, two of the battleground states where polling is due in April-May.“I know you are waiting for the election...since last time it (poll schedule) was announced on March 4 (2016), this time it could be announced around that time. It’s the Election Commission’s job and it will take a call. Whatever time I get in the interim, I will try keep coming to meet you all,” he said at a meeting in Assam’s Dhemaji.“If we consider March 7 as the date of announcement, whatever time I get...I will try tirelessly to return among you,” he added.Also Read | After Sonar Bangla, PM Modi calls for Ashol Paribarton in poll-bound BengalTo be sure, EC is an autonomous constitutional authority responsible for administering election processes in India.Chief election commissioner Sunil Arora and election commissioners Sushil Chandra and Rajiv Kumar have visited Assam, Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and the Union Territory of Puducherry, where polls are likely to be completed before May-end. The dates and the number of polling phases are yet to be announced as the commission is still deliberating on the matter.During his third visit to Assam in a month, Modi dedicated to the nation three major projects in the petroleum sector worth over ₹3,222 crore, inaugurated Dhemaji Engineering College and laid the foundation stone for Sualkuchi Engineering College, carrying on with his development push evident during his previous visits as well.“Despite immense potential, previous governments treated the north bank of Brahmaputra (in Assam) in a step-motherly manner. Connectivity, hospitals, educational institutions or industry was not a concern of earlier governments,” Modi said at a public meeting at Silapathar, apparently hitting out at the Congress. “Such bias was done away with after the arrival of the Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) government led by Sarbananda Sonowal (in 2016),” he added.Among the oil and gas projects, he dedicated the INDMAX unit at Indian Oil Corporation (IOC)’s Bongaigaon refinery to the nation. INDMAX is an indigenously developed technology of IOC to produce a high yield of LPG and high-octane gasoline from petroleum fractions.The Congress hit out at Modi, calling him a “migratory bird” who visits the state often but does not solve any problem. “Why did he not come when the state was suffering from flood? Why did he not come when five youngsters were gunned down by police during the anti-CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act) movement (in December 2019)?” Assam Pradesh Congress committee president Ripun Bora asked.In West Bengal, Modi called for “ashol paribartan (real transformation)”, while sharpening his criticism of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her ruling Trinamool Congress. He also flagged off the extension of the city’s north-south Metro corridor from Noapara to Dakshineshwar along with a slew of other railway projects. It was his second public rally in the eastern state this month.At a public rally in Hooghly district, around 50 km north of Kolkata, he came down heavily on the TMC over alleged corruption and alleged that the TMC government was not allowing development programmes in the state. “Development of Bengal is not possible till the time there is syndicate rule, reign of extortionists, culture of cut money, and the administration gives shelter to goons. Voices are being raised from every corner demanding ashol paribartan,” he added.“Paribartan” was the main slogan of the TMC in 2011, the year it ended the 34-year Left Front rule.“Modi has raised false and baseless allegations...BJP is not in power. But their workers and leaders have already started extortion. If BJP comes to power it would be devastating,” said TMC MP Saugata Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-make-more-trips-till-poll-dates-out-pm-101614020752328.html
23-02-2021||India||China says it supports India hosting the BRICS 2021 summit||China on Monday said it supports India hosting this year’s BRICS summit and will work with New Delhi to strengthen the bloc, allaying concerns that the India-China border dispute will impact the forum.India assumed the rotating chairmanship of the five-member summit, comprised of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa on January 1, taking over from Russia, which hosted the last summit as an online event in November because of the Covid-19 pandemic.India taking over the BRICS leadership, for the third time since the group was formed, comes at a sensitive time as New Delhi’s ties with Beijing are facing their worst challenges in decades. It’s only after nine months and several rounds of negotiations that border troops have disengaged from the south and north banks of Pangong Lake.Also Read | Anti-India propaganda continues online in China“We support India in hosting this year’s meeting. We will work with it and other members to strengthen communication and dialogue and consolidate the three-pillar cooperation, expand BRICS plus cooperation and work for greater progress under BRICS,” the foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said, when asked whether the India-China border dispute will impact BRICS.The “three pillars” Wang referred to are policy and security; economy and finance; and culture and people-to-people exchanges.China will “also help the world to defeat Covid-19, resume economic growth and improve global governance,” Wang further added.Wang said that BRICS is a cooperation mechanism of global influence consisting of emerging economies and developing countries which “in recent years it has seen greater solidarity, deeper practical cooperation and a greater influence”.It is now a positive, stable, and constructive force in international affairs,” he said.“China attaches importance to this mechanism, and we are committed to deepening strategic partnership within it to consolidate solidarity and cooperation,” Wang said.He did not respond to the question on whether President Xi Jinping will attend the BRICS summit in India.In his address during the last summit, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that India would focus on improving cooperation within the bloc.“During our presidency in 2021, we will try enhancing intra-BRICS cooperation by strengthening all the three pillars. We will endeavour to enhance intra-BRICS solidarity and develop a solid institutional framework for this purpose,” Modi said.In December, China complimented India for hosting the Council of Heads of Government of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in late November, saying all member states spoke highly of the conference’s outcomes. It was the first-time India had hosted the SCO Council of Heads of Government after it joined the eight-member grouping in 2017.Chinese Premier Li Keqiang on Monday attended the virtual meeting of the bloc which was also addressed by Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-says-it-supports-india-hosting-the-brics-2021-summit-101613996181212.html
