01-03-2021||Jharkhand||Fire breaks out at Canary Hill, no one injured||Shib Shankar Goswami, a teacher at St Xavier’s School, Hazaribagh, was travelling to Koderma via NH 33 when he spotted flames engulfing the trees of Canary Hills, a famous tourist spot of the district, on Sunday evening. Goswami, an avid bird watcher, immediately alerted senior forest officer Pyarelal Saw about the fire. The officer immediately sprung into action. He formed a team of six forest officials and reached the spot identified by the school teacher. The team led by Saw took 45 minutes to put out the wildfire. He confirmed the gutting of bushes and small plants. Terming the incident as unfortunate, he blamed the smokers for causing the mishap. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Pyarelal said, “We had to scale the hill to reach the spot. After dousing the flames, we had to go climb up to its peak once again to control the fire,” he added. According to him smokers climb up the hill, throw cigarette butts without extinguishing it. Given the fact that around this time a lot of trees shed their leaves, such acts of carelessness lead to such fires. “The Canary Hill is not a property of the forest department but that of the local people. They need to care for this place. No town can boast of such a picturesque natural beauty in its area,” claimed Pyarelal. He also said that people should avoid going on top of the hill with matchsticks. “I have asked the caretakers to ensure that people going on the peak should not carry matchsticks with them,” he added. Goswami said people coming here should realise that a small mistake of theirs can cause a big damage to this hill. “I felt deep pain on seeing the flames engulfing trees at the peak of Canary Hill,” he said. Other than Pyarelal, the team that reached the spot comprised - Anil Kumar, Subodh Kumar, Jaipal, Ramchandra and Sanjay Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-126
01-03-2021||Jharkhand||Health centre with OPD facility opens at Belgarhia||A well-equipped health centre was launched on Monday at Jharia Vihar Colony of Belgarhia to address the health care needs of around 5,000 families of 595 underground fire-affected sites, who have been rehabilitated in the colony since March 25, 2010. The centre is launched on a temporary basis for 5-6 months in two residential quarters of Phase I of Jharia Vihar Colony. It will offer OPD service from 10 am to 5 pm with the consultancy of general physicians, gynaecologists, orthopaedics, etc. Dr Durga Patwari provided medical consultancy on the inaugural day and she will offer her services for the next two days as well. This, apart from several other doctors as per the detailed schedule prepared by the Jharia Rehabilitation & Development Authority (JRDA), will be available at the centre. Some of them are Yamuna Kumari and Rajendra Kumar on Monday; Rekha Kumari and Beauty Kumar Dutta on Wednesday; and Arvind Kumar and Md Ainul Ansari on Thursday. A few orthopaedics and gynaecologists will also offer their services at the centre on other days. Talking to the media, Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh, who inaugurated the facility as chief guest said, “The residents of Belgarhia used to face difficulty day and night due to lack of any hospital and healthcare centre in the adjoining area. During our inspection of the colony two months ago, the residents had also demanded a healthcare facility in the colony.” “We have established the health centre as a temporary arrangement for three-four months for which some infrastructure development work like shade construction and paver block laying is being carried out but gradually the centre will be replaced with a full-fledged health centre which is being developed in Phase III of Belgarhia where 24x7 medical care facility would be provided and residents will not have to go outside to seek medical care facilities,” informed Singh who is also the ex-officio managing director of JRDA. “We have taken all issues affecting the newly rehabilitated people as a challenge and to address the source of livelihood requirement we have made arrangements to engage them in unskilled and semiskilled work in the upcoming construction work of around Rs 300-400 crore in Belgarhia,” said Singh, who was accompanied today during the inauguration by Rehabilitation and Resettlement in-charge of JRDA, Gulzar Anjum; General Manager of Lodna area of BCCL, GD Nigam and General Manager (Jharia Master plan) of BCCL PK Dubey and others. “Simultaneously, we have also hired an agency which is carrying out the profiling of youth and other job seekers of Jharia based on their qualification, etc. and suitable livelihood arrangement would be made after preparation of the job profile,” said Singh. “We have also decided to carry out the third-party evaluation of all construction work made in Belgarhia, where payment to contractors would be made after the certification of their work by the third party hired for the evaluation of work,” divulged Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-126
01-03-2021||Jharkhand||914 elders get Covishield jabs across state on Day One||As many as 914 senior citizens, including 181 from Ranchi and 129 from Bokaro, were administered a dose of the Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand on Monday, the first day of the immunization programme for people above the age of 60, data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. At least 126 people above the age of 45 years and suffering from comorbid conditions also got the vaccine in the state on Monday, a report released by the NHM said, further highlighting that as many as 44 of the beneficiaries were from Bokaro and only 18 from Ranchi. As per government data, no senior citizen turned up for the vaccination in Khunti district, while at least 11 of 24 districts did not administer even a single middle-aged beneficiary with comorbid conditions. East Singhbhum, with district headquarters in Jamshedpur, administered the vaccine to only 33 senior citizens and three persons above the age of 45 years. The government aims to inoculate around 37 lakh senior citizens and people with comorbidities in the second phase of the vaccination drive in Jharkhand, an NHM official said. He added that the number of senior citizens getting vaccinated daily would increase gradually as more empanelled hospitals start administering the jabs in the state. The vaccination programme in Jharkhand was suspended on Saturday and Sunday as healthcare workers in private hospitals were being trained,   officials said. On Monday, the state achieved only 21 per cent of its target for vaccination of healthcare workers and frontline workers by inoculating only 3826 of over 18,000 registered beneficiaries, revealed government data. Ranchi achieved only 15 per cent of its vaccination target for healthcare workers and frontline workers on the day, while Lohardaga was the worst performer with only 7 per cent target achieved. Bokaro performed the best even in vaccinating healthcare workers and frontline workers. The district vaccinated 353 beneficiaries and achieved 67 per cent of its target. The registration for vaccination of senior citizens and middle-aged people with comorbid conditions was done through the Co-Win 2.0 portal in most of the hospitals, but beneficiaries also had the choice to register in person or over the phone. So far, the state has administered the first dose of the vaccine to 2,95,242 people and the second dose to 27,911 people, as per government data. On Monday, as many as 4,154 of 10,257 beneficiaries were administered the second dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand. Jharkhand has so far achieved 81 per cent of its target for the first dose of vaccine and 68 per cent of the target for the second dose. As many as 37 people were infected by the Covid-19 virus on Monday in Jharkhand, while 46 patients recovered, bringing the number of active cases down to 485, a bulletin released by NHM on Monday night stated. However, the number of active cases jumped to 286 in Ranchi as the district reported only 18 recoveries against 22 fresh cases. There were no Covid casualties on Monday. With 44 fresh cases and 40 recoveries, Jharkhand reported a minor rise in the number of active cases on Sunday. However, Ranchi witnessed a drop in active cases as 23 people were found infected and 28 patients recovered. In the past 48 hours, Jharkhand has reported two Covid casualties, both on Sunday, and a drop in active cases from 494 to 485. So far, as many as 1,090 people have died of Covid-19 in the state and 246 of them were from Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-126
01-03-2021||Jharkhand||Most Ranchi schools decide to reopen in April ||Most private English medium schools of Ranchi did not resume campus lessons for classes 8, 9, 11, on Monday and decided to postpone reopening till the start of the next academic session citing lack of resources and manpower to implement necessary Covid-19 safeguards, and those that did start classes witnessed poor attendance on Day One, leading to speculation that they may continue with online teaching till April. After remaining shut due to the nationwide lockdown for close to a year, schools, colleges and coaching centres, along with public parks and cinema halls,  were allowed to reopen from March 1. For schools, the government order, however, allowed offline classes in addition to the existing practice of online teaching only for middle and higher class students. Don Bosco Public School in Kokar was among the handful of schools that held on-campus classes on Monday. Principal Father Jyotish Kr. Kindo said that although there wasn’t 100 per cent attendance, those who turned up were happy to be back on campus. “We are following social distancing in classes and have made arrangements for thermal scanning, sanitisers and soaps for washing as prescribed by the state government. Since other classes are closed, currently we don’t have a problem accommodating students in accordance with social distancing norms,” he said. But most premier schools maintained they were already burdened with conducting online annual exams, and would, therefore, reopen in April. DPS principal Ram Singh said that after reviewing the ground situation, they have decided to ask students to come to the campus from April. “Currently, it’s time for annual examinations for all classes in the majority of schools. In such a situation, it will be difficult to handle offline classes along with online exams. Unlike earlier times, one has to take lots of aspects into consideration to ensure the safety of children and staff because of the ongoing pandemic. So we have decided to resume offline teaching for classes permitted by the government from April," he said. Oxford Public School also announced reopening in April. “Almost all top schools will resume campus classes from April. Many parents weren’t keen to send students at a time when Covid cases are again rising. Ranchi is getting the maximum cases out of the state's daily increase. In such a situation, parents don't seem to be keen to send their wards to school.  April will be the best time to resume,” said a school official. Samarjit Jana, principal of JVM Shyamali School, agreed. “We are readying our campus to reopen from April for Classes 8, 9 and 11 in a phased manner,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-126
01-03-2021||Jharkhand||Sanjeev Singh's lawyers move plea against Dhanbad jail officer, IG Prisons ||Sanjeev Singh's lawyer moved a petition in a local court on Monday against Dhanbad jail superintendent Ajay Kumar and IG (Prisons) Virendra Bhushan for violating its orders and delaying the transfer of the .former Jharia MLA from Dumka prison. The court of Additional District and Session Judge IV admitted lawyer Md Javed's petition and said it would hold a hearing on Tuesday, March 2. "The court in it’s February 25 order instructed the jail superintendent Ajay Kumar to transfer back Sanjeev Singh to Dhanbad immediately. It also observed that nobody was above the law whatever position or post he/she may hold and that the majesty of law should always be maintained," Javed told The Telegraph Online. "As Sanjeev is yet to be shifted as per court orders, we have moved criminal contempt petitions against the jail superintendent, who was physically present during the court proceedings when the order was passed," he added. Javed also pointed out that while the jail superintendent immediately acted on the February 20 executive order of IG (Prisons) and shifted Sanjeev to distant Dumka Central Jail on Sunday (February 21), he had not responded to the court order of February 25 to transfer him back to Dhanbad even after four days have passed. This, he alleged, indicated "disrespect" to the judiciary. Jail IG Virendra Bhushan told the media he was yet to receive the court order of February 25 and added that he would take appropriate legal recourse after procuring the order. Sanjeev Singh, arrested by Dhanbad police on April 11, 2017, as a key conspirator of Niraj Singh murder case of March 21, 2017, was transferred to Dumka jail by the Dhanbad jail staff on February 21 citing security reasons. On behalf of Sanjeev, Javed filed two petitions in court on February 22. One petition challenged the transfer of an undertrial prisoner against an earlier high court order while the other demanded that a show-cause notice be slapped on the superintendent, Ajay Kumar. On February 23, the court show caused the jail superintendent while hearing Javed’s petition and asked him to submit a reply on February 25. But on February 25, the court termed Kumar's reply as unsatisfactory and instructed him to immediately transfer Sanjeev Singh to the Dhanbad jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-126
01-03-2021||Jharkhand||Police seize marijuana worth Rs 2.5 lakh from Sitaramdera bus terminus ||In a major breakthrough against drugs, the police on Monday arrested four persons from Sitaramdera bus terminus and seized marijuana worth over Rs 2.5 lakh from them. Those arrested are residents of Bihar and were caught with a consignment of marijuana which was being smuggled to the steel city from Odisha by interstate bus. Revealing about the breakthrough, superintendent of police, City, Subhash Chandra Jat said they arrested the smugglers on a tip-off. "We had prior information that some people were smuggling marijuana from a certain place in adjoining Odisha by interstate buses plying between the two states. We had, therefore, set up a special team to nab the smugglers. A team led by the OC of Sitaramdera police station, Akhilesh Mandal, caught the gang with 22 kg marijuana from the bus stand on Monday," said Jat while speaking to the newsmen. He said those arrested were supposed to carry the marijuana consignment to Bihar by another bus. Jat, when queried, said the traffickers used to carry marijuana in private vehicles from Odisha on a regular basis earlier. But since the marijuana consignments were seized during checking on the national highway time and again in the past, they changed their strategy and had started carrying the drug by bus and in a smaller quantity He said the arrested persons, identified as Ravindra Yadav, Motichandra Kusbaha, Lorik Yadav and Subh Goswami, were interrogated about their destination and about other gangs involved in the racket. All the four accused were sent to Ghaghidih Central Jail after they were produced before a judicial magistrate in the afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-126
01-03-2021||Jharkhand||RU holds first ever virtual convocation ceremony ||For the first time since its establishment in 1960, Ranchi University (RU) organised a virtual convocation ceremony for limited guests and gave away certificates in person only to around 63 toppers on Monday amid Covid-19 restrictions. While RU Vice Chancellor Ramesh Pandey and Pro Vice Chancellor Kamini Kumar conferred certificates and medals to the toppers of undergraduate and postgraduate courses in the auditorium of the Institute of Law Studies in a low-key event on campus, Governor Droupadi Murmu addressed students via video conferencing from Raj Bhavan on the 34th Convocation ceremony. Besides the 63 toppers, at least 77 Ph.D students were conferred certificates at six different locations in various departments, RU authorities said. The Governor’s address was webcast live to all the students in the various departments. “It gives me immense pleasure to be present virtually with you all on this day. However, I would have been happier had I got the opportunity to see you all in person on this special day,” said Murmu, adding that the smile on the faces of students on convocation day gave her great joy. Quoting Mahatma Gandhi, Murmu said that right education lets people’s actions speak louder than words and inculcates the feeling of helping others. “Ranchi University is one of the oldest universities in Jharkhand, and it has achieved a good name across India with its achievements,” said the Governor. She added that education was the most important pillar of development in India as it lets a person find inspiration and purpose in life. Education, she said, should also inculcate patriotism and the intent to serve society among students. The Chancellor said the new education policy of 2020 aims at promoting mother tongue, Indian-ness and morality. Following the new education policy and ensuring that students benefit from it have emerged as major challenges for the varsity, she added. While the toppers were excited to get gold medals from the VC and Pro VC, some of them claimed that getting medals at the convocation ground in presence of family and friends would have been more satisfying. “I am happy that we at least had a convocation ceremony where we could get our medals and certificates. However, this cannot match the thrill and enthusiasm associated with getting awarded in presence of our near and dear ones at a huge gathering of several hundred people,” said Saurav Munda, the topper of Masters in Mass Communication. Every year, the varsity holds its convocation ceremony at the convocation ground on the RU campus at Morhabadi, where the toppers are conferred certificates by a chief guest and a guest of honour. Last year, President Ramnath Kovind attended the convocation ceremony and handed over certificates and medals to toppers in a grand event. The decision of keeping the convocation ceremony a low-key affair was taken in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in the state capital. Certificates and medals were given to PG students of 2018-2020 batch and undergraduate students of 2017-2020 batch on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-127
01-03-2021||Jharkhand||State tables supplementary budget in Assembly amid ruckus ||The Hemant Soren government tabled its second annual budget, this time for Rs 7323 crore, in the Assembly on Monday amid protests from both ruling and Opposition MLAs on various issues. Amid the pandemonium, state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon presented the supplementary budget in the second half of the day before the House was adjourned at 2 pm. The first supplementary budget of Rs 2584.83 crore for the ongoing fiscal year was tabled during last year’s brief monsoon session in September. The supplementary demand for grants for 2020-21 fiscal included Rs 996 crore for rural development, Rs 269 crore for urban development, Rs 352 crore for water resources, Rs 226 crore for agriculture, Rs 181 crore for women and child development. Before the start of the day's proceedings at 11am, MLAs of the ruling Congress and RJD staged protests against the BJP-led government at the Centre, accusing it of looting people by successive hikes in fuel and LPG prices. Several MLAs stood with empty cylinders, held banners and posters to denounce the Narendra Modi government for putting crores of people under financial stress. Congress MLA from Mahagama Dipika Pandey Singh said, “We have been fighting against the steep rise in fuel prices for several weeks through protests, demonstrations and by raising our voices in state Assemblies and Parliament. At a time when Covid-19 has led to financial distress , such hikes only compound people's woes. How can the government be so insensitive?.” BJP MLAs protested against the JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government in the state, accusing it of duping job-seekers by scrapping the recruitment policy. They also highlighted growing lawlessness in the state. Minutes after the House commenced, BJP MLA fom Chandankyari Amar Bauri moved a work adjournment motion demanding a discussion on issues concerning the state. Accusing the Hemant government of political vendetta, he said the recruitment policy devised by the previous BJP government had reserved class III and IV jobs for locals for 10 years. “However, the state government scrapped it, citing objections raised by high court. But it must answer why it went to Supreme Court in the first place to defend it and suddenly took a U-turn putting the fate of thousands of job seekers in the lurch?,” he said. Soon, all BJP MLAs walked into the Well of the House and raised slogans, forcing speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto to adjourn the House till 12.30pm. Similar scenes prevailed after the House resumed till it was finally adjourned at 2pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-127
01-03-2021||Jharkhand||Elderly women burnt alive in late night fire ||An 85-year-old woman from Kankani Hanuman Bazar area under Loyabad Police station was burnt alive in a late night fire on Sunday at her son’s grocery shop. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. Anant Mittal, the shop owner who lives at Galla Patti locality of Karkend, closed his shop at around 9 pm and went home, leaving his mother who resided in the shop inside. Mukesh Pandit, a nearby tea stall owner, who spotted smoke and fire coming out of Mittal's shop, raised an alarm. Later, he went to Mittal's home along with another shopkeeper, Md Salim. All long a large number of neighbours and other shopkeepers who had gathered at the accident site tried to douse the fire and called the fire brigade. Shop owner Mittal and tea stall owner Mukesh Pandit suffered minor injuries during their attempt to douse the fire. Talking to the media, Mittal said, “We are suspecting foul play as several burglaries have occurred in the shop earlier. The fire doesn’t seem to have been caused due to a short circuit” “My mother has been living in the shop for several years and we are shocked and deeply hurt by her demise,” said Mittal. Social worker and president of Loyabad Muslim Committee, Md Imtiyaz Ahmad said, “The tragic incident has shocked one and all in the locality and we demand a detailed police investigation into the incident. The role of some anti-social elements behind the incident cannot be overruled." Officer in charge of Loyabad police station, Chunnu Murmu said, “We have lodged a case against some unidentified persons and sent the dead body for postmortem. A detailed probe will be carried out to find the reasons behind the fire.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-127
01-03-2021||Jharkhand||BSF Director General unveils new facilities at Meru training camp||Director general of Border Security Force (BSF) Rakesh Asthana on Monday visited the Training Camp and School (TC&S) at Meru to inaugurate the renovated Officers Institute and the newly built battle obstacle assault course (BOAC) complex. Asthana was welcomed with a Guard of Honour at Meru, located 11 kms away from the Hazaribagh district headquarters. Inspector general Ravi Gandhi briefed him about the ongoing training activities and initiatives taken during the last two quarters by the institute. The DG in his address to officers exhorted all to keep formulating innovative techniques so that trainees can stay ahead of the new and emerging challenges. During the entire visit, DIG D K Sharma accompanied him and briefed him on training, infrastructure and other connected matters. The complex consists of 26 different battle field obstacles, ones that soldiers may have to negotiate in battle conditions. He inspected Kendriya Vidyalaya, children traffic park, family welfare centre and also witnessed a demonstration on Artificial wall climbing. Trainers in the comprehensive event exhibited free, fix, knotted, jhumar climbing, seat rappelling, free rappelling, casualty evacuation rappelling and team slithering. He reviewed the training activities of tactical, as well as battalion support weapon group and visited the newly introduced professional clubs. He also experienced the newly added jungle safari put in place to sensitise the Meru BSF family on environment protection, preservation and promotion. In his address, he asserted that the new infrastructures will boost the training quality. He also termed the institution as a designated centre of excellence for counter insurgence, commando and explosive detection and handling and praised the efforts put up by the institution to constantly improve the training material and methodology. The BSF training centre had acquired the status of a centre for excellence from the Centre few years earlier, because of its advance training on counter-insurgency operations, counter-terrorism and bomb disposal. The centre also attracts batches from neighbouring countries seeking advance training for new recruits as well as senior officers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-127
01-03-2021||Jharkhand||Bengal polls a test for Jharkhand parties||The Bengal elections will put to test if the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and tribal leaders belonging to even other political parties have significant hold outside Jharkhand. “We will announce candidates for the Bengal seats next week,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya told The Telegraph on Sunday,  adding there was also nothing final about their party's alliance with other political outfits till then. The JMM had earlier said it would contest in about 30 Assembly seats in Bengal that had considerable tribal population, particularly in Jungle Mahal districts comprising Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram and West Midnapur and in tea gardens in north Bengal. The Jungle Mahal seats will go for polls in the first and second phases on March 27 and April 1 respectively and as such, the party has to finalise the list of its candidates for those seats fast as they will have to file nomination papers latest by March 12 and then concentrate on campaign. Though the political parties rooted in Jharkhand claim to enjoy considerable following among the tribal population in Bengal, the election results did not reflect that in the past. The only exceptions were probably Naren Hansda and his wife Chunibala who had won Binpur seat in Jhargram in the past as candidates of Jharkhand Party (Naren) that Hansda had founded. The upcoming Bengal elections will thus put the JMM to test and prove if the party that enjoyed so much support in Jharkhand also enjoys the same in tribal pockets of neighbouring Bengal. The upcoming elections will also prove how popular the tribal leaders of Jharkhand are in that state. Chief minister Hemant Soren has already addressed a public meeting in Jhargram recently and is also likely to do so elsewhere in that state. Some other leaders of the party are also likely to chip in. The performance of the JMM will show how popular the party leaders are among the Bengal tribals. The BJP has also deputed former chief minister Babulal Marandi who already addressed a few meetings in Bengal. Another former Jharkhand CM and current Union minister Arjun Munda is also expected to campaign for the BJP. “They all have been drafted with the sole purpose of netting tribal votes and the results will show these leaders’ popularity among the tribals of that state,” commented a tribal leader, adding language is a barrier and only those like Arjun Munda who he can speak Bengali can have some advantages.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-127
