02-03-2021||Jharkhand||New weekly train to Maharashtra via Tatanagar||The South Eastern Railway (SER) on Tuesday announced a new weekly special train between Santragachi and Hazur Sahib Nanded in Maharashtra via Tatanagar railway station, which will start its journey on March 5 from the western state, and on March 7 from Bengal. "The special train is being introduced keeping in view the demand of passengers. The train will continue to run till further notification, " said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of the South Eastern Railway. As per a schedule released by Garden Reach, headquarters of South Eastern Railway, the 02768 Santragachi-Hazur Sahib Nanded Special, leaving Santragchi every Wednesday at 2.45 pm, will reach Hazur Sahib Nanded at 7.10 pm the next day. The train will reach Tatanagar at 7 pm. In the opposite direction, the train will leave every Monday at 3.25 pm and will arrive at Santragachi at 7.20 pm the next day. It will reach Tatanagar at 3 pm. The train with two AC three- tier, nine sleeper class and four general second class coaches will have stoppages at Kharagpur, Tatanagar, Chakradharpur, Rourkela, Jharsuguda, Bilsapur, Raipur, Durg, Gondia, Nagpur, Majri, Wani, Pimpalkhuti, Adilabad, Kinwat, Himayatnagar and Mudkhed between Santragachi and Hazur Sahib Nanded. Welcoming the decision general secretary of Chota Nagpur Passenger Association Arun Tiwari, said , "Apart from numerous passengers who travel between the two destinations throughout the year, the weekly special train will also help in clearing the huge rush of passengers witnessed during the summer vacation." Passengers have been asked to strictly follow all the health protocols before and during journey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-125
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ratan Tata inaugurates new wing at Naval Tata hockey cradle ||A new building at the Naval Tata Hockey Academy (NTHA) was jointly inaugurated by Tata Sons emeritus chairman Ratan N Tata and chairman N Chandrasekaran in the steel city on Tuesday. Tata Steel CEO and MD, TV Narendran and vice-president (corporate services), Chanakya Chaudhary were among those present at the inaugural ceremony. Senior Tata Steel officials briefed both Tata and Chandrasekaran about the operational aspects of the academy and the building. The two-storey building boasts a hostel for 52 cadets (boys), rooms for 9 coaches, gymnasium, teaching room, Hall of Fame, office, dining and kitchen, infirmary, massage room, a board room with excellent view of the turf and also a viewing balcony for about 20 people. First two phases of the project have been completed and very soon accommodation for 52 girl cadets and a practice field will be added as part of the third phase. The foundation stone for NTHA was laid by Ratan Tata, also chairman of Tata Trusts, on March 2, 2018. The cradle has been set up through a joint collaboration between Tata Steel, Tata Trusts and Indian Steel & Wire Products (ISWP), a subsidiary of Tata Steel, with a vision to professionalise grassroots hockey in the talent-rich tribal belts of Jharkhand and Odisha. Spread over 10 acres, the academy brings world-class facilities that include a Fédération Internationale de Hockey (FIH) global quality artificial turf with floodlights, international coaches, nutritionists as well as mental and physical trainers to provide high-performance hockey training. Netherlands-based Bovelander Hockey Academy led by legendary drag-flicker Floris Jan Bovelander, former Olympian and assistant coach of the Dutch national team, has been engaged to develop the training curriculum for delivering high-performance coaching. A three-tier structure has been set-up starting with a grassroots programme for 10 to 12 years age group followed by training at the District Level Regional Development Centres (RDCs) and finally getting selected into the academy at an age of 14 years to 17 years. The first batch of 28 boys was selected from the villages of Simdega, Khunti and West Singhbhum districts. They have undergone a year-long programme of rigorous training provided by Dutch coaches and Indian hockey legend Sandeep Singh. Presently, NTHA Jamshedpur has 32 boy cadets. Girl cadets will be inducted towards the end of 2021. Over the past 3 years, NTHA has successfully resulted in 17 players representing their respective states at various national level tournaments. The academy aims to become a “Centre of Excellence” for hockey by creating a professional environment that enables young players to achieve their full potential. Players emerging from the cradle are free to pursue the game at the highest levels - playing for the country as well as clubs around the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-125
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||Budget will be pro-people, says Hemant||Chief minister Hemant Soren has assured the people of Jharkhand that Wednesday's state budget would be one that will put the state on fast-paced growth and address concerns of every section of society. Speaking to reporters at the Vidhan Sabha on Tuesday, Hemant said, “While the final contents will be known once our finance minister tables the budget in the Assembly tomorrow (Wednesday), but let me assure you that we have taken the ground realities of the state into account while framing it. The budget will be pro-people and will be aimed towards taking the state ahead. We have already dedicated this year to job creation.” Finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said the focus would be on key drivers of the growth. “The state government’s focus will be on priority sectors such as health, food, clothing, education and jobs. Unlike the Union budget, which was for capitalists, we will come up with a people-friendly budget,” he assured. In the Assembly, MLAs of the Opposition BJP resorted to disruptions on Tuesday, forcing Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto to adjourn the House twice. As the House began at 11am, BJP MLAs walked into the Well to demand a debate on the recruitment policy, accusing the state government of scrapping their initiative arbitrarily. On Monday, too, the issue dominated the BJP’s agenda . Opposition MLAs descended on the Well of the House, raised "Jai Shri Ram" slogans, banged on benches and performed parikrama (going around n circles), forcing the Speaker to cut short Question Hhour and adjourn the proceedings till 12 noon. Soon after the House resumed, BJP MLAs again resorted to protests over the recruitment policy leading to chaos during Zero Hour. BJP MLA from Hazaribagh Manish Jaiswal then sought answers from the chief minister over deaths due to kerosene blasts in his district. He demanded compensation for those killed (four) and injured (16) and sought action against the guilty. Later, the chief minister told the House that compensation of Rs 4 lakh would be given to the kin of the deceased. Amid the din, the Assembly was adjourned again till 2 pm. The ruckus continued later when Ranchi MLA C. P. Singh tore up a copy of the government order removing him as senate member of Shyama Prasad Mukherjee University in Ranchi, days after appointing him. All BJP MLAs later staged a walkout in protest. Singh’s action prompted Congress’s MLA from Poriyahat Pradeep Yadav to move a motion to expel him for the rest of the session. Criticizing the Opposition’s conduct, Hemant later told reporters, “The BJP calls itself a party with principles and morals. But their conduct in the House speaks otherwise. In a democracy, a healthy debate in the House is the need of the hour, not disruptions. I am sure the Speaker has taken note of their conduct for appropriate action.” But the BJP's chief whip, Bokaro MLA Biranchi Narayan, said that the onus of conducting the House lay with the government. “We are raising issues that are important for the people of the state. It is for the government to decide if they wish to run the House by answering questions raised by us or continue to avoid them,” he said. Economic survey projects state growth at 9.5% in 2021-22 The Economic Survey 2021-22 tabled by state finance minister Oraon on Tuesday projected a growth of 9.5 per cent in Jharkhand in 2021-22 fiscal and pegged per capita income at Rs 57,863. The GSDP is expected to contract by 6.9 per cent, it added. “The real GSDP is expected to grow at the rate of 9.5 per cent and nominal GSDP by 13.6 per cent in the next fiscal over the current fiscal year,” it said. Supplementary budget On Tuesday, the House passed the state government’s second supplementary budget of Rs 7323 crore with voice vote a day after it was tabled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-125
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hockey tournament in memory of martyred cop starts in Latehar||A two-day hockey tournament in memory of martyred cop Novesh Munda, who lost his life fighting maoists, kicked off at the Mahuadanr block in Latehar district on Tuesday generating a feeling of festivity, police said. SP Latehar Prashant Anand said a total of eight teams comprising boys and girls from Munda’s village, Durup, participated in the tournament aimed to pay respect to all those who have lost their lives in the extremist-hit Mahuadanr. The games are being played at the ground of the St Joseph High School Mahuadanr. “This tournament will drive our point home that police headquarters or the district police will never forget its brave cops and officials who died fighting rebels. The young participants will know the value of martyrdom this way,” he said. The police have given full hockey kits to the eight teams, which include jerseys, boots and hockey sticks. The tournament, Anand said, is part of the ‘Abhiyan Sampark’ of Jharkhand Police, which preaches that death is not the end of everything. “This is a small effort by us to help get connected to people who pay us rich dividends in terms of public trust and confidence,” the police officer said. Sub-divisional police officer Pratibhan Singh said the tournament has drawn a huge crowd of the students, all of who are showing Covid-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-125
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||5 Jharkhand leaders in Congress poll team for Bengal, Assam||Congress has entrusted five Jharkhand leaders, including two cabinet ministers, with key responsibilities in poll bound states of Bengal and Assam,  state party officials said on Tuesday. According to a notification issued by the All India Congress Committee (AICC), state health minister and Jamshedpur West MLA Banna Gupta has been appointed poll observer for Purulia district in Bengal. Other observers for Bengal include Mahagama MLA Deepika Pandey Singh (Birbhum), Bermo MLA Anup Singh (West Burdwan) and former state pollution control board chairman Mani Shankar (Bankura). In January, state rural development minister and Pakur MLA Alamgir Alam was made a member of the campaign committee for the Bengal polls after which the veteran Congressman toured various border areas of Bengal and Jharkhand. Additionally, Deepika has also been made a member of the screening committee to shortlist candidates for Assam under the chairmanship of former Maharashtra chief minister Prithviraj Chavan. Notably, Chavan is said to be among the Congress's G-23 dissenters, who have called for sweeping changes in the functioning of the party under the high command. Banna Gupta said he was thankful to the central leadership of the party for having reposed its faith in him. "Purulia has nine Assembly segments. The   Congress won two and the rest are with TMC. Going by the initial survey, the Congress-Left alliance is placed in a better position in these areas. My role will be to micro manage electioneering for the benefit of my party,” he said. Deepika also hailed the central leadership for giving such an opportunity to young workers like her. “The focus will be on picking the best candidates for Assam polls,” she said.  Speaking to the media a few days back, state Congress president Rameshwar Oraon had said that they would be campaigning actively in Bengal and Assam. “Both states have a considerable tribal population and leaders from Jharkhand will play an important role in wooing voters,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-125
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||Brace for a harsh summer, warns weather scientists||Jharkhand is likely to experience a harsh summer this year, weather scientists have noted. "The summer will be severe this year as the maximum temperature is expected to remain above normal on 60 per cent days in most districts of Jharkhand between March and May," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Last year, he added, the maximum temperature on most days between March and May was within normal limits with capital Ranchi witnessing readings of above 40 degree Celsius on one or two days. The forecast for the next five days indicated dry weather and a clear sky with maximum temperatures likely to be above normal by four to five degrees Celsius. Statistics available with IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre revealed that the maximum temperature had already climbed to 38 degree Celsius in and around Jamshedpur on Monday, five notches above normal. On Tuesday, the steel city and its adjoining areas, including Chaibasa in West Singhbhum, recorded a maximum reading of around 37 degree Celsius, four points above normal. Daltonganj and its adjoining areas recorded around 36 degree Celsius for the second consecutive day on Tuesday, four points above normal. Ranchi and its adjoining areas recorded maximum readings between 34 and 35 degree Celsius on Monday and Tuesday. Day readings rose to 36 degree Celsius in Pakur on Tuesday while Sahebganj and other places in the Santhal Pargana region notched up day readings of over 35 degree Celsius. Data also revealed an abrupt rise in minimum readings in most districts of Jharkhand as winter departed from Jharkhand. In meteorological parlance, it is winter if the minimum temperature stays below 13 degree Celsius constantly. Data suggests that in most parts of the state, night readings have shot up beyond 13 degrees. The minimum reading has touched 20-degree celsius in most districts of Santhal Pargana while the minimum temperature in Ranchi was hovering between 17 and 18 degree Celsius. The minimum reading has also shot up to around 19-degree celsius in Jamshedpur, Chaibasa in West Singhbhum and adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district. In Daltonganj, the headquarters of the Palamau region, the minimum reading has crossed beyond 16 degree Celsius, suggested Met data. A senior Met scientist at IMD's Patna office said dry weather would prevail over Jharkhand with maximum and minimum readings showing a rising trend. He ruled out the possibility of rain or thundershowers in Jharkhand during the next five days. Residents have already begun preparations for summer. "We have stopped warm clothes. Fans and air-conditioners have become a must, " said Shreya Anand, a homemaker at Bistupur in Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-125
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1,000-acre poppy plantation destroyed since January||Police have destroyed over 1,000-acre poppy plantation in Ranchi, Khunti and Chatra districts of Jharkhand since January in a bid to put a check on smuggling of opium, a banned substance harvested in March, officials spearheading the campaign said on Tuesday. Khunti police have arrested at least eight opium smugglers and destroyed around 600- acre poppy plantation this year, Khunti SP Ashutosh Shekhar said. However, police teams were also focusing on spreading awareness about the adverse effect of opium cultivation and subsequent consumption among youths by distributing pamphlets among villagers, he added. “Although we have been running regular campaigns to destroy illegal poppy plantations, we realise it is equally important to ensure that villagers know about the consequences of poppy cultivation and do not support cultivators and smugglers,” said Shekhar. Opium is mostly cultivated in far-flung villages of Khunti, Ranchi and Chatra districts to bypass law enforcement agencies, said police sources, adding that the opium produced in Jharkhand was mostly smuggled to other states and barely consumed locally. “Opium produced here is mostly smuggled to Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and parts of Punjab. Our aim is to not only check the cultivation but also bust interstate rackets involved in the illegal trade,” said the Khunti SP. An SP rank official, who has been a part of the district’s campaign against opium cultivation and trade in Ranchi, said that some villagers were often tempted to cultivate opium due to its high monetary returns. “Usually, one kilogram of opium can be sold for around Rs 50,000 to Rs 60,000. No other crop gives such high returns,” he said. In the run up to the harvest season of opium, police in Ranchi and Khunti have stepped up vigil on highways and are on the lookout for local peddlers as well as members of interstate drug rackets. Ranchi SP (rural) Naushad Alam Ansari said police would run extensive campaigns against opium trade and cultivation across the district through March. “We are keeping an eye on suspects and also planning raids in the interiors,” said Ansari. Former DGP M.V. Rao had clearly stated in January that destroying opium cultivations across Jharkhand was one of the key priorities of the state police. Officials from the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) have also admitted that opium and marijuana cultivated in Jharkhand was smuggled to Punjab and Haryana. Left wing extremists, including the CPI (Maoist) and the People's Liberation Front of India (PLFI), are active in Chatra and Khunti districts, said to be the hotbed of opium cultivation, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-125
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad traders fed up with overcrowding of e-rickshaws||Traders of Purana Bazaar, are protesting the illegal parking of e-rickshaw in narrow streets of the market, obstructing the flow of customers, which in turn are affecting their sales that were already hit due to the pandemic-induced lockdown. Shopkeepers said they have written to the district administration and traffic police several times, demanding steps for prevention of entry of e rickshaw in market to prevent the vehicles, but in vain. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Tuesday, Ajay Narayan Lal, a trader and the vice president of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce and Industry said Purana Bazaar, being cost-effective, is popular among a large number of  lower, middle and upper-middle class customers. “Many of our customers are keeping away from the market as there is no space left to park other vehicles due to hundreds of e-rickshaws standing here. The situation was not like this a few years ago but it keeps getting worse now,” Lal pointed out. Md. Sohrab, former president of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce, had the same complaint as Lal and alleged overcrowding of the area due to the e-rickshaws. He also alleged that the majority of the drivers are under 18 years of age and make stoppages at undesignated places. “During a recent meeting, DSP Traffic, Rajesh Kumar Yadav assured that the authorities will create new routes for e-rickshaw movement. As per the new routes, they will not be required to enter the market. We are hopeful that a notification regarding this will be made in a day or two,” Sohrab said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-125
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma wildlife sanctuary reopens for tourists after a year||The Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary, shut down for almost a year due to the pandemic, reopened on Tuesday for tourists where they can also book accommodation now. "The state government has sent orders to reopen the sanctuary. We have already received the letter in this regard. The sanctuary has formally reopened on Tuesday," an official said on condition of anonymity. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra confirmed the reopening but said bookings would be entertained in a restricted manner in view of the pandemic. "There will be restrictions on bookings. To start with, we will accept few bookings for accommodations. Fewer guests would be allowed inside the cafeteria at Makulakocha where AC and non-AC rooms are located. Same criteria will be applicable for accommodations at mud houses, also in Makukalocha, and residential quarters near Pinderbera forest guest house," he informed. Tourists shall have to adhere to necessary Covid-related norms like social distancing and use of face masks. "Thermal screening of tourists will be done at the entrance. Sanitisers would also be available at the entrance as well as accommodations and cafeteria. We are against taking any unnecessary risk and want tourists to also follow the directives with utter seriousness," a Dalma official said. The 192 sq km jumbo abode, 30 km from Jamshedpur, is one of the favourite getaways for tourists from Bengal, Odisha, Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. "Elephants are presently at the periphery of the sanctuary while some are scattered downhill. Chill is no longer an issue at the top and elephants would soon start  assembling near watering holes. Tourists can click pictures of elephants and also watch their antics from inside animal hideouts built near watering holes," a forester said. Dalma authorities had on March 17 last year asked tourists, who were enjoying a break at the sanctuary, to go home after the state government’s order kicked in to close public places in view of the novel coronavirus pandemic. The authorities  also stopped entertaining any further bookings. The sanctuary has suffered revenue loss ever since the jumbo abode was closed. Now authorities can expect things to improve. Satish Pal, a Jamshedpur businessman, welcomed the reopening of the sanctuary. "We frequent the Dalma sanctuary. It is good to hear about its reopening. I would like to book the residential quarters and spend quality time at the top," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-125
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||Passengers have to undergo Covid-19 tests at Dhanbad station from Thursday||The district administration on Tuesday decided to make Covid tests mandatory for passengers arriving at Dhanbad railway station from Thursday. In a meeting headed by Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh, it was decided that tests will be conducted using TrueNat (true-nucleic acid amplification test) at the station premises, and strict action taken against those who try to evade testing. The district and the railway administrations have made arrangements to identify and prevent passengers from fleeing from the station without carrying out the mandatory Covid test. Singh said that Dhanbad is a strategically important location that witnesses a large number of people coming in everyday and it was therefore necessary to ensure everyone’s safety. “Immediate treatment would be carried out for those found Covid positive during the test. We have decided to launch the Covid Testing at Dhanbad Railway station from March 4 in view of increasing infection in several other states,” he said. States like Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Gujarat, Bengal and others are reporting a spike of cases over the past few weeks. Singh said that earlier several Railway Protection Force personnel and other staff who came into contact with Covid-19 patients also got infected. Passengers had to undergo Covid-19 tests at the railway station as a part of a drive launched in September last year, but it gradually got discontinued as the situation improved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-126
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||Govt schools in Bokaro register 20 per cent attendance on first day of offline classes||A majority of private schools in Bokaro have planned to resume physical classes from the next session beginning probably by March-end or from the first week of April owing to their online annual examinations in spite of the government's directive to resume classes for students above Class 8 from Monday. However, among about 600 government schools that resumed classes 8 and above, the institutions situated in urban areas registered comparatively lower attendance than those in the rural areas. The fear of resurgence in Covid-19 cases also made parents keep their wards at home rather than sending them to schools. District education officer (DEO), Neelam Ileen Toppo said, “There are 1560 government schools in the district. Physical classes amid safety protocols began in 105 high schools and about 500 middle schools. The attendance of students was not satisfactory especially in the urban areas. "The strength of the students in the rural areas was recorded at about 50 percent on the first day, while the government schools operational in towns registered 20 percent attendance. Attendance will improve in coming few days,” Toppo said The teachers in almost all the government schools before beginning the class sensitised students to wear masks and maintain physical distance to be safe from the virus. The school management sanitized the school premises and classrooms. Majority of private schools like Delhi Public School, Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Pentecostal Assembly School, Ayyappa Public School, and others didn’t have students on the campus on Tuesday as their online examinations are taking place. DPS principal A S Gangwar who is also CBSE coordinator said, “Like other private schools, their online examinations are also going on. The physical classes for above class 8 will begin once the examinations are over.” Pentecostal Assembly School has also decided to conduct examination from the next academic session beginning from the last week of March. Secretary of Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Mahesh Tripathi said, We are conducting an online annual examination that will get over on March 12. The offline classes will start after the results are declared.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-126
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||4 Jharkhand doctors showcaused after woman, child die in cot outside hospital ||Jharkhand health department has served showcause notices to four truant doctors over death of a pregnant woman and her new born infant who was carried by her relatives on a cot for nearly seven kilometres only to die outside the community health centre in Giridih district’s Gawan block, over 226km north of capital Ranchi. Principal secretary health Kamal Kishore Soan speaking to The Telegraph said that acting on the recommendation of the Giridih deputy commissioner (Rahul Kumar Sinha), they have been issued show cause notices. “As per the deputy commissioner report they were found missing from the community health centre during the time of the incident which led to the death of the mother and the infant. We have issued show cause notices to all the four doctors and asked them to reply within a week as to why disciplinary action should not be started against them,” said Soan. Significantly, the deputy commissioner of Giridih had in the probe report submitted to the state health department secretary on February 27 had clearly indicted the missing doctors carelessness for the death of the pregnant mother and the child at the community health centre (CHC). “We had constituted a five member team led by SDO Khourimohua to probe into the incident. The report states that the acting in-charge health officer of the CHC had gone to Sadar Hospital in Giridih on the day of the incident (February 25). Another doctor (Dr Salik Jamal) was found missing from the hospital in the evening of that fateful day. If the doctor would have been present and started treatment of the mother and the child, both would have been saved,” the probe report (a copy of which is with this newspaper) submitted by the deputy commissioner states. The probe report further states that two other doctors who were newly appointed namely Dr Neha Kumari and Dr Irshad Ansari despite joining their duty on papers had not taken charge in the hospital and their absence also affected emergency treatment leading to the death. The report lastly states that an Ayush doctor Dr Kazim Khan after seeing patients in OPD had gone home. “Ideally the Ayush doctor should have been at the hospital till the in-charge health officer returned from the district headquarter which shows callousness towards responsibility,” the probe concludes recommending disciplinary action against all the doctors. The incident took place on Friday in a village Lakshmibandh in Tisri block of Giridih district and since there is no motorable road leading to the village ambulances do not reach the village forcing pregnant wife Surji Marandi (20), wife of Sunil Tuddu to be carried on a wooden cot and walked seven kilometres to the Gawan community health centre. A midwife had delivered a child on Thursday but she could not remove the placenta and the bleeding continued. The midwife asked the family members to rush her to the hospital which made them carry her on cot. The woman reached the hospital but passed away as there was no doctor to attend her at the hospital. The child had died earlier. Giridih DC Sinha said that they have sanctioned funds for construction of roads in the village under PMGSY scheme, though technically it does not falls under eligibility criteria for PMGSY scheme as there are only 22 houses in the village. They have also asked BSNL to set up transmission towers in the village.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-126
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand budget to focus on jobs ||When Jharkhand finance minister Rameshwar Oraon presents the annual budget on Wednesday, the second since Hemant Soren took over as the chief minister of the Grand Alliance government in December-end of 2019, he will surely find it difficult to please everybody. Though a finance minister is not expected to discuss budget before it is tabled in the House, Oraon gave sufficient hints that it would be a people-friendly budget aimed at serving their larger interest, with no fresh tax imposed. He also hinted that the budget would focus on creating jobs and providing relief to people who are already under financial strain due to rise of prices of essential commodities. But the expectations of various quarters are so high that it would be really difficult for the present government to satisfy their demands. A delegation of the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), the apex trade body of the state, had recently met both the chief minister and finance minister and suggested what it felt should be done for improvement in trade and commerce of the state. They advised the government for establishing a textile park in Santhal Pargana, taking steps for reviving over 500 closed industrial units and promoting MSME sector and start-ups, besides creating proper infrastructure as required for the purpose. “These are required for boosting the trade and industry in state,” said FJCCI president Praveen Jain Chabra, adding Santhal Pargana region badly needed attention for its proper development. The ordinary people expect the state government should do its bit to reduce the cost of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders that, in turn, also affects prices of essential commodities. There were also many other organisations that felt initiatives should be made for overall development of the state. Even social workers and activists also felt the state needed to do more to ensure that all the needy are benefited by welfare schemes. The state chapter of Right to Food Campaign had been demanding for a long time that distribution of ration for the poor through the public distribution system should be universalised so that it covered all the poor and the needy. Besides, another organisation, Gram Swaraj Majdoor Sangh, held a rally in Latehar district on February 26 and demanded that the amount of monthly pension to the old, widow, disabled and those belonging to particularly vulnerable tribal groups be raised from the existing Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,500 and paid regularly. All these demands may be justified but the state needs resources for meeting those. It now remains to be seen how the budget plans to mobilise the required resources. “The focus of the government during present budget session should be opening of avenues for providing jobs to the youths whose future would otherwise look bleak,” CPI(M-L) MLA Vinod Singh said while speaking to the media on the Assembly premises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-126
