03-03-2021||Jharkhand||LIC employees protest against delay in wage revision, demand immediate implementation||Employees of the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of India on Wednesday held a protest demonstration outside their office in Dhanbad in support of their pending demand of pay revision since 2017. Pay revision of LIC of India and GIC of India is pending since August 1, 2017 The demonstrations were carried out during the lunch hour at all six branches of LIC including branch I in Bartand, branch II in Dhansar, branch III in Jharia, branch IV in Purana Bazar, SS Cell branch in Hirapur and Govindpur branch. The demonstration was carried out under the banner of a joint front of different worker unions from 1.30 pm onwards. The protesting employees also raised slogans against the central government and accused it of implementing anti-worker policy. The agitators claimed that the pay revision is their basic right. They mentioned that by delaying its implementation the government was attacking the rights of the workers. Talking to the media, Hemant Mishra, district convenor of the joint front of LIC unions said, “The growth rate of LIC is much more than the GDP growth rate of the country. The employees have an important role to play in this regard but they are being denied their revised pay.” Furnishing some more statistics in this regard, Mishra stated that during 2019-20, LIC registered a 12 per cent growth rate over last year by securing over Rs 37,9062.57 crore of premium income. “The delay in pay revision of such an organisation is regrettable, and the government should immediately carry out a good pay revision of LIC of India employees,” added Mishra. The protesting employees further announced that to protest against the government decision to bring LIC of India IPO and increase the FDI in the insurance sector from 49 per cent to 74 per cent, they will carry out gate demonstration again on March 8 and March 15. The participants in the dharna said that the employees of LIC will carry out a nationwide strike on March 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-123
03-03-2021||Jharkhand||Deputy commissioner hands over Rs 23 lakh cheque to kin of deceased ||Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Wednesday handed over a cheque of Rs 23.63 lakh to the family of Mohamed Wajihuddin who died due to health problems on June 5, 2019, in Muscat, Oman. Wajihuddin (65), a B.Tech graduate of BIT-Sindri, was the general manager as well as a partner of Sahar United Trading and Contracting Company at Muscat. Though his body was brought to India after his death, Wajihuddin's earnings deposited in different banks were later received by the Embassy of India at Muscat and then passed on to the district administration of Dhanbad to be handed over to his widow. The deputy commissioner received the money from the Embassy of India at Muscat. The money was in two banks in Muscat, namely, the Bank of Muscat and the National Bank of Oman. The cheque was given to Farhat Anjum, Wajihuddin's widow who is a resident of Qamar Makhdoomi Road of Wasseypur, Dhanbad. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Wajihuddin's son, Aieman Quadar, who accompanied his mother, Farhat, to the district collectorate where the cheque was handed over to her, said, “My father was living in Oman for the last 35 years along with my mother and he was a partner of the company, Sahar United Trading and Contracting Company. The company was established in partnership and money was deposited in different bank accounts in Oman. We received the money on Wednesday.” Quadar, who works as an engineer at Bannadi Company in Tajikistan, said, “My father died due to a heart ailment and my mother was in Muscat when the incident took place. Later, she shifted to our ancestral place in Dhanbad.” “Being the legal nominee, his money was provided to my mother Farhat Anjum,” said Quadar, who is a B.Tech graduate from BIT-Mesra. Currently, he is working from his home due to the ongoing pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-124
03-03-2021||Jharkhand||Gomia residents welcome decision to develop Luggu Hills||Residents of the maoist-infested Gomia block in Bokaro rejoiced as the Hemant Soren government announced to develop the area’s Luggu Hill as a major tourist destination, during the state Budget presentation on Wednesday. “Seeing the importance of the place, the state government will develop Luggu as a huge tourist destination. All the basic facilities and infrastructures required by tourists will be developed under the scheme,” the government announced. “Though the overall Budget is a flop, I welcome the development of Luggu Hill as a tourist destination,” AJSU-P MLA of Gomia Lambodar Mahto said. Lobin Murmu, a Santhal resident of the area welcomed the decision of the state government. “There is a big natural cave atop the hill inside where devotees offer puja to Luggu Baba,” he said. Apart from Santhalis, the people belonging to other communities have a strong belief in Luggu Baba, who is believed to be another avatar of Shiva. Surrounded by dense forests and traversed by streams and perennial springs, Luggu is considered one of the most beautiful areas of the state. Santosh Murmu, a resident, said, “We are happy that Luggu will be developed as a tourist point. It will increase the footfall of tourists.” However, BJP leader Biranchi Narayan claimed that the announcement made by the government was a way to take credit of a decision already made by the saffron party. “The BJP government had already installed facilities and infrastructures for the visitors and tourists. Developmental activities were already being conducted with the allocation provided during our regime in the state,” he said. The BJP had earlier planned to install a museum in the area that would have a collection of Santhal literature and traditional musical instruments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-124
03-03-2021||Jharkhand||Former BJP chief ministers say budget 'visionless'||The BJP and AJSU Party, the two NDA partners in the Opposition in Jharkhand, termed the state budget tabled in the Assembly on Wednesday  as a "visionless" document with nothing in it for the long-term as claimed by chief minister Hemant Soren. Former chief minister Raghubar Das said, “The budget is depressing” and wondered about the status of actions taken on the previous budget. “Allocating funds can’t bring growth if these aren’t spent. This government must present an action taken report (ATR) like my government used to do,” he said. Union tribal affairs minister and former CM Arjun Munda said despite tall claims of the state government, the budget did not reveal how it wanted to create jobs. “The state is reeling under unemployment, especially after the Covid-19 lockdown. But the budget doesn’t specify how it intends to create jobs,” he said. State BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash mocked the state government for hinging on central assistances to prepare ther budget. “Of the total budget size, Rs 40,000 crores will be from Central assistance. This exposes the dual attitude of the state government. On the one hand it has been blaming lack of assistance from the Centre and on the other hand, all its major schemes will be funded by Central coffers. All that the state government is trying to do is pass it off as its own plans by renaming and repackaging,” he alleged. Former deputy chief minister and AJSU-P chief Sudesh Mahto stressed that government should have made provisions for free Covid vaccination. “There is nothing to cheer but we would have welcomed it if the state government thought of providing free vaccination to people in the state where the majority is poor,” he said. Opposition BJP MLAs, wearing saffron T-shirts and kurtas with slogans printed against the government, resorted to protests within and outside the Assembly during and after the presentation of the state budget on Wednesday. The slogans on the T-shirts were against the government for scrapping the state recruitment policy framed by the former BJP-led government, poor law and order and joblessness, among others. As the Assembly proceedings began, Congress's   Poriyahat MLA Pradeep Yadav objected to the BJP MLAs' saffron attire in the House and sought their eviction. The Speaker later asked the BJP MLAs to maintain decorum and shed the saffron dresses. The MLAs refused, forcing the Speaker to adjourn the House amid pandemonium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-124
03-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma sanctuary celebrates World Wildlife Day||The Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary on Wednesday celebrated World Wildlife Day  by feeding animals and raising awareness about the importance of protecting the jumbo abode and its flora and fauna. Foresters, forest guards, trackers, members of the eco-development committee and people of nearby villages assembled at Makulokaocha, the gateway to the sprawling 192 sq km, to celebrate the occasion. Foresters and villagers fed bananas to two domesticated elephants, Rajni and Champa, as well as monkeys who trouped down from the mountains. They also went inside the deer park to feed the animals. "The importance of World Wildlife Day was explained to those who had gathered. Stress was also laid on the need to protect the sanctuary from incidents of fire which usually occurs during summer," said Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra. “Villagers who venture into the sanctuary smoke bidis and them inside. The bidis fall on dry leaves and cause fire. It is a perennial problem and we are trying our best to make villagers understand about the dangers of smoking inside the sanctuary," Chandra added. Members of eco development committee, who play an important role in spreading awareness about the futility of killing innocent animals during Bishu Shikar or Sendra (the annual hunt festival of the tribals which takes place at the sanctuary), said they were on their job and people are slowly but steadily understanding the need to protect the jungles and animals. "We took a pledge to protect the sanctuary and its animals. Today is an important day which tells us about the need to protect the environment. This can only be done if we love our jungles and animals," said Manoj Pradhan, an active  member of eco-development committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-124
03-03-2021||Jharkhand||State budget thrust on social sectors, including health & education||The Hemant Soren government tabled a budget of Rs 91,277 crore for the 2021-22 fiscal on Wednesday with a major thrust on rural development, education, health and social welfare schemes to counter challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. No new taxes were announced, but state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon unveiled a slew of welfare measures including a universal pension scheme for widows and the elderly, a centralised one-stop helpline for senior citizens, Guruji kitchen yojana, scholarships for ST students to pursue higher studies in foreign varsities and extension of farm loan waivers. Many of these schemes were announced earlier when the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance government completed one year in December last year but were included in the budget now to pave the way for their rollout. Major budget allocations were split into three broad categories — general, social and economic sectors. The maximum allocation was set aside for the social sector (Rs 33,625.72 crore), followed by the economic sector (Rs 30,917.23 crore) and general sector (Rs 26,734.50 crore). Chief minister Hemant Soren described the budget as a “template of long-term planning” with the aim of balancing both rural and urban concerns. According to the budget document, of the total estimates, receipts comprise of 25.49 per cent receipts are from state revenues, 24.16 per cent from the state’s share in central taxes, 14.79 per cent from state’s own taxes, 19.60 per cent from grants in aids, form borrowings 15.89 per cent and from recovery of loans/advances 0.7 per cent. Similarly, spending per rupee will be 14.54 per cent for education, 14.16 per cent for rural development, 8.55 per cent for health and drinking water, 8.05 per cent for social welfare/welfare, 6.28 per cent for agriculture & allied services, 4.78 per cent for energy, 3.10 per cent for urban development and housing, among others. Speaking to reporters after the day’s House proceedings, Oraon said the fiscal deficit for 2021-22 has been pegged at Rs 10,210.87 crore which is 2.83 per cent of GSDP. “In 2019-20, the state’s growth rate stood at 6.7 per cent which suffered a hit due to the global pandemic as per the nationwide trend. In the current fiscal, the nation’s GDP is expected to fall by 7.5 per cent. In Jharkhand, it is expected to contract by 6.9 per cent. Compared to the national trend, we are slightly better placed,” he said, adding that in the next fiscal, the state’s growth rate is expected to be about 9.5 per cent. Chief minister Hemant Soren hailed the budget as a template of long-term planning. He said the government has tried to balance both rural and urban concerns to ensure a congenial environment for all to earn a suitable livelihood, improve living conditions and be self-sufficient. “Unlike the earlier government, which devised most of the policies keeping short-term gains in mind, we have set a long-term vision to steer growth. Results too will be visible gradually. We have seen how the state’s economy went for toss during the time of the ‘during double engine government’,” Hemant said, adding that for the first time the government also tabled an outcome budget along with the state budget for about a dozen departments. “The purpose of the outcome budget is to tell the public the kind of end results the government is expecting from that particular department through various schemes,” he explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-124
03-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ratan Tata, others pay tributes to founder J.N. Tata in steel city||Led by Tata Sons chairman emeritus Ratan Tata, Tata Steel paid rich tributes to its founder, Jamsetji Nusserwanji Tata, on his 182nd birth anniversary in Jamshedpur on Wednesday. Among the other dignitaries present on the occasion were Tata Sons chairman N Chandrasekaran, Tata steel CEO and MD T. V. Narendran,  Tata Steel executive director Koushik Chatterjee, vice-presidents of the company and office bearers of Tata Workers' Union. The theme of this year’s Founder`s Day  celebration was “Agile Today for a Sustainable Tomorrow”. The celebrations were subdued in view of Covid-19. But, the spirit of occassion was intact as exemplified in the programmes that were organised to mark the occasion even if with limited participation. Over 30 contingents representing various divisions and departments of Tata Steel and Tata Steel group companies paid homage to the founder at the works main gate inside the premises. The celebration was also live streamed for employees and a select group of Jamshedpur citizens. In his address at Bistupur Postal Park, N. Chandrasekaran congratulated residents of Jamshedpur for their collective resolve and commitment to a better tomorrow. “The last 12 months have been very difficult, challenging and all of us have gone through some kind of hardships. In spite of all that, both Tata Steel and citizens of Jamshedpur have come together, worked together, to fight this pandemic in the most befitting way,” he said. Chandrasekaran also mentioned that the Tata Group, under the leadership of Ratan Tata, committed significant financial resources and engaged in a number of activities to aid in food, healthcare, in this past year. He  thanked the frontline workers, staff of Tata Main Hospital, the CSR team and citizens of Jamshedpur for actively playing their role in safeguarding the community. On Tuesday, the academy building of the Naval Tata Hockey Academy, at the Indian Steel and Wire Products Limited, and Tata Steel Gateway Structure at Telephone Exchange Gate in Jamshedpur, were inaugurated by Ratan Tata and Chandrasekaran in the presence of T V Narendran. The customary illumination at the Founder's Statue at Jubilee Park was also inaugurated by N Chandrasekaran, where he was joined by other dignitaries to pay homage to the founder. Lighting was limited this year in view of the pandemic and to avoid a public gathering. Even then, over a dozen heritage buildings and more than 30  roundabouts across Jamshedpur were illuminated. The illuminations will continue till March 5. Like previous years, an exhibition at Steelenium Hall inside Jamshedpur Works was also organised. This year’s theme is "Accelerating to the future: Learning from the pandemic and pioneering a new operating paradigm". Shining cases on the journey of Tata Steel, including aspects of technology leadership and organisational agility that enabled the company pioneer a new operating paradigm, were displayed by various departments and divisions of Tata Steel. In view of the pandemic, sporting activities at the JRD Sports Complex was restricted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-124
03-03-2021||Jharkhand||Woman, suffering from mental health issues, jumps off building||A 38-year-old woman on Wednesday died on spot when she jumped off a building at the densely-populated area of Dhatkidih in Jamshedpur, at around 11:30 am when the locality was buzzing with activities. Sources said Udzama Khatoon, a mother of three children, climbed up the sixth floor of the building from her ground floor residence and fell to her death. Bistupur Police Station OC Vishnu Raut said he had taken a statement from the deceased’s husband Mohammed Samser Alam, who informed that his wife was undergoing treatment for mental ailment since the past one year. "We took a statement from the deceased's husband and also checked the medical papers related to treatment of her mental issues. There was no foul play behind the incident," Raut told The Telegraph Online. Police had reached the spot within 10 minutes after the incident occured. "I was supposed to take her to CMC Vellore on Wednesday evening for treatment but she took this unimaginable, drastic step before that," Alam said while talking to this website. In a similar incident, a 20-year-old youth, identified as Rajesh Das, was found hanging at his Bagbera residence on Wednesday morning. He too was going through mental issues, police said. Both the bodies of Khatoon and Das have been shifted to the mortuary of the MGM Medical College and Hospital for autopsy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-124
03-03-2021||Jharkhand||Only 2 of 71 private hospitals offering jabs in Ranchi ||Only two of the 71 private hospitals empanelled for the second phase of the immunization programme here in Ranchi have started inoculating senior citizens and middle-agers with comorbid conditions, officials spearheading the vaccination drive said on Wednesday. As per government data, as many as 885 senior citizens and 26 middle-agers with comorbid conditions have been inoculated in the state capital since the launch of the second phase of vaccination. Only about 155 of these beneficiaries were administered the first jab of the Covidhield vaccine at a private facility, data compiled by private hospitals highlight. As of now, only Raj Hospital and Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital have started the vaccination drive for senior citizens and those above 45 years with comorbid conditions in Ranchi. Gradually, more empanelled hospitals will start the process of vaccination as more healthcare workers get trained,” said the state immunisation officer, Dr Ajit Prasad. Across the state, only about 13 of over 450 empanelled private hospitals have started inoculating beneficiaries for the second phase of the vaccination drive. The rush for vaccination, he said, was greater in government facilities in comparison to private clinics and hospitals. “We organised training sessions for healthcare workers in private hospitals on February 27 and 28 for the second phase of the immunization programme that started on March 1. However, the training process is still underway in many private hospitals,” said Dr. Prasad. While the vaccine jabs are administered free of cost at government hospitals, private hospitals are charging Rs 250 for each of the two jabs. However, sources said that more beneficiaries will register with private hospitals for vaccination gradually as Rs 500 was a nominal charge and affordable for most of the urban residents. On Tuesday – Day 2 of the second phase of the drive – around 55 senior citizens were administered the first dose of the vaccine at Medica on the day, while 100 people got the jab at Raj Hospital in Ranchi. Sources from private hospitals said that technical glitches in the Co-Win 2.0 mobile app also caused delay in starting the vaccination programme in private hospitals. As per government data, more than 3 lakh people have been administered the first dose of the Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand so far. Besides, around 30,000 people have also been administered the second dose of the vaccine 28 days after they got the first jab. In the first phase of the immunization, which started on January 16, the government inoculated only healthcare workers and frontline workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-124
03-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand finance minister tables budget in Assembly||Finance minister Rameshwar Oraon on Wednesday tabled a budget worth Rs 91270 crore in Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha for 2021-22 fiscal year amid the din by BJP MLAs. In a bizzare move, BJP's Kunti MLA Neelkanth Singh Munda kept reading old budget of Raghubar Das government tenure in the assembly as part of protest while Oraon read the budget.  Earlier, speaker Rabindranath Mahto was forced to adjourn the proceedings till 12 noon minutes after the session began at 11am because of BJP's continuous protest. Clad in saffron T-shirts and kurtas bearing slogans against Hemant government, BJP MLAs resorted to protest both inside and outside the House. The saffron dress which they wore bore slogans against the government for scrapping state recruitment policy, law and order issues, joblessness among others. As the House began, Congress's Poriyahat MLA Pradeep Yadav objected to BJP MLAs present inside the House in saffron costumes demanding their ouster. Speaker later asked BJP lawmakers to maintain decorum and shed the saffron dresses which they denied forcing him to adjourn the house amid the pandemonium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-124
03-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over 3,000 senior citizens vaccinated in a day in the state||As many as 3238 senior citizens and 260 middle-aged residents with comorbid conditions were inoculated against the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the total count of senior citizens administered the first dose of the vaccine in the state to 4,151 since the launch of the second phase of the immunization programme on Monday, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per government data, as many as 704 senior citizens were inoculated in Ranchi on the day – the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. A report released by the NHM stated that 397 senior citizens in Bokaro, 276 in Dhanbad and only 70 in East Singhbhum were administered the first dose of the Covishield vaccine. With only five senior citizens inoculated on the day, Hazaribagh was the worst performer among Jharkhand districts on Tuesday. Of the 260 beneficiaries older than 45 years and with comorbid conditions vaccinated on the day, 60 were from Ramgarh, eight from Ranchi, only two from East Singhbhum, 55 from Deoghar and 17 from Bokaro, the NHM report revealed. As per data shared by private hospitals, only about 200 beneficiaries were administered the first jab of the vaccine at private facilities in Ranchi. Only Raj Hospital on Main Road and Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital near Booty More started inoculating senior citizens and middle-agers with comorbid conditions in Ranchi on the day, health officials said. Meanwhile, the state also administered the first dose of the vaccine to 6305 healthcare workers and frontline workers, taking the total count of beneficiaries getting vaccinated in the first phase of the immunization programme in Jharkhand to 3,01,192, a separate report from the NHM stated. Jharkhand achieved only 27 per cent of its target for inoculating frontline workers and healthcare workers on the day. However, in totality, the state has achieved 82 per cent of its vaccination target so far. On Tuesday, the second dose of the vaccine was administered to 4587 healthcare workers and frontline workers, who received the first dose a month ago. The state achieved 58 per cent of its target in administering the second dose of the vaccine to registered beneficiaries on the day. The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection drew close to 500 on Tuesday as the state reported only 38 Covid recoveries against 51 fresh cases in 24 hours, a bulletin released by NHM stated. On Tuesday night, at least 498 people were battling the viral infection in Jharkhand. Ranchi, once again, reported more than half of the fresh cases in Jharkhand and also witnessed a rise in active cases on Tuesday.  With 28 cases and 23 recoveries, Ranchi saw a minor rise in active cases to 291, the bulletin further stated. The state did not report Covid casualties on the day. As per government data, as many as 1,20,037 Jharkhand residents have been infected by the lethal virus so far and 98.67 per cent of them have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-124
03-03-2021||Jharkhand||40-year-old patient’s body found in Dumka Medical College and Hospital pond||The body of 40-year-old patient of Dumka Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) in Jharkhand’s Dumka, the headquarters of the Santhal Pargana, was found in a pond, barely few meters from the hospital and the body was handed over by the police to the relatives, without mandatory post-mortem on Tuesday. The development shows the height of callousness in the health department and the careless manner of the police machinery. According to information, Sikandar Sheikh was admitted on Monday morning with diarrhoeal symptoms at the Dumka Medical College and Hospital. He was undergoing treatment at the hospital and not given any discharge letter from the hospital. However, on Tuesday morning at 9.30 am he was not found on his bed at the medicine ward. Few hours later his body was found floating at the pond situated at the back of the hospital and the police were informed. According to a local in Dumka, the Sikandar Sheikh used to sell meat at Jaruadih Mohalla in Dumka town and used to drink liquor. When contacted superintendent of DMCH, Dr Ravindra Kumar, gave a weird explanation about the reason for the patient disappearing from the hospital. “At times it happens that a patient feels perfect and healthy after his stay in the hospital and expresses desire to be discharged and is allowed to go out of the hospital. It might have happened in this case too. We will have to look into the CCTV footages to see how he left the hospital premises,” said Dr Ravindra Kumar. When prodded further on if the doctor on duty at the ward had issued discharge slip to the deceased patient, Dr Ravindra Kumar said, “The patient was admitted on Monday with vomiting and loose motion and when the doctor on duty went on round at the ward at around 9 am the patient was not found in his bed. The doctor informed the concerned officials. Later we were told that the body of the patient was found in the pond. We are not sure how this happened. We will see the CCTV footages for any leads.” Significantly, there are more than two dozen CCTV cameras installed at vintage locations of the hospital inaugurated in 2019. There are security guards doing duty on rotation basis round the clock at the hospital that puts question marks on a patient disappearing from the ward without anybody’s knowledge. The police gave an even more weird reason for handing over the body to the relatives without autopsy. “The relatives gave in writing that they do not want post-mortem and that he was admitted in the hospital and had died of natural reason. So we handed over the body without post-mortem,” said Dumka town police station senior clerk Ashok Kumar Singh holding charge in absence of officer-in-charge, Deobrata Poddar who is on leave. Significantly, the hospital falls under Dumka town thana jurisdiction. Deputy commissioner Dumka B. Rajeshwari, however, promised to conduct a probe into the incident. “We will investigate the matter and take action if any negligence is found on DMCH’s side,” the deputy commissioner said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-125
