04-03-2021||Jharkhand|| Covid: 5,538 senior citizens among 8120 vaccinated on Thursday||Over 8000 Jharkhand residents, including 5,538 senior citizens and 690 middle-aged persons with comorbidities, were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine in the state on Thursday. This takes the total count of people vaccinated so far above 3.3 lakh in the state, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per NHM data, as many as 11,178 senior citizens, 2987 middle-aged commoners with comorbid conditions and 3,22,490 healthcare and frontline workers have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in the state since the launch of the immunization programme on January 16. Jharkhand on Thursday achieved only 27 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine, while only 20 per cent of those registered for the second dose were inoculated. However, the state has achieved 84 per cent of its vaccination target since the launch of the vaccination drive. On Thursday, the number of senior citizens vaccinated was twice the number of healthcare workers and frontline workers who got the jab. Only 2582 healthcare workers and frontline workers, only 11 per cent of the over 24,000 registered, were inoculated. On the other hand, as many as 5538 senior citizens and 690 middle-agers with Comorbid conditions were inoculated. As many as 804 senior citizens, 128 middle-agers and 379 healthcare and frontline workers were inoculated in Ranchi on Thursday. As many as 675 senior citizens were inoculated in Bokaro, 351 in Dhanbad and only 43 in East Singhbhum were administered the first dose of Covishield. The second phase of vaccination, for senior citizens and people above the age of 45 years who suffered from Comorbid conditions, was launched on March 1. The vaccination drive was also run at private healthcare centers. Meanwhile, Ranchi reported 31 of the 61 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand on Thursday, but also accounted for 32 of the 47 recoveries, a separate bulletin released by the NHM stated. The number of active cases in the state jumped to 486 on the day as fresh cases outnumbered Covid recoveries. Ranchi also reported a Covid-19 casualty on the day, taking the Covid toll in the district to 247 and that in Jharkhand to 1091, the NHM bulletin stated. East Singhbhum reported 16 cases against nine recoveries and the number of patients there reached 65. As per government data, as many as 1,20,129 people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand so far and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of infection in Jharkhand was 0.03 per cent against the national average of 0.10 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was 2188 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-122
04-03-2021||Jharkhand||BJP attacks state government over rise in naxal violence||Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) state spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo addressed a press meet at the district BJP office in Dhanbad on Thursday. Pratul Shahdeo, while expressing sympathy with the family members of security personnel who died during the IED blast of Chaibasa, said, “We would also like know the reason for the increase in the naxal incidents during the 14-15 months tenure of the present government.” “Those naxals who left the state during our rule due to fear are now raising their heads again,” stated Shahdeo while talking to the media and added that they would also like to know why there is apna apna sarkar (own own government) feeling among the naxal elements of the state. “Questions like why security forces are being increasingly targeted by the naxals needs to be answered by the present government,” said Shahdeo and added that the government also needs to think over that why naxalism has returned back in the state during its tenure. Earlier, he also termed the budget presented by the state government as “nothing but jugglery of arithmetic, aimed at befooling common people”. “It seems that the budget is totally dependent on the central government provided fund as out of the budget provision of 91 thousand crores, the government will depend on centre provided fund worth more than 58 thousand crores. This means it is an attempt to shift the ball in the centre’s court,” charged Shahdeo. “The budget also shows a lack of confidence of the chief minister towards his cabinet colleagues as more than 48 per cent of the fund allocation has been made to the department lying with the chief minister himself,” charged Shahdeo while talking to the media. He also charged the government of ignoring the basic areas like health, energy and drinking water supply by decreasing budgetary allocation in these areas. “The government has not made any budgetary allocation for DVC pending arrear payment, as per the negotiations held with the DVC for pending arrears,” said Shahdeo. “The government has resorted to packaging of names in the budget and besides the ongoing Mukhyamantri Dal Bhaat Yojna they have started another scheme Guruji kitchen,” said Shahdeo. “The government has also deceived the farmers and though as per its claim to provide loan waiver of Rs 50,000 each to farmers it required a fund of Rs 5,500 crore but a provision of only Rs 1,200 crore  has been made in the budget for the purpose,” accused Shahdeo. He also accused the state government of not fulfilling any promise made to the youth including the promise to provide job to 6 lakh youths, providing unemployment allowances and provision for regularisation of jobs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-123
04-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ruling party MLA rakes up illegal mining, BJP joins protest in Assembly ||Some MLAs of the ruling JMM stepped up the heat against their own government on Thursday over illegal mining in Santhal Parganas, seeking chief minister Hemant Soren’s intervention to curb practice in the region that is their stronghoid with the BJP seizing the opportunty to embarass the govenment in the Assembly. Lobin Hembrom, JMM MLA from Borio in Sahebganj district, staged a protest outside the House on Thursday, holding banners before the start of the day's proceedings. Seizing the opportunity, the Opposition BJP also joined in, hailing his move to speak against the alleged wrongdoings of his own government. Two other JMM MLAs—Nalin Soren (Shikaripara) and Sita Soren (Jama) _ have already filed questions during the ongoing session to seek the government’s response on the issue. “Illegal stone and sand mining is rampant in Sahebganj district which both the CM and I represent," said Lobin. "I have been alerting the local district administration and state government on the massive loss to the state ex-chequer as well as damage to local ecology, but to no avail. A few JMM workers, who claim to be representatives of the CM, is engaged in facilitating illegal mining. This must stop or else, I will hit the streets to fight for the people,” he said. Lobin said that last month, he conducted a surprise inspection of trucks at toll plazas and none had valid challans. “The CM must act before it gets late,” he said, adding that two other JMM MLAs, Sita Soren and Nalin Soren, were also making similar demands. BJP MLA from Sahebganj Anant Ojha maintained that Lobin’s protest echoed their concerns. “The BJP has been saying time and again that this government, led by JMM, is into illegal mining to fill the party coffers. CM happens to be the minister of mines department and accountability lies with him,” he said. The chorus of illegal mining also reverberated inside the House. As the day’s session began at 11am, BJP demanded that Speaker Rabindranath Mahto allow an adjournment motion to debate alleged illegal mining. But after the Speaker disapproved, all BJP MLAs descended into the Well of the House,  raising slogans against the government. Mahto chose to continue with House proceedings, and appealed to the protesting MLAs to maintain decorum. But BJP MLAs resorted to a ruckus by whistling and singing "Hare Rama, Hare Krishna" with the Speaker going ahead with Question Hour and Zero Hour amid the din. In response to a question from AJSU-P MLA Lambodar Mahto (Gomia), state rural development minister Alamgir Alam told the House that the government was trying to hold pending panchayat polls at the earliest. “The process of delimitation, rectification in voter lists is expected to be over by May-June after which elections will be conducted. We are trying to get it done by end of this year,” he said. Chaibasa MLA Deepak Birua rued the suspension of government procurement centres in his constituency even though many farmers were willing to sell their khariff crops. Chief minister Hemant rplied that the government would direct districts to open procurement centres at all places as suggested by MLAs or their representatives. Speaker adjourned the House at 12.30pm for lunch amid continued bedlam. The House resumed an hour later but was adjourned again for about an hour after the Speaker convened a meeting of Opposition and ruling party MLAs to end the impasse. After the House reconvened,  a customary debate on the state budget tabled on Wednesday was held with the Speaker finally adjourning the House for the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-123
04-03-2021||Jharkhand||Pollution funds go waste, machines lie unused as air turns foul in Dhanbad||Dust sweeping machines and other existing resources of Dhanbad are lying unused even at a time when residents of the district are facing acute pollution due to rising PM 10 levels in the air. Funds worth Rs 10 crore, provided under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) in 2019 to procure machinery for controlling air pollution, are also lying unutilised. Nothing has been done with this money apart from buying two water sprinklers worth Rs 50 lakh each in February. The Central Pollution Control Board has also sanctioned an additional fund worth Rs 50 crore so that the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation can buy other machines like the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring System. Meanwhile, the DMC has been sending utilisation certificates of old machines purchased under some other fund in the name of the NCAP allocation. Process to start paver blocking of roadsides, procure other devices has not yet been initiated as per plans of the district environment management committee. Hubban Mallick, Director of Pay and Clean service, which is looking after the operation and maintenance of the five dust sweeping machines, said that they have been operated for less than seven months over the last one and half years. “We had  resumed their operation in November after eight months, but in February we were asked to stop carrying out the process. No official reason was given for this. Any halt in work requires a lot of investment as the machines develop technical problems. We have also received only Rs 30 lakh out of the total bill of Rs 60 lakh from November to February.” Assistant engineer of DMC Uday Kumar Kachhap said the process has been stopped for servicing of the machines. “We purchased two water sprinkler vehicles and will be procuring other machines when more funds arrive,” he added. Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board member Rajiv Sharma accused the concerned authorities of lacking vision in controlling pollution. “A proper road map for improving the pollution scenario should be prepared in order to make best utilisation of funds and resources. Innovative steps like installation of air filtration plants as done in Shanghai in China should be taken. I will write a letter or two to the JSPCB regarding this,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-123
04-03-2021||Jharkhand||National ranking for seven shuttlers of Jharkhand||Seven shuttlers from Jharkhand have grabbed rankings for the first time in the history of state badminton in the standings released by the Badminton Association of India (BAI). The inclusion bears testimony to the improvement the players have made. Ananya Singh (Ranchi) and Sujal Rakshit have been ranked 7th in the girls and boys under-13 singles category while Seraikela-Kharsawan's Aadhya Singh and East Singhbhum's Sarah Sharma have secured 2nd and 7th rank in the girls under-15 singles section, respectively. Aadhya and Ranchi shuttler Niraj Kesri have been seeded 7th in the under-15 mixed doubles category even as the promising Niraj Kesri took the 9th place in the boys under-15 singles section. Aadhya, who last month won the Yonex Sunrise sponsorship, secured the 13th rank in the girl's under-17 singles category whereas Priyanshu Tirkey of Gumla enjoys the 8th rank in the boy's under-17 singles section. The young tribal shuttler is also ranked 3rd in the boy's under-17 doubles section. Sarah Sharma and Anisha Mishra, both from East Singhbhum, have secrured the 6th place in the girls under-17 doubles catergory while Ranchi's Ananya Singh has grabbed the 6th rank in the girls under-13 mixed doubles section. A visibly happy Jharkhand Badminton Association (JBA) secretary K Prabhakar Rao said the rankings show state shuttlers are moving forward. "We are very with the rankings released by the BAI. It shows that our shuttlers are leaving their impression in the national badminton circuit," he added. Jamshedpur-based Rao, who also happens to be the joint secretary of BAI, said he was hopeful that more shuttlers from the state would get national rankings in the time to come. "There is no dearth of promising shuttlers in Jharkhand. They need adequate guidance and training to attain glory. We are doing all we can to channelise the skills of our shuttlers," he added. All the East Singhbhum players are from Jamshedpur and train at the Mohan Ahuja Stadium, the headquarters of JBA. The state shuttle outfit organises tournaments in regular intervals to give exposure to the players. With things opening up post-Covid, JBA has plans to resume tournaments in the right earnest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-123
04-03-2021||Jharkhand||Wake up from slumber, HC tells govt on witch-hunts||Jharkhand High Court took suo motu cognizance of the recent murder of five persons of a family in Gumla  and asked the state government to "wake up from its slumber to to tackle the scourge of witch-hunting, directing the state  DGP and chief secretary on Thursday to furnish a proper report of the February incident before the next hearing on March 18. A bench of Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan observed, “The sState should awake from its slumber.” It asked Jharkhand Legal Services Authority for a ground report by dispatching a team to the affected village. It also asked the state government to apprise it on steps taken to curb such a social menace. In a heart-wrenching incident, five members of a tribal family were hacked to death in Buruhatu Amtola in Kamdara block of Gumla district in the intervening night of February 23 and 24. A five- year- old boy was among the deceased. Soon after the news broke, police formed a special investigation teame. On February 26, police announced that the murders were a case of witch-hunt and arrested eight persons directly involved in the killings. Those killed were identified as Nikudin Toppo (60), his wife Josphina Toppo (55), their son Vincent (35), daughter-in-law Shivani (30) and the elderly couple’s grandson Balwina. Vincent, Shivani and Balwina were found dead, hacked to death, in one room, while Nikudin was discovered dead at the balcony of their kutcha house. Josphina lay dead on a bed in another room. Gumla SP H.P. Janardhanan had told reoprters that the incident was linked to a witch-hunt as police investigations revealed the villagers targeted the elderly couple (Nikudin and Josphina) who, they suspected, were practicing black-magic because of which several villagers and cattle had allegedly died in recent months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-123
04-03-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS fixes anamoly in blood bank to eliminate middlemen  ||Attendants of patients in need of blood at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) will not have to queue up outside the blood bank and deal with middlemen anymore. In a bid to do away with blood agents, who often find gullible attendants and sell blood to them, the hospital administration has decided that only staff working in the blood bank will directly deliver blood to the patient’s ward on the basis of requisitions by doctors or nurses. Earlier, an attendant of a patient in need of blood transfusion had to go to the blood bank, get the blood bag of the required group and carry it to the patient’s bed without any assistance from hospital staff. This process, doctors said, often led to overcrowding at the blood bank, which gave middlemen the opportunity to operate. “Blood is provided free of cost to all patients in the hospital. But lacunae in the process of getting blood for patients allowed agents to sell blood to patients in need,” said the RIMS Superintendent, Dr  Vivek Kashyap. “In the new process, the attendants will not have to directly deal with blood bank staff. This means that the blood bank will work only on the basis of requisitions made by doctors and nurses,” he added. Attendants in the past have complained of shortage of blood at the RIMS blood bank. In many instances, attendants of patients had to get blood from other sources (blood banks) as blood of the required group was not available at RIMS. The shortage of blood, hospital sources said, gave agents and middlemen the opportunity to charge extra from attendants for blood, which is supposed to be provided free of cost at RIMS. The availability of blood is crucial at RIMS as most road accident victims are brought there. Also, patients suffering from sickle cell anaemia and Thalassemia undergo treatment at RIMS and delay in blood transfusion could prove fatal for them, doctors said. “We keep holding blood donation camps and also encourage people to donate blood. But it is difficult to predict how much blood would be required for transfusion on a given day. So we try to maintain a stock at the blood bank as far as possible,” said Dr. Kashyap, admitting that most hospitals had to deal with a shortage of blood.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-123
04-03-2021||Jharkhand||IED blast in West Singhbhum kills three security personnel||Three jawans of Jharkhand Jaguar were killed and two others seriously injured in an IED blast triggered by the outlawed naxal outfit CPI-Maoist under Toklo thana area in West Singhbhum district bordering Khunti district about 160 kms away from here on Thursday morning. The injured have been air-lifted to Ranchi for treatment. Among those killed, two were identified as Haridwar Shah and Kiran Suri, both constables belonging to Jharkhand Jaguar Assault Group-11. Condition of one of the injured is said to be extremely critical. The IED blast took place while the police and jawans of Jharkhand Jaguar Assault Group were carrying out an anti-insurgency operation at Lanji jungle under Toklo thana area which falls in the Chakradharpur subdivision of the district at about 8.30 am. Soon after the blast took place, an encounter between the police and naxals began which is still continuing. Deputy inspector general ( DIG), Kolhan, Rajiv Ranjan Singh confirmed about the IED blast in the West Singhbhum district. "The IED blast has taken place at Lanji jungle during an anti-insurgency operation there by the police and Jharkhand Jaguar. There some casualties, " said the DIG, Kolhan while talking to The Telegraph Online, adding that an encounter is on at the scene of the blast. It may be mentioned here that the CPI-Maoist's squads of Anal and Maharaj Pramanik are active in the Toklo thana area, bordering West Singhbhum, Khunti and adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawn district. An encounter between the naxals and CRPF had taken place at the same Lanji jungle in February.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-123
04-03-2021||Jharkhand||Almost 5,000 senior citizens inoculated in a day||Almost 5000 senior citizens and over 400 middle-aged persons with comorbid conditions were inoculated against the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Wednesday, taking the total count of senior citizens, who have been administered the first dose of the vaccine, to 9,356 in the state, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. On Wednesday, as many as 4,958 senior citizens, including 864 from Pakur alone, were administered the first dose of the Covishield vaccine. As per NHM data, as many as 313 senior citizens were inoculated in Ranchi on the day, while 648 senior citizens were administered the vaccine jab in Bokaro. Only 38 senior citizens were inoculated against the virus in East Singhbhum. As many as 129 middle-agers with comorbid conditions were inoculated in Deoghar, while 90 people from this category were administered the vaccine in Pakur, revealed NHM data. In Ranchi, as many as 63 middle-agers with comorbid conditions were inoculated. So far, the state has administered the first dose of the vaccine to 918 people who are above the age of 45 years and are suffering from some or the other comorbid condition. Meanwhile, Jharkhand on Wednesday administered the first dose of the vaccine to 8145 healthcare workers and frontline workers, which was only 33 per cent of the total number of registered beneficiaries. The second dose of the vaccine was administered to as many as 6201 of the over 23,000 registered beneficiaries, the NHM stated in its report. As per government data, the state has so far administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine to 3,09.814 people and as many as 39185 of these beneficiaries have also received the second dose of the vaccine. Jharkhand has achieved 83 per cent of its target in administering the first dose of the vaccine and 70 per cent in administering the second dose. Meanwhile, Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection in the state on Wednesday, bringing the count of active cases down to 473, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. As many as 31 people were found infected in Jharkhand on the day, while 56 patients recovered. Ranchi reported 22 of the 31 fresh cases but also accounted for 25 of 56 recoveries on the day, the NHM bulletin further stated. No fresh Covid casualties were reported in the state on Wednesday. So far, as many as 1,20,068 people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. By Wednesday evening, Ranchi accounted for 288 of the 473 active cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-123
04-03-2021||Jharkhand||Two killed in mishap in illegal mica mine ||An illegal mica mining turned into a death trap for two villagers at Rakka in Mansadih forest area of Giridih district on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as Ranjit Rai, 22, and Satish Rana, 24, both residents of Tisro village. The incident took place in an illegal mine in Tisri block, around 170km from Ranchi, when the wires of a lift snapped causing the vehicle to crash and kill the two villagers deep (around 600 feet) in the mine. The roof of the mine has also started to cave in, hindering the rescue operation. Giridih deputy commissioner Rahul Kumar Sinha said they had requested the NDRF team in Ranchi and Patna to help retrieve the two bodies. He said he had also sent a letter requesting the state government to urge the Union home ministry to allow the NDRF for the rescue operation. “The bodies are stuck deep in the mine whose roof can cave in any moment. It will be very risky to try and recover the bodies from the mine where safety provisions are not followed. We need some experts who can bring out the bodies and have requested the state government to urge the Union home ministry to despatch the NDRF team from either Ranchi or Patna. They are trained in such rescue operations,” Sinha said. According to a report, there were nearly 50 persons working in the illegal mica mine deep inside the forest area. However, the loud noise of the lift falling down caused other workers to run from the spot. Only Ranjit and Satish got stuck. Sources in the district administration said the villagers were lured by the mica-mining mafia to work in such illegal mines that didn’t adhere to safety norms. Mica extracted from such illegal and abandoned mines are sold to intermediaries and then exported to branded cosmetic manufacturers. Mica is used to add shine to natural cosmetics and is a key ingredient in products such as face packs, mascara, eyeliner, lipstick and nail polish. The mines have been closed but people still engage in scrap mining by risking their lives. “Most of such illegal mines operate in forest areas that are inaccessible. We do demolish such mines as soon as information reaches us, but it is the responsibility of forest officials to conduct surveys of such illegal mines and seek help from district administration in and closing them down. We are ready to provide all help to the forest department in closing down such mines in the forest area. It is unfortunate that lives are still lost in such a way in Giridih,” Sinha added. The deputy commissioner ruled out compensation to the dependants of the deceased as it was an illegal mine. However, an FIR would be lodged against the owner of the illegal mica mines,” said Sinha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-123
