05-03-2021||Jharkhand||BSL team visits JSCA in Ranchi for international cricket stadium at Bokaro||A high-level team led by Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) director incharge Amarendu Prakash visited the Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) International Cricket Stadium in Ranchi, and met members there on Friday. A proposal demanding land from BSL by the JSCA for the construction of an International Cricket Stadium at Bokaro inched closer to get finalised with the visit. Prakash assessed the facilities and infrastructure of the stadium at Ranchi, and also held a meeting with former BCCI acting secretary Amitabh Chaudhary and members of the cricket association. The BSL team reviewed various parts of the stadium including the dressing room, club house, gym, VVIP room, etc. Bokaro MLA Biranchi Narayan was also present at the meeting. The conditions which BSL has put before JSCA for transferring of 20 acres of land for construction of the stadium at Balidih on National Highway-23 was also discussed. Prakash was accompanied by executive director, personnel and administration, Rajiv Kushwaha, general manager, Manikant Dhan, among other officials. It has been reported that a mutual agreement has been reached between the two parties on various subjects. The BSL team was told that the proposed stadium will be more modernised and state-of-the-art than one at Ranchi. Prakash said that “some points have been discussed about the terms and conditions of transfer of land with the JSCA team. We hope that it will be finalized soon and the project will move quickly”. Narayan said, “the meeting was very positive. It is expected that soon after this meeting the process of land transfer will be completed. Construction of an international cricket stadium in Bokaro will put the city on the world map.” A JSCA team visited the proposed site in Balidih last Saturday. They also held a meeting with Prakash and deputy commissioner Bokaro Rajesh Singh. Before finalizing the land transfer process, the BSL management had placed conditions before the JSCA members asking for few rights over branding and seating. According to sources, BSL has sought adequate advertising rights for SAIL inside and outside the stadium. Adequate seats for SAIL officers and seats for invited guests of SAIL in VVIP box, and SAIL's representation in the management committee of the stadium have also been demanded. This will be the third international cricket stadium in Jharkhand after Ranchi and Jamshedpur. The cost of the project will be around Rs 250 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-122
05-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad is second last in ease of living index, Ranchi slightly better||Dhanbad was second last with a rank of 48 in an ease of living survey conducted by the Centre among 49 cities with capital Ranchi faring marginally better with a rank of 42, prompting residents to list out the primary inadequacies as unplanned development, lack of a working sewage system and poor public transport. Bangalore and Shimla were the top two cities in the Ease of Living Index-2020 released by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs that looked at cities with a population of more than 10 lakh. Patron of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Rajesh Gupta said, “Unplanned development is the main reason for poor ranking as here in Dhanbad roads have been developed first. Then, these same roads have been dug up for constructing drains and for laying cables. This led to crater-filled roads that were waterloggd during the monsoon." “In fact, the government should have fixed the responsibility of repairing dug up roads on the contractors, but there is no such system here," he rued. He said the best example of poor development were the multistoried apartment complexes that were allowed to come up in colonies with narow,    less than 10 feet wide roads. "In case of emergencies, even a fire engine cannot get in," added Gupta, a book trader who is president of Pustak Vyavsai Sangh. Most prominent areas of the town, like DRM Chowk, Shivam Colony near CIMFR, Bartand, Tapovan Colony, Barmasia, lacked proper sewerage systems, he also  alleged. As for public transport, Gupta pointed out  that  over 70 buses provided to the district under the Millenium City project of Jawaharlal Nehru Urban Renewal Mission in 2010 were lying idle. "It is time Dhanbad Municipal Corporation learn lessons from past mistakes and run the buses efficiently," he said. Mahurendra Singh, a social worker and former co-patron of Bartand Chamber of Commerce, added that even existing resources like dust sweeping machines, procured at a cost for Rs 2.5 crore, were lying idle. "This is a classic example of wastage of public money and mismanagement of resources," he said. General secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association Rajiv Sharma, who is a member of Jharkhand State Pollution  Board said, “How can we expect better ranking in Ease of Living Index when several localities of the town are deprived of basic facilities like drinking water?. Similar is the condition of solid waste management as garbage collected from the localities is being dumped in the heart of town at Bartand.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-122
05-03-2021||Jharkhand||Electricity cables gutted in Hill Colony fire ||A major fire broke out at the Hill Colony area of Dhanbad on Friday, damaging electricity cables worth crores before five fire tenders doused the blaze. The fire, which broke out just 100 metres away from Rail DSP Sajid Khan’s house in an open space, soon spread over several parts of the colony due to which residential quarters were evacuated. The cause of the fire, which broke out at 12:30 pm, has not been known yet, but officials suspect that a short circuit was the reason behind it. The damaged cables were property of the signalling and telecom department of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway. Divisional Railway Manager Ashish Bansal and other senior railway officials reached the site to supervise the fire-fighting operation. Ashok Jha, a resident of the colony said, “The railway division has been carrying out maintenance work in the area due to which huge stock of cables have been brought here. These were lying scattered at several places and the fire spread so soon due to it.” Jha feared that the fire could have done more damage had it broken out in the night. “The residents of the colony were  frightened due to fire but the timely intervention of the fire control department helped control it,” he said. DSP Sajid khan said a lot of people had witnessed the fire from far-off places, which helped in timely information to the fire department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-122
05-03-2021||Jharkhand||Sachin Pilot inaugurates XLRI fest, Imtiaz Ali, KK, other stars to participate||XLRI’s three-day annual flagship event  Ensemble- Valhalla -2021 kicked off on Friday after Congress leader Sachin Pilot inaugurated it on Thursday evening on a virtual platform. The event, held online for the first time, will see a participation of noted celebrities from all fields including film and television personalities like Imtiaz Ali, Rajat Sharma, Ali Fazal, Anjum Sharma Harshita Gaur and Mithila Palkar, and singers KK and Ankit Tiwari. Spread over three days from March 5 to March 7, “Ensemble Valhalla 2021” will be organised on the theme : "Escapade - A New Journey Awaits." During the Idea Summit, Imtiaz, Ali Fazal and Mithila will share their experiences with students. Emerging YouTubers including Janis, Yash Raj, Sejal, Prajakta, Barkha and Divyanshu will also elaborate on their struggles and journey during the festival. While Ensemble celebrates business sense and logic, Valhalla promises to be a cultural extravaganza that salutes sportsmanship, creativity, and passion. "Through the events and festivities, Ensemble-Valhalla hopes to transcend a great leader to even greater heights," said an official associated with the event. "The event  will also be an opportunity to host literary, cultural and business events, giving students the opportunity to interact with their effective leaders. We have invited many institutes and their alumni for participation at the three-day  fest through online medium," the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-122
05-03-2021||Jharkhand||Governor calls for lost-cost tech to help small farmers||Jharkhand Governor Droupadi Murmu has stressed on developing and extending need-based, low-cost, system-responsive farm technologies for small and marginal farmers who constitute over 80 percent of in the state. Inaugurating the three-day eastern region regional Agrotech-2021 Mela at Birsa Agricultural University (BAU) on Friday, she said a major part of the state’s arable land remained fallow during the rabi season due to the prevalence of rain-fed farming amid inadequate irrigation facilities. She clalled for focussed research on developing early maturing crop varieties with low water requirement. “Integrated farming,  incorporating animal husbandry, poultry, fishery and forestry in to the system, should be promoted for minimizing losses and insyances of crop failure due to aberrant weather conditions,” she said. The cCentral theme of the three-day event is "Rural prosperity through diversification of agricultural enterprises." Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth said the railway ministry has agreed to his proposal for starting Kisan Rail from Jharkhand for transporting agricultural produce, especially perishable commodities, at cheaper rates to help farmers get the right price for their crops. “Jharkhand being a surplus state in vegetables is already sending pea, capsicum, French bean and cauliflower to various cities of the country by air cargo. Bero, a key vegetable cultivation centre of Ranchi, is sending about 50 truck loads to Chhattisgarh every day,” he said. “On our Prime Minister’s appeal to explore opportunities in calamity during the COVID-19 phase, hundreds of engineering and management graduates opted for innovative agriculture, dairy and other rural enterprise in Ranchi and other districts of Jharkhand leaving their lucrative jobs in metros,” the MP added. BAU Vice Chancellor Dr Onkar Nath Singh said water conservation & management, seed replacement with improved varieties and farm mechanization for reducing cost of cultivation of small farm holders were priority areas for the university. Kanke MLA Samri Lal, Vice Chancellor of Nilamber Pitamber University, Medininagar, Dr Ram Lakhan Singh and Director Extension Education Dr Jagarnath Oraon also underlined the importance of agrotech exhibitions as an effective tool of technology dissemination. Various government departments, units of BAU, ICAR institutes, banks and dealers of tractors, farm machinery, seeds, fertilizers, along with NGOs have displayed their expertise, products and services in respective stalls, in all numbering 150. Fresh crop of white turmeric having low curcumin and red turmeric with high curcumin are on display at the horticulture show. The department of veterinary surgery has displayed very low- cost crutches for supporting small and large animals developing fractures. These can be made easily by animal farmers using aluminium hangers and iron rods available in homes. A model of a low-cost egg incubator of 50 egg capacity, operated by power and battery, costing about one fifth of its market price,  is also on display. Forty processed products including those made of nutricereal ragi, prepared by department of home science are on sale.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-122
05-03-2021||Jharkhand||Athlete misses shot at representing country in Special Olympics||Special athlete Rakesh Bagh's luck seems to be running out when he needs it the most. The 24-year-old, a resident of city's Sitaramdera locality, could not join his mates Sital Sikka (East Singhbhum) and Rahul Kumar Sharma (Giridih) who left for Bilaspur (Himachal Pradesh) on Friday to attend the national floorball preparatory camp scheduled from March 6-11. This is the second time the special athlete has missed a camp. Abhiranjan Kumar (Ranchi) and Himanshu Giri (Jamshedpur) are accompanying the special athletes as coach and manager, respectively. "Rakesh's parents informed us in writing that they will not allow their son to attend the national camp. Rakesh's injury has aggravated and he was still limping. We, on our part, were against taking any risk whatsoever since the issue involves a special athlete. But we feel sad as this is the second time that Rakesh has missed the national camp. He is a good floorball player and stood a positive chance of getting selected in the Indian squad for the Special Olympics World Winter Games scheduled to be held in Kaza, Russia from January 22 to 28, 2022," Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota said. Notably, Rakesh missed the national powerlifting camp for Special Olympics World Winter Games in 2019 (in Abu Dhabi) as he fractured his collar bone after falling down from his bike. It is the final preparatory camp in Bilaspur after which the national side for the World Games will be selected. Rakesh injured his left leg after a recent road mishap. He fell down from his bike and suffered an injury. Though the athlete attended a short camp in Jamshedpur, he was seen limping and complained of pain, casting doubts over his participation in the national camp. The SOJ had specifically asked parents of intellectually impaired to not allow their wards to drive bikes but Rakesh's parents did not pay heed. Sahota informed that the passports of the athletes has been prepared and they had been asked to leave Jamshedpur with their aadhar card and other relevant documents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-122
05-03-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city to use robots to paint murals for Swachh Bharat Mission ||The steel city will have a robot to "paint" murals to create awareness among residents about Swachh Bharat Mission-2021, Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee choosing the high-tech option after seeing Tata Steel unveil a portrait of Naval Tata created by bots. "Doing wall paintings and murals are an integrated part of the campaign for the Swachh Bharat  Mission-- 2021 in JNAC command areas. But this time we are going to use robots to create murals at a number of places and spread the word about the benefits of cleanliness among people, " said Sandeep Kumar Singh, city manager of JNAC. Singh said he has approached Tata Steel subsidiary Jusco to extend a helping hand for the use of robots. On Tuesday, Tata Sons chairman Ratan Tata was in town to inaugurate a new wing of the Naval Tata Hockey Academy at Golmuri. In the front panel of the hockey academy is a mural of Naval Tata which was made by a robot. "As it was extremely impressive, we decided to use the same technique to create murals for the Swachh Bharat Mission," said Singh. A senior official of Jusco said an Estonian company had been roped in by the Tatas through a Bangalore intermediary to create the mural. "Robo Muralist made the robotic painting machine which was used for the first time in India at the Naval Tata Hockey Academy through KVM, a Bangalore-based company. KVM is known for introducing latest technologies in various fields in India," said the official. CEO of KVM Ashish Kumar said the Naval Tata mural was the first mural to be created by a robot in India. "It is a miniature computer which controls a moving paint printer. Hardware is connected to a controller by wifi which moves in coordination and prints on a vertical wall dot by dot. Paint cans are inserted in the robot from below. It injects paint in the form of dots through an injector, " Kumar explained to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-122
05-03-2021||Jharkhand||Simdega to host two national hockey events||With two back-to-back national events lined up in Simdega, hockey enthusiasts are elated that the game close to their hearts is making a comeback in a big way after a long gap during the pandemic. While the Hockey India sub-junior women’s national championship 2021 will be held at Simdega Astroturf Hockey Stadium during March 10-18, the junior national women’s championship will take place at the same venue during April 3-12. “Hockey India has entrusted us to conduct the events that will be the biggest sporting events in the state after those remained suspended during the lockdown,” informed Hockey Jharkhand president Bholanath Singh, adding they were getting full support from the state government in organising the events. “There will be 26 teams in each of those events and over 500 players and team officials are expected to participate both the times,” he further informed, adding arrangements for their accommodation, etc have already been done for the sub-junior championship beginning next week. On the first five days, the participating teams will have to play the pool matches and the top eight teams will then vie for the national title to be decided on knock-out basis, Singh further informed. The quarter-final matches will be played on March 15 and 16 and the semis on March 16 while the finalists will clash for the title on March 18, he added. They will, however, have to follow standard operating procedures (SOPs) as received from Hockey India and also issued by the state government from time to time and will take all safety measures such as maintaining social distancing by officials and spectators, he further said. “Most of the players and officials will reach near-by Rourkela station in Odisha and they would be brought here by bus,” informed Hockey Simdega secretary Manoj Konbegi, adding many committees were formed for smooth conduct of the event.   “The Covid-19 restrictions will surely dishearten many enthusiasts as they all can’t get entry into the stadium, otherwise the venue would be flooded by them,” Konbegi further said from Simdega, referring to the popularity of the game in the region. Simdega, along with neighbouring Khunti and Gumla districts, is known as the hockey belt of Jharkhand that produced many famous national and international players, both men and women. Often beginning with bamboo sticks and worn-out balls, the local boys and girls, mostly belonging to poor tribal families, mastered the wizardry with their stick work and went on to represent the district, state and finally the county for winning laurels in World Cups and Olympics. “But we will surely give priority to players and interested students so that they get to witness these national events, particularly when those are being organised at their own place,” Konbegi added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-122
05-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi lags behind Patna on Centre's ease of living index ||The residents of Ranchi may not accept it easily but according to the Union housing and urban affairs ministry, Patna is a better place to live in. The ease of living index (EoLI) released by Hardeep Singh Puri, the Union minister of state for housing and urban affairs, in New Delhi on Thursday placed Ranchi at the 42nd spot in the country while Patna occupied the 33rd place on the list of cities with over a million population. While Bangalore was adjudged the best city, Dhanbad is the only other city of Jharkhand that found a mention at 48th place in the list of 49 such cities. Even in respect of municipal performances in which Indore was adjudged as the best city in the country, Patna at the 16th spot was better placed than Ranchi that got 39th spot. Even Dhanbad was better than Ranchi at 35th spot. The EoLI was assessed for 111 cities that had over a million population in July 2019 and participated in the assessment exercise in 2020 that aimed at measuring quality of life and impact of various initiatives taken for urban development. Compared to 66.70 points scored by the topper, Bangalore, Patna had a score of 53.26 points while Ranchi and Dhanbad had 50.31 and 46.96 respectively. “EoLI provides a comprehensive understanding of participating cities across India based on quality of life, economic ability of a city and its sustainability and resilience,” said a release issued by housing ministry. “They may have certain parameters for assessing service delivery system but I still find Ranchi is a better place to live in than Patna because of its climate and well mannered people,” said Mrinmoy Roy, a retired central government employee who lives in Ranchi but was once posted in Patna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-122
