06-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over 7000 elderly vaccinated in Jharkhand||More than 77 per cent of those vaccinated against the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Saturday were either senior citizens or people above the age of 45 years with comorbid conditions, highlighted the data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM). As per NHM’s statistic, of the 11,845 people administered the first dose of the vaccine in the state on Saturday at least 7668 were senior citizens and 1459 were middle-aged individuals with comorbid conditions. Only 2,718 healthcare workers and frontline workers were inoculated, thereby forming only 9 per cent of the 31,683 healthcare workers and frontline workers registered for the vaccination on Saturday. In Ranchi, as many as 1200 senior citizens and 310 middle-aged individuals with comorbid conditions were inoculated, while 1382 elderly and 72 middle-aged people with comorbid conditions were administered the vaccine in Bokaro. As many as 1066 senior citizens were inoculated in Bokaro on the day. However, East Singhbhum’s poor run with vaccination continued on Saturday with only 548 senior citizens being inoculated. Meanwhile, the second dose of the vaccine was administered to 7,595 of 38,430 registered beneficiaries on the day, stated the NHM report. As per data furnished in the report, at least 900 people were administered the second jab Ranchi on the day, while 1047 people were vaccinated in Dhanbad and 653 in East Singhbhum. As per government data, as many as 3,50,159 people have been administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand since the launch of the immunisation programme on January 16. At least 32,914 senior citizens and 4054 middle-agers with comorbid conditions have been inoculated in the state since the launch of the second phase of vaccination on March 1. So far, the state has achieved 83 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine to healthcare and frontline workers. Meanwhile, Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection in Jharkhand on the day, causing a dip in the number of active cases. As per a bulletin released by NHM on Saturday night, the state reported 44 cases against 64 recoveries and the number of active cases dropped to 461 by the end of the day. Ranchi accounted for 28 fresh cases and 41 recoveries, which brought the count of active cases here down to 266. As many as 120217 people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand so far and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. The state has so far reported 1091 Covid casualties. However, no casualties were reported on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-121
06-03-2021||Jharkhand||Three-month-old dies following Pentavalent vaccine inoculation||A three-month-old infant lost his life within 10 hours of being administered with the Pentavalent vaccine at Lavagada Anganwadi Centre of Arjuwa Panchayat under Pertawar Police Station on Friday. The baby was the only son of villager Girish Karmali, who with other locals alleged negligence on part of the sahiya and the ANM. However, Civil Surgeon AK Pathak on Saturday brushed off the claims. “It is difficult to say that the baby died due to vaccination. As six other babies were administered the vaccine from the same vail on the day. They are fit and fine. We are probing into the matter,” he said. Pathak formed a two-member committee of the District Reproductive and Child Health Officer and the Surveillance Medical Officer of WHO to ascertain the cause of death. Despite this, the baby’s body was not sent for postmortem. Karmali said it was the sahiya or Anganwadi assistant who had informed them about the vaccination drive, after which he and his wife took the baby to the centre for inoculation. “The child was completely healthy before vaccination. After taking the vaccination, the infant did not cry nor did he feel any pain. This was not taken seriously by ANM and others. At night about 11.30 pm, he died following nose bleeding.” Karmali accused ANM Kumari Babita and her colleagues who had vaccinated the baby. On receiving the news, Petarwar BDO Shailendra Kumar Chaurasia, Medical in-Charge Albarka Kerketa and Petarwar Police reached the spot and talked to the family. Karketta said that information has been taken from the family about the incident, in which they have accused ANM of negligence. A show cause notice has been issued to all those who were involved in the vaccination drive. They have been asked to reply within 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-121
06-03-2021||Jharkhand||26 brave and bright girls of Khunti 'conquer' English||As many as 26 girls, most of them survivors of child marriage and human trafficking, were conferred with certificates by the US Consulate General in Khunti on Saturday for successfully completing a two-year foundation course in speaking and learing English. The English Access Microscholarship programme, funded by the Regional English Language Office of the U.S. Embassy New Delhi and the U.S. Consulate General Calcutta, is a two-year programme which provides a foundation of English language skills to bright, economically disadvantaged 13-20-year-old girls through after school instruction and intensive sessions. Monica Shie, the director of the American Center in Calcutta, extended her best to the students through video conferencing. “Today you will be joining the global Access family of more than 100,000 students across 85 countries. I feel so proud to address this all-girls Access graduation ceremony. Women’s History Month this year honors women of courage, and the theme is #ChoosetoChallenge. You all are women of courage, and you have chosen to challenge limitations, challenge stereotypes, and challenge yourselves. Each of you has shown indomitable strength and resilience through the pandemic to step into leadership roles in your communities, and to commit to a better future for yourselves and your families. I congratulate each and every one of you.” Launched in November 2018, to help empower disadvantaged youth with little or no exposure to either English or the United States, the batch that graduated on Saturday was the first to do so in Jharkhand.  These girls were imparted English-speaking skills, critical thinking skills and computer knowledge after the end of their daily school hours at Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) in Khunti, about 40 km from Ranchi. Shobha Kumari, one of the 26 graduates, said that she aspired to open a free school in her village for deprived girls. "My dream is to ensure that not even one child has to give away her dreams because of poverty or other social restrictions," she said. Another graduate, Nisha Kumari expressed her interest in joining the Border Police Force and serving the country as a soldier. "I think we need more brave woman officers. And I want to not only join the police force but also encourage other girls of my village to do the same," she said. KGBVs are residential schools that cater to girls from challenged backgrounds including survivors of child marriage, human trafficking, and gender-based violence. The schools are monitored by the government. Most of the students who joined the programme are first generation learners from tribal families. Access is much more than just a scholarship programme to learn English.  The Access program also boosts students’ self-esteem, opens their minds, gives them courage, and shows them just what they are capable of, officials from the US Consulate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-121
06-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma guest house already full, booked till end-March ||Accommodations at the Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary, 30km from Jamshedpur, are bursting at the seams in early summer when people prefer to spend quality time amid natural surroundings. The three residential quarters at the entrance of Pinderbera forest guest house atop the hills and the Makulakocha AC and non-AC cottages on the foothills are full till March 31. The four-room forest guest house at the entrance to the sanctuary is also full. The rooms here have attached toilets, a large kitchen-cum-hall, and ample space in the front. The rooms and toilets as well as the kitchen space have glazed tiles. New beds, mattresses and blankets are also in place. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said they cannot accommodate more guests in March. “The facilities near Pinderbera and Makulakocha are full. We also have plans to let out the mud cottages to the tourists. We discussed this matter on Friday and soon the facilities would be available for the visitors,” he added. According to Chandra, a sizable section of tourists from Calcutta have booked the accommodations. "People can book our facilities for next month onwards," the range officer informed. Foresters are helpless and not entertaining any booking requests. “We are getting booking requests in large numbers almost daily. Most of the bookings are from Bengal-based tourists as Dalma is the most preferable getaway in the region,” said an official at the forest range office in Mango. The 192 sq km elephant abode reopened for tourists on March 2 after remaining out of bounds for almost a year due to Covid-19. "We adopted first come first serve policy when it came to bookings. The footfall of tourists is going to be impressive through the summer," Chandra said. A forester said temperatures are still pleasant in the area and tourists can have  a cosy stay at the residential quarters. "The watering holes are full and waiting for the elephants, some of whom are still stationed on the foothills. It will not be long before the jumbos proceed uphill. Tourists will have ample opportunity to sight the elephants near the watering holes," he added. The Dalma authorities utilised the Covid-induced closure of the sanctuary by having the roads mended. "Tourists can enjoy a smooth ride to the top. The roads have been mended," the forester said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-121
06-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant plans new industrial and investment policy for Jharkhand||Jharkhand is working on a new industrial and investment policy which will be launched soon to spur industrial growth and jobs in the post lockdown period, chief minister Hemant Soren announced on Saturday while chairing a stakeholders’ meeting in Delhi to deliberate on the way forward. During his address to the invited audience to discuss a possible draft of the Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy 2021, Hemant assured potential investors of a red-carpet welcome if they were willing to pump in funds in Jharkhand and be a part of the state’s growth story. On the need for a fresh policy, he said, “Covid-19 has created a crisis in industrial output and adversely affected value chains. The more I travel to the interior areas and the more I interact with the people there, I get the feeling that the industrial sector needs some help to overcome the strain caused by an extended and unplanned lockdown. “For a revamped industrial growth, there is a need for a fresh relook at the policies to create jobs at a faster pace as well as generate revenues. Hence, we are coming up with a renewed policy for investment promotion for which we are here to collect your feedback.” Hemant said he believed feedback of stakeholders during the drafting stages of the policy was crucial. “Stakeholders should have a say in any policy that is meant for them. So rather than coming to you all after drafting the policy, we are here to collect your feedback on ways we should shape your policies,” he said. Chief secretary Sukhdev Singh said unlike earlier, political instability wasn’t an issue anymore and that Jharkhand was only waiting to expand its horizon. “Yes, we faced problems due to political instability for about a decade and-a- half but that is passé now. Today, we have a stable government in the state which offers a plethora of opportunities and easily available resources required to press the growth button,” he said. Providing an outlook of the draft Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy 2021, industries secretary Pooja Singhal explained the various focus sectors, especially the high-priority sectors like textiles & apparel, automobiles, auto-components & electric vehicles, agro-food processing & meat processing, pharmaceuticals and electronics system design & manufacturing (ESDM). She also provided a brief overview of key incentives offered in the policy including the Anchor Unit Subsidy, Early Bird Subsidy and Incentives on VAT/ GST. “The focus of the new policy is to generate five lakh jobs and seek investments to the tune of Rs 1 lakh crore in the next five years. We are treating this policy as a pathway for Jharkhand’s economic revival post the Covid-19 pandemic,” she said. On land availability, which has always been a contentious issue in the state, Singhal said that the government had plenty of space to cater to different needs. “We have about 9,906 acre in our land bank at the moment. Of this 2,015 acre is readily available for allotment across key industrial regions like Adityapur, Ranchi, Bokaro and Santhal Parganas,” she said, adding that the biggest unique selling point of their upcoming policy will be to develop every district as a potential export hub. “In all 24 districts, each has its unique products which require value addition. The state government has already set up export promotion councils at the district level to map products and plan tie-ups and other interventions,” she said. Apart from the chief minister, chief secretary and industries secretary, the CM’s principal secretary Rajiv Arun Ekka was also present. This was the first major event aimed at discussing industrial growth even since the Hemant government came to power in December 2019. MoUs signed with Ficci, Flipkart The state industries department signed MoUs with Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industries (Ficci) and Flipkart Internet Private Limited. While Ficci will offer technical handholding for investment promotion, Flipkart will work towards infrastructure and industrial development, including social development. As per the MoU, Flipkart will operate Flipkart fulfilment centres and facility hubs across the state, creating about three thousand direct and indirect jobs. The Jharkhand government will facilitate the new investment and ongoing investment operations of the Flipkart Group within the state. The department and Flipkart will work together towards the construction of a warehouse and logistics structure within the state. The Jharkhand will also help Flipkart invest with various departments through a single-window system. Flipkart will partner with the government and empower all logistics and warehousing policies related to e-commerce to provide a favourable business environment to the sector to encourage startups and small to medium enterprises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-121
06-03-2021||Jharkhand||Private hospitals allowed to administer vaccine 24x7||The Jharkhand government has allowed private hospitals in the state to provide vaccination facility 24x7 if they get sufficient number of registrations and have the infrastructure to run the campaign, officials heading the immunization programme in the state said on Saturday. “A letter has been issued to all private hospitals stating that they can administer vaccines to senior citizens and middle-agers with comorbid conditions 24x7 if they get sufficient registrations,” said the state immunization Officer, Dr Ajit Prasad. “The decision has been taken to speed up the vaccination process in the state and ensure that registered beneficiaries can get the jab at any time depending on their convenience,” he added. As of now, only eight of the over 450 private hospitals empaneled for the immunization programme have started vaccinating beneficiaries against the Covid-19 virus. Private hospitals, as per government’s latest decision, cannot charge more than Rs 250 for each dose of the vaccine. The vaccine jabs are, however, provided free of cost at government healthcare centres. In Ranchi, only two private hospitals – Raj Hospital and Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital – have started vaccinating senior citizens and people above the age of 45 years who suffer from comorbid conditions since March 1. These two hospitals have so far inoculated more than 1,500 people, hospital authorities said. However, owners of private hospitals in the state feel that running a vaccination programme 24x7 would help only once vaccination is made open for everyone. Yogesh Gambhir, the president of the Association of Healthcare Providers India (AHPI) and owner of Raj Hospital, said that senior citizens were unlikely to visit hospitals late in the night for vaccination and, therefore, the move may not help to a great extent. “I think the government should first address the loopholes in their web portal to ease the registration process. There were days when we could vaccinate only 100 people in a day because of tech issues. The number may increase significantly if the loopholes in the government’s web portal are addressed,” said Gambhir. Gambhir said that running the vaccination programme till 8pm was still feasible as people would bring their parents for vaccination after returning from work. “I doubt people would bring their old parents for vaccination at midnight. We can start 24x7 vaccination once it is open for everyone,” he added. As per government data, as many as 25,249 senior citizens and 2,589 middle-agers with comorbid conditions have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand since March 1. The state has also administered the first dose of the vaccine to over 3.37 lakh healthcare workers and frontline workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-121
06-03-2021||Jharkhand||12-year-old girl found pregnant in Palamau district||Rescue of a 12-year-old girl of Jharkhand’s Palamau district with two-month pregnancy working in an orchestra unit at neighbouring district of Garhwa in February has exposed the sexual exploitation of minor girls in the garb of performance during public and private functions through the orchestra groups in the state. The 12-year-old girl was rescued in February along with nine others from an orchestra group in Garhwa after a raid by the district childline representatives — Roma Keshri and Rahul Kumar — and district child protection officer Ashok Nayak. But after a medical test of the girls, the 12-year-old girl was found pregnant. “We have found during questioning and counselling of the girls that the orchestra group was run by two partners Upendra Choudhary (from Palamau) and Gorelal Choudhary (from Garhwa). They used to employ mostly orphan girls and widows in their orchestra group. “We were surprised at the medical report of the girl in which she was found to be pregnant. We have submitted a report to the Garhwa deputy commissioner Rajesh Kumar Pathak for necessary action. We have sent the girl to the shelter house in Palamau as she was a native of that district,” said chairperson of child welfare committee, Garhwa, Upendra Nath Prasad. The girl is at present staying at the Ujjwala Griha (a state-owned shelter house for girls and women in distress) in Palamau. Surprisingly, even after so many days the proprietor of the orchestra group are still scot-free. “We are providing legal aid and counselling to the girl at the Ujjwala griha. Since the Garhwa district does not have any such shelter house they have transferred the girl to us. It is for the Garhwa district administration to initiate legal action against the culprits and owners of the orchestra group,” said Palamau deputy commissioner Shashi Ranjan. Garhwa deputy commissioner Rajesh Kumar Pathak promised action. “We have got the report and will take statements of the victim girl before magistrate as per legal norms and then take action against the culprits. We will not spare anyone who is involved in such activities,” said Rajesh Kumar Pathak. Upendra Nath Prasad said that the arrest of the two partners of the orchestra group would reveal the kingpin involved in the activities. “It is only after the arrest of the two can we know the real kingpin behind such activities forcing minor girls in flesh trade,” said Upendra Nath Prasad. Palamau district child protection officer Prakash Kumar said that a total of five girls, all minors have been kept in the Ujjwala Griha in Palamau. “There are five girls kept in the Ujjwala Griha, out of which three are from Palamau and two are from Garhwa. Only one girl is pregnant,” said Prakash Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-121
