07-03-2021||Jharkhand||ASI excavates the tallest statue at Hazaribagh village||Twenty kilometers away from Hazaribagh, archeologists of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) at Bahronpur in Sitagarha, discovered one of the tallest statues from the excavation site. Archaeologist Virendra Kumar said the statue was found from the central shrine discovered by them. He said the statue is 6feet 7 inches long. However, they are yet to ascertain whose statue it is, as the backside of the statue is visible. ASI was permitted to dig the mounds of Bahronpur in Nov 2019, following which they began working at the site after Buddhist monk Bhante Tiswarro shared the details of Bahronpur, which was considered to be a popular monastery during that era. Tiswaro discovered this place based on an ancient Buddhist map which was having details of Bahronpur. On his initiative, ASI began excavation at the site. The relics discovered by the central agency have established that Bahronpur was not only a shrine or a monastery but also a well-developed city. The ASI began excavation at the site in November 2019 but had to stop their work for a few months because of the pandemic. ASI has excavated several statues of Gautam Buddha and Ma Tara made of white sandstone. The structure of idols and recovered potteries are similar to those found in Itkhori of Chatra which is known as the confluence of three religions and having 9th-century temples. It was considered that Bahronpur also had structures similar to those during the Pala dynasty which was ruling this area during the 9th century. Kumar said, “We are trying to bring out this tallest statue. We have been instructed to move ahead cautiously so that no damage is done to the idol.” He said that Bahronpur became the hotspot since the relics were discovered. According to him, over 1000 individuals are visiting the site daily.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-120
07-03-2021||Jharkhand||Two arrested for killing pregnant teenager||Two people have been arrested for allegedly killing a pregnant 17-year-old girl and burying her body in the Sone riverbed in Jharkhand's Palamu district, police said on Sunday. The deceased's 18-year-old lover and his friend were arrested from Koriyadih village in Hussainabad police station area on Saturday, Superintendent of Police Sanjeev Kumar said. The murder was a fallout of the victim pressuring her lover to marry her and the latter refusing to do so. He had contacted a nurse who had demanded Rs 10,000 for abortion but he failed to arrange the money, the officer said. Preliminary investigation has revealed that the accused had taken the girl to an unknown location on February 21 and killed her by stabbing her on the neck with a knife. The two accused then took the dead body to Sone river and buried it in the riverbed, he said, adding the body was found on February 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-120
07-03-2021||Jharkhand||Private health centre to administer Covid-19 vaccine free of cost||At a time when a dozen of private healthcare centres are providing Covid-19 vaccines for Rs 250 in steel city, one of the private centres has decided to administer the shot to a selected few categories of people free of charge. Mango’s Ganga Memorial Hospital at Sankosai has decided to provide the Covid-19 vaccines for free. Those entitled to get the vaccine free of charge are the family members of army staff, people belonging to below poverty line (BPL), handicapped individuals, and lepers. The management of the nursing home through a notice has called upon people belonging to these four categories to get registered at the healthcare centre from Monday. Dr. N Singh, director of Ganga Memorial Hospital said, “The beneficiaries are required to get their names registered from 9 am on Monday and they will be administered the vaccines the next day, that is from Tuesday.” He added, “Presently, we do not have any stock of Covaxin or Covishield vaccines at our hospital. We will obtain the required vaccines from MGM Medical College Hospital based on the number of registration, following which the vaccines will be administered to people belonging to any age group,” said Singh while talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday. Presently, the Covid-19 vaccines are being given free of cost at the MGM Medical College Hospital, Sadar Hospital in Khasmahal, and at all the primary health centres from March 1. Those belonging to the age-group 45-59 years with comorbidity and people above 60 years are getting vaccinated at the above-mentioned government-run health hubs from March 1 here. District surveillance officer, Sahir Pal said so far over 5,000 beneficiaries have been inoculated at the government-run health hubs, including at the MGM Medical College Hospital since March 1. “We have adequate stock of both Covaxin and Covishield at our disposal. We are going to expedite the process of Covid-19 vaccination drive so that the people may get immune to the killer virus at the earliest,” said Pal while talking to The Telegraph Online. The district surveillance officer, when asked, confirmed about Ganga Memorial Hospital providing the vaccine free of cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-120
07-03-2021||Jharkhand||Good news for Jharia as work on water plant begins||The perennial water woes of Jharia residents are likely to be resolved soon. Thanks to the comprehensive scheme worth Rs 316 crore for laying down 389 km pipeline and construction of water treatment plant (62.5 million litres), the locals will now face no problem in having water from river Damodar reach their household. At present, the residents face water crisis, because of repeated leakage in the old supply pipelines that had been laid more than 50 years back. But with the foundation stone for the above-mentioned project being laid today by Jharia MLA, Purnima Singh at Jamadoba in Jharia, the residents can heave a sigh of relief. The 18-month-long project of the Urban Development department also entails the construction of an intake well at Jamadoba on the bank of river Damodar besides constructing 14 pump houses and a compound wall of 1150 meters. A 5.5 km road will also be developed around Topchanchi Lake situated around 37 km of Dhanbad under the same project to ensure the smooth running of vehicles around the lake in a bid to attract a large number of tourists. Talking to media at the sidelines of the foundation laying function, Singh said, “Though some work concerning the project like laying of the compound wall had been initiated, the Covid constraints, however, stalled some main work like pipeline laying and construction of Water Treatment Plant. We are expecting the work to be completed within the allotted time.” “This project aims to solve the water woes of Jharia residents to a great extent caused due to leakages in water supply pipes or also due to the non-functional motors or pumps at the old water treatment plant of Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority,” said Singh. Notably, JMADA supplies over 176 lakh litres of River Damodar water through its Jamadoba-based water treatment complex to Jharia and Katras out of which around 105 lakh litres of water is supplied to Jharia and adjoining areas through a 12 million gallon per day capacity Water Treatment plant while remaining around 71 lakh litres is supplied to Kendua, Putki, Moonidih and other areas of Katras.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-120
07-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad’s lone amusement park lying in shambles||Birsa Munda Park – the sole amusement park of Dhanbad, set over 24 acres of land in Nawadih is in poor condition due to poor maintenance and lack of income from ticket sales. The park, established in2009, had been closed for 11 months due to the pandemic. As many as 27 employees of the park including 10 gardeners; two sweepers, ticket clerks, jhula operators, a manager, and 11 other park staff have not received their salary for the past three months. Similar is the condition of the 12 food outlets situated inside the park. Even after the park reopening, around ten of them are lying closed, as the owners have been unable to pay the pending rent of 11 months. The park management has asked them to clear their dues for the ‘closure period’ too. But, it’s the entertainment facilities of the park that has been hit the most. The toy train, which is the main attraction of the park has been lying non-operational due to lack of maintenance, same is the case of the six seesaws, one tree swing, triple slide, and the dhum jhula that have been lying non-functional. Only the dragon ride, two Mickey Mouse, and two jumping arenas are operational. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Paresh Mali, a gardener of the park, said, “We are facing a lot of difficulty due to non-payment of salary. We have received our pending salary for three months in December 2020. Following that, we are yet to receive our salary, which once has been pending since January 2022.” “We are facing extreme difficulty in managing our family expenses are our salary is pending. With a mere monthly income of Rs 10500, we hardly have any savings. We have exhausted all that we have saved during the last three months.” said Mali. Similar is the view of shop owners of the park. Bittu Sao, one of the food shop operator said, “The rent for each of 12 shops range between Rs 3000 to Rs 6000 per month depending on the size but the majority are lying closed as they are being asked to pay the pending rent of 11 months during which the shops were lying closed due to the closure.” “How can we pay such a huge amount? We have made zero income during that period. Also, the food items stocked in the shop have gone wasted due to the lockdown.” said Sao. When the manager of the park, Niwas Kumbhkar was contacted, he said, “We have sent a quotation to the park management committee with details of the repair requirement of different types of equipment, and repair work is likely to begin soon.” Regarding the pending salary of the employees, he said “We also met the Deputy Development Commissioner, Dasrath Chandra Das recently requesting him to release money from the previous fund of the park management committee to clear pending dues. He has assured to help us out.” “There will be no issue of the payment of salary of the current month as the park has reopened and is witnessing a footfall of around 500 persons. With the ticket income beginning to roll in, we will be able to make pay them the current month’s salary,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-120
07-03-2021||Jharkhand||Behind the scenes with Mirzapur cast and crew at XLRI fest||Day two of XLRI’s annual fest Ensemble-Valhalla brought Mirzapur writer and creator Puneet Krishna and actors Ali Fazal, Anjum Sharma, and Harshita Gaur, who discussed the story behind the scenes of the blockbuster web series on Saturday. During the panel discussion attended by 227 participants, Krishna, who is an XLRI alumnus, talked about the idea behind Mirzapur. "I belong to Jaunpur where such incidents were common. Students waive weapons during college elections and violence is rampant. So this was nothing new to me. I wanted to make a film on the story but I guess thankfully it didn't happen otherwise the web series and its success wouldn't have happened," said Krishna, who is a 2000-2002 batch alumnus and was also the secretary of the Marketing Association of XLRI (Maxi). "Seeing all this doesn't mean that I had a dark childhood," he added. Krishna shared his story of taking a leap from the corporate sector to the creative world with prior permission from his family. Talking about the character of Guddu Pandit and how he adapted the local dialect, Ali Fazal owed the perfection to Krishna. "Dialect changes at every 100 km in India and it's important. For example, the word 'Bhaukaal' is different in Varanasi and in Mirzapur. It is just a sound but it means a lot. We took sessions from the writer himself and were found more with him than the director working on the dialogues," he said. Harshita and Anjum spoke about their acting journey and the challenges that lie behind the camera. The hour-long session engaged the participation in fun conversations subtly delving into the depths of acting, production and character development. The day also witnessed a session with journalist Rajat Sharma who spoke about his journey of being a known face and how he started the hit show 'Aap Ki Adalat'. It came to an end with the audience laughing their hearts out to the witty humour of Rahul Subramanian, the maker of comic solo 'Kal Mai Udega' and one of the top ten finalists of Comicstaan, Sejal Bhat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-121
07-03-2021||Jharkhand||Pawar slams PM, says he has time for Calcutta, but not farmers||Former Maharashtra chief minister Sharad Pawar slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday for choosing to address political rallies in West Bengal over meeting protesting farmers hardly 20km from his residence in Lutyens’ Delhi. Addressing Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) workers in Ranchi’s Harmu ground, Pawar said Modi’s decision to  avoid a dialogue with the protesting farmers clearly showed his priorities. “The Prime Minister has the time to go to Calcutta and address rallies, but he doesn’t have the time to meet the protesting farmers,” said the NCP leader on Sunday, a day after the farmers’ protest against the farm laws entered its 100th day. While Pawar was in Ranchi to strengthen the party’s base in Jharkhand, Modi was addressing a political rally in Calcutta to officially launch the BJP's campaign in Bengal, where he sought the support of pepole dethrone chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Addressing a party meeting in Ranchi, Pawar also said that communal tension and disharmony have been growing in India since the BJP came to power at the Centre. “It is the Centre’s responsibility to inculcate the feeling of brotherhood among its citizens, but the BJP is spewing communal venom in the country,” he said. The former chairperson of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) lauded former team India capital Mahendra Singh Dhoni for his contribution to the game of cricket and said that he felt proud to stand in Dhoni’s hometown and address his party workers. “When Rahul Dravid decided to step down from captaincy, I asked Sachin Tendulkar to take charge as the captain. But he suggested Dhoni’s name for captaincy. Today, I feel proud that I am standing on the land of one of the greatest cricketers the country has ever produced,” Pawar said. The NCP leader also took a dig at the Narendra Modi-led Centre over the alleged mishandling of the Covid-19 crisis in India. “What did they do? They asked BJP workers to beat plates. But we don’t beat plates. We try and find ways to get food on our plates,” said Pawar. The NCP has only one MLA in the 81-member Jharkhand Assembly. However, the party has been working on strengthening its base in the tribal state to. Kamlesh Singh, NCP’s lone MLA in the state from Hussainabad, accompanied Pawar in Ranchi. Pawar, sources said, was likely to meet chief minister Hemant Soren later in the day and fly back to Mumbai on Sunday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-121
07-03-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI sets up Centre for Gender Equality and Inclusive Leadership at Delhi-NCR campus||Keeping in sync with this year’s Women’s Day theme – Women in Leadership : achieving an equal future in a Covid-19 world, Xaviers Institute of Management, is setting up a centre for Gender Equality and Inclusive Leadership at its Delhi-NCR campus. The move comes as part of a concerted effort being made by the institute of making a meaningful impact on the inclusion of women in economically gainful activities. XLRI will be formally inaugurating the Centre for Gender Equality and Inclusive Leadership to promote women's participation in economic activities and help bring more balance in the society, tomorrow during its International Women’s Day celebration. Notably, XLRI as an institution has been a pioneer in taking up various issues like ethics, sustainability, and social entrepreneurship. “The centre will bring together a large group of professionally well-established alumni and industry practitioners who will collaborate with XLRI to design and deploy a wide range of interventions to transform the daily lives of Indian women,” said a statement issued by the B-school. The centre will be housed at the newly opened Delhi-NCR campus, which was born out of XLRI’s desire to strengthen the industry-academia interface further. The NCR region is a hub of manufacturing and a centre of the knowledge economy and will help facilitate the new centre’s functioning. The Delhi-NCR campus is nestled in a serene, 37-acre green campus close to Jhajjar, a 45-minute drive from Gurgaon, and has world-class infrastructure. The new centre will be led by Professor Shreyashi Chakraborty, an assistant professor in the area of organizational behaviour at XLRI. Her primary research interests are inequalities, diversity management practices in Indian workplaces, and career experiences of women employees. She had also won the Emerald Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation Award in the area of HRM in 2017. Prof. Shreyashi Chakraborty, a professor of organizational behaviour said, “In September 2020 the World Economic Forum published their 14th Gender Parity Report. The research report was alarming - India ranked very low at 112th position. The ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has further intensified the gender-related challenges. There is a severe need for promoting women to participate in economic activities for the betterment of women's economic empowerment.” Prof Chakraborty further stressed that the B-school was committed to the cause of the inclusion of women in all spheres of life. Director of XLRI, Fr. P Christie commented “Our ambitious goal is to significantly increase the participation of women in the workforce within the next 5-10 years through strategic and broad-based interventions. As a first step, we are setting up the Centre for Gender Equality and Inclusive Leadership.” He further added, “The alumni of our institute have done exemplary work in bringing this initiative to fruition and establishing the Centre. We need all the help and support to build the impetus on this issue which is important for our world to develop meaningfully.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-121
