08-03-2021||Jharkhand||Demanding arrear payment resident doctors go on strike||The Outdoor Patient Department (OPD) of the six medical colleges across Jharkhand are likely to remain non-operational from Tuesday onwards as over 500 resident doctors have decided to go on an indefinite strike. The protesting doctors are demanding payment of arrears of the seventh pay commission that was implemented in 2016. All the resident doctors in – Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial College Hospital (MGM) in Jamshedpur, SNMMCH in Dhanbad, Palamu Medical College, Hazaribag Medical College, and Dumka Medical College – have been sporting a black band at work since last Monday as a mark of protest against the alleged apathy of the government towards their long-standing demands. On Monday, the representatives of the Jharkhand Resident Doctors Association (JRDA) held talks with RIMS Director Kameshwar Prasad and Health Secretary KK Soan, but despite holding discussions the disgruntled doctors decided to go ahead with a full-fledged strike. Prasad as well as Soan have assured the doctors that their file would be sent to the finance department soon and the necessary payments would be made, but the doctors seemed to be in no mood to accept any further delay in the process, said sources present during the meeting. “Resident doctors chose to boycott OPD in all medical colleges across the state today. The OPD at RIMS was operational till afternoon, but we decided to boycott RIMS OPD also, after talks with the authorities failed to yield a satisfactory result,” said Convener of JRDA, Dr. Ajit Kumar. Kumar maintained that around 500-odd junior and senior resident doctors of the state have been waiting for the payment of their arrears of the seventh pay commission since 2016. The government, he said, was taking services from the doctors but not doing the needful to ensure that they get their dues. The OPD in the six medical colleges is mostly run by resident doctors. With them, boycotting of the OPD is likely to affect patients who visit hospitals for minor ailments and injuries, sources said. However, the district hospitals will remain operational during the strike, the protesting doctors added. Dr. Vikash Kumar, a member of the RIMS Junior Doctors Association, said that the doctors have raised their concerns on different platforms, but the government turned a deaf ear to their pleas. “Do we need to go on a strike every time we want the government to do anything for us? We get the tag of frontline workers, but still don’t get our dues on time,” he said. The doctors have alleged that they have not been paid their salary as per the seventh pay commission from 2016 to March 2019. On average, each doctor is entitled to a payment of INR 700000 as arrears, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-119
08-03-2021||Jharkhand||Work begins to build over 9,500 homes under PM yojna at Birsanagar||A ground breaking ceremony for the much-awaited Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojna (PMAY) was held at the project site in Birsanagar on Monday. Managerial staff of JRS Infratech, one of the eight construction firms engaged in getting the project executed, initiated digging work at the site after performing the ceremony. Located at the eastern fringe of the steel city, the PMAY project will be constructed on five-acre government land. It will be set up at a locality called Laltand under Hurlung panchayat in Birsanagar. The PMAY project is being carried out under the aegis of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), the civic body which has a command in the entire steel city beside Birsanagar located about 12 km away from the heart of the city. Revealing about the project, JNAC's city manager, Ravi Bharti said that all 9,592 houses are being constructed under the PMAY. “There will be nine-storeyed buildings and each residential unit is proposed to have a bedroom, a dining hall, kitchen, bathroom and a balcony,” said Bharti while talking to The Telegraph Online. The city manager said that the high rise residential flats will be fitted with an elevator and there will be enough space for parking. Bharti, on being asked, said though over 9,500 residential units are being constructed the valid applicant's number is just 3,200. “A total of 3,200 applications have been processed. We are waiting for more applications from the aspiring people who have no house on their names anywhere,” said the senior civic officer. As the groundbreaking ceremony started at 10 am on Monday, a section of local goons created ruckus at the site. The JNAC officials, who were present there, informed the police. The police intervened and removed the hurdle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-119
08-03-2021||Jharkhand||Women 'take over' Dhanbad station to mark their day ||Operations of Dhanbad Railway Station, including booking tickets and checking and running trains, were managed by women on Monday on the occasion of International Women’s Day. This apart, women also managed the reception and control rooms of the Dhanbad division of East Central Railway, besides working at the personnel department of the divisional railway manager. Dhanbad station master Ratnesh Kumar said, “We have handed overwork in almost all departments, including unreserved ticket counter operation and reservation counter operation, besides ticket checking and train operations, to women colleagues at the station from 10 am to 4 pm.” Ashish Bansal, Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad Division, who carried out an inspection of the personnel department of his office while it was being managed by women, said, "Women have an important role to play in the successful running of family, organization, society and nation." He also exhorted women to work with renewed enthusiasm to help build a better organisation, society and nation. Talking to the media at Dhanbad railway station, ticket collector Nilima Kumari said, “Though we are in the job of ticket collection every day, today being International Women’s Day, it was a lovely experience to work with all women colleagues at the station.” Puja Kumar, a travelling ticket examiner (TTE), said,  “Ever since we were informed a few days ago that the operations of the station will be in our hands on the occasion of International Women’s Day we were quite excited. It was an altogether different feeling as we managed the entire operation from 8 am till 4 pm." Divya Kumari, a women assistant loco pilot, said, “Instead of assisting in train operations, we operated the train ourselves. Our senior male colleagues assisted us while we sat on the front seat to run the train.” A similar exercise was carried out at other important stations of the Dhanbad division, including Koderma, Daltonganj, Gomoh, Hazaribagh town, Chandrapura and Tori. A street corner play was also organised at Dhanbad station to focus on the significance of women in society.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-119
08-03-2021||Jharkhand||Meet Princy, Dhanbad's only woman auto driver  ||As the world celebrates International Women’s Day, a 29-year-old e-rickshaw driver stands out as a shining example of a working woman who braved all odds and battled against pre-conceived notions and societal pressure for the well being of her family. Meet Princy Chawla (29),  the lone e- rickshaw driver of Dhanbad, who took the responsibility to augment the family income way back in 2015 after leaving the job of a security guard of a private firm. Today, she is able to provide for the education of two of her daughters, one 14 years and the other barely  14 months. What's more, the family is able to save too. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Chawla said, “Married to auto driver Vickey Chawla in 2005 at the age 15, I spent several years at home. But as my elder daughter started going to school I got thinking about her education, and due to the limited income of my husband, decided to contribute to the family income." Princy's first job was in a private firm as a security guard. But soon, she realised this was not what she wanted to do. “ I went to Ranchi in 2015 for training and witnessed several women driving e-rickshaws. I left the training midway and decide to buy my own e-rickshaw” “Though it took around eight to nine days to convince my husband, I managed a bank loan to buy an e-rickshaw. Soon, I started adding to the family income,” said Princy. Both she and her husband faced resistance and sarcastic obsrvations of neighbours. "Many told my husband how he was living off a woman's income, but he never cared. The fact is that he never takes a single paise from my income. Instead, he helps me pay the EMI for the bank loan for the e- rickshaw,” she said. Princey said she felt good operating n e-rickshaw. "It is better than working as a housemaid. Since I have studied up to Class VIII, I could not find a suitable job. Hence, I took to operating an e-rickhaw. I believe working for oneself is better than working under somebody,” she said. Husband Vickey admitted he was initially hesitant about her plan. "But I soon realised that it is better to be self-employed," he said. “I don’t care about comments made by friends and relatives about my wife working in a male dominated area. For, I believe that what is right needs no justification,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-119
08-03-2021||Jharkhand||Bachendri to lead group of women above 50 in Himalayan expedition||Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) is organising a unique expedition titled FIT@50+ Women’s Trans Himalayan Expedition ’21 in collaboration with the ministry of youth affairs and sports under the FIT India banner. The expedition is also being supported by Tata Motors and Tata Sports Club as drive and fitness partners respectively. The voyage will be led by Bachendri Pal, recipient of Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri, legendary mountaineer and the first Indian woman to scale Mt. Everest, and will have participants aged 50 and above from across India. The team members have been drawn from across India comprising retired professionals and homemakers. The 10-member team also comprises three Women Everest summiteers. The 5-month long expedition involves traversing the Himalaya from Arunachal to Karakoram range (East to West) covering around 4,500 kms and cross about 40 mountain passes. It is expected to begin in the first week of May and will conclude in the second week of October this year. Pal, leader of the expedition and mentor, TSAF, said: “The expedition aims to address the mindset of our society and highlight the need to keep fit and demonstrate that age and gender is no barrier for a fit and a healthy lifestyle. It will also signify women empowerment, leadership, decision making, lifestyle and the importance of fitness for our entire community. What makes this expedition more tough is the long duration of 5 months combined with multiple challenges, including emotional, social, mental factors, physical fatigue and weather constraints, and all these put together make Fit@50+ women’s Trans Himalayan expedition a unique one." Pal also emphasised the importance of embracing risk and firmly believes that the biggest risk in life is not taking the risk. Chanakya Chaudhary, vice-president (corporate services), Tata Steel, said: “For more than three and a half decades, Tata Steel Adventure Foundation has played a pioneering role in creating an environment of equal opportunity and empowerment of women. The FIT@50+ Women’s Trans Himalayan Expedition is yet another unique initiative that will push this agenda a step further by reaching out to women aged 50 years and above to become part of a movement that will also prepare them to challenge physical and social stereotypes. The entire family of Tata Steel stands behind this amazing journey they are about to embark on and wish the very best for a resounding success.” The 10-member team will commence the journey of an ultimate human endurance starting from the misty mountains of Arunachal Pradesh at Bomdila and then enter Bhutan. From there, the expedition will traverse through Bhutan cross over into Sikkim and cover Chitrey, Kala Pokhari and Sandakphu. The team will then move into Nepal, where the route enters Dhaulagiri range and cover Salpa Pass, Lamajura Pass and also cross Thorang la (17,769 ft) around Annapurna Massif. From Western Nepal, the trail goes from Jumla and enters Kumaon district in Uttarakhand at Dharchula. From here, the expedition will cross Lamkhaga Pass (17,320 ft) - one of the toughest passes, which connects Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh with Harshil of Uttarakhand. The team will then traverse to Himachal. From here, they will trek through Spiti to cross Kaza, Kibber and cross Parang La (18,307 ft). The expedition will conclude in the Leh-Ladakh region where the team will cross Khardungla (18,380 ft), Saser La (17,753 ft), Depsang La (17,869 ft) and finish at Karakoram Pass (18,175 ft). The 10-member team include Bachendri Pal, Leader (67- Jamshedpur-Jharkhand), Chetna Sahoo (54-Calcutta-Bengal), Savita Dhapwal (52-Bhilai-Chhattisgarh), Shamala Padmanabhan (64-Mysuru-Karnataka), Gangorti Soneji (62-Baroda-Gujarat), Chaula Jagirdar (63-Palanpur-Gujarat), Payo Murmu (53-Jamshedpur-Jharkhand), Dr. Sushma Bissa (55-Bikaner -Rajasthan), Maj. Krishna Dubey (59-Lucknow-UP), and Bimbla Deoskar (55- Nagpur-Maharashtra). The 3-member support team includes Mohan Rawat (41), Amla Rawat (47) and Randev Singh (30), all from Uttarakhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-119
08-03-2021||Jharkhand||Man-made forest fires destroying flora, fauna  ||Forest fires lit by villagers to collect mahua – a wild flower used for making country liquor – is posing to be a threat to the flora and fauna in Jharkhand jungles, claim forest officials who are conducting extensive campaigns to douse “man-made forest fires” in suburban Ranchi and other parts of the state. Mahua, which grows in abundance in the forest areas of Jharkhand, falls off the trees during spring. However, these flowers are often covered by a layer of dry leaves, which make it difficult for villagers to find and collect Mahua. Villagers set forest areas afire to clear the leaves and easily spot mahua flowers, which are unaffected by fire, forest officials said. “We hardly get to hear about incidents of natural forest fire in Jharkhand. In most cases, the forest fire is caused by villagers, who are either looking for mahua or are simply careless about throwing cigarette butts in the forest,” said Ranchi district forest officer Ashok Dubey. Dubey said the forest department responded promptly to satellite alerts about forest fires and try to douse them at the earliest. Forest officials and village committees work together for dousing forest fires in the interiors of the state, he added. Several incidents of forest fire were reported from Mahilong in Ranchi district this month, said Dubey, who has been running awareness campaigns in the villages to prevent forest fires for the collection of Mahua. While forest officials say that animals find their way to escape such forest fires, environmentalists believe that birds are worst-affected by the fire. Nitish Priyadarshi, a Ranchi environmentalist who recently visited areas around Sita Fall, said several birds' nests were affected by man-made forest fires and the carbon dioxide level was increasing significantly around forest areas, causing an abnormal rise in temperature. “It was so hot in the forest area that I could almost feel a burning sensation on my skin. You can well imagine how badly it is affecting the wide variety of birds living in the jungle,” said Priyadarshi. He said that the rise in the mercury level in Ranchi could also be partially attributed to forest fire in the surrounding jungles. “We are feeling the need to switch on our air conditioners in the first half of March itself. It might get worse from here,” the environmentalist warned. As per data with the Meteorological Centre in Ranchi, the highest temperature in Ranchi was 34.2 degree Celsius while that in Jamshedpur was 36.4 degree Celsius on Sunday. Priyadarshi also pointed out lapses in the functioning of the forest department, which could be leading to forest fires. The department, he said, did not demarcate areas where mahua trees grow, which left villagers clueless about where they would find Mahua in abundance. “When villagers don’t know where they might find Mahua, they might even set fire to forest areas where there are no Mahua trees,” Priyadarshi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-120
08-03-2021||Jharkhand||BJP leaves one seat for ally Ajsu Party to contest in Bengal ||The Sudesh Mahto-led All Jharkhand Students Union-party (AJSU-P), which is a part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the state, is gearing up to join the hustings in Bengal polls after the BJP allocated one seat to its junior ally. Of the 60 seats which will go to polls in Bengal in the first two phases beginning March 27, the saffron camp last Saturday announced candidates on 57 seats so far. Baghmundi in Purulia has been set aside for Sudesh’s outfit, AJSU-P officials in Ranchi said on Monday. Speaking to reporters, AJSU-P’s central spokesperson Deosharan Bhagat said they were happy with the initial seat-sharing for Bengal polls that were  crucial for NDA. “Even though we had provided our party symbol to a few candidates to a few candidates in past elections of Bengal, this will be the first time our party is eyeing an entry. We are happy that the BJP’s central election committee has recognised our contributions and left one seat for us,” he said. On Baghmundi, he said that it was one of the priority seats identified by the party. “AJSU-P’s main focus is in the Junglemahal region which has about 40 seats, of which several are on bordering areas of Jharkhand. Baghmundi is close to Silli in Ranchi which our party president Sudesh Mahto represents. It is also in proximity to Jugsalai in Jamshedpur. We have considerable clout in Baghmundi and can retain the seat for NDA,” he said, adding that the decision on other seats will be taken in due course in time. The first phase for voting in Bengal will take place on March 27 for 30 Assembly segments. The AJSU-P’s leader said that the party was demanding an autonomous council in Junglemahal for the overall development of tribals and OBCs dominating the region. “Junglemahal development has been neglected for decades, even more during the TMC’s regime. Our fight is for our tribal and OBC brothers and sisters along the Jharkhand-Bengal border, majority of whom contributed to the statehood movement of Jharkhand during undivided Bihar,” said Bhagat. Notably, ASJU-P and BJP fought separately in the 2019 Assembly polls in Jharkhand after they could not agree on a seat-sharing plan. The decision proved costly for both, with the victory of the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance which went on to form the government in Jharkhand. Despite fighting in about 70 seats in Jharkhand, AJSU-P could win only two, three less than its last tally of five.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-120
08-03-2021||Jharkhand||Extremist duo surrenders before Chatra police||Two dreaded extremists of Tritiya State Prastuti Committee(TSPC) surrendered before Chatra deputy commissioner Divyanshu Jha and superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha by handing over their arms and bullets on Monday. Raghuvansh Ganjhu a.k.a Chiteran Ganjhu carrying a reward of Rs.10 lakh on his head was among the ones to have surrendered. With this surrender, the Chatra police tasted their second big success in as many months with Mukesh Ganjhu, who was second in command of TSPC, surrendering a few months ago. Raghuvansh and Lakshman Ganjhu after the surrender regretted joining the outfit. The former appealed to other extremists to surrender keeping the future of their families in mind. "Surrender is the only way for atonement against the misdeeds done by us," added the duo. Lakshman, a native of Saktitand village under Lawalong police station, carried a reward of Rs.1 lakh on his head. The duo was also wanted by police of other districts including Latehar and Ranchi in cases of murder, extrotion and encounter with police. Raghuvansh, a resident of Aasediri village under Kunda police station, surrendered with a rifle, 1-magazine and 200 live bullets. Lakshman handed over a self loading rifle, 145 live bullets, 3 magazines and a uniform to police officials. After the surrender, deputy commissioner Jha said both surrendered due to the surrender and rehabilitation policy of the state government. He said they will get all the benefits under this policy. SP Rishav Kumar Jha asserted that taking up arms is not the solution of any problem. He said whether TSPC or Maoists or any other outfit, they lacked ideology and involved in exploitation and other criminal activities. Other officials present were commandant of CRPF 190 battalion, Vijay Kumar and ASP(operations) Nigam Prasad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-120
08-03-2021||Jharkhand||Only four per cent of healthcare and frontline workers vaccinated in a day||Jharkhand on Sunday achieved only 4 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of Covishield vaccine to healthcare workers and frontline workers, while the number of senior citizens getting vaccinated against the Covid-19 virus also dropped on the day in comparison to Saturday, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As many as 2,628 senior citizens and 510 middle-aged persons with comorbid conditions were inoculated in Jharkhand on Sunday. As per government records, as many as 7668 senior citizens and over 1000 middle-agers with comorbid conditions were administered the first dose of the vaccine on Saturday. A report released by NHM stated that only 642 of the 16,142 healthcare workers and frontline workers registered for the vaccine were inoculated on Sunday. While a total of 3780 people were administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand on the day, almost 70 per cent of them were senior citizens, government data highlighted. Of the over 2500 senior citizens vaccinated on the day, as many as 375 were from Ranchi, 363 from Bokaro and 198 from Dhanbad. As per NHM data, no person was vaccinated in East Singhbhum on Sunday. Among the 510 middle-agers vaccinated in the state, 128 were from Ranchi and 133 from Deoghar. While the state performed poorly in administering the first dose of the vaccine to the beneficiaries on the day, it achieved 51 per cent of its target for administering the second dose. At least 2767 of the 5378 healthcare workers registered for the second dose of the vaccine on Sunday were vaccinated. As per government data, the state has so far vaccinated 3,54,100 people against the Covid-19 virus. At least 35,776 senior citizens and 4555 middle-agers with comorbid conditions have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in the state so far, reveals data compiled by the NHM. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 virus claimed two more lives in Ranchi on Sunday, taking the Covid toll in the district to 249 and that in Jharkhand to 1093, stated a bulletin released by the NHM. As many as 42 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on the day while 38 Covid patients recovered, taking the count of active cases to 463. Ranchi reported 29 cases and 25 recoveries on the day. As per government data, over 1.20 lakh people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand so far and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. At the current growth rate of infection, it would take more than 2134 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-120
08-03-2021||Jharkhand||Physically challenged para-teacher seeks job regularisation||The world celebrates International Women’s Day on Monday with this year’s theme “Choose to challenge” but this lady chose to challenge long ago. Meet Basanti Kumari, a physically challenged contractual para-teacher at the Utkramit Madhya Vidyalay, an upgraded middle school at Rorhabandh, about 25km from Dhanbad, who has been teaching there for the past 15 years. She sincerely hopes to believe what the women’s day theme indicates — “Challenged world is an alert world and from challenge comes the change”. The change in her case would come when she is made a regular teacher, entitled to a salary as per the existing pay scale. “I have applied to the authorities for making me a regular teacher under special category meant for physically challenged candidates but nothing happened so far,” Kumari 40, lamented, adding that would help her earn an increased salary and run their family of three sisters smoothly. Her hands had not developed when she was born and everyone thought she could never attend school but she proved them all wrong. “I was always interested to go to school and my parents also encouraged me to do so,” Kumari, who graduated with sociology from Sindri College in 1999, spoke eloquently about her parents — Madhav Singh and Prabhavati — who were no more. Their financial condition had deteriorated after her father’s death who worked as a foreman at Fertiliser Corporation of India at Sindri and she started offering tuition to kids to earn for the family. “I had appeared at the state teacher’s eligibility test (TET) twice but missed it narrowly both the times,” she informed, adding no job came her way until she joined as a contractual para-teacher in 2005. “I’m comfortable with my left leg and write on blackboard with that leg,” Kumari informed when asked how she managed to teach in the school. “I’m the sole bread-earner of my family of three sisters and have also to marry off the youngest one,” she said, adding an added income as a regular teacher would help her a lot. The para-teachers of the state had been agitating for a long time for regularisation of their service and the state government is likely to make such para teachers who cleared TET regular soon. “I couldn’t clear TET, so I urged the authorities to make me a regular teacher under special category,” she said, adding she always liked to teach children. People recognised her grit and even felicitated her on women’s day in the past but her real recognition would come when she would be recognised as a regular teacher she felt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-120
