09-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over 80 Bokaro students crack JEE Mains||Over 80 Bokaro students, the majority of them from the Delhi Public School, have cracked the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains, 2021, battling against the restrictions due to Covid-19. A total of 41 students of DPS Bokaro scored more than 90 percentile, while six students scored above 99 percentile. Aditya and Varun, both students of the Delhi Public School, scored 99.67 and 99.58 percentiles respectively, the authorities said in a press release. Taking note of the results, principal A.S. Gangwar said, “Despite the crisis faced by the students during the pandemic, the results are satisfactory. We do hope for better results in the upcoming exams.” Students of Chinmaya Vidyalaya did well, too, with the school’s public relation officer Sajiv Kumar saying, “Bharat Kabra has scored 99.85 percentile marks. Apart from Kabra, about a dozen students of Chinmaya have scored 95 and above percentile marks in the national level examination.” Bokaro native secures perfect score Saket Jha, an alumnus of DPS Bokaro studying in Kota, has cracked the JEE Mains with a perfect score of 100 percentile points. His father Sanjay Kumar Jha, principal of the state-run high school Tand Ballydih, was happy with his son’s performance. Saket has always been a bright student interested in engineering, for which he had even bagged a scholarship from the Allen Institute, who had sponsored his education, accommodation, food, and coaching from class 9 to 12. The Institute also enrolled him in Delhi Public School, Kota, from where he cracked the national-level exam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-118
09-03-2021||Jharkhand||Daily donates over 200 books to Dhanbad’s oldest library||The management of vernacular daily Prabhat Khabar on Tuesday donated 222 books to the Gandhi Seva Sadan Library, one of the oldest book repositories of Dhanbad, to take their count of written treasures to around 4,783. Ranging from literature to history, biographies to science, mythology to fiction, the books were donated in the presence of Additional District Magistrate (law and order) Chandan Kumar, who is also the ex- officio Vice President of Gandhi Seva Sadan Managing Committee. “We will be running a week-long campaign to enrich the stock of our library, under which we will approach various corporate houses operating in the district asking them to contribute through their Corporate Social Responsibility fund. These include BCCL, Tata Steel, SAIL and other such companies, general secretary of the Gandhi Seva Sadan Mr Gopal said. He also said that the authority will meet the sub-divisional officer of Dhanbad, Surendra Prasad, seeking his permission to reinitiate a book-reading facility and the provision for holding debates and other events that were suspended due to the pandemic. “Renovation of the library is also likely to begin soon for its modernisation, as per the detailed project report prepared by us,” the general secretary added. Noted social worker and former Chairman of Bokaro Industrial Area Development Authority (BIADA), Bijay Jha said, “At a time when the habit of reading books is gradually decreasing among the younger generations, such an initiative will help in a great way to bring the tradition back.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-118
09-03-2021||Jharkhand||Patients suffer as OPDs stay shut on Day One of doctors' strike ||OPD services remained suspended at six medical colleges across Jharkhand on Tuesday, causing inconvenience to hundreds of patients who visited government hospitals to get treated for minor ailments and regular check-ups, becuse of an indefinite doctors' strike to protest the delay in payment of arrears as per the seventh pay commission. However, resident doctors offered their service at the emergency of the six hospitals, where most of the patients in need of immediate medical assistance were treated. The over 500 doctors of medical colleges in Jharkhand called for an indefinite strike and boycott of OPD services on Monday after talks between health authorities and the doctors failed to reach a consensus. The doctors wore a black badge on their arm at work since the beginning of March as a mark of protest against the government. “Our fight is against the government’s lackadaisical approach towards resident doctors, and we have no intention to cause any inconvenience to patients,” said Convener of Jharkhand Resident Doctors Association (JRDA) Dr Ajit Kumar. “Even today, we treated patients in need of immediate attention at the emergency ward even though the OPDs were closed,” he added. On Tuesday, the protesting doctors locked the main entry door of all OPDs, where patients usually get the first diagnosis done in case of any health issue.  Patients formed a beeline outside the OPD at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi on Tuesday, clueless about whom to contact for assistance. Several patients had to wait for hours at the hospital before they could finally get to see a doctor, eyewitnesses said. However, patients with severe illness were treated on a priority basis, doctors said. “If someone comes to us with a life-threatening ailment, then we will obviously treat the patient. But patients who visit medical colleges for eye tests or regular check-ups can wait for a week,” said Dr Kumar. RIMS Director Dr Kameshwar Prasad and other senior authorities of the state-run hospital tried to get the OPD functioning several times during the day, but the protesting doctors ensured that OPD services remained suspended. The RIMS Director had on Monday said that senior and non-resident doctors will provide services at the OPD during the strike, but senior doctors did not turn up at the OPD in the first half of the day. All the resident doctors in the six medical colleges – Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial College Hospital (MGM) in Jamshedpur, SNMMCH in Dhanbad, Palamu Medical College, Hazaribag Medical College and Dumka Medical College – have joined the protest in Jharkhand. The doctors have alleged that they were not paid salary as per the seventh pay commission since 2016 to March 2019. On an average, each doctor is entitled to payment of arrears worth several lakh, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-118
09-03-2021||Jharkhand||Shivaratri: strict vigil planned at Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary ||Authorities of Dalma wildlife sanctuary will be making elaborate arrangements to ensure Shivaratri celebrations take place without any untoward incidents. Sanctuary officials will pay extra attention to elements who climb the hills with tyres, match boxes and other inflammable items which could set fire to the 194 sq km jumbo abode. Over 50,000 devotees are expected to visit the temple at the top on the eve of Shivratri, which is on March 10. Some distance of the 8km route that snakes from Fadlugora to the hilltop temple will be illuminated with tube lights. Apart from this, all visitors will be frisked and metal detectors will be installed at the two entry points of Fadlugora and Makulakocha. Security arrangements will be focussed on the Fadlugora route because devotees from Jamshedpur, Chandil, Ghatshila and villages dotting NH 33 prefer it over the longer Makulakocha route, where one has to cover 3km to reach the entry point from the highway and then trek over 16km to reach the temple. “Like every year, the temple will witness heavy footfall of devotees. We are not taking chances when it comes to the safety of the faithful. Besides installing tube lights on some parts of the route from Fadlugora, we are deputing personnel at the two entry points,” said assistant conservator of forest (ACF) R.P. Singh. Some parts of the sanctuary have lit up before and officials are in no mood to leave anything to chance during Shivaratri. "Miscreants enter the sanctuary on the eve of Shivaratri armed with tyres, match boxes and inflammable items. They burn and throw the tyres inside the sanctuary as a result of which fire spreads. Some parts of the sanctuary have already caught fire and we are in no mood to compound matters. Strict frisking would be done at the Fadlugora entry point," a forester said on condition of anonymity. He added two generator sets had been requisitioned for lighting up the way. On other security measures, the forester said foresters and trackers with torches in hands will keep vigil at the entry points and at the temple. "Fifty trackers each will be deputed at the two entry points,” he said Asked about elephant trouble, he said the herds were still stationed on the fringes of the sanctuary while some are positioned downhill. Lighting up the way to the temple started in 2018 after devotees complained of inconvenience while trekking in the dark. Earlier, villagers used to burn tyres to light up the path and keep elephants at bay. The practice was dangerous as an ember could set the sanctuary, filled with dry leaves, on fire. Shivaratri fetches huge revenue for the Ranchi wildlife division, which looks after the Dalma reserve. Devotees are charged Rs 2 each for visiting the temple. There are separate charges for vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-118
09-03-2021||Jharkhand||Police evict encroachers from 10 acres of government land in Khaasmahal||In a massive anti-encroachment drive, steel city police and the district administration were able to clear over 10 acres of government land from encroachment at Khaasmahal in Parsudih area on Tuesday. Over 200 slum dwellers, mostly tribals, had encroached into the vacant government land. Many of them had even thatched houses since Sunday. The drive, which lasted for over four hours, was initiated at 11.30 am, after a meeting took place between senior police and administrative officials at the Parsudih thana, given the sensitivity of the issue. After the meeting was over, about 100 police men, including the lady cops equipped with two poclains, began with the eviction drive at about 150 metres away from the Parsudih thana. OC, Parsudih thana, Rajendra Prashad Das confirmed about the drive at Khaasmahal. “A large section of bustee-dwellers had started constructing houses in an unauthorised way. We cleared the whole encroachment without any resistance,” said Das while talking to The Telegraph Online. The OC maintained that the tribals could have been incited by some political person to grab land. The police will detect the culprit for registering a case. During the drive, all the males had gone underground. Over 200 women, apparently encroachers, had turned up at the site and watched how the poclains were razing down the houses. The police were seen removing the household materials from the thatched houses before allowing the poclains to raze down the houses. Dotted with slums surrounding Khaasmahal, the area is considered a JMM-stronghold area. A local resident, Kartik Gope while talking to this website said, “These slum-dwellers had made an abortive bid to encroach land in the year 2014 leading the administration to remove the encroachment. A similar attempt has been made after six years.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-118
09-03-2021||Jharkhand||Belgarhia residents hold stir for pending allowances||Over 50 residents of Belgarhia colony of Jharia held a demonstration at the office of the Jharia Rehabilitation Development Authority at Hirapur demanding immediate payment of dues, including their subsistence allowance. The protestors also raised the issue of irregular water supply in their colony and other difficulties like lack of transport facilities which were affecting their livelihood. Baidyanath Kumbhkar (55), one of the protestors, said, “We shifted to the colony in 2017 from the underground fire-hit Lodna area and have been provided shifting allowance of Rs 10,000 in 2018.” As per rehabilitation provisions of the Jharia master plan,  each family was to be provided 500 days' minimum wage as subsistence allowance, he said. "We were entitled to a  subsistence allowance of Rs 1.8 lakh to be provided in three installments,” he said, adding that they received Rs 45,000 as the first installment  four years after the shifting in 2020. "We are yet to get the 2nd and 3rd installments," he said. Echoing his sentiments, Shiv Shankar Mahto, who also participated in the demonstration, said, “I have also shifted from underground fire affected Lodna area along with Baidyanath Kumbhkar and 50 other families. We are still awaiting for the subsistence allowance.” “I own a small grocery shop on the outskirts of Belgharia but majority of foodgrains are out of stock in my shop due to lack of capital. If we got the subsistence allowance on time, we could have earned better from the shop,” Mahto said. JRDA rehabilitation and resettlement Incharge Amar Prasa did not deny there were dues, but added that they would pay up soon. “Altthough both shifting allowance as well as subsistence allowance was provided to a large number of families, one or two installments of subsistence allowance  of some families are still pending for payment. We we will intiate the process immediately.” Out of a total 1.04 lakh families living in 595 underground fire-affected areas, around 5,000 families have so far been rehabilitated to Belgarhia ever since rehabilitation began on March 25, 2010.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-118
09-03-2021||Jharkhand||Mega Army recruitment drive in Ranchi from Wednesday||A 20-day mega army recruitment camp will commence at Ranchi’s Morabadi ground Wednesday during which over a lakh aspirants are expected to take part, district administration officials said on Tuesday after taking stock of preparations. As per a notification from the Army, candidates from all 24 districts of Jharkhand can take part in the job rally that will conclude on March 30.  “Those who pass in the physical test will then proceed for medical and written exams,” it read, adding that candidates are required to bring with them the admit card issued to them while applying, along with other documents specified in the application form. “Any candidate caught carrying fake certificates will be handed over to police immediately. Candidates are only advised to come on the day and time specified in their admit cards to avoid unwanted crowding,” it read. On Covid safety norms, the notification added that every candidate must carry masks, gloves and sanitizers. “They will maintain social distancing and adequate gaps during the rally. Most importantly, all are required to produce a Covid-19 free/asymptomatic certificate and no risk certificate when they report to the rally,” it read. The asymptomatic certificate should have been issued 48 hours prior to reporting for the rally. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said they were taking all precautions to prevent the spread of the coronavirus during the mega selection drive. He said the entire ground had been secured with asbestos sheets as barricades. Basic facilities like toilets, drinking water, places for visiting aspirants from all the districts to stay (camp) has been ready keeping covid-19 safety norms in mind. Basic facilities like tiolets and driking water had been organised. ADM law and order Lokesh Mishra, who is keeping tabs on the arrangements at the venue, said Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) has been directed to ensure round-the-clock cleaning of the installed facilities at the premises. “Since, it is the first mega rally and a huge turnout is expected, we are on alert to ensure high cleanliness and hygiene. RMC has been asked to deploy special teams to clean the venue regularly,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-118
09-03-2021||Jharkhand||One wedding and two funerals in Chatra||An SUV which was part of the wedding procession overturned near Masuria river in Chatra’s industrial town Tandwa, thereby killing the groom's friend and his maternal uncle on the spot. The tragic incident took place in the wee hours of Tuesday. With the news of the accident triggered grief in the family of the bridegroom and the area from where he hailed. Talking about the mishap, Tandwa police official said, “Baraatis (members of the wedding procession) were going to Keredari of Hazaribagh from Kamta village of Tandwa in Chatra. However, the driver lost control of the SUV on Keredari-Tandwa road near Masuria river, which made the car overturn, thereby killing groom Mohammad Altaf’s friend Kutubuddin Ansari alias Tinku(20) and his maternal uncle Mohammad Jainul Ansari (59).” Tinku sustained severe injuries and was rushed to hospital but he succumbed to his injuries on the way. Five other members who were present in the SUV also sustained injuries but are out of danger. On getting the information, Tandwa police reached the accident spot and sent dead bodies for postmortem to Sadar hospital. Later the bodies were handed over to the relatives. According to sources, following the tragic accident that claimed two lives, the marriage took place in a simple ceremony after the intervention of villagers, elders and relatives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-118
09-03-2021||Jharkhand||Three state archers secure Tokyo Olympic berth||Three archers from Jharkhand have made it to the Indian women's recurve team for the upcoming Olympic Games to be held in Tokyo, Japan in July. Deepika Kumari, Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat got the nod after the third and final selection trials which concluded at Army Sports Institute in Pune on Monday evening. While the seasoned Deepika, a Padma Shri, has represented the country in Olympics staged in London (2012) and Rio de Janeiro (2016), Komalika and Ankita will be performing on the big stage for the first time. Deepika, who hails from Ratu Chatti near Ranchi and is a former cadet of Tata Archery Academy, has shifted base to Pune after her marriage to archer Atanu Das. Komalika is a cadet of the elite Tata cradle whereas Ankita has joined Tata Steel on contract. Deepika, who has already won an individual Olympic quota at the 2019 Asian Archery Championships, topped the final trial. Ankita Bhakat came second while Komolika Bari came overall third in the trials. India, however, is yet to secure a quota place for the recurve team event. The recurve team of Deepika Kumari, Ankita Bhakat and Komolika Bari will get an opportunity to earn that place at the Final Team Qualification event scheduled to take place in Paris from June 18-21. All three travelling to Tokyo will be subject to the trio bringing home the quota from Paris. Otherwise, Deepika will be the sole representative in the individual event. Tata Archery Academy chief coach Dharmendra Tiwary said both Ankita and Komalika stand a fair chance of qualifying for the Olympics. "Both archers are presently in good form and are expected to continue the same till the Paris event. It is important for them to continue with their form. It is the form on a given day which holds the key," the Dronacharya awardee said. Pravin Jadhav, Atanu Das and Tarundeep Rai will represent the India men's recurve side in the Tokyo Games.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-119
09-03-2021||Jharkhand||Zaheer Khan visits Chhinamastika temple along with wife Sagarika||Former Indian cricketer Zaheer Khan on Tuesday visited Ma Chinnamastika temple in Rajrappa of Ramgarh along with his wife Sagarika Ghatge. As the star couple reached the temple, fans started pouring in from the neighbouring areas to get a glimpse of the star couple. Priests Pappu Baba, Chotu Panda, Subhashis Panda, Lokesh Panda and Asim Panda performed the rituals for them, which lasted for around fifteen minutes. The couple came to Ranchi to attend a program and took time out from their schedule to visit this ancient Seedhpeeth to seek the blessings, Zaheer was quoted by the priests as saying Zaheer Khan, who made his debut for the national team in 2000, had spearheaded India's pace bowling department for more than a decade. He was the joint leading wicket-taker in the 2011 World Cup with 21 wickets, providing crucial breakthroughs for India with the new ball which helped the country lift the World Cup. He is the most successful pace bowler in Test cricket behind Kapil Dev. His wife Sagarika is an Indian model, former national level athlete and actress known for her role of Preeti Sabharwal in the film Chak De India. The main attraction of Chinnamastika temple is the headless deity of Goddess Chinnamasta which stands on the body of Kamdev and Rati in the lotus bed. The Chhinnamasta temple is popular for its tantrik style of architectural design. Apart from the main temple, there are ten temples of various gods and goddesses. It is situated 28kms away from Ramgarh district headquarter in Gola block on the confluence of Damodar and Bhairavi. It is 80kms away from state capital Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-119
09-03-2021||India||Over 11,000 vaccinated in the state in a day||As many as 8207 senior citizens and 1155 middle-agers with comorbid conditions were among the 11,848 people who were administered the first dose of the Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand on Monday, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per government data, as many as 43,985 senior citizens and 5,704 middle-agers with comorbid conditions have been vaccinated against the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand since the launch of the second phase of the immunisation programme on March 1. While the number of the general public getting vaccinated has increased gradually, the percentage of registered healthcare and frontline workers administered the first dose of the vaccine has dropped lately. After achieving only 4 per cent of the vaccination target for healthcare and frontline workers on Sunday, the state achieved only 8 per cent of its target on Monday by vaccinating only 2,486 of the over 31,000 registered beneficiaries. At least 1211 senior citizens were vaccinated in Ranchi on Monday, while 1437 senior citizens got the first jab of the vaccine in Pakur. As many as 696 people were administered the vaccine in Bokaro and 283 in East Singhbhum on the day. Jharkhand achieved 26 per cent of its target for administering the second dose of the vaccine to healthcare and frontline workers on the day. As many as 10320 healthcare workers and frontline workers were administered the second jab of Covishield vaccine on Monday in the state. As per government data, so far, the state has administered the first dose of the vaccine to 3,65,934 people, while the second jab has been administered to 76,627 beneficiaries. The state has achieved 83 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine and 72 per cent of target for the second dose, reveals government data. Meanwhile, the count of Covid patients also increased in the state on Monday. At least 53 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection surfaced in Jharkhand on the day, while 44 patients recovered, stated a bulletin released by the NHM. Ranchi reported 31 cases against 22 recoveries and witnessed a spike in the count of active cases. As per the NHM bulletin, at least 281 people were battling the viral infection in the district. Ranchi accounts for almost 60 per cent of the 472 active cases in Jharkhand. As per government data, as many as 120312 people have been infected by the lethal virus in Jharkhand so far, and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.03 per cent against the national average of 0.11 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-119
09-03-2021||Jharkhand||JMM likely to back TMC, not contest elections in Bengal  ||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), the lead coalition partner in the alliance government in the state, will in all likelihood, do a U-turn from its earlier stated posiiton of contesting the Assembly elections in Bengal and now support the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress, sources in the party  have hinted. Even though the time of filing nominations for the first phase of elections in Bengal will end on Tuesday, March 9, JMM is yet to announce any candidates indicating a change of stance in the wake of many non-BJP parties rallying behind TMC to counter the BJP in Bengal. The high-octane poll battle, which will take place in eight phases, will kick off from March 27 when voting for the first batch of 30 Assembly seats will take place. Jungle Mahal seats will go for polls in the first and second phases on March 27 and April 1, and as such, the party has to finalise a list of its candidates for these seats to file nominations latest by March 12. Of the 30 seats in the first phase, seven are reserved for scheduled tribe (ST), which JMM was eyeing. Notably, JMM’s working president and Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren had kicked off JMM’s pre-poll campaign from Jhargram on January 29, upsetting Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee. Two months down the line, JMM seems to have done a U-turn. “In all likelihood, JMM will support TMC and not contest the polls to consolidate anti-BJP votes. More than individual choices, it is time for all non-BJP parties to align together to counter the BJP in the interest of the nation,” said a senior JMM functionary in Ranchi on Monday. It was only a matter of time before JMM made a formal announcement, he said. Chief minister Hemant has evaded a clear answer when asked about it outside the Assembly on Monday evening. “JMM’s stance for Bengal polls is in the party forum. It will make a formal announcement,” he said. Significantly, speaking with reporters informally at a hotel on Sunday in Delhi before returning to Ranchi after his two-day visit to woo investors, Hemant had said that he was approached by Bengal CM seeking his support and was also requested to campaign for her. “I have apprised our party chief Shibu Soren on the matter,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-119
09-03-2021||Jharkhand||MLA Amba Prasad rides horse to Jharkhand Assembly||Congress MLA Amba Prasad, 28, rode a horse to Jharkhand Assembly. The MLA said a retired army officer gifted the horse to her. “The Indian breed horse was gifted to me on Monday morning by Col. Ravi Rathore on the occasion of International Women’s Day,” Amba, the youngest MLA in the Assembly, said. “I was a keen horse rider while I was in Delhi preparing for UPSC and knew colonel sahab. “He expressed his desire to gift me the horse after he came to know that I have become a youth icon and elected as a MLA,” said the Barkagaon MLA, who had to discontinue her preparation for UPSC exams in Delhi mid-way and learn law to defend her parents in the Hazaribagh Court. Amba is the daughter of former MLA from Barkagaon Nirmala Devi and Yogendra Sao and was only 28 years when she was elected in the 2019 Assembly elections. Both her parents have been charged by the erstwhile BJP-led Jharkhand government for raising the issue of displacement due to forceful land acquisition for a NTPC project in Barkagaon. Sao is a former minister and had been part of the Jharkhand cabinet. During the protest over land acquisition, police firing had claimed the lives of four people. Amba who has completed MBA and completed LLB has already set up goals to promote horse riding, polo and equestrian in Jharkhand. “It was a surprise that a person of repute like Col. Rathore would bring the horse all the way from Delhi (it was brought in an animal ambulance) and gift it to me. “I will try to do my best to fulfil the faith shown by the Indian Polo Association and gradually promote horse riding, polo and equestrian in the state of Jharkhand,” she said. Arjuna award recipient Col. Rathore was a commandant of the 61st Cavalry Regiment of the Indian Army and has recently retired and is the secretary of the Indian Polo Association. He has been an integral part of the Indian polo team for five consecutive World Cup championships and won two gold medals in 2011 and 2017. Amba, agreed that she would have to take extra care of the horse. “It is of the royal breed and was used by Maharaja Pratap Singh. “I will not be riding it to the Assembly, but will surely riding it early in the morning as I have a passion for horse riding and would like to encourage young people to take up this hobby and also improve infrastructure for it in the state,” the MLA said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-119
