10-03-2021||Jharkhand||Evicted squatters return to encroach upon govt land in Khaasmahal again||Squatters evicted by the district administration on Tuesday promptly returned to the government land they were occupying in Khaasmahal area of Parsudih less than 24 hours later, leaving steel city authorities in a quandary over its next step. Dozens of encroachers from the adjoining slums like Jharkhand Nagar, Kitadih and Karandih fixed tents on Tuesday itself and started rebuilding their huts overnight. On Wednesday morning, more and more encroachers turned up at the troubled spot. They started demarcating areas to set up home and even arranged a community feast at the site, a 10-acre expanse of land belonging to the state government. But no action was taken by the district administration through the day. On Tuesday, Dhalbhum SDO Nitesh Kumar Singh accompanied others, including over 100 policemen, evicted squatters from the area. Singh, while returning from the operation, had instructed the Parsudih officer-in-charge Rajendra Prashad Das to keep a close watch on the place. Obviously, the police let their guard down. “I am at the Parsudih thana and I do not know whether anyone has returned to encroach the government land,” Das told this correspondent when told about the encroachments. DSP (law and order) Muhammad Akram, who looks after Parsudih thana, was incommunicado as his cellphone was switched off. Amit Shrivastav, circle officer of Jamshedpur, confirmed that government land at Khaasmahal had been encroached upon again by over 200 people. “Now the district administration is chalking out a plan which will be executed to evict the encroachers once again. The administration will also ensure that government land in question remains free from encroachment,” he told The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia children make use of artistic skills to earn||The idea that came into Abda Parveen and her NGO’s minds last year during a workshop has now grown into a medium of earning for 12 artistically skilled children from the economically disadvantaged sections of the society in Jharia. The group of children, comprising 10 girls and two boys, make invitation cards for different events under the guidance of Parveen, a volunteer of Jharia based youth organisation Samadhan. “The idea of establishing the startup came in our mind during a camp held in January last year at our education Centre in Jharia when Dhansar-based social worker and artists Anita Nihshab conducted a card-making workshop,” Samdhan founder Chandan Kumar Singh told The Telegraph Online on Wednesday. The children have recently bagged an order for delivery of 50 cards for a wedding anniversary event, and are working on other orders as well. “Most of the students are children of economically weaker sections. We provide free of cost tutorial lessons under our free education programme since the last five or six years,” Singh added. “Besides spending our leisure time, this work will also help to us to support the family income as my father has a limited income of less than Rs 50,00 per month,” 16-year-old Nehari Rani, daughter of a wall-painter, said. Singh said that they have invested around Rs 2,000 for all necessary items and received Rs 11,000 from Gopal Katesaria, who had ordered cards for his anniversary. Divulging more details Abda Parveen, “All the 50 cards bear different images made by our students some of whom painted landscapes while others made paintings of deities, nature, rivers, etc. We are trying to procure orders for paintings that can be put on walls of rooms.” Kateseria said he found the idea of hand-painted invitation cards unique. “This move will also help to promote children of the economically weaker sections,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand plans 30,000 village-level clubs to promote sports||The sports department is working on plans to set up village-level clubs named after tribal freedom fighter duo Sidho-Kanho across the state to encourage talent at the grassroots levels. Announcing the initiative on Wednesday during the inaugural ceremony of the 11th Hockey India National Women's Sub-junior tournament in Simdega district, chief minister Hemant Soren said clubs would come up in about 30,000 villages and would be funded by the government to promote sports. “As a part of our mission to promote sports and players, our government has decided to form Sidho-Kanho clubs in about 30,000 villages in the state. Each club will be provided Rs 25,000,” he said, adding that sports and tourism are among the priority areas of his government. “We have made special provisions in our budget this year to develop these two sectors,” he added. Simdega, a remote and under-development district of the state is touted as the nursery of hockey, churning out numerous national and international level hockey players. But it is only now that the region is hosting a national-level tournament. Hemant also promised that Simdega would soon have a stadium with state-of-the-art facilities for players. “An Astroturf stadium which is coming up here on about 6.5 acre land will be one of the best. It is estimated to cost about Rs 18.5 crore. Besides hockey, we are also making provisions of volleyball and basketball courts. The stadium will also have a decent hostel facility,” he said, adding that the government was also seriously pursuing plans to set up a centre of excellence for hockey in Ranchi. Hemant said that in as many as four districts—Simdega, Gumla, Khunti and Ranchi—where hockey is more popular, the sports department was working to provide  Astroturf in government schools for a better playing experience for boys and girls. “In the first phase, we have identified 15 schools in these districts where this will be done,” he revealed. Sub-junior women's teams from 22 states are taking part in the Simdega tournament which will continue till March 18. On the first five days, the participating teams will play pool matches. The top eight teams will then battle for the title that will be decided on knockout basis. The quarter-finals  will be played on March 15 and 16 and the semis on March 16. The final will be held on March 18. Simdega will also host a junior national women’s championship from April 3-12. Welcoming all visitors, Hemant directed the district administration to make arrangements for guided sight-seeing tours to help the visitors explore  the tourism potential of Simdega. “The district is very beautiful and has several places to visit. I had a discussion with the deputy commissioner and told him to make arrangements for sight-seeing trips on off-days,”Hemant said amid a rousing applause from players.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||IMD issues Nor'wester alert over state ||IMD 's Ranchi Meteorological Centre issued a Nor'wester alert on Wednesday for isolated pockets of Jharkhand on March 12 and 13. Deputy director of the Ranchi Met centre Abhishek Anand said excessive heating of land coupled with moisture incursion into the atmosphere would trigger Nor'wester activity, aided by a cyclonic circulation extending upto 0.9 km above mean sea level. "We have issued an alert of thunderstorm, lightning and rain due to the impact of a Nor'wester in western and central parts of Jharkhand on Friday, March 12 and Saturday, March 13. Partly cloudy sky is expected to prevail for the next three to four days,"  he said . The Met office forecast indicated clear sky from Sunday, March 14. Met statistics revealed that the maximum reading has already touched 38 degree Celsius in Jamshedpur, Daltonganj and some pockets of north western Jharkhand. Most places across the state recorded readings that were four to five notches above normal. IMD has already predicted a harsh summer this year. Met statistics revealed a highest maximum temperature of 38.4°C at Jamshedpur and the lowest minimum temperature of 18.6°C at Bokaro. Wednesday's satellite pictures suggested a  trough extending upto 0.9km above mean sea level from Karnataka to northeast Madhya Pradesh across central Maharashtra and northern Marathawada. The trough will assist in rainfall activity in Jharkhand. Apart from that two fresh western disturbances in quick succession are likely to affect the western Himalayan region and adjoining plains of north west India from March 11 to March 13.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||'Spiderman' Subrata Paul comes to special athlete's aid||Subrata Paul, who did duty under the bar for Jamshedpur Football Club for three seasons in the Indian Super League, has come forward to help a fellow sportsman. The 33-year-old goalie, who hails from  Sodepur (Bengal), provided financial assistance to former special athlete Sanjeev Kumar Das for the medical treatment of his infant son. Paul was kind enough to chip in with Rs 5,000 after coming to know about the problems being faced by Das who represented India’s handball squad in the Special Olympics International World Summer Games in Dublin, in 2003, and later assisted Jharkhand’s special handball athletes who participated in the next edition of the Games held at Shanghai in 2007. The Indian special team won a bronze in that event. According to Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota, he informed Paul about the problems Das was facing for the treatment of his 8-month-old son. "Paul was kind enough to provide Rs 5,000 through one of his acquaintances. The money reached Paul last evening. Mohit, son of Das, was suffering from diarrhoea and was undergoing treatment at a nursing home in Bhalubasa locality of the city for the past three days,"he informed. Mohit was discharged from the nursing home Tuesday late evening. Sahota, who also provided Rs 4,000 to Das, knows Paul from the time he was a cadet of Tata Football Academy from 2002-04. Paul switched over to Hyderabad FC this season before heading for SC East Bengal for the remainder of the cash-rich ISL. Both Hyderabad and East Bengal failed to reach the play-offs. Das, who has been rendered jobless for some months now lives with his mother in the steel city. The bill for the treatment of his son amount to over Rs 5,000 but he was unable to arrange the required money till Paul came to know about it. The former special athlete was working for Sodexo Facilities Management Services at Baroda (Gujarat) but lost his job as the company shut down due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown last year. Before his job in Baroda, Das worked on a part-time basis for a few organisations in Surat, Bhavnagar and Ahmedabad but had to return to Jamshedpur three years ago due to some unrest in Gujarat. "Das was also forced to rush to New Delhi last year to be with his pregnant wife, where he faced a similar situation. Special Olympics Bharat (SOB) provided Rs 10,000 to Das on our request. He badly needs a job to keep himself and his family afloat. We are trying our best to find something for him," said Sahota, a former international cyclist. Das profusely thanked Paul for help.”I am very thankful to Paul Sir for the timely help. I could not have arranged money for the treatment of my son. I need employment to sustan myself and my family. I am also thankful to Sahota ji who personally visited the nursing home last evening,” he added. Das also thanked  former international athlete and Arjuna awardee Bagicha Singh who assisted with Rs 2,000. Singh retired from Tata Steel last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||Woman consumes poison after being branded a witch||A woman was rushed to the local hospital when she consumed poison on Tuesday, after being branded as a witch and beaten up mercilessly on Saturday at the Manatu village of Simaria block in Chatra on orders of a panchayat. The victim, working as a sahiya, was blamed by a group of locals for every other incident that took place in the village, following which five men beat her up despite pleading for mercy, she said. Villagers present at the scene remained mere spectators as she suffered, the woman alleged. Following this incident, the woman consumed poison under mental pressure on Tuesday night. She was rushed to a local hospital, while her family complained to the Simaria Police about the matter. The police have lodged FIR against seven persons and are conducting raids to nab the culprits, officer-in-charge Gobind Kumar said. However, some villagers alleged that the victim was making an issue out of a small incident of scolding, and denied that she was beaten up. “She was creating trouble for us due to her rough nature and so we scolded her, asking her to live peacefully in the village,” they said. The police said they are investigating the case from all angles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||Forest officials using satellite images to locate, douse fires||Foresters are using satellite images to locate forest fires and douse them before they can cause major damage to flora and fauna,  officials said on Wednesday, a day after two seven-member teams were constituted to monitor the Mahilong area of Angara block in Ranchi district. “Forest rangers have constituted teams at their level to locate and douse forest fires. We are also using satellite images to identify areas which are affected by forest fires,” said Ranchi district forest officer Ashok Dubey, adding that the special teams are sent to the locations as soon as the department gets an alert through satellite. Incidents of man-made forest fires have been on the rise this month in Ranchi district as it is the time for harvest of Mahua – a flower used for making country liquor. Villagers, officials said, often set forest areas on fire to collect Mahua, which falls off trees during this season and is unaffected by fire. Incidents of natural forest fires are rare in Jharkhand but man-made forest fires are posing to be a threat for the wildlife in the state, say forest officials. The special teams constituted for dousing forest fires are equipped with sand and water containers to reduce the heat in the bushes. Once the heat is reduced, they beat the bushes to put off the residual fire, forest officials said. The Ranchi DFO said reaction time is quite less for teams on duty as fire may engulf huge areas of plantations in a short period of time due to the presence of dry leaves and branches. “It is particularly challenging for us as the leaves and branches are mostly dry during this time of the year and catch fire easily,” said Dubey. Environmentalists believe that dried up rivers and water bodies in the jungles are also partly responsible for the rise in incidents of forest fires. Nitish Priyadarshi, an environmentalist who recently visited forest areas around Sita Fall and Jonha Fall in Ranchi, said that water bodies add moisture to the soil, therefore preventing the fire from spreading fast. “But most of the rivers and ponds have dried up, leaving the soil dry. It will get difficult to contain forest fire when there is no moisture in the soil,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||Passenger & goods trains to travel faster from now ||South Eastern Railway has raised sectional speed limits of trains in nine sections covering a length of around 435km in an attempt to ensure faster movement of  passenger and freight trains. According to sources at Garden Reach, the Calcutta-based headquarters of South Eastern Railway, in Tatanagar-Kharagpur and Kharagpur-Andul sections, speed of all passenger and goods trains has been raised from 110 kmph to 130 kmph, and in Rupsa-Baripada section speed has been raised from 70 kmph to 100 kmph. In Banspani-Jaroli and Barajamda-Gua sections under Chakradharpur division of SER, the speed limit of trains has been increased from 50 kmph to 65 kmph. Speed has been also enhanced in Bimalgarh-Barsuan, Baripada-Bhanjpur, Hijli-Nimpura and Muri-Hatia sections. Moreover, data available from SER headquarters suggest that during the 2020-21 financial year there has been an improvement of 91 per cent  in average speed of freight trains in comparison to the previous year. SER chief public relations officer Sanjay Ghosh said, "The increased speed limit of trains was implemented from Tuesday in all the nine sections after successful trials." He added that all the nine sections underwent massive track and signal strengthening work during the last two years which helped implement the decision. " Increasing the speed limit of trains will also help improving punctuality of both passenger and goods trains in the zone, " he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||3 ex-CMs of Jharkhand to campaign for BJP in Bengal ||Three former former chief ministers of Jharkhand, Babulal Marandi, Arjun Munda and Raghubar Das, were among the 40 star campaigners named on Wednesday by the BJP ahead of the first phase of Assembly elections in Bengal on March 27. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the biggest star campaigner of the party, had kicked off the saffron camp’s high-pitched electioneering with his rally at Calcutta's iconic Brigade Parade Ground on March 7, the party will leave no stone unturned to launch a battery of other leaders in its endeavour to unseat the Mamata Banerjee- led Trinamool Congress from power. For Jharkhand BJP, the three former CMs are their biggest faces with rich political acumen for canvassing, said officials in the state unit. Of the three, Munda is currently a minister in the Modi cabinet while Das, after losing power in the state in 2019, is now a national vice president of the party. On the other hand, Marandi, who returned to the BJP fold in February 2020, is the state unit’s legislative party leader. A senior BJP leader in Ranchi said all three will have a key role to play in Bengal polls. “Large parts of Jharkhand are connected with Bengal by virtue of it being our immediate neighbour. People living on the border areas also have identical lifestyles, culture and customs. In that respect, they will have an important role to play to connect with voters,” he said. “The areas of Junglemahal that are going to polls in the first two phases have many tribal dominated pockets where Jharkhand’s two biggest tribal faces—Munda and Marandi _ will come in handy. Das on the other hand will focus on OBC voters,” added another state leader. BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo maintained that all three ex-CMs had already undertaken several tours of Bengal for meetings and rallies in the recent weeks. “With polls nearing, they will intensify their campaigning and public connect programmes as tasked by the party high command,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS junior doctors end strike after talks with director||Junior resident doctors of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) called off their strike on Wednesday following a closed-door-meeting with the Director Dr Kameshwar Prasad, but their counterparts in the remaining five medical colleges of Jharkhand continued with their strike to demand payment of pending salary dues as per the Seventh Pay Commission. The junior doctors also met health secretary K.K. Soan on Wednesday at Nepal House. “The junior doctors at RIMS have been pressured to end their protest. But the senior residents of all the six medical colleges and junior residents of the remaining five medical colleges will continue with the strike until we get a concrete assurance from the government,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, convener of Jharkhand Resident Doctors Association. Representatives of senior resident doctors in Jharkhand are likely to meet health minister Banna Gupta on Thursday, sources said, in the hope that statewide protest would end after adequate assurances from the state government. Earlier, hundreds of patients were denied OPD services at the six medical colleges across Jharkhand for the second consecutive day on Wednesday, leading to panic and chaos at some of the leading healthcare facilities in the state as resident doctors continued to boycott OPDs as a part of their indefinite strike against delay in payment of arrears as per the Seventh Pay Commission. The OPDs remained closed through the day in all six medical colleges – Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial College Hospital (MGM) in Jamshedpur, SNMMCH in Dhanbad, Palamu Medical College, Hazaribagh Medical College and Dumka Medical College. Only patients in need of immediate medical attention were treated at the emergency ward in RIMS, while those with minor ailments were asked to wait. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) extended its support to the protesting doctors and addressed a letter to chief minister Hemant Soren seeking payment of arrears to the resident doctors at the earliest. The letter, addressed by Jharkhand IMA chief Dr Arun Kumar Singh, stated that the government should take necessary steps to pay the arrears of the protesting doctors as soon as possible. Such protests created a bad image of the state nationally, it said. “As a result of such protests, doctors from other parts of the country do not show intent to work in Jharkhand, and those working here end up leaving the state. If doctors develop a negative idea of Jharkhand, then it will eventually affect the functioning of the six medical colleges in the state,” the letter, a copy of which is with The Telegraph Online, stated. The protesting doctors have alleged that they were not paid salary as per the Seventh Pay Commission since 2016 to March 2019. There are more than 500 resident doctors in Jharkhand. On an average, each doctor is entitled to payment of arrears worth several lakhs, they clamed. The doctors’ strike also rocked the state Assembly on Wednesday. The Opposition staged a demonstration outside the Assembly demanding payment of arrears to the resident doctors and strengthening of health facilities in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over 50,000 senior citizens vaccinated in the state so far||The count of senior citizens vaccinated against the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand crossed the 50,000 mark on Tuesday, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per a report shared by the NHM on Tuesday evening, as many as 6626 senior citizens were vaccinated on the day, taking the total count of senior citizens vaccinated in the state so far to 50,413. Among Jharkhand districts, Ranchi has vaccinated most number of senior citizens in the state, while Chatra has vaccinated the least. As per NHM data, as many as 7,214 senior citizens have been inoculated in Ranchi in the past nine days, while only 316 got the jab in Chatra. As many as 2,468 senior citizens were inoculated in East Singhbhum, 2,960 in Dhanbad and 5,442 in Bokaro, highlights data compiled by the NHM. Despite initial hiccups in the second phase of the immunization programme, mostly caused by apprehensions related to side effects of the vaccination, the drive has picked up pace lately with more senior citizens voluntarily turning up at healthcare facilities to get inoculated, doctors spearheading the vaccination programme said. Very few cases of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) have been reported among the senior citizens despite most of them suffering from severe comorbid conditions and other health complications, doctors said. So far, the state has administered the first dose of the vaccine to 3,75,924 beneficiaries, and 57,007 of them were commoners. While senior citizens have turned up at vaccination centres and got the jab in healthy numbers, middle-agers with comorbid conditions have not been so keen on getting vaccinated, reveal government figures. Only 6,594 middle-agers with comorbid conditions have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand so far – about 13 per cent of the total number of senior citizens vaccinated in the state so far. As per government data, the first dose of the vaccine was administered to 2588 healthcare and frontline workers on Tuesday, while the second dose was administered to 13162 healthcare and frontline workers. The state achieved only 8 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of vaccine to healthcare and frontline workers and 27 per cent of its target for the second dose. So far, Jharkhand has achieved 83 per cent of its vaccination target. Meanwhile, as many as 62 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Tuesday, while 40 patients recovered, a separate bulletin by the NHM stated. Ranchi reported 31 cases and 19 recoveries on the day. As per NHM data, the count of active cases of Covid-19 infection jumped to 494 on the day. So far, more than 1.20 lakh people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||NHRC notice over denial of pension in Jharkhand||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Monday issued notice to chief secretary Jharkhand, Sukhdeo Singh, and secretary ministry of social justice and empowerment R. Subrahmanyam taking suo motu cognisance of media report of delay and denial of pension and diversion of funds meant for senior citizens, widows and specially abled. The commission has given six weeks to both to submit a detailed report in the matter. Significantly, The Telegraph had highlighted the issue in its edition on January 31, 2021 titled “Jharkhand pension void”. The notice of the commission issued by three members of NHRC comprising Justice P.C. Pant, Jyotika Kalra and Dnyaneshwar Manohar Mulay has observed that it appears the funds became a bone of contention between the Union government and the Jharkhand government for a considerable period resulting in denial or delayed payment of financial assistance under various schemes, including the old age pension and Covid relief payments under the Pradhan Mantri Gharib Kalyan Yojana  (PMGKY) in Jharkhand. The notice states that as per reports, the denial and delayed payment took place since July 2020, amid Covid pandemic, which disrupted the livelihood of lakhs of people across the country, the Jharkhand government stopped distribution of pensions to nearly 10 lakh eligible widows, senior citizens and the specially abled citizen across the State. “The contents of it (media reports), if true, raise a serious issue of human rights violation,” the commission notice observes and expressed concern how the money received from the Centre under one head was reportedly utilised for another head, resulting thereby in denial of basic need for survival of the poor people. It has also expressed concern over a reported huge gap between the beneficiaries on the roll and those actually getting the pension under various categories. The notice informed that the media report highlighted the case study of 62-year old small farmer, with a meagre income, who had to borrow more than Rs 10,000 from the relatives to pay his hospital bills when his leg was fractured in Ukamar village in Latehar district in July, 2020. But for five months after his fracture, he did not receive any pension money of Rs 1,000 per month, as per his entitlement under a central government scheme for senior citizens. “The media report has claimed that this is not just one case of non-payment of financial assistance to the needy as per the Government scheme. Reportedly, the direct transfer of Rs 1,000 in two instalments to the three crore senior citizens, widows and people with disability in the country, had to be paid in addition to their regular pension. But, as reportedly claimed by an official, due to non-receipt of this budgetary allocation for the Covid-19 scheme from the centre until the end of the year, the state government was forced to use its existing pension funds for the Covid relief payments,” the notice states. Reportedly, all the eligible persons are not being paid the pension despite protest by the people for long. There is a huge gap of about 64 per cent between the beneficiaries on the rolls and the ones who are actually getting the pension under different categories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-118
10-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand woman hacked after witch slur||A 45-year-old woman’s body, chopped into six pieces, was found buried on the banks of a river in Pakur district of Jharkhand, some 330km north-east of state’s capital Ranchi, on Monday afternoon. The body of Sona Marandi, a resident of Bhattikunder village, has been identified by her son Manoj Hansda. According to a report, the body of the woman has been cut into six pieces, two legs, two hands, torso and head and buried in the Bansloi river stretch near the Pachuwada Ranga tola of Pakur district. Villagers first noticed two legs of the woman on Saturday evening near the river and informed the local police on Sunday morning. The police reached the spot and started searching in the nearby vicinity of the river for other parts of the body, but could not get any breakthrough. On Monday late afternoon, while digging they found other parts of the body and sent them for post mortem at Pakur Sadar Hospital. Pakur SP, Manilal Mandal confirmed that the son of the deceased woman, Manoj Hansda has alleged that few persons had threatened her mother of dire consequences for practicing witchcraft and a case has been lodged against the named eight persons on Tuesday morning. More than 1,500 people have been killed in Jharkhand on the pretext of practising black magic, a majority of them women, ever since the new state came into being in 2000. Sona was missing since February 24 and after failing to trace her, his son had lodged a missing case on March 3. “They had threatened the woman for practicing witchcraft and on complaint of the son we have registered a case against eight persons of the same village all of whom are absconding. We are trying to trace and arrest them and only then we will know the exact motive behind branding her as a witch by the culprits,” Mandal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-118
