11-03-2021||Jharkhand||Sanitation workers of MGM hospital go on indefinite strike||All the 60 sanitation workers of the MGM Medical College Hospital on Thursday went on an indefinite strike protesting against the non-payment of regular salary as well as their yearly bonus. The workers were engaged on contract basis by a Ranchi-based outsourced agency, Shiva Protection Force. The protesters, who used to carry out their shifts from 6 am till 10 pm, did not turn up for their duty on Thursday, leaving the wards to remain in unhygienic conditions. Floors of the emergency ward were filled with medical waste and filth as a result. One of the workers Ravi Namta said that most of them hail from poor families and face difficulties when salaries are not paid to them. “We have not been paid last months’ salary till now. The contract agency's management maintains that they will pay the salary after their bill is passed by the hospital authority," said Namta while talking to this correspondent. MGM Medical College Hospital superintendent Sanjay Kumar said they were trying to resolve the issue. Significantly, about 100 nurses who are also on contract by the same agency have given an ultimatum to go on strike from Friday over the same issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
11-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Congress, BJP leaders spar over upcoming water scheme ||Former Dhanbad mayor and BJP state executive committee member, Chandrashekhar Agarwal on Thursday hit out at Congress leader Purnima Singh for performing Bhoomi Pujan of a water supply scheme last Sunday. Agarwal said that the laying of the foundation stone for the water supply scheme worth Rs 311 crore, meant for ensuring river Damodar water supply to more than 1 lakh households of Jharia, was already done by former chief minister Raghubar Das in 2019, when the BJP was in power in Jharkhand. The spar between the Congress and the BJP continues at a time when the scheme itself is yet to be initiated. Agarwal accused the JMM-Congress coalition government of causing unnecessary delay in implementation of the scheme, which is supposed to be completed in October this year. He said only one per cent of work has been done so far. Addressing a press conference, Agarwal said that the entire roadmap of the project was introduced by the erstwhile BJP government, but the new government derailed it first and now was taking credit for it. “The present government, soon after coming to power, tried to change the agency for  implementing the scheme from JMADA to Jharkhand Urban Infrastructure Development Company (JUIDCO) thereby causing the delay of more than an year,” he said. District Congress president  Brajendra Prasad Singh on wednesday had accused the BJP government of preparing the scheme in undue haste and laying the foundation stone in a hurry. Reacting to this, Agarwal said, “With due respect to Brajendra Prasad Singh, I would like to inform him that he has been provided wrong information about the scheme. It has been prepared after three rigorous surveys and studies.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
11-03-2021||Jharkhand||AIIMS-Deoghar sets up OPD at a local health centre in temple town||All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Deoghar has set up an out patient department (OPD) at a community health centre of the temple town to initially offer free medical consultations twice a week, officials of the district administration said. The OPD was inaugurated by Deoghar deputy commisioner Manjunath Bhajantri and AIIMS-Deoghar’s incumbent director Saurabh Varshney earlier this week (Tuesday) at Devipur community health centre (CHC).  “The OPD will initially function twice a week—Mondays and Fridays,” the deputy commissioner said in a statement issued by the district administration. The OPD will function from 10am to 2pm, a considerable boost to the district in its efforts to improve health services. The temple town Deoghar, which is home to renowned Babadham temple, is short of adequate healthcare facilities to cater to its vast population. As per district health department records, for a population of about 18 lakh, the district now has eight community health centres (CHCs), five primary health centre (PHCs), and 300 sub health centres, besides one sadar (district) hospital. “We are short of 10 CHCs compared to the population, but we are extending sub-health centres to fill the gap,” said an official, unwilling to be named, adding that the district currently has close to about 50 doctors on government rolls, which is also short by about half the total requirement. “In that respect, the start of OPD services by AIIMS, will be a boon for us,” he remarked. Bhajantri said that the AIIMS management was also working out plans on priority to start a permanent OPD at its upcoming campus in Devipur after which one can expect specialists from Delhi and other AIIMS centres to be available for consultations. AIIMS-Deoghar is currently operating from the Panchayat Training Institute in Deoghar. Work on a permanent campus is underway. Bhajantri said the permanent campus was expected to be ready by next year. In the 2017-18 Union budget, the Centre announced an AIIMS in Jharkhand. Later, the state government identified a 236.92-acre plot in Deoghar to set up the hospital. In May 2018, the Union cabinet approved funds to the tune of about Rs 1,000 crore for the project after which Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone. AIIMS-Deoghar began inducting MBBS students since 2019. It admitted 50 students in the first batch and increased it to 62 last year. This year’s admissions are yet to get over.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
11-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand chess veteran is new secretary of Players Forum ||In a huge boost for the chess fraternity of Jharkhand, International Master (IM) Neeraj Kumar Mishra has been elected as the secretary of Chess Players Forum (CPF). The Jamshedpur-based Mishra was elected at the first managing committee meeting of the freshly elected members of the CPF on Wednesday. IM Varugeese Koshy and Women Grandmaster Swati Ghate will continue as president and treasurer respectively of the Forum. Koshy is a retired employee of Tata Steel and has spent several years in Jamshedpur. He is presently located in Chennai. The CPF also elected Grandmaster Dibyendu Barua to continue as vice-present and Venkatachalam Saravanan as joint secretary. The managing committee has a term of three years, The Chess Players Forum was founded to lend a voice to the chess players of India for their own welfare, rights and duties. It is a democratic and transparent organisation to empower the players to shape their own destinies and make the game grow. The Forum aims to act as an intermediary between the chess players and the governing bodies of the game as well as the government of India. It also aims to make the authorities aware of various issues involving chess players. Mishra, who runs chess training centres in Jamshedpur and Ranchi, said he was happy to be elected as secretary of the CPF and would try to do his best to co-oordinate with other members for the welfare of players. "Well, I am glad to be elected. I'll try my best to raise the issue involving welfare of the chess players," Mishra, who also happens to be secretary of All Jharkhand Chess Association (AJCA), added. He is also a former coach of the Calcutta-based Debyundu Barua Chess Academy. The highly experienced mentor, who took ESS from Tata Steel, is presently conducting chess training online. He has an impressive number of trainees at his disposal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
11-03-2021||Jharkhand||OPD services resume after govt promises to pay doctors' arrears ||OPD services resumed in all six medical colleges of Jharkhand on Thursday after state health minister Banna Gupta met a delegation of protesting senior resident doctors at his residence in Ranchi and assured it that the government would pay arrears of the Seventh Pay Commission in installments, the first of which would be disbursed by March-end. “The strike in all medical colleges have been officially called off after the meeting with the health minister today. The government has admitted that our demands were legitimate and assured us that our arrears would be paid in installments,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, convener of the Jharkhand Resident Doctors Association (JRDA). Around 800 junior and senior resident doctors across Jharkhand had boycotted OPD in all the medical colleges in the state as a mark of protest against the delay by the government in payment of their arrears due since 2016. Several patients were denied OPD services during the strike that started on March 9. There are around 400 senior resident doctors in Jharkhand with arrears worth Rs 50,000 to Rs 3 lakh depending on their service period since the implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission, members of the JRDA said. Gupta, who chaired the meeting on Thursday, said that the government was indebted to the doctors for their services during the Covid-19 pandemic and did not wish to see them unhappy. “We wish to see our doctors wear a smile on their faces when they are on duty. The government is committed to fulfill all their legitimate demands,” said the minister. A member of the JRDA said that chief minister Hemant Soren himself had asked the chief secretary, health secretary and finance secretary to look into the matter and address the issue. Many protesting doctors were adamant to get at least 50 per cent of their arrears paid in the first installment, but eventually agreed to accept whatever the government offered considering the poor condition of the state coffers, sources present at the meeting said. The meeting was also attended by representatives of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), which had on Wednesday written to the CM seeking his intervention. The junior resident doctors of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi had called off their strike on Wednesday evening after a meeting with state health secretary K.K. Soan. However, the senior resident doctors continued with their protest until they got direct assurances from the health minister himself on Thursday. OPD services in the six medical colleges – RIMS, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial College Hospital in Jamshedpur, SNMMCH in Dhanbad, Palamu Medical College, Hazaribag Medical College and Dumka Medical College – are run by the resident doctors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
11-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant joins Shivaratri festivities ||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
11-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand researcher publishes unique book on fishes||In a unique step to help students and researchers, Vandana Srivastava, a Ph.D holder on systematic survey of different kinds of fishes in and around the state, has written a book on the fish fauna of the region -- the first of its type in the state. The book, titled Fish Fauna of North Chotanagpur Region, Jharkhand (Rs. 610), was released by Vice Chancellor of Vinoba Bhave University, Mukul Narayan Deo, who termed her work as ‘unique’. With no other document or research present in Jharkhand on the topic, Srivastava said her book can be used by students of any university and now she is sending a copy to several institutions. According to her, when she was completing her postgraduate course in Zoology, there was a huge part in the syllabus that focused on fishes but only one rare book was available to her and her batchmates. “The problem I had faced with 150 other students of my batch at that time inspired me to write a book on this subject. For 20 years, I kept researching on the fish fauna of seven districts under the North Chhotanagpur commissionerate, before coming up with my book,” the block program officer of Jharkhand Education Project told The Telegraph Online. The book contains all basic fundamental accounts of fishes of Jharkhand including their 57 species found in Hazaribagh, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Ramgarh, Giridih and Chatra. It also has detailed accounts of every fish fauna including their scientific name, identification, life cycle, systematic position and economic importance, which are part of the syllabi running in Ichthyology, fish and fisheries at PG level under different universities. This book also includes content regarding various scopes of employment in the field of fish and fisheries so that students and researchers can go about with their careers. Srivastava said that she has also included various government schemes and policies to further help the readers. Recently, the department of fisheries sent details of fishes found in Jharkhand and officials took my help. Even the director of the state department talked to me and asked to include five more species in this book which will then cover the details of all the fishes found in the state,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
11-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant calls for probe into  attack on Mamata ||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren expressed concern  and demanded a high-level investigation into  the purported attack on his Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee, who is currently hospitalised after sustaining multiple injuries, in Nandigram on Wednesday. Hemant tweeted, “Concerned & disturbed to know about the foot injury & hospitalisation of @MamataOfficial Didi during her election campaign in Nandigram. A high level investigation should be conducted to identify those behind this incident & punished. I wish her a speedy and healthy recovery.” An MRI done Wednesday night, revealed a crack on her left foot, and ligament and soft tissue injuries, as per  media reports. Mamata has alleged that a group of people slammed the door of an SUV on her while she was standing on its footboard  to greet people after visiting a local temple, hours after filing her nomination. Hemant is working president of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), which heads  coalition government along with Congress and RJD in Jharkhand. After an emphatic win in the 2019 assembly elections in the state and unseating BJP government, JMM too was looking at contesting  Bengal elections to expand its political footprints. However, in a sudden turn of events following a call from Mamata Banerjee last week seeking his support in her favour, JMM is now believed to be supporting Didi’s Trinamool Congress. Even though JMM is still to make an official announcement of its decision not to join the hustings in Bengal, party sources claimed that by not fielding any candidate in the first phase of elections that are scheduled on March 27, the JMM had indicated it's mind. Of the 30 seats that will go to polls on March 27, about half a dozen are seats reserved for scheduled tribe (ST), which the JMM was eyeing to put up candidates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
11-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over one lakh residents complete two-dose vaccination course||The count of Jharkhand residents who received both the jabs of Covishield vaccine crossed the 1 lakh mark on Wednesday as the state administered the second dose of the vaccine to 14,840 people on the day, taking the total count of those beneficiaries who have completed the double-dose-course of the vaccine in the state to 1,06,385, data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per NHM data, the state has administered the first dose of the vaccine to 3,92,027 people and over 1 lakh of them have got the second dose. The state has so far achieved 83 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine to registered healthcare and frontline workers. Around 74 per cent of the over 1.4 lakh beneficiaries registered for the second dose of the vaccine have got the jab. As many as 10,544 senior citizens and 2048 middle-agers with comorbid conditions were administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand on Wednesday. As many as 1707 senior citizens were vaccinated in Ranchi, while 1830 senior citizens got the jab in Giridih. Over 700 senior citizens were administered the first jab of the vaccine in East Singhbhum on the day. As per government data, as many as 61,507 senior citizens have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand since the launch of the second phase of the immunisation programme on March 1. At least 8341 residents, above the age of 45 years and suffering from comorbid conditions, have been vaccinated. Senior citizens in Ranchi were most prompt in getting the first jab of the vaccine in Jharkhand. Of the over 61,000 senior citizens vaccinated so far, at least 9,099 were Ranchi residents. As many as 6265 senior citizens got the first jab of the vaccine in Bokaro, while East Singhbhum only managed to vaccinate over 3000 senior citizens. Meanwhile, the number of active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand crossed the 500 mark on Wednesday, as the state reported 62 Covid cases against only 36 recoveries, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. Active cases of infection also crossed the 300 mark in Ranchi as the district alone accounted for 35 cases and 23 recoveries. As per the NHM bulletin, as many as 305 people were battling the viral infection in Jharkhand by Wednesday evening. As per government data, the over 1.2 lakh people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. At the current rate, it would take over 1900 days for the cases to double in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
11-03-2021||Jharkhand||All Jharkhand Students Union to try its luck in Bengal polls||All Jharkhand Students Union (Ajsu) is the only Jharkhand-based political party that has entered the Bengal poll fray so far with its candidate filing nomination for the Baghmundi Assembly seat in Purulia district. “Ashutosh Mahato, who filed his nomination papers yesterday (Tuesday), is our candidate there,” Ajsu spokesperson Deosharan Bhagat said here, adding that the BJP left the seat to Ajsu, its NDA partner. Ajsu is likely to be the only political party from Jharkhand to try its luck in Bengal polls as the JMM did not field its candidates for the first phase of elections when most of the Jungle Mahal seats with formidable tribal concentration will go to polls. The JMM was earlier eyeing seats in Jungle Mahal, including seven reserved for the Scheduled Tribes, spread over the districts of Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram and West Midnapur, claiming that the party had considerable influence over the tribal voters there. “We’ll soon issue a statement clarifying our position,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said when asked if they had pulled out of Bengal polls. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, when asked about the JMM fielding candidates in Bengal, told reporters in New Delhi on Sunday that Mamata Banerjee had called him to seek his support, indicating that his party was likely to pull out to consolidate anti-BJP votes. “This is for the first time we are contesting this way,” Ajsu spokesperson Bhagat said about their contesting from the Baghmundi seat as an NDA constituent. The party had unsuccessfully contested from the seat earlier and its performance was very poor. Though Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato of the BJP, in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, won the Purulia seat of which Baghmundi is a segment, the party’s candidate did not do well in Baghmundi in the 2016 Assembly polls. Congress’s Nepal Mahato has been winning the seat since 2001 when it was known as Jhalda Assembly constituency and the TMC candidate finished second in 2016. Besides, a section of BJP supporters did not like the fact that the party left the seat to Ajsu and two local leaders filed nomination papers as Independent candidates in protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
11-03-2021||Jharkhand||Rescued camel care in Jharkhand hits cash hurdle||Paucity of funds is impeding efforts to send camels rescued from smugglers back to Rajasthan at a time 10 of them have succumbed to injuries and old age within a span of two months in Jharkhand’s Pakur district. A total of 29 camels were seized from smugglers in two crackdowns earlier this year. Forest department officials seized 14 camels on January 11 and another 15 on February 3 while the animals were being crammed inside trucks to be smuggled to Bangladesh through Pakur. Both the seizures were done at the Gokulpur checkpost in Pakur. “We had arrested several persons and slapped cases under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. They were interstate gang members who had brought the camels from Rajasthan and were taking them through different states of northern India and through Pakur to Malda in Bengal so that they could be smuggled to Bangladesh for meat. Several of the rescued camels that were old and had some ailment died. A meeting of the district animal welfare committee has decided to hand over the surviving camels to an NGO in Rajasthan that looks after such rescued animals. But there will be a huge cost incurred on the transportation of the camels. We are waiting for funds,” said Pakur divisional forest officer Rajnish Kumar. Pakur deputy commissioner Kuldeep Choudhary said they had written to the animal husbandry department for grant of funds to transport the animals back to Rajasthan. “We had entrusted the district animal husbandry unit to look after the camels and ensure that they were vaccinated and quarantined for the requisite period. Their quarantine period is over and we are planning to shift them after completing all the required processes,” Choudhary added. However, sources in the forest department said it would cost not less than Rs 10 lakh to ferry all the 19 surviving camels back to Rajasthan. “They would have to be given proper space in a big truck and would have to be ferried with proper medicines and food items along with an escort of police team and the animal husbandry unit while being taken to Rajasthan. It would cost nearly Rs 10 lakh. We do not have that much fund and are waiting for government allocation. This is delaying the transport of the animals even though their quarantine period was over on February 26,” said a senior forest official preferring anonymity. The forest official said camels needed specialised health care, which was not available in Pakur. “We have to manage with a visiting veterinary doctor. But they require a specialised care, which is available in Rajasthan,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
