12-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad residents suffer from garbage management problems||Even after almost two years of the launch of the door-to-door garbage collection campaign, the recycling plant of the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation is yet to be established. As a result of this, garbage collected from houses has been lying all over the district. The civic body is also yet to carry out segregation of dry and wet waste, while majority of the houses in 55 wards have not received garbage bins as promised under the integrated solid waste management programme of the DMC. The project, worth Rs 274 crore, was launched by the DMC on June 27, 2019, in association with Hyderabad-based agency Ramky Enviro Engineers. “The town lacks sufficient primary garbage transfer stations. Consequently, garbage compactors stations situated in densely populated areas generate foul smell posing the risk of outbreaks of epidemics,” Bartand Chamber of Commerce Kumar Madhurendra Singh complained. “We can’t sleep during the night due to the humming sounds of the number of mosquitoes as well as the foul smell coming out of the unattended garbage,” he added. Prem Bachhan Das, a resident of Jharia alleged that all the garbage is dumped in the open by the authorities. The DMC has identified 17 acres of land of the Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority in the Aamjhar area of Baliapur block for lease to establish the plant. However, the JMADA has not yet given its consent to the civic body. “The soil testing work for the land identified at Aamjhar is being conducted by the concessionaire for the solid waste management project, Ramky Enviro Engineers. After the completion of work we will approach the district administration for the transfer of the land,” Anand Raj, City Manager (Sanitation) of the DMC, said. Sources in Ramky Enviro Engineers however confirmed that they have not been given any intimation with regard to soil testing work at Aamjhar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
12-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant flags off state edition of ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’||Chief minister Hemant Soren joined around 100 other young cyclists to pedal through a short stretch of street in Kanke road on Friday to mark the start of the state-leg of ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’ on Friday. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi formally inaugurated the mega campaign nationally by flagging off a ‘Padyatra’ from Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad to Dandi in Gujarat to mark 75 years of India’s Independence. The Mahotsav, which began 75 weeks prior to this year’s Independence Day will witness a series of events across the country till August 15, 2023. Jharkhand, too, will be holding an array of activities encompassing different sectors including  sports, art and culture, elocution and seminars in memory of freedom fighters and to relive India’s journey towards independence, said officials in the state government. While flagging off the cycle rally from his official residence in Kanke Road, which was organised by the state sports department, Hemant appealed to young people to play a constructive role towards nation-building. Participants at the rally included representatives from NSS, colleges, sports associations among others. The rally began from the CM’s house and traversed through Morabadi, and Bariatu road to culminate at Audrey House, covering a distance of about three kilometers. Besides Hemant, chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, sports secretary Pooja Singhal and other senior bureaucrats were present during the flag-off ceremony. “I am glad to be part of the 75 years celebration of our country’s Independence. The country that we live in today is a gift given to us by scores of freedom fighters who sacrificed their lives for their future generations. We shall always remain indebted to the legendary nation builders such as Mahatma Gandhi, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Bhagat Singh, Lal Bahadur Shastri, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, father of constitution—Dr Bheemrao Ambedkar and the likes,” Hemant said. “Sons of this soil too like Bhagwan Birsa Munda, Sidho-Kanho, Veer Budhu Bhagat played a huge role in the freedom movement. I bow down to them and appeal to the younger generations to seek inspiration from them to contribute towards nation building,” he added. On the occasion, the state art and culture department also held a painting competition for school children at Audrey House and began a photo exhibition themed on Jharkhand’s freedom fighters. An official of the state art and culture department at Audrey House said that they are planning more activities in the coming months. “Today’s events were just the start of nearly a year-long celebration. We are drawing up different plans for celebrations across all the districts,” he said. Meanwhile, governor Droupadi Murmu too visited Khunti’s Town Hall to inaugurate a five-day photo exhibition centered around the freedom movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
12-03-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI to host first debate on sustainability on Sunday||XLRI in association with PEACE -- a student group responsible for promoting sustainable and environmental conservation practices -- is set to host the first sustainability and ethics themed debate, Fr. McGrath Memorial Debate, on Sunday virtually. The debate has been named after Fr. Edward Hugh  McGrath, one of the founding fathers of XLRI, who passed away in the year 2017. The theme for the competition, an initiative of the batch of 1985-87, is ‘Be a responsible leader for a greater good’. The debate will provide a platform to future leaders to showcase awareness and leadership prowess to the masters-of-business across industries. It will also  provide an opportunity to learn from industry leading CXOs ( chief experience officers ) and imbibe the greatness of sustainable leadership. With the best talent picked from across 14 colleges across the country, the top 16 teams would be seen competing in the semi-finals round. From this pool, four winning teams would compete in the final adjudicated by industry stalwarts and previous debaters from XLRI batch of 1985-87  and professors in the field of business ethics and sustainability. C K Venkataraman, managing director of  Titan Limited will grace the event as the keynote speaker, who will address young leaders, highlighting the importance of responsible leadership in business. Venkataraman, a postgraduate diploma holder in management from IIM-Ahmedabad, joined Titan Company Limited in 1990. After multiple stints, he took charge of the jewellery division in 2005 and held the position of Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Jewellery till September 30, 2019. Subsequently, he assumed office as managing director of the company from October 1, 2019. "In the light of short-term orientation and intense competition, ethics and sustainability often take a backseat. In order to expose young leaders and youth to ethics and sustainability aspects of the business, XLRI is organising the debate, " said a member of PEACE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
12-03-2021||Jharkhand||IIM Ranchi announces successful completion of summer placements||Uncertainties posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and staggering economy notwithstanding, the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Ranchi announced on Friday the successful completion of its summer placement process for the batch of 2020-22. The batch comprises 329 students with 256 and 73 in MBA and MBA-HR programmes respectively. As many as 134 companies including 93 first time recruiters participated in the summer placements. “All the students have secured summer-internship assignments through campus recruitment programme except two, who had secured off-campus internship offers and chose to opt-out from the programme,” IIM said in a statement. The average stipend for the MBA batch saw an increment of approximately 02 per cent over the previous year and stands at Rs 97,502. The average stipend for the MBA-HR batch is Rs 1,00,694, which is also higher than the last year, said IIM. Internships cover the functional areas of sales and marketing, finance, operations and general management, IT and analytics, strategy and consulting, and human resource management. “Of these, the students of MBA have been offered diverse roles in business development and strategy, campaign management, equity research, corporate finance, supply chain management, operations analytics, strategic sourcing, product analyst and business analyst, among many others,” IIM said. “For the MBA-HR batch, internships are in the domains of industrial relations, HR consultancy, HR analytics, talent acquisition, and HR generalist,” it added. Recruiters including Aditya Birla Capital, Asian Paints, Britannia, Capgemini, Cognizant, Cummins, DE Shaw, Deloitte, Emami Agrotech, Flipkart, Google, ICICI Bank, JP Morgan & Chase, L&T, Latent View Analytics, ICICI Lombard, Samsung, SIDBI, Tata Steel, Titan, Ultra Tech, Volvo, Wipro CCL, Yes Bank among others participated in the programme. Of the total recruiters, 93 were first-timers some of which included Aviva India, BPCL, Cisco, IMF Sureti, Jio Saavn, Pahal Financial Services, etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
12-03-2021||Jharkhand||Five steel city children scale Kedarkantha summit in Uttarakhand ||Five young adventure enthusiasts from the steel city have conquered the famous Kedarkantha of Uttarakhand in an expedition from March 1 to 5. These children, along with the trekking team from the city, displayed great climbing skills while stamping their authority and scaled the peak of 12,500 ft high. The team included Yashika Agarwal, Navya Budhia, Jaywardhan Agarwal, Suchita Agarwal and Nitya Budhia braved the chill and the difficult terrain. Kedarkantha is a mountain peak of the Himalayas in Uttarakhand. Kedarkantha is located within Govind Wildlife Sanctuary in the Uttarkashi district. The climb to the peak of Kedarkantha starts from a small village called Sankri. Kedarkantha is famous for being a winter trek. The expedition was conducted in chilly conditions. Waking up in the wee hours, putting on the head torches before proceeding to the mountains proved to be a heady engagement but the kids negotiated the bends and slippery uphill journey with strength and finally made it to the summit. Kedarkantha trek difficulty level is easy to moderate, with gradual ascends and descends. Only the uphill climb from the base camp can be a little strenuous. Needless to say, all the children were greenhorns when it came to climbing mountains. "It was a difficult trek but the children enjoyed the thrill to the fullest. It was an unforgettable trip for them," said Rakesh Kumar, a member of the expedition team, adding that the children have surely become confident of participating in more expeditions. According to him, it was a learning experience for children in challenging conditions. Another member of the expedition team said that the children showed great determination when it came to reaching the top. "We were worried at the beginning of the expedition but were gradually relieved to see them progressing well. It was a challenging climb which taught the children a lot," he added. Expeditions are usually organised by Tata Steel Adventure Foundation but there are other groups that also arrange treks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
12-03-2021||Jharkhand||Commentary stint for Akashvani's senior announcer ||Akashvani Jamshedpur senior announcer Shahid Anwar will be on duty as a Hindi commentator during the third T20I match between India and England,  which is scheduled at Narendra Modi Stadium in Ahmedabad on March 16. Anwar, who is working with Akashvani for several years now, has prior experience withf sports commentary.  Besides commentating in two matches of the 2019 cricket World Cup, he also did commentory during the Ranji Trophy final between Bengal and Saurashtra held in Rajkot in March last year. "I have a fair bit of experience as a sports commentator. I have done duty in the same capacity in 20 international events involving India. I am excited and looking forward to yet another opportunity in the T20I tie in Ahmedabad," said Anwar, a resident of Adityapur in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan. Akashvani Jamshedpur chief DC Hembrom, programme chief Atmeshwar Jha and other officials have congratulated and extended their best wishes to Anwar. Anwar is an avid sports lover and is often seen conducting interviews of sports personalities and officials in the steel city. He also conducts Khel Kheladi, a sports programme on radio.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
12-03-2021||Jharkhand||JMM not contesting Bengal polls, will back TMC, confirms Hemant||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), which is running a coalition government in the state with Congress and RJD, will extend its support to the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the coming Assembly elections in Bengal, the party making a formal announcement on Friday to confirm what was apparent after it chose not to field any candidate for the first phase of voting on March 27. Speaking with reporters here Hemant said, “JMM has decided to support Didi (Mamata Banerjee). The decision was taken following a request from her a few days back. She had phoned me, and had also written to me personally to seek our support. Her request was placed before our party supremo Shibu Soren, who only advised us to take the logical decision of stopping communal forces in Bengal. Hence, we are now behind TMC.” The Telegraph Online had in a March 9 report indicated JMM’s poll position which the party's working president and chief minister Hemant confirmed. Elections in Bengal will be held in eight phases.  JMM had contested 22 Assembly seats in the 2016 polls in West Bengal. After its emphatic victory in the 2019 Assembly polls in Jharkhand, it began spreading its wings to the neighbouring state with more intensity by contesting on about 25-30 seats. In January, Hemant held a rally in Jhargram bordering Jharkhand as a precursor to mosre such rallis during election time. Two months down the line, the party has changed its decision. Hemant said that more than contesting the elections, it was important for all like-minded parties to come together in the interest of the nation. “Going by the current political situation in the country, it was very important to stop the communal forces. By contesting elections, we don’t want to be directly or indirectly part of such forces that help in expansion of communal forces. Therefore, in the interest of the country, and state (Bengal), we are pulling out,” he said. Hemant added that he was in touch with Mamata Banerjee and has assured her the JMM's full support. Party sources said that Hemant would also campaign for Mamata in the coming days, a schedule for which is being worked out. Mamata is currently recuperating at a hospital in Calcutta after sustaining a hair-line fracture in her leg following an alleged attack on her while campaigning in Nandigram on Wednesday. Hemant has wished her a speedy recovery and demanded a high-level investigation in the purported attack on the Bengal chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
12-03-2021||Jharkhand||State inoculates less than 10,000 residents in a day despite Centre's nudge||Less than 10,000 Jharkhand residents were administered the first jab of the Covishield vaccine in the state on Thursday despite Centre's nudge at the slow pace of vaccination at hospitals in the tribal state and direction to the authorities to intensify the campaign. The state achieved only 6 per cent of its target for vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers on the day, revealed data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM). As many as 9896 Jharkhand residents, including 5996 senior citizens and 2251 middle-agers with comorbid conditions, were administered the first dose of the vaccine, an NHM report stated. The state managed to administer the first dose of the vaccine to only 1649 of the over 27,000 registered healthcare and frontline workers on the day. Over 2000 residents were administered the first dose of the vaccine in Bokaro, while more than 1600 Ranchi residents got the first jab of the vaccine on Thursday. Bokaro also administered the vaccine jab to 1350 senior citizens – the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The state also performed poorly in administering the second dose of the vaccine to the beneficiaries. On Thursday, only 6443 healthcare and frontline workers, around 12 per cent of the registered 55,173 beneficiaries, were administered the second dose of the vaccine in the state. Jharkhand has so far achieved 83 per cent of its target for the first dose of vaccination and 70 per cent of its target for the second dose. As per government data, as many as 4,01,639 Jharkhand residents have been administered the first dose of the vaccine so far, and at least 1,13,001 of them have also received the second dose. As many as 48,617 Ranchi residents have received the first dose of the vaccine so far, while over 29,835 East Singhbhum residents have got the first jab, reveals data compiled by the NHM. At least 29,461 Bokaro residents have got the first jab, 29,402 Dhanbad residents have been inoculated. Meanwhile, Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection on Thursday, bringing the count of active cases down to 511, a separate bulletin released by the NHM stated. However, the number of active cases rose slightly in Ranchi on the day as it reported 25 cases against 22 recoveries. As many as 31 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on the day, while 40 Covid patients recovered. The state on Thursday tested swab samples of more than 11,000 people and less than 0.5 per cent of them were found infected. As per government data, over 1.20 lakh people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand so far and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of Covid infection in the state was 0.03 per cent against the national average of 0.13 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
12-03-2021||Jharkhand||Toxic fumes from well kill 3 in Latehar ||Three members of a family died after supposedly inhaling a poisonous gas inside a well in a village in Balumath block of Latehar district on Thursday afternoon. The incident took place at Palhi Tola village in Balu panchayat of Balumath block where villager Simon Toppo, 45, was using a pump to draw water from a well to irrigate his field. “According to the villagers, Simon had placed the pump deep inside the well because the level of the water was low. All of a sudden, he spotted smoke belching from the pump, which runs on diesel. Simon tried to go inside the well to bring out the pump and get it repaired but lost consciousness and fell inside the well,” Balumath thana OC Rana Bhanu Pratap Singh. In a bid to rescue his father, Simon’s son Ashish, 12, rushed into the well and lost consciousness as well, Singh said. “Ashish was followed by Simon’s nephew Anup, 26, who too lost consciousness. The villagers claim that the trio died by inhaling a poisonous gas coming out from the pump. They were rushed to the Latehar Sadar Hospital where they were declared brought dead. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem,” the OC added. Anup was the son of Simon’s brother Patrus Toppo. According to Dr Purushottam Kumar who had examined the deceased at the Latehar Sadar Hospital, inhalation of carbon monoxide could have caused the deaths. “The diesel water pumps do give out carbon monoxide. As the well outlet was narrow, it is possible that they might have inhaled the poisonous gas and died,” Dr Kumar said. Balumath block development officer Manish Kumar, who rushed to the spot after receiving the information, said the administration would help the poor family. “Simon’s and Anup’s families would be paid Rs 20,000 each and Rs 10,000 for conducting the last rites as part of the state government family benefit schemes,” the BDO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
12-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi Municipal Corporation to start no-car Saturdays||The Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) along with the Ranchi Smart City Corporation Limited (RSCCL) will be starting a campaign #shanivarnocar (Saturdaynocar) campaign from March 13. RMC has already held extensive meetings with NGOs, traders outfit including Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) and other civic outfits to support the drive in a massive way on March 13. While RSCCL (the special project vehicle incorporated for execution of Ranchi Smart Project, which is India’s first greenfield smart city) will be using docking stations of its eco-friendly app-based bicycle sharing system for the users. “The decision was taken as part of our effort to reduce traffic volume based on study of vehicles load on the roads and make the traffic more pedestrian friendly. We had hired consultants to study mode of transport. After studying all these we have decided to introduce this #shanivarnocar campaign in which we are advising all government staff, private workers and officials to use cycles to reach their workplace and destination, if it is not too far and they do not have any health issues. This would be done every Saturday,” said RMC commissioner Mukesh Kumar. The RMC has gone for extensive campaigning in terms of placing posters and hoardings at major points of the capital city informing people about the campaign. “It is our effort to promote eco-friendly cycling as a mode of transport. It would not only save fuel and reduce expenses incurred on it but also improve health of individuals along with curbing environment pollution. We have launched advertisements through social media and also on major city roads to inform the public about parking places of cycles and docking stations. Based on their feedback we will be finalising more sites for parking of cycles and drawing up routes for dedicated cycle tracks and lanes in future. We have directed the parking vendors to assist people using bicycles in parking on Saturday,” added Mukesh Kumar. People are also encouraged to upload their photographs with bicycles which they use on Facebook and twitter using the hashtag #shanivarnocar. According to RSCCL officials, the official launch of the campaign would take place on Saturday from Morabadi while people can use bicycles from their respective houses. According to a survey, on a day nearly 20,000 cars ply on the roads of Ranchi, as on 2020, there were nearly 2,06,766 four wheelers registeredalong with 8,18,274 two wheelers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
12-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand bans use of boards on private vehicles||The Jharkhand government issued a notification on Wednesday banning use of different types of boards in private and commercial vehicles. “It was clear from field visits, media reports and other sources that many private and commercial vehicles were moving with different types of boards fixed on those, creating confusion if those were special vehicles,” observed the notification, signed by state’s transport secretary K. Ravikumar, adding effective implementation of the restrictions was required for ensuring unhindered transport system and road safety. The notification, prompted by an order of the Jharkhand High Court in a public interest litigation related to the issue, also listed which particular vehicles could use such boards. While no vehicles would be allowed to fix any such boards on their windscreen, those used by designated persons were allowed to use such boards measuring 18 inches by 6 inches provided those do not obstruct registration plates. The vehicles entitled for fixing such boards would be those used by the governor, chief minister, ministers, Assembly Speaker, chief justice and other High Court judges, advocate general and chairperson of human rights commission, the notification mentioned. Among others, chief secretary and secretaries to the government, deputy commissioners and superintendents of police were also entitled to use such boards in their official vehicles as were some central government officials such as accountant general, postmaster general, chief commissioner of income tax and divisional railway managers, it added. While such boards will be of green, red and blue colours as specified, the letters used in those could be either made of brass or written in white colour, the notification further said. “When the designated persons would not occupy the vehicles, the drivers would ensure that the boards are covered with black covers,” the notification specified, adding the drivers would otherwise be penalised. “While no other government vehicles would be using such boards, writing of words like Court, Army, Police, Press, Government and Administration on any vehicle would be prohibited,” the notification mentioned clearly. “It’s a welcome decision and should be strictly enforced,” opined a media person, adding vehicles with such boards were often seen on the roads. Otherwise, let alone functionaries of political parties and social outfits, any relative of a media person or an advocate or a policeman and even owners of printing presses could otherwise use family cars with such words prominently on those, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
12-03-2021||Jharkhand||Actor Sonu Sood gifts rifle to struggling Jharkhand shooter||Actor Sonu Sood has pitched in to help a Jharkhand based woman shooter with an imported rifle to pursue her dream of winning medals in the national arena. The actor who shot into fame for helping migrants during the pandemic got to know about the plight of the shooter Konica Layak hailing from Dhanbad who despite qualifying for nationals on two occasions (2016 and 2017) is still relying on rifles from her coach and friends to  practice. “I had tweeted to Sonu Sood sir about the plight of the shooter who despite having potential could not succeed due to lack of rifle and we are glad that the Sonu Sood Foundation pitched in with the required funds for Konica to buy the rifle,” said Ankit Rajgarhia, a Dhanbad based social worker. Speaking to The Telegraph, Konica Layak, 26, said that for all these years she had to depend on the rifle of her coach Rajendra Singh and friends to practice at the shooting range in the ISM Dhanbad. “I cannot have my own rifle as it costs nearly Rs 3 lakh. I had to depend on my coach rifle or on my friend. I had arranged Rs 80,000 from my friends and taken Rs 1 lakh as loan for the rifle and fortunately Sonu Sood Foundation arranged the remaining funds for the rifle and I have already placed the order. The Germany made rifle would be reaching me in two and half months,” Konica said. She has qualified at the National Shooting Championship at Pune in 2016 and national competition in Kerala in 2017. But could not win any medals. She had been regularly winning medals at state meets in 2015, 2016 and 2021 in the 10 meters and 50 meters distances. “With the rifle I can practice in my own time and also get admission in the Joydeep Karmakar Shooting Academy at Calcutta in order to hone my skills and stay in medal hunts at national and international competitions,” said Konica, who is pursuing PG in commerce and whose father Partha Pratim Layak works in a private firm earning a meagre monthly income of Rs 10,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
