13-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant takes stock of Birsa Smriti Park, spends over two hours ||Residents of Ranchi will have to wait for another six months at least to visit the new Birsa Munda Smriti Park and Birsa Munda museum that are coming up at the old Birsa jail premises in the heart of the city, officials in the state urban development department said on Saturday. Chief minister Hemant Soren, along with state urban development department secretary Vinay Kumar Choubey and a battery of officials, inspected the construction site to take stock of the ambitious project worth around Rs 106.9 crore. This was Hemant’s first extensive visit to the premises after assuming charge in December 2019. He spent around two hours from noon, with officials taking him through every aspect of the project. During his visit, Hemant raised objections over the use of poor quality tiles in some places and directed authorities to ensure that highest standards of quality were maintained, as per a brief statement from IPRD. “The department shouldn’t take the handover of the project unless it is fully satisfied with the quality of work. The government won’t compromise with the quality as it is about freedom fighters and their dignity,” he said. Urban development department secretary Choubey said they were keeping track of the project. “Multiple agencies have been engaged for various project components. We are asking them to finish the work at the earliest. If all goes well, it will take another six months for the entire project to be completed,” he said. Spread over 28 acres, the 180-year-old jail is where Jharkhand’s legendary freedom fighter Bhagwan Birsa Munda had died after being held captive by the British. The cell, where he breathed his last, is being converted into a museum. Also, statues of 11 freedom fighters of the state are being put up across the jail premises. The foundation stone of the project was laid by former chief minister Raghubar Das in 2017. The project was to be ready 2019 but has been delayed. It is being funded by the Union ministry of tribal affairs and is being executed by the Jharkhand Urban Infrastructure Development Company (Juidco), an arm of the state urban development department. Besides museum, the project components include renovation of the cell where Birsa lived, installation of infrastructure for light-and-sound and laser shows on Birsa’s life and other freedom fighters, a cafeteria, fountains, manicured park and a watch tower. To provide the visitors a glimpse of various tribes and their lifestyle, there is a plan to set up several "tribal bhawans". “More than 70 per cent of the work is over. These include a park, parking area, setting up of the museum, renovation etc.  Work on the watch tower, statues, amusement options are under progress,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
13-03-2021||Jharkhand||BJP blames Cong leader for ‘misbehaving’ with women’s wing chief||Ranchi MLA C.P. Singh accused Congress leaders of disrespecting women and treating them like “bonded labourers” on Saturday, referring to the alleged misbehavior of a Congress spokesperson with BJP leader Arti Kujur recently. Addressing the media at state BJP state headquarters in Ranchi, Singh, a former minister, said the Congress party should apologise to Kujur, the president of the state BJP women’s wing, for the alleged misbehavior of their leader Alok Dubey during a demonstration outside Congress Bhawan here. Members of the BJP women’s wing staged a protest outside Congress Bhawan in Ranchi on Thursday against Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s alleged ill-treatment of women on International Women’s Day. The leaders alleged that Hooda made women pull tractors on March 8, which was demeaning and uncalled for. “Congress leader Alok Dubey tried to silence our leader Arti Kujur by placing his hand on her mouth. Our party will not tolerate such disrespect of women,” Singh said on Saturday. The Congress leader’s actions, Singh said, not only showed that the party treated women poorly, but also highlighted how the Congress party was trying to suppress the voice of citizens.  “Trying to cover a woman’s mouth with your hand to silence her voice is not healthy politics. It is not something we have learnt in years of politics in India. The Congress party must change their approach towards women and treat them with respect,” Singh said. Later in the day, Dubey retaliated by taking jibes at some BJP leaders who were facing charges of crimes against women. Dubey, in a press communiqué, stated that the BJP had stooped to a level where it was practicing “issue-less” politics. “They do not have concrete issues to target other parties, so they have started practicing issue-less politics,” said Dubey, adding that the Congress party does not need to learn how to respect women from the BJP. Dubey said that the BJP has started the trend of staging protests outside offices of political parties, and it may have to get a taste of its own medicine soon. “At a time when farmers are protesting for over 100 days and inflation is burning a hole in the pocket of commoners, the BJP is busy finding issues that can divert people’s attention from the real problems,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
13-03-2021||Jharkhand||Nor’wester triggers rain, thunderstorm across Jharkhand||Several districts across Jharkhand experienced light to moderate rain, thunderstorm, lightning and strong winds since Friday evening resulting in a drop in temperatures. The India Meteorological Department's Ranchi centre said lower temperatures were likely to persist for the next 24 hours after which the mercury will witness a gradual rise. Deputy director of Ranchi Met centre Abhishek Anand said the rain and thunder was due to the impact of Nor'wester activity triggered by an induced cyclonic circulation. " A cyclonic circulation has formed over Odisha and southern Chhattisgarh due to the impact of a western disturbance passing through north-west India. This has helped in triggerring Nor'wester activity in isolated pockets of Jharkhand since Thursday, " he said. Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas witnessed gusty winds accompanied by showers since Friday evening. The intensity of rain increased on Saturday morning. Dark convective clouds formed over southern and central Jharkhand. Visibility was reduced to as low as 200 metre at 8am in the steel city and its adjoining areas on Saturday. Street lights had to be switched on. Vehicles also used headlights in the morning. Weathermen confirmed that visibility also became poor in several other parts of Jharkhand, including Ranchi and Bokaro. Chatra topped the rain chart with 45mm while Jamshedpur recorded around 45 mm. The IMD weather station at Jamshedpur recorded around 30 mm of rain. Simdega and Kharsawan witnessed over 25 mm of rain. Nimdih in adjoining Seraikela-Kharswan and and Khunti experienced around 20 mm of rain. The IMD observatory in Ranchi recorded around 12 mm of rain. As many as 10 IMD observatories including ones in Chandil, Latehar, Hazaribagh, Gumla and Bokaro recorded around 10mm of rain. Met scientists at IMD's Patna office said the rain was the result of the western disturbance passing over the north-west region. "The weather condition would improve in most parts of Jharkhand from Sunday. Satellite pictures suggested formation of a fresh western disturbance which is likely to affect the western Himalayan region and adjoining plains of north west India from March 16," said a climate analyst at the IMD's Patna office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
13-03-2021||Jharkhand||Chatra Police nab 3 PLFI extremists including an area commander||The Chatra Police arrested three PLFI extremists, including a wanted area commander, acting on a tip off that revealed that they were about to commit some big crime, SP Rishav Kumar Jha said on Saturday. The three, identified as Ashish a.k.a Ritesh Tiger, Ajay Yadav and Ashish Yadav, were arrested after a team of the Chatra Police led by Avinash Kumar raided  Mayapur Mor in Jajlo bazar under the Huntergunj Police Station. The police are interrogating the accused about their activities as well as involvement in various Cases. They have recovered one pistol, 12 live bullets,one magazine, a bike, seven sim cards and four mobile phones from their possession. Kumar said that the accused had created a reign of terror in the area and had been threatening businessmen, demanding money from them. The team of police that nabbed the extremists was constructed by Jha. It comprises Kumar, Huntergunj officer-in-charge Rajeev Ranjan, and other officials including Nandan Kumar Singh, Rohit Sahu, Vinod Kumar, Sunil Dubey and others from the Huntergunj Police Station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
13-03-2021||Jharkhand||Forest fires spotted in Dalma elephant sanctuary||Forest fires are raging across some pockets of the sprawling Dalma wildlife sanctuary but foresters are trying their best to prevent the flames from spreading across the jumbo abode. Assistant conservator of forest R.P. Singh said they were very concerned. "A fires inside the sanctuary is a matter of concern for us. We are trying our best and also spreading awareness among the villagers to protect the forests from fire. Forest belongs to everybody and it is our responsibility to protect it," he added. Sources said fire was first spotted in the sanctuary near Dimna lake four days back. It was tamed in no time. However, fires occurred in other pockets in a big way, especially in forests near some villages downhill. The season has compounded problems with dry leaves and tree branches spread across the 192 sq km sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur. Foresters have spotted flames mostly in the eastern range of the sanctuary. Smoke can be seen billowing from NH-33. Fires are raging in areas within the jungles near Bodam and Chimti villages as well as some hamlets. Eighty villages and hamlets dot the sanctuary known for Asiatic elephants. Foresters fear animals would venture into villages if the fire spreads, putting their life in danger. Elephants are still in the fringe pockets of the sanctuary while some are anchored downhill. Foresters blamed villagers for the incidents of fire. "Villagers venture into forest to collect wood. Most of the villagers smoke bidis and show utter carelessness by throwing them here and there. The embers fall on dry leaves and causes fire. We have time and again asked villagers to not throw lit bidis inside the sanctuary. But they don't pay any heed," one of the foresters said. According to him, youths from Jamshedpur and elsewhere were also to be blamed for the fire menace. Some youths not only smoke cigarettes but also use the forests as a getaway place to smoke ganja. The sanctuary seems to have become the safest place  for this. Smoking should be banned inside the sanctuary," he added. Dalma authorities spread awareness about the dangers of forest fires during World Wildlife Day on March 3 as well on March 10 and 11 when the faithful climbed the hills on the occasion of Shivaratri. Members of the eco development committee also chip to spread awareness. Forest guards and trackers douse fires by tapping the lit leaves with sticks. It's a Herculean task and consumes time and labour while dousing the flames in a large area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
13-03-2021||Jharkhand||Youth held for raping minor while she was answering nature's call  ||A 22-year-old youth was arrested from Parsudih on Saturday for allegedly raping a minor girl behind a bush near Sadar Hospital at Khaasmahal while she had gone their answer nature's call. Police believe the accused, Sikandar Hussain, a resident of Makdampur, about 2km from Khaasmahal, had been stalking the girl for long. According to an FIR lodged by the victim's parents with police at Parsudih, the girl, a resident of Jharkhand Bustee behind the Sadar Hospital, had gone to relieve herself near a bush at about 6pm on Friday. The accused accosted her then. He used one of his hands to  gag her and then raped her. According to the FIR, soon after returning home, the victim narrated the incident to her parents, who then approach the Parsudih police station. Police swung into action and conducted raids through Friday night. Finally, police were able to nab the culprit at his house in Makdampur on Saturday morning. OC of Parsudih thana Rajendra Prasad Das said the victim who was 14 years-old had confronted the accused on an earlier occasion too, and had revealed this to her parents. "The accused had attempted to outrage the modesty of the minor earlier also. The victim's parents had then scolded him," he said The OC said the victim had been sent to  MGM Medical College and Hospital for examination. The accused, Sikandar Hussain, was sent to Ghaghidih Central Jail after he was produced before a judicial magistrate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
13-03-2021||Jharkhand||Special train services extended till June||Here's some good news for this with travel plans: South Eastern Railway has decided to continue running several special trains introduced after lockdown curbs were eased gradually. The office of chief passenger transportation manager (CPTM) issued a list on Saturday. Accordingly, the 02812 Hatia-LTT Special leaving Hatia every Friday has been extended to run upto June 25 while the  02811 LTT-Hatia Special leaving LTT every Sunday has been extended to run upto June 27. The  08626 Hatia-Purnia Court Special leaving Hatia daily has been extended to run upto June 29. The 08625 Purnia Court-Hatia Special leaving Purnia Court daily would also run upto  June 29. The  02829 Howrah-Tatanagar Special leaving Howrah daily has been extended to run till  June 30.The return train, 02830 Tatanagar-Howrah Special, leaving Tatanagar daily would also run till June 30. The 08624 Hatia-Islampur Special leaving Hatia daily has been extended to run upto June 30 while the 08623 Islampur-Hatia Special leaving Islampur daily will run till July 3. The  02803 Ranchi-Howrah Special leaving Ranchi daily has been extended till June 30 . The train in the opposite direction,
02804 Howrah-Ranchi Special, leaving Howrah daily would also run till June 30. The 08181 Tatanagar-Chhapra Special leaving Tatanagar every Monday,Tuesday, Thursday and Friday will run till June 28. The 08182 Chhapra-Tatanagar Special leaving Chhapra every Wednesday,Thursday,Saturday and Sunday has been extended to run till  June 30. The 02817 Santragachi-Pune Special leaving Santragachi every Saturday has been extended to run till June 26 while the 02818 Pune-Santragachi Special leaving Pune every Monday has been extended to run till June 28. Both the Up and Dn trains run via Tatanagar railway station. The  08183 Tatanagar-Danapur Special leaving Tatanagar daily has been extended to run till June 29 while the 08184 Danapur-Tatanagar Special leaving Danapur daily has been extended till June 30. Chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway Sanjay Ghosh said the special trains have been extended for the convenience of passengers.
"The extension of the services of special trains would also help in taking care of the summer rush witnessed during May, " he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
13-03-2021||Jharkhand||BJP women rally outside Ranchi Congress Bhavan||A precedent has been set in Jharkhand on Thursday when members of the BJP’s women’s wing demonstrated in front of the Congress headquarters in Ranchi. Though political parties often resort to protests and demonstration against government policies and actions, they are normally seen doing the same at public places and not in front of offices of other political parties. But, breaking the norm, about 20-odd members of state BJP’s women’s wing demonstrated in front of Congress Bhavan in Ranchi and shouted slogans for a couple of minutes on Thursday. “When the world hailed women on the International Women’s Day on March 8, former Haryana chief minister and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda rode a tractor that was pulled by women,” Arti Kujur, state president of BJP’s women’s wing, said about the reason behind their protest, adding Hooda’s action reflected how the Congress treated women. To protest against the rising prices of fuel, Hooda rode a tractor towards Haryana Assembly on Monday that was pulled with rope by some Congress leaders, including a few women. Those present at the Congress Bhavan at that time, however, put a brave front. “We tried to welcome the women from the BJP with roses and even offered them tea and biscuits but they didn’t accept those,” said Congress state spokesperson Alok Kumar Dubey. “Dissent and protest are parts of democracy but we never saw the members of a political party demonstrating in front the office of another party, not at least in Jharkhand,” he wondered, adding the BJP women’s wing made a beginning in that direction. “Our party also have various wings, including women’s wing and they may also now plan to demonstrate in front of the BJP office on some issues some day,” the Congress spokesperson further said, adding he hoped the BJP members would also accept it in the same way as they did on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
