14-03-2021||Jharkhand||NIT achieves 81 per cent placement, over 400 students get job offers||Over 400 students out of a batch-size of 500 facing placements at the Adityapur-based National Institute of Technology (NIT) for the 2017-21 batch have landed jobs in various companies that have so far participated in the ongoing placement process at the tech cradle. Data available from the training and placement cell revealed that the institute has so far achieved an overall 81 per cent placement. About 80 companies have so far participated in the placement process recruiting students from various streams of engineering. Another 50 companies are expected to turn up for recruiting students till July this year which is the end of the placement season. The online recruitment process for the current batch which began in July 2020 gained momentum in October. The companies participating in the placement process are head hunting students through the virtual process happening for the first time due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Data suggests that the computer science engineering stream recorded 95 per cent placement. This was closely followed by the electronics and communication engineering stream which recorded 92 per cent placement. Both electrical and mechanical engineering streams achieved 75 per cent placements each so far. The metallurgical and materials engineering stream too achieved 75 per cent placements so far. According to the data, the civil engineering stream recorded 60 per cent placements while the production and industrial engineering stream achieved 77 per cent placements. Professor-in-charge of the training and placement cell, Prahlad Prasad termed the placement scenario as encouraging. “The placement scenario looks encouraging so far. The placement target for the current batch may be as good as previous years or even more,” he said. Notably, Amazon has so far offered the highest package of Rs 30 lakh per annum, while the average package so far has been Rs 12 lakh per annum. In the computer science engineering branch, the average package has been higher at Rs 18 lakh per annum. Apart from e-commerce major Amazon, some of the companies that have already participated in the online recruitment process are Deloitte, Tata Power, Axis Bank, Vedanta, Bajaj Auto, Nokia, Comviva, TCS Innovator, Paytm, Genpact, Goldman Sachs, Lowe's India, One Plus, Cargil, Tekion, Tata Steel, Mentor Graphics, Publicis Sapient, Info Edge, Samsung (R&D), Bajaj, DMI Finance, Axeela, ZS Associates, Amdocs and Capgemini. The previous batch (2016-2020) had secured 92.11 per cent placements with an average CTC of Rs 8.71 lakh per annum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
14-03-2021||Jharkhand||Bank strike to impact Dhanbad traders||The two-day bank strike called by bank employees to protest against privatisation of banks, beginning Monday is expected to impact banking services across the country. Traders are apprehending a lot of inconvenience during these two days which is preceded by two more days of bank closure due to holidays on the second Saturday (March 13) and Sunday (March 14). Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, vice president of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Ajay Nanaryan Lal said, “Though the first two days of bank closure for holidays has somehow passed, the next two days are going to be really tough due to the cash crunch in the market.” “Despite the beginning of online transactions in recent years, cash transaction is still the dominant mode of business. The biggest difficulty is faced by the traders as they cannot deposit the cash in the banks and they find it unsafe to keep a large amount of cash received during business transaction either at home or at the outlet,” said Lal. “During the three days of bank closure from December 25 to 27, burglary worth Rs 7.5 lakh took place from a book trader outlet in Dhanbad as the wholesale book trader could not deposit the cash received from the retailers in their bank account,” added Lal. Echoing sentiments, Prabhat Surolia, president of Bank More Chamber of Commerce and Industry said, “Majority of traders have a cash credit account and thus deposit the money almost on daily basis. The bank strike will affect our business because of non-deposition as well as non-withdrawal of cash.” Surolia, who himself owns a small industrial unit further said that as he had to carry some purchasing on Monday (March 15) he had to deposit the money in the account of the seller on Friday (March 12) itself. “Most of the ATMs are also likely to go dry during the next two days affecting the sale of purchase and resultant lack of customers in the market,” said Surolia. Meanwhile, more than 3,000 employees from around 250 branches of different public sector banks of Dhanbad are also bracing up for the two days of the nationwide strike of the bank unions on March 15 and protest against the central government’s plan to carry out the privatization of two banks. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Prabhat Chaudhary, district convenor of United Forum for Bank Unions said, “The government’s plan to carry out privatization is aimed at supporting the corporate houses and anti-common people.” “The corporate houses which are mainly responsible for the bad loans of banks will win the banks themselves and thus instead of favouring the common customers like rickshaw pullers, taxi drivers and other low-income group customers, they would provide loan to their partners and relatives,” and added that focus of the banks following privatization will shift to urban areas and rural branches will be closed. In a related development, a meeting of a joint front of all central trade unions was held on Sunday under the chairmanship of national vice president of Rashtriya Colliery Mazdoor Sangh, AK Jha during which the participants termed the privatization plan of banks of the central government as anti-people and extended support to the two-day strike call given by the bank employees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
14-03-2021||Jharkhand||Time for industries to return unused land, says state minister ||State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said on Sunday that land acquired for industrial or developmental purposes should be returned to the displaced if it remained unused or a specific period, advising his own government headed by Hemant Soren to begin the exercise with Heavy Engineering Corporation (HEC) in Ranchi. Addressing a rally organised by 32 displaced villages in the HEC area on Ranchi outskirts, Oraon said, “Rourkela steel plant has returned about 5,000-acre land to the Odisha government. The Jharkhand government should also adopt this practice to take back land from companies here. Being a minister, I am appealing to the Hemant government to begin the process of taking back land from HEC.” The comments of Oraon, who is also the state Congress president, is significant in a state like Jharkhand where land has always been a contentious issue. The previous government of Raghubar Das had to face the wrath of tribals and thousands of displaced after he unsuccessfully tried to amend age-old tenancy laws during his stint between 2014-19. Oraon accused the PSU for acting as a landlord by selling and leasing out land that was acquired decades to private parties. “Jharkhand wasn’t formed when HEC was set up but it was given vast acres of land in Ranchi by the government for industrial purposes. Thousands of people too got displaced in the process. While the displaced living in about 32 villages are battling for basic amenities, HEC has begun selling/leasing out land to others. Are they the real landowners? The answer is no. Why is it (HEC) then behaving like a landlord? Whatever land that is lying unused should now be taken back,” Oraon said. He said that during his stints as chairperson of the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes between 2010 to 2017, he ensured that the provision of returning unused land was included in the Land Acquisition Act-2013. “Recently, baby steps have been initiated after the state government here took back some 40-acre land from NTPC in Hazaribagh after it remained unutilised for more than five years. The Land Acquisition Act-2013 specifies time-bound work on the acquired land. Or else the acquisition can be cancelled. We have to implement it in the interest of tribal and other land losers,” he stressed. Mandar MLA Bandhu Tirkey, who has been mobilising over 20,000 displaced living in 32 villages in the HEC region, said the rally was aimed at initiating a renewed fight for their long-pending demands. “We have two key demands from the government—formation of a commission for displaced, and implementation of the Land Acquisition Act-2013,” he said over the phone. “About 25,000 people were displaced for setting up HEC, but the government records today only have details of about 400 people. Not only this, many even got displacement benefits and compensation till date while the places where they live are in neglected condition as HEC never cared for them. So, we are demanding setting up of a commission, which will be a constitutional body, to address issues of all those who were is placed,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
14-03-2021||Jharkhand||Police bust fake currency racket in Mango, one arrested||In a sensational breakthrough, police on Sunday arrested a man who was running a racket of printing and circulating fake currency notes in Mango, Jamshedpur. The man identified as Aftab Alam, son of Mohammed Mazhar, is a resident of Gulab Baag in Mango. Aftab, who stayed in a rented house owned by one Mohammed Zama, was manufacturing fake currency notes of rupees 50, 100 and 500 in one of the rooms for the last six months. Police have seized 40 notes of rupees 500 denomination, 10 notes of Rs 100 and one Rs 50 denomination. This apart, the police have seized semi-finished Rs 500 notes worth 36,000, and a laptop, inject printer and a monitor from the house of the accused. Significantly, there was a sticker of the Pakistani flag on the laptop, hinting that Aftab might have a connection with Pakistan in running the racket. Revealing about the breakthrough, senior SP M Tamil Vanan said that the accused that was running the racket single-handedly was caught while he was making payment against fruits he had bought from a fruit vendor at Jugsalai late on Saturday night. “Aftab had given a 50 rupees note which seemed a bit different to the fruit vendor, the later objected to and demanded another note, leading the accused to indulge in an altercation. In the spur of the moment, the accused had torn apart the note, creating a commotion and attracting the attention of two mobile cops who arrived at the scene and asked why he tore the note. The cops took Aftab to Jugsalai thana where during interrogation he confessed that the note he tore was fake and that he was running a racket of fake currency,” said Vanan while addressing a press conference on Sunday. The senior SP said on Sunday morning the police raided Aftab's house and seized the equipment as well as the materials used in the making of fake currency notes and also a stock of the fake currencies of different denominations from his house. Vanan said the accused used to manufacture the currency notes during the day and got them circulated in the night, especially in the late hours so that shopkeepers might not focus on the notes meticulously. “The accused claimed he had started the racket a month ago and earned over Rs 40,000 after he lost his job during the lockdown, but we estimate that he has started the racket about six months ago,” added Vanan. The senior SP, on being asked, said they will investigate whether Aftab had a Pakistan link behind the fake currency racket, adding that they will unfold the mystery behind fixing a sticker of Pakistani flag in one of the equipment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
14-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jayant Sinha promises to develop Hazaribagh's latest archeological site||Former union minister of state for civil aviation and Hazaribagh MP Jayant Sinha on Sunday termed the Archaeological Survey of India’s findings in Bahoranpur village of the district a unique and  historic discovery, announcing to turn the place into a cultural and religious spot. “The ASI's excavation has so far confirmed that this place was a big spot for followers of Buddhism, where an important monastery and shrine stood during the ninth century,” he said. Sinha added that he has spoken to culture and tourism minister of state Prahlad Patel regarding the development of the site, who asked him to make a report regarding the requirements. “I will leave no stone unturned for bringing this place on the tourism map of the country. But I am surprised how this place was away from the eyes of all for so long and no effort was taken before,” Sinha added. Delhi-based Buddhist priest Bhante Tiswarro told the Telegraph Online that he will visit the site soon. Tiswarro was the first one who had initiated the discovery, informing the ASI about the possibility of finding something. Meanwhile, residents have demanded that the ASI should make a state-of-the-art facility at the village itself, instead of shifting it to some other museum. Tiswarro had the same queries. I want to know what the ASI is planning to do with the recoveries while there are no museums in Bahoranpur. If they take the decision to remove structures from here, I will start a satyagraha in the village,” he said. “I can assure you that this place will have a big museum here so as to attract tourists from the country as well as abroad,” Sinha commented on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
14-03-2021||Jharkhand||27-year-old man lynched near Ranchi over suspicion of tyre theft||A 27-year-old man was allegedly beaten to death by an irate mob in suburban Ranchi early on Sunday for apparently stealing tyres and a battery from a motorcycle, the second incident of mob lynching reported in the state capital this month. The deceased, identified as Mubarak Khan, was thrashed by a mob in Sirka village while he was allegedly fleeing the spot after stealing tyres and a battery of a pulsar bike, police said. However, Mubarak’s family has claimed he was murdered over personal enmity by some residents of the village, who had allegedly invited him to meet them in the wee hours of Sunday. “Prima facie, it seems that Mubarak, a resident of nearby Maheshpur village, was caught in the act of stealing tyres and a battery of a bike. The villagers caught hold of him and thrashed him brutally,” said OC of Angada police station Brajesh Kumar. “The man died on the spot,” he added. Mubarak’s body was sent for post-mortem on Sunday. An elder brother of his lodged an FIR with the Angada police against 18 people for tying Mubarak to a poll and beating him to death as a part of a conspiracy. Mubarak worked as a driver of a van used for supplying bread. Ranchi SP (rural) Naushad Alam, who visited the crime scene on Sunday, said police were investigating the matter and taking statements from villagers. The police have lodged an FIR against 17 identified persons and several others in connection with the incident, he added. “We are investigating the case from different perspectives. The post-mortem report will give us a clearer picture of the cause of death,” said Alam. In a similar incident reported on March 8, a mob of around 40 people had brutally beaten up one Sachin Kumar Verma at Kotwali police station area in urban Ranchi over suspicion of vehicle theft. Twenty-two-year-old Sachin succumbed to his injuries on his way to the hospital. The incident rocked the state Assembly with the Opposition targeting the Hemant Soren-led government over alleged lawlessness in the state. Cases of mob lynching by cow vigilantes and superstitious residents of far-flung villages of Jharkhand had kept even the former BJP-led government on toes. The state reported 39 cases of mob-lynching by 2019 and police had then set up special teams to investigate such crimes. Several cases of lynching over theft of mobile phones and spare parts of vehicles have been reported in the state in the past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
14-03-2021||Jharkhand|| Children offering namaz on Hazaribagh Road sparks controversy||Eight to ten children were seen offering namaz in Pelawal area of Hazaribagh town on Friday. A picture of this went viral on social media and police have arrested three people for taking the photo and spreading it on social media. The viral picture also made the famous writer Taslima Nasreen to comment that these children are innocent and those behind it are the real culprits. Sources said on Friday these children were made to sit on the busiest Hazaribagh-Chatra road in the Pelawal area offering namaz. Due to this, traffic came to a standstill. Later someone posted this picture on social media which soon went viral. People also demanded action against those who asked the children to do so. Nasreen said none has the right to disturb humanity in this way. Hazaribagh is always known to be a communally sensitive area. The police came into action and showcaused Ibrahimi Masjid Committee of Pelawal area asking for the reason behind this incident. Committee head Mohammad Firoz issued a statement on Sunday claiming that it happened due to the foolishness of the children and the elders have no role in it. He also promised that no such incident will happen again. Superintendent of police Karthik S said, “No one has the right to block a road. We have showcaused the masjid committee and will take appropriate action in this matter. I urge people not to disturb the peace of this area and also not to make the picture share any further.” Meanwhile, BJP spokesperson of the state Pratul Shahdeo condemned the arrest of those who posted the picture on social media. He said, “Those behind organising namaz on road are moving freely. This shows the actual mindset of this government.” He also demanded the release of the three in custody and arrest of the culprits involved in arranging the namaz offering on road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
14-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over 15,000 residents receive first shot of vaccine, active cases rise to 515||As many as 15,161Jharkhand residents, including over 10,000 senior citizens, were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine on Saturday, while almost 12,000 healthcare workers and frontline workers got the second jab, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. However, the state achieved only nine per cent of its target for administering the first dose of vaccine to frontline and healthcare workers and 17 per cent of the target for the second dose on the day. As many as 3,164 healthcare and frontline workers got the first jab, while 11,864 got the second, an NHM report stated. So far, as many as 4,59,907 people, including 92,104 senior citizens and 16,078 middle-agers with comorbidities, have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand. As many as 1,41,122 beneficiaries have received the second jab, as per government data. Meanwhile, Ranchi continued to report the bulk of fresh Covid cases on the day. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, the district accounted for 20 of 43 cases on the day. However, 26 of the 37 Covid recoveries in Jharkhand were also reported from Ranchi. The count of active cases have been on the rise in Jharkhand this month with the number soaring to 515 on Saturday. While the active cases dropped in Ranchi, the district still accounted for more than 60 per cent of the patients with 307 cases, the NHM bulletin stated. The state has so far reported 1,20,567 cases of Covid-19 infection and more than 98 per cent of the patients have recovered. The growth rate of infection in Jharkhand was 0.04 per cent against the national average of 0.13 per cent. At the current pace, it would take over 1800 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand. The national doubling rate was around 525 days. At least 14 of the 24 districts did not report fresh Covid cases on the day. Urban districts – Ranchi and East Singhbhum – reported most of the fresh cases. East Singhbhum reported nine cases against eight recoveries, while Bokaro, Deoghar and Dhanbad reported two cases each. Barring Ranchi, all the remaining 23 districts had less than 100 active cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
14-03-2021||Jharkhand||Protesting para teachers warned of strict action||The state education department on Saturday announced disciplinary actions including no-work-no-pay for all para teachers who will be part of the assembly gherao from March 15 to 19 that wil impact regular classes of students ahead of the upcoming matric exams. Ekakrit Para Sikshak Sangharsh Morcha (EPSSM), an umbrella outfit of about 60,000 para teachers in the state, have announced the gherao when the house resumes for the budget session to press for their several pending demands such as job regularisation and better pay among others. The Jharkhand Project Education Council (JPEC) has asked all para-teachers to refrain from protest and has directed district education officers to submit daily attendance reports to initiate action against the teachers. In a letter to all the districts, JEPC director Sailesh Chaurasia said that the government was already working on many of their demands and directed them to withdraw the stir in the interest of proper functioning of the schools, which reopened for class VII onwards few weeks back, after remaining closed for a year due to covid-19 induced lockdown. “Whoever remained absent from duty without duly approved leave would be marked as no-work-no-pay and disciplinary action will be initiated,” read the letter, circulated by EPSSM. Sanjay Dubey, officer bearer of the state unit of EPSSM in a media statement maintained that they will continue with their plan. “We appeal to the Hemant Soren government to fulfill their promises made to us during the assembly elections in 2019. The previous BJP government headed by ex-CM Raghubar Das wielded lathis on us when we protested for our demands, but before coming to power, Hemant Soren justified our demands and promised to fulfill. Now, it’s time to do so and recall this letter,” he demanded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
14-03-2021||Jharkhand||Rebels kill official after extortion police compliant in Latehar||A supervisor of a private firm who was returning after lodging a police compliant against militants for alleged extortion was allegedly shot dead by rebels in Jharkhand’s Latehar district on Friday night. According to police, 32-year-old Vishnu Dev Singh was the supervisor of a private firm which had bagged the contract for the construction of a culvert connecting the road between Kone and Nareshgarh in Sadar block. Police said Singh had an argument with unidentified members of the Jharkhand Jan Mukti Parishad, a splinter group of the CPI (Maoist), over payment of extortion money a few days ago and also on Friday. He had gone to Latehar Sadar police station on Friday night to lodge a complaint along with firm owner Vijay Sahu and was returning home on his motorcycle when the rebels shot at him indiscriminately near Bareini More. Singh received six bullet injuries and died on the spot. Latehar superintendent of police Prashant Kumar said that they were trying to arrest the accused. “We have intensified our combing operations and the rebels are resorting to such tactics out of frustration. We will be arresting the rebels soon as it is a clear-cut case of extortion related killing by the outlawed JJMP,” he said. Singh’s body was sent for post-mortem to the Latehar Sadar Hospital on Saturday. Meanwhile, senior police officials, including Palamau deputy inspector-general R.K. Lakra and Latehar superintendent of police (operations) Vipul Pandey reached the spot to oversee the investigation. Locals claimed that if the rebels had the audacity to kill villagers barely a few kilometres from the CRPF picket and shoot dead a person who was returning after registering a complaint at the local police station, then it meant the morale of the militant outfits was on the up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
