15-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant govt to reserve 75% jobs for locals in private sector||The JMM-Congress-RJD government of Jharkhand has decided to reserve 75 per cent jobs in the private sector for local residents, following a policy similar to that adopted by the BJP government of Manohar Lal Khattar in Haryana amid mildly sceptical reactions from industry associations. Chief minister Hemant Soren announced his government’s plan, which he said would be rolled out formally soon, in the state Assembly on Monday when the ongoing budget session resumed after a four-day break. He also announced that his government would be providing an annual employment allowance of Rs 5,000 to skilled youths who failed to get jobs. For widows and the disabled, the unemployment allowance would be Rs 7,500. “Our government is now heading towards fulfilling the poll promises we made to voters during the 2019 Assembly elections. We had promised jobs to locals and we have decided to go ahead with it by reserving 75 per cent jobs in the private sector to the people of this state. Those without jobs will be given an unemployment allowance," he said in the Assembly amid rousing applause from the Treasury benches. Hemant also said that the government would be giving compensation of Rs 1 lakh to the next of kin of those who die in road accidents. Speaking to the media outside the House, Hemant said, “Unemployment allowance is just a small gesture from the state government to keep youths motivated amid the pandemic. We had already said that this year will be dedicated to jobs. We are trying to provide as many jobs as we can through direct recruitments and by creating different avenues to generate moreo pportunities cutting across public and private sectors.” An official of the labour department said job reservations in the private sector would be implementd once a law to that effet was enacted. “The reservation will be for jobs offering salaries of up to Rs 30,000 per month,” he said. Industry organisations reacted cautiously, and hoped that the reservation move did not end up being a regressive step at a time when the state government was eyeing fresh investments. Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) president Praveen Kumar Jain said, “We are not against jobs to locals, but do we have enough skilled labour? The state government needs to first ensure that there isn’t any scarcity of skilled labour required for various sectors. Otherwise it will pose hurdles in getting the right investments.” An official of Jharkhand Small Industries Association (JSIA) was equally sceptical of the policy. “What is the criteria of being a local? Will someone who hails from Odisha and is working in my company for the last 20 years be called a 'local'? If not, where will I get a proper substitute to his/her skill level? The government must define this without any ambiguity first,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
15-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad women activists protest against anti-poor Centre ||Over 50 women’s rights activists carried out demonstrations near the district headquarters of Dhanbad on Monday against the central government and terming it as anti-poor and anti-farmer and held it responsible for the increase in unemployment, inflation and crime against women. The protestors also accused the government of befooling people by raising slogan on Beti Bachao Beti Padhao but not ensuring proper security for the girls and women who are going out of their houses to study in educational institutions or workplaces leading to crimes like rape, murder and harassment. The demonstrators who congregated at the site at around 10 am and raised slogans like Kisan virodhi bill ko wapas lena hoga, kisan virodhi sarkar murdabad, etc. also accused the central government of coercing farmers protesting against the farm bills aimed at helping the corporate houses at the cost of farmers. Talking to the media at the demonstration site, Upasi Mahtain, district president of All India Democratic Women Association (AIDWA) said, “The unemployment is at the highest level during the present government regime of the centre due to its anti-people policy.” Attacking the government, Mahtain said, “The government opened schools for offering khichdi to the students but didn’t make provisions for the appointment of teachers as the primary work at the schools for imparting education.” Another protestor, Chhavi Dhar who is also the district secretary of AIDWA said, “The government instead of coining proverbs like Beti Bachao Beti Padhao should ensure immediate punishment to perpetrators of offences like rape, dowry murder, female infanticide by carrying out a trial in fast track courts.” The protestors further demanded the government to ensure immediate passage of women’s reservation bill and other demands including equal pay for women, strict implementation of 498A of Indian Penal Code (IPC) related to the harassment of women. The irate protestors also demanded provision of reservation for women in government jobs. The demonstrators also termed petrol diesel price hike carried out by the central government as anti-people and demanded rollback of the various provisions of the recent budget presented by the government aimed at increasing inflation and unemployment. They also accused the government of carrying out privatization of public sectors organizations, including the profit-making organizations like Indian Railway, banks, Life Insurance Corporation of India, etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
15-03-2021||Jharkhand||Cornhole Baggo: a new game for special athletes of Dhanbad  ||Special athletes in Dhanbad will soon be introduced to a new game which is highly popular in Europe, the United States and Canada. After launching Cornhole Baggo in Jamshedpur last month, Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) will be introducing it in Dhanbad on Saturday, March 20. Cornhole Baggo will also be introduced in Ranchi and Bokaro in due course of time. SOJ assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota said the game will be introduced at Pehla Kadam, a special school in the coal town. "We have already finalised the programme with the administration of Pehla Kadam," he said. In Cornhole Baggo, players have to throw 6 inch x 6 inch bags full of corn into a 6 inch hole on a 4ft x 2ft board. Participants with lower ability are required to throw the bag from a distance of 3m, those with moderate ability from 4m and those with higher ability from 5m. Each bag, which are in red and green colour, is filled with corn weighing 454 gm. The board is placed in an inclined position and the game is played over three sets. Each set has two points and participants putting the bag into the hole maximum number of times emerges winner. It's interesting game and is somewhat similar to bocce. The game is played between two or four athletes and is also played with unified partners. Special Olympics Bharat (SOB), a national organisation which promotes special athletes, has already launched Cornhole Baggo through its Odisha chapter earlier this year. The new game was recently demonstrated and rules explained in a webinar conducted by the outfit and attended by more than 125 people consisting of coaches, officials and athletes of the national outfit from across the country. Sahota represented Jharkhand in the webinar. According to the SOJ assistant area director, talks are underway with Ranchi-based Deepshikha Institute of Child Development and Mental Health and Asha Lata Kendra (Bokaro) to introduce Cornhole Baggo in the two cities. "Dates will be finalised once Deepshikha and Asha Late Kendra reopens. Both schools are presently closed owing to the pandemic," Sahota said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
15-03-2021||Jharkhand||Angara lynching: 9 of 17 named in FIR detained for questioning ||Police have detained at least nine residents of Sirka village to question them regarding the mob lynching of Mubarak Khan in Angara block of Ranchi on Sunday, SP (Rural) Naushad Alam said on Monday, adding that all those apprehended so far were named in an FIR lodged by the deceased’s elder brother. “We have detained nine of the 17 men named in the FIR lodged by Mubarak Khan’s brother. They are being interrogated,” said Alam. He said police were also investigating the case from the perspective of one Durga Munda, who had lodged an FIR against Mubarak and two others for stealing tyre and battery of his bike. In the FIR lodged by Tabarak Khan, the elder brother of Mubarak, he has named Saheb Ram Mahto, Durga Mahto, Raju Munda, Durga Munda, Lakshman Munda, Balram Mahto, Karulal Mahto, Sakhichand Mahto, Kamlal Mahto, Pokhar Mahto, Jaleshwar Mahto, Dilip Mahto, Chunnu Thakur, Jitendra Thakur, Sanjay Mahto, Dashrath Mahto, Rajendra Mahto, Jhabbu Lal Mahto, Pranav Mahto, Raghunath Munda and 20 unknown people for killing his brother as a part of a conspiracy. In what is the second incident of mob lynching in March, 27-year-old Mubarak, a driver by profession, was allegedly beaten to death by some residents of Sirka village in suburban Ranchi on charges of stealing tyres and a battery of a bike owned by Durga Munda. The irate mob reportedly caught hold of him while he was fleeing and thrashed him. However, the deceased man’s family has accused some residents of the village of tying Mubarak to a pole and thrashing him with the intent of killing him in the wee hours of Sunday. In the FIR, the family has alleged that Mubarak was murdered as a part of a conspiracy and that he had sustained severe injuries on his neck, back and head. Tabarak told police that his brother left home around 11 pm on Saturday. Around 4 am, he came to know that Mubarak had been spotted at Sirka village. He claimed that while the deceased was badly beaten, he was later strangulated to death. “We have taken statements of Mubarak's family, and investigation is on,” said the SP, but refused to divulge further details.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
15-03-2021||Jharkhand||Centre working on Jharkhand to agree on commercial mining, says minister||The Centre on Monday said it is trying to "consult and convince" the Jharkhand government about the benefits of its commercial coal mining policy which is designed to boost domestic production and reduce imports. Union coal minister Prahlad Joshi said during the Question Hour in the Rajya Sabha that it was a "big sin" that India, despite having the largest coal reserves, was dependent on import of thermal coal used in power generation. The dependence on imports was due to restriction on allocation of coal blocks, which had been eased out after serious consultations with state governments, he said. After the consultations, the central government brought a commercial coal mining policy under which coal blocks are opened to private investors through auction for commercial purpose, he added. "We have consulted the state governments. Even we have consulted the Jharkhand government. Initially, they appreciated it and later they have opposed it. But we are in regular consultation with the state government," Joshi said in the upper House. The Centre is trying to "consult and convince" the Jharkhand government because ultimately the policy is in the interest of the state as the revenue earned goes to the state, not to the Centre, he said. "We are trying to convince them. I hope they will be convinced. Already auction is done since the cooperation of the state is needed, we are in regular touch with the state government," he added. The minister was responding to a query by BJP leader from Jharkhand Sameer Oroan that if any hurdle had been faced in imports due to opposition to the government policy by Jharkhand. Replying to another question asked by BJD leader Amar Patnaik on non-operation of coal blocks that were already auctioned, the minister said some of the mines had not started production. “The coal ministry on a day-to-day basis monitors and is changing the norms to withdraw such blocks which are not operational,” he said, adding that the Centre was continuously interacting with state governments, including Odisha on this issue. "I would also like to acknowledge that the Odisha government is giving very positive suggestions and accordingly we are acting," he added. The minister said that it took 2-3 years to start actual production after allocation of coal or mine blocks. However, many measures had been taken to speed up and begin the production at the earliest. “Approximately Rs 6,556 crore will be the revenue when coal mines start the production,” he said. On imports, the minister said that it may be little difficult to cut shipments of imported coal with which power is generated and there is no substitute for that in the country. "But the target of the Modi government is to stop all avoidable imports by 2024," he added. To another query on steps taken to preserve the green cover over mines, the minister said plantation drive was underway in a big way. “Wherever possible mine water is purified and supplied for drinking purpose and irrigation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
15-03-2021||Jharkhand||Modi-Shah destroying federalsim, says K.N. Tripathi ||Former Jharkhand rural development minister K.N. Tripathi accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah of promoting regionalism in the country by using all their powers to defeat Mamata Banerjee in the upcoming Bengal elections. “The act of the Prime Minister and minister of home affairs is not as per the dignity of their respective posts, ” the veteran Congress leader said on Monday. Tripathi, who is also the national president of the Congress-affiliated Indian National Trade Union Congress (Tripathi faction), however, did not name the two leaders. “They should maintain the dignity of their posts and should not damage the federal structure of the nation,” he said while interacting with the media at Circuit House here during the second day of a three-day function of the trade union. He said the nation stood dismayed at the acts of the BJP. "We (Congress) have also ruled the nation for more than 70 years, and have witnessed very famous prime ministers, including Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. But he never indulged in such acts of using the entire power to defeat a chief minister,” Tripathi said. He equated the BJP's tactic of attacking Mamata Banerjee from all sides with that of the British surrounding the valiant Rani Lakshmibai. "The actions of our prime minister and minister of home affairs is totally disgraceful," he claimed. Accusing the Union government of trying to destroy the federal structure of the nation, Tripathi said, “The Constitution clearly mentions 47 subjects in the state list, including law and order, labour laws, agriculture laws, etc. But the central government is desperately acting to break the federal structure. It seems the Centre believes that state governments have no powers of their own." He also accused the central government of carrying out privatisation in all sectors, especially coal, leading to escalation of violence in collieries across the country, including Dhanbad. “Earlier during Congress rule mining was carried out by public sector companies. Instead, the BJP government has handed over coal excavation work to private contractors in order to get a share of profits from them. Consequently, local goons are trying to develop their influence on these contractors leading to violence,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
15-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Badminton Association elects 7 new faces in executive panel||Seven new faces have been elected to the executive committee of Jharkhand Badminton Association (JBA) with K. Prakhakar Rao becoming secretary for the fifth consecutive term. The 18th annual general meeting and the election of the state shuttle outfit was held at the Country Club at JSCA International Stadium in Dhurwa, Ranchi on Sunday. Jharkhand Olympic Association secretary Madhukant Pathak was present as an observer and regional deputy director of education department Arvind Bijay Bilumg graced the occasion as a special guest. The tenure of the new executive is four years. The faces who have been elected as the executive committee members include Ajay Kumar Rai (Chatra), Arvind Kumar Singh (Koderma), Vijay Kumar Singh (Ramgarh), Uma Rani Palit (Ranchi), Samrat Choudhary (Dhanbad), Kanishka Kashyap (Deogarh) and Shashi Kumar Pandey (Khunti). Uma Rani Palit is a seven-time state champion who has also represented India veterans. Others in the executive panel are Deepak Kumar Verma (president, Hazaribag), Deepak Kumar Sinha (senior executive president, Seraikela-Kharsawan), Dr R.A. Khan(executive president, Bokaro), Ganesh Prasad (executive president, Lohardaga), Shailendra Kumar Sinha (vice-president, Dumka), Santosh Kumar Namdhari (vice-president, Palamu), Ashok Joshi (vice-president, West Singhbhum), Vijay Sahu (vice-president, Gumla), Deepak Jha (vice-president, Dumka), K Prabhakar Rao (secretary, East Singhbhum), Ravi Shekhar Singh (treasurer, Seraikela-Kharsawan), Yashvir Jaggi (joint secretary, Hazaribag), Sachin Kumar Rana (joint secretary, Seraikela-Kharsawan), Nirmal Kumar Dey (joint secretary, Ranchi) Md Arshi (joint secretary, Godda) and Ranjay Kumar Ray (joint secretary, East Singhbhum). Sachin Rana, who runs a training centre at Mohan Ahuja Stadium in Jamshedpur has accompanied Indian shuttle teams to off-shore events as a coach. Jamshedpur-based Rao, who also happens to be the joint secretary of Badminton Association of India and chairman of Para-Badminton India, said representatives of all the 24 JBA affiliated districts were present at the meeting. "Promotion of the game in districts and other related issues were discussed during the meeting. The election was conducted in a peaceful manner," Rao, who is JBA secretary since 2006, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
15-03-2021||Jharkhand||Rights activists ask Hemant govt to crack down on lynching ||Expressing concern over two almost back-to-back incidents of mob lynching in Ranchi over the last two weeks, Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (JJM), a conglomeration of civil and human rights activists, demanded that the Hemant Soren government pay Rs 25 lakh compensation to the next of kin of the deceased, enact stringent laws to curb such incidents and implement the Supreme Court’s guidelines on such killings to prevent the state from becoming a mobocracy. Referring to the past incidents during the former BJP-led government in the state, JJM said that as many as 19 people had been killed by religious and cow vigilante groups. “It is appalling and sad that lynching incidents are still on despite a change of power in the state,” JMM said in a statement. “We demand that the state government provide relief to the bereaved family within 30 days, come up with tough laws to curb lynchings and implement SC’s directives in this regard, besides launching a massive awareness drive to sensitise people,” it added. The JJM also demanded that those responsible for these deaths be arrested and brought to justice by ensuring a fast-paced investigation and appointing an experienced public prosecutor to fight the case in court. “The government must also review the current status of past incidents of lynchings to ensure proper punishment for the culprits and launch a crackdown against those who are responsible for delaying these cases,” it said. A 27-year-old man, identified as Mubarak Khan, was allegedly beaten to death by an irate mob in Sikri village in Angara on Ranchi outskirts early on Sunday for apparently stealing tyres and a battery from a motorcycle, in a rerun of a similar incident under the city’s Kotwali police station area on March 8 when a mob of 40 people had brutally assaulted one Sachin Kumar on suspicion of theft. Incidents of lynching also dominated the day's proceedings at Jharkhand Assembly on Monday. While the Opposition BJP tried to corner the Hemant Soren government by accusing it of being a mute spectator amid deteriorating law and order, many MLAs from the ruling alliance also voiced their concern over such incidents and demanded the government take strict action. Congress’s MLA from Mandar Bandhu Tirkey demanded that Rs 10 lakh compensation be immediately paid to the victim’s family in addition to ensuring a speedy trial in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
15-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over one lakh senior citizens get Covid vaccine jab in Jharkhand||The count of senior citizens vaccinated against coronavirus crossed the 1 lakh mark in Jharkhand on Sunday as 8,450 senior citizens got the first jab on the day, taking the total number of vaccinated senior citizens in the state to 1,02,268, data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. These senior citizens will have to get the second dose of the vaccine starting March 28. While senior citizens in the state have shown a positive response to the vaccine, Jharkhand is facing a tough time trying to achieve its target for vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers. For the past three days, Jharkhand failed to achieve more than 10 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the Covishield vaccine to healthcare and frontline workers. Even on Sunday, the state only managed to administer the first dose of the vaccine to only 5 per cent of registered healthcare and frontline workers, revealed the government data. As many as 1,478 healthcare and frontline workers and 1,178 middle-agers with comorbid conditions were administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand on Sunday. The second dose was administered to only 4697 beneficiaries, hardly 6 per cent of the total number of beneficiaries registered for vaccination. Senior citizens in Ranchi, Giridih and Pakur have been prompt in getting vaccinated. As per the government data, as many as 12,565 senior citizens got the first jab in Ranchi – the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. Pakur and Giridih have vaccinated more than 10,000 senior citizens each. So far, as many as 4,76,367 people have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand, while 1,46,664 have received the second jab of the vaccine as well. As many as 18,451 middle-agers with comorbid conditions have got the first jab so far. Meanwhile, active cases of Covid-19 infection jumped to 548 on Sunday as the state reported 61 fresh cases against only 28 recoveries, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. Ranchi reported 36 cases against 14 recoveries, and the count of active cases here rose to 329, which is more than 60 per cent of the total active cases in Jharkhand, the bulletin further stated. So far, Jharkhand has reported over 1.2 lakh cases of Covid-19 infection and more than 98 per cent of the patients have recovered. The state did not report any Covid casualty on the day. As many as 1,093 people have died of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand so far, reveals government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
