16-03-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Motors Hospital starts mass vaccination drive on National Vaccination Day||On National Vaccination Day, Tata Motors Hospital flagged off a mass vaccination drive for its employees and their dependent above the age of 45 with comorbidities on Tuesday. Vishal Badshah, head Jamshedpur Plant, Tata Motors was present during the inauguration of this programme, along with Dr. Sanjay Kumar, Head Medical Services – Tata Motors Hospital and Dr. Sanjay Srivastava, Chief Medicine – Tata Motors Hospital. Significantly, this is not the first time for the hospital has pledged to fight against the deadly virus. It has treated over 3800 Covid-19 positive cases out of which 39 were pregnant women till date. Officials maintained that the company has been continuously working towards giving back to the society and in order to do the same Tata Motors even distributed food kit, sanitisers, masks and other Covid essentials and touched more than 52,000 lives during the pandemic. Tata Motors Hospital has successfully vaccinated a total number of 4,200 individuals so far. The corporate hospital has set a target of vaccinating 450 individuals daily. Commenting on the same, Dr. Sanjay Kumar, Head Medical Services – Tata Motors Hospital said, “It gives me immense pride and honor to work for the wellbeing of not only our employees but also for the society at large. Vaccines are essential to help us develop immunity against deadly diseases. With the present Coronavirus pandemic claiming about 2.66 million lives, vaccination has once again acquired paramount importance and on this day we would like to urge everyone to get vaccinated.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||“Lights off” protest against proposed disinvestment in PSU||Over hundred executives of Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) “switched off light” at their homes to register their protest against the government’s decision of disinvestment in Public Sector Undertaking (PSU) here on Tuesday evening. The proposed disinvestment is being widely opposed by members of Bokaro Officers Steel Association (BOSA) after a call given by associations like Steel Executive Federation of India (SEFI) and National Confederation of Officer’s Association (NCOA). BSL officers expressed grave concern over disinvestment issue. A K Singh, president, BOSA said, “This is our symbolic protest against disinvestment and privatisation of Steel PSUs. Government has announced ‘disinvestment of non-core sectors PSUs’ which is not acceptable.”. To make get heard around 1900 executives working in BSL, chose to switch off the light in their homes between 7 pm to 7.15 pm. Their family members also participated in the protest. BSL is a unit of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL). Executives in PSU’s are worried that the government would privatise SAIL in the future just like it has been done with Vizag Steel. Singh said that they will keep protesting till the government understands the sentiments and demands of PSU employees. Fighting against all odds of the prevailing pandemic, BSL executives exhibited exemplary courage to achieve the target set by the company. BOSA president said, “Disinvestment can’t be a good solution. Employment should also be taken care of by the central government.” SEFI council also had a virtual meeting with the members and expressed grave concern over the disinvestment of steel PSUs. The executive fraternities of steel PSU feel that the unnecessary proposals of disinvestment will definitely hamper the economy to a great extent. The entire nation is shocked with the government’ decision of retaining a bare minimum PSUs belonging to strategic sector, while others being sold off or shutdown, maintained many.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||Lynch victim's widow meets Hemant to seek compensation||Tabassum Khatoon (25), the widow of Angara lynch victim Mubarak Khan , met chief minister Hemant Soren at his office in the state Assembly on Tuesday and submitted a memorandum demanding Rs 50 lakh compensation, a government job for herself, and assistance for education of her two minor children. “I wasn’t at home when the incident occurred. I was at my parents’ house. I rushed to the village early in the morning after getting the news. My husband is innocent and earned living by working as a driver,” she pleaded before Hemant. Khan was killed early on Sunday by a mob on suspicion of stealing a tyre and battery of a bike at Sirki village in Angara block on Ranchi outskirts. Khan’s family and relatives have, however, named 18 people in an FIR alleging a conspiracy to murder him due to personal enmity. During the lunch break of the day's Assembly proceedings, Congress’s MLA from Jamtara Irfan Ansari took Khan’s wife and her children to meet Hemant. While Ansari has himself demanded Rs 10 lakh compensation to the next of kin of Mubarak, his widow has sought Rs 50 lakh. Ansari said he has demanded that the guilty be arrested and a speedy trial held to bring them to justice. “Whatever happened shouldn’t have occurred in the first place. The entire allegation of he (Mubarak) being a thief is a concocted story,” he said, charging the BJP of giving it a communal colour. “I even learnt that the BJP is playing dirty games now to give the incident different spin,” he said, but did not elaborate. Later talking to reporters, Tabassum said she was worried about her children’s future. “My husband was the lone earning member of the family. I don’t know how we will manage and raise my kids,” she wept. Ranchi police have so far arrested 9 named accused. SP(rural) Naushad Alam said that raids were on to trace the remaining accused. Mubarak's lynching was the second such incident in Ranchi within 10 days. On March 8, Sachin Kumar was lynched by a mob of about 40 people under Kotwali police station area in the city on the suspicion of theft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||Violence rocks Dhanbad over coal loading work ||Two incidents of stone-pelting and arson rocked Dhanbad on Tuesday, injuring half a dozen workers less than 24 hours after former state rural development minister  K.N. Tripathi blamed privatisation of the coal sector for the escalation of violence in collieries. The first incident took place at 1am on Tuesday at the coal patch of private excavator Ambey Private Ltd, engaged in coal production on behalf of coal major Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) at Block II area, around 25 km from district headquarters. Unidentified persons hurled more than six bombs and carried out more than 10 rounds of firing at the coal patch. The attackers also set ablaze two tipper trucks (bearing registration numbers NL 02K 1492 and NL 02 K 9768) and damaged two other earth movers used in mining work. The armed attackers also caused serious injuries to tipper truck driver Manik Ghosh, an employee of the private coal excavator of Calcutta. A team of Baghmara police, led by OC Subedar Yadav, that reached the site after being informed by coal workers, admitted the injured driver to a private hospital. The police officer also tried to douse the flames that had engulfed the trucks with the help of local residents. Yadav said, “We are yet to identify the attackers. We are scanning CCTV footage to identify them.” The other incident occurred at 8am at the Integrated Muraidih-Phularitand colliery in Barora area of BCCL. Two warring factions of local residents involved in coal loading work indulged in violence during which stones were pelted at random. Firearms were used freely, injuring as many as six persons. Senior police officers led by Baghmara SDPO  Nisha Murmu were able to bring the situation under control after a lathicharge. At the crux of the issue, festering for over a week, is control of manual coal loading at Muraidih Shatabdi coal dump. On Monday, mechanised loading operations were carried out using 13 tipper trucks under police protection due to the volatile situation. On Tuesday, morning, the two factions reached the site after which a clash broke out over who gets to control manual coal loading operations. Murmu said, “We have stopped manual loading in Muraidih Shatabdi coal dump. At the same, we have launched an investigation to find who is responsible behind the violence.” State INTUC general secretary A.K. Jha blamed wrong policies for the escalation of the violence. "Faulty policies of the central government by virtue of which private companies are being engaged in mining activity is primarily responsible for the violence,” he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||Madhupur byelection on April 17||Byelection to the Madhupur Assembly seat will be held on April 17 along with two parliamentary seats in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka and 13 other Assembly seats, the Election Commission of India announced on Tuesday. According to the commission, a gazette notification for the elections would be issued on March 23 while the last date for nomination has been fixed on March 30. After scrutiny of the forms on March 31, withdrawals can be done till April 3. Results will be announced on April 2. The Madhupur seat in Jamtara district in Jharkhand’s Santhal Parganas fell vacant last year after the demise of former minority affairs minister Haji Hussain Ansari, who died of post Covid complications. In January, chief minister Hemant Soren inducted Haji’s son, Hafizul Hassan, into his cabinet. He will be the JMM's candidate for the seat. Haji won from Madhupur as a JMM candidate four times since he first contested in 1995. He was also the first Muslim to become minister in the state after its formation in 2000. Since coming to power in 2019, Madhupur will be third byelection for the Hemant Soren led JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government. The two byepolls held in Dumka and Bermo last year were clinched by the ruling alliance. In Dumka, the chief minister's younger brother Basant Soren won on a JMM ticket while in Bermo, Congress’s Anup Singh emerged victorious. Both were debutants in electoral politics. Reacting to the poll announcement, the ruling alliance sounded more than hopeful of winning. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “Madhupur has traditionally been our stronghold and we shall certainly win riding on the good work done by our government.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||At 71, steel city veteran gears up for national meet||At 71, Avtar Singh is gearing up  to make an impression at the inaugural National Veterans Sports & Games Championship Khel Mahakumbh to be held at Nashik, Maharashtra from April 8 to 11. The septuagenarian, a resident of Sonari locality in Jamshedpur, is preparing for the event in earnest interest. The zeal and excitement is also not amiss as he pedals on the Marine Drive in the evenings and also does some light stretching exercises. Singh, who used to participate in javelin at university level, practices the sport at Joggers’ Park in Sonari. “I’ll use all of my experience in both cycling and javelin at Khel Mahakumbh,” the veteran said. Singh, a seven-time national cycling champion, will be competing in cycling and javelin throw during the Khel Mahakumbh. "I will be trying my luck in 30 km and 50 km road cycling as well as javelin throw. I am gearing up and would leave no stone unturned to make an impression. I am very excited and looking forward to the event with a positive frame of mind," Singh, who runs Jeevika, a school for intellectually impaired, said. His wife Sukhdeep Kaur is the secretary of the school. Asked if he feels fit, he said barring a slight issue in the calf muscle, his fitness is okay. "I think pain in the calf muscle would subside by the time I reach Nashik. I will be borrowing a racing cycle from one of my acquaintances at the competition venue," Singh said. Singh led the Indian cycling team in the 1982 Asian Games in New Delhi and has been adjudged fastest cyclist of the country several times. After retiring from the sport, Singh dedicated his life for the cause of special athletes. He is training and channelising the lives of special athletes for over three decades now. He has produced 10 athletes who have won medals in international competitions organised under Special Olympics International. Singh sustains on a simple diet and lives a balanced lifestyle. "One has to make adjustments when age is advancing. I am happy with my life and would carry on working for the cause of special athletes. Smile on their (special athletes) face gives me immense satisfaction," he added. He is the only trainer from Asia invited as a technical official for three Special Olympics World Summer Games in Shanghai (2007), Los Angeles (2015), Abu Dhabi (2019) by the Special Olympics Games organising committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||75% reservation for locals even in PSUs, says JMM||The Jharkhand government’s decision of providing 75 per cent reservation to locals in the private sector will also be implemented in the public sector undertakings, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said on Tuesday. Addressing media persons in Ranchi, the senior JMM leader said that the Centre should learn from chief minister Hemant Soren’s “revolutionary” decision of providing 75 per cent reservation to locals of the state in private sector jobs. "Reservation for locals will not only be restricted to the private sector, but also be extended to the public sector undertakings like Central Coalfield (CCL), Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) and Uranium Corporation of India (UCIL) in Jharkhand,” said Bhattacharya. The PSUs mentioned by Bhattacharya are all run by the Union government and recruitments for these companies are also done pan-India without state-specific reservations. In order to make changes in the recruitment rules for the companies, the state government will have to send a proposal to the Centre. Asking the Centre to learn from Hemant, Bhattacharya said that the state government’s decision of providing unemployment allowance to youths at a time when people were losing jobs across the country was a “masterstroke”. Bhattacharya also slammed the Centre for rising prices of crude oil and the growing rate of unemployment in the country. Taking a jibe at the ruling BJP, the JMM leader said, “BJP’s GDP – Gas, Diesel, Petrol – has been skyrocketing,” referring to the hike in the price of LPG, diesel and petrol. Talking about the West Bengal and Assam elections, Bhattacharya said JMM would extend support to Trinamool Congress in Bengal and the Congress  in Assam. The party had earlier decided to contest Assembly seats in West Bengal, but seeing the polarisation of voters in the neighbouring state, it decided to support TMC in order to defeat the BJP, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||SSLNT college student-entrepreneurs execute business ideas||Shantanu Banerjee, a 42 year-old software developer of Dhanbad, is helping girl student entrepreneurs to execute their business ideas into projects at the first incubation center in SSLNT the Women’s College of coal town. Banerjee’s Centre of Innovation, Incubation and Entrepreneurship Development has been providing assistance to three different startups by women, working on different innovative ideas. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Banerjee, the chief mentor of the institute said that the centre was inaugurated by organising  a mega event of national level for startups at IIT-ISM on February 26 last year. Initially, they wanted to establish the centre at BIT-Sindri but that plan was marred by the pandemic. “We again initiated the effort to establish the center at SSLNT Women’s College about three months ago, when the College approached us and initially selected three projects, including two involving SSLNT college students. The other one involves one postgraduate student of the Department of Mass Communication of Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University (BBMKU) and another student from this college,” said Banerjee.  Explaining the deets about the projects, he said, “One of the projects titled ‘Eco Loop’ launched by three M Com students of SSLNT Poonam Kumari, Shikha Singh and Nandini Singh involves working on environment conservation through waste management practices. Two undergraduate students Diksha Roy and Aditi are working on Kokaringa, a programme generating products made through Moringa plants, which has huge medicinal properties including anti cancerous properties.” Banerjee said that the third group is working on a project named ‘Kya Khoob’ which makes different utensils and decorative items through waste papers. Postgraduate students Pratigya Lala and Shikha Singh are working on this cause. “I have realised that the girls have more novel and innovative ideas compared to boys as they think of any project with greater concentration compared to boys,” he said. SSLNT College principal Sharmila Rani said that they have started off with the centre with limited facilities but will gradually increase them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||Two-day bank strike total in Jharkhand, customers suffer||Bank employees across Jharkhand joined the nationwide bank strike for the second consecutive day on Tuesday, primarily inconveniencing customers who needed to withdraw cash as ATMS ran dry. The strike affected the functioning of over 1000-odd branches of various banks across the state. Work of cheque clearance, issuance of drafts, cash deposits, issuance of letter of credit and bank guarantee were also affected. Government transactions related to treasury as well as business transactions were also affected. The call for a two-day strike which began in Monday was given by United Forum of Bank Union (UFBU), an umbrella outfit  of nine bank unions, against privatisation of PSU banks and other banking reforms. Branches of private sector banks like ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank also remained closed in Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad and other cities of Jharkhand. Bank employees under the banner of UFBU staged dharnas and demonstrations opposing the Centre's privatisation bid at several places. The dharna in Ranchi was organised at SBI's Kutchery Road branch while in Jamshedpur demonstrations continued for the second consecutive day near the SBI branch at Bistupur. Former Jamshedpur MP and Congress spokesperson Ajoy Kumar went to the dharna spot at Bistupur on Tuesday and extended his support to the cause of bank employees. In Dhanbad bank employees holding banners and shouting slogans against the Centre staged demonstration outside SBI's Katras Road branch. Bank employees participated in similar dharnas and demonstrations in several other places including Bokaro, Hazaribagh and Ramgarh where all banks downed shutters for the second consecutive day. Reports of ATMs running dry came in from different places in Ranchi and the steel city. Banks were closed on March 13 (second Saturday) and March 14 (Sunday), which meant that there were no banking services for four days. "We oppose the Centre's decision of privatisation of public sector banks. The budget announcement said two banks and one insurance company will be privatised in the name of disinvestment. Therefore, we had appealed to all bank employees to join the two-day strike, " said Rintu Rajak, the local convenor of UFBU. The senior functionary of UFBO claimed that the two-day strike was a complete success.He, however, said that the online banking facility  remained operational during the two-day strike . He said employees of public sector insurance companies have also decided to observe a similar strike on Wednesday and Thursday. Customers, hwoever, differed, saying they faced severe problems during the two-day strike. “I was not aware of the bandh and had gone to withdraw cash from the SBI ATM in Bistupur on Monday. But I found it closed. I needed the money for procuring text books for my daughter for the new session," said Ravinder Kumar, a resident of Bistupur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||Squatters at Khaasmahal fell trees as steel city plans crackdown||Squatters who have returned to encroach upon government land at Khaasmahal in Parsudih have allegedly felled over 100 trees in the last week to pave the way for setting up shanties to live in. Many of the encroachers, who had initially marked out areas using ropes or clothes, have already built dwellings there and begun staying there at night. Concerned over the ever-increasing number of encroachers Jamshedpur circle officer Amit Srivastav has sent a request to Dhalbhum SDO Amit Srivastav to depute 500 armed policemen to carry out an eviction drive on March 18. "We have decided to carry out a massive anti-encroachment drive on March 18. To ensure its success, we have requested the district administration to send 500 armed policemen on Tuesday," Srivastav said. Srivastav said after the Khaasmahal land was cleared of encroachers, they would set up a picket of armed police. "This is to ensure the encroachers do not return and grab the land once again," said Srivastav. The circle oficer said cases had been registered against six persons for mobilising adjoining slum-dwellers to encroach on the government land. "We are identifying more people who are involved in the encroachment of the plot of land at Khaasmahal," he said. A large number of slum-dwellers from adjoining Jharkhand Nagar, Kitadih and Karandih had a week ago encroached upon over 10 acre government land at the prime location in Parsudih. The administration had evicted them on March 9. But they returned to the site the next morning and were now consolidating their presence there by felling trees and building hutments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Congress lines up campaigners for Bengal, Assam elections ||From next week, Congress ministers and key leaders of Jharkhand will be campaigning for the coming elections in Bengal, where voting will be held in eight phases, and in Assam, where voting will be held in four phases, beginning March 27. Talking to reporters on Tuesday, state Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said the state unit getting reay to make active contribution in the elections to ensure pthe party does well. He said state party president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon is scheduled to visit Assam on March 24. “Oraon will be campaigning mainly in the tribal dominated pockets of Assam and Bengal. He is set to visit Assam on March 24 after the budget session of the state Assembly here. His focus areas will be in Dibrugarh and the  tea-estate areas that are dominated by tribals. Similarly, in West Bengal, he will be canvassing in regions like Darjeeling, Alipurdwar, Purulia and Jhargram, among others.” Mandar MLA Bandhu Tirkey, on the other hand, is gearing up to campaign in Assam before the second phase of elections on April 1. Tirkey is among the 30 star campaigners appointed by AICC for the second phase of polls in Assam.  Another minister in the state government and Pakur MLA, Alamgir Alam, is also expected to head to Bengal on March 23. He is expected to stay put there till the elections, said party sources. Notably, Alam was a member of the three-man core campaigning committee of the Congress party for Bengal. Other Congress veterans who have been assigned poll responsibilities by the high command are Mahagama MLA Dipika Pandey Singh, health minister Banna Gupta, Bermo MLA Anup Singh and Mani Shankar. Congress is a part of JMM-RJD alliance government of Jharkhand. Dubey said that the good work done by the government here will have a positive impact in Bengal and Assam. “In little over one year since we came into power, our government has begun fulfilling major poll promises _ right from farm loan waivers, to reserving 75% jobs in private sector for locals and unemployment allowance, slash in application fee for state civil service aspirants, etc.  Our party will showcase the success stories before voters in other states to win their confidence and not indulge in mudslinging like the BJP,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand sets target: 10 lakh rural residents to be vaccinated||The health department has set a target of vaccinating at least 10 lakh rural residents against Covid-19 during a weeklong panchayat level immunisation campaign from March 20 to March 27 in Jharkhand, officials said on Tuesday, adding that community health centres (CHCs) and primary health centres (PHCs) in villages would double up as jab sites during the campaign. According to National Health Mission (NHM), the special vaccination drive will be run on March 20, March 21, March 23, March 24, March 26 and March 27. As a part of the campaign, the government aims to set up at least one vaccination centre at each of the 4,562 panchayats in Jharkhand, officials said. “The PHCs and CHCs will mostly double up as vaccination centres during the campaign. The objective behind the drive is to speed up vaccination at the rural level as people living in the villages were not as prompt as urban residents in getting the jabs in Jharkhand,” said state NHM director Ravi Shankar Shukla. State health secretary K.K. Soan has directed officials in all 24 districts to identify senior citizens and people who were above the age of 45 years and suffering from comorbid conditions for the vaccination programme. The beneficiaries will be informed in advance about their date of vaccination and provided details of the vaccination centre where they can get the jab for free, health officials said. In many parts of rural Jharkhand, the fear of side effects and rumours have slowed down the vaccination campaign, sources said. In some villages of Latehar, Lohardaga, Chatra and Pakur, many senior citizens avoided the vaccine jabs. As a result, while urban districts like Ranchi and Bokaro vaccinated more than 10,000 senior citizens each, Latehar, Lohardaga and Chatra inoculated less than 2,000 senior citizens since March 1. As per government data, around 5 lakh people have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand so far, and more than 3.5 lakh of them were healthcare and frontline workers. Around 1.16 lakh senior citizens and close to 20,000 middle-aged people with comorbid conditions have got the first jab of the vaccine in the state since March 1. Over 1.5 lakh healthcare and frontline workers have received the second dose of the vaccine as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city girl steals show in national archery championship||Steel city's Komalika Bari played a stellar role to help Jharkhand emerge overall recurve champions in the 41st NTPC Junior National Archery Championship which concluded in Dehradun, Uttarakhand, on Monday. The 19-year-old cadet of Tata Archery Academy (TAA) clinched four gold medals in the ranking round, individual section, team event and mixed category to stamp her authority. Besides Komalika, who has been selected in the Indian women's recurve team for the upcoming Tokyo Olympic Games, other members of the team included Deepti Kumari, Laxmi Hembrom and Rita Kumari. She paired up with Shrey Bhardwaj, also a cadet of elite Tata cradle, to claim the gold medal in the mixed category. Komalika, who hails from a modest family, had bagged gold at the World Archery Youth Championships held at Madrid, Spain in 2019 . In all, Jharkhand finished with 10 medals -- eight golds, including four  in the women’s category shooting with traditional bows and arrows. The team also bagged one silver and one bronze medal each in the Indian round. Eminent personalities including Jharkhand Archery Association president and former chief minister Arjun Munda, secretary and Dronacharya awardee Purnima Mahto, TAA chief coach and Dronacharya awardee Dharmendra Tiwary, coaches Harendra Singh and B. Sriniwas Rao congratulated the women's side for the success.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over 15,000 senior citizens get first jab of Covid vaccine in a day||As many as 15,982 senior citizens and 2,321 middle-aged with comorbid conditions were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand on Monday, while 4,049 healthcare workers and frontline workers got their first jab at vaccination centres across the state, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The state, however, achieved only 10 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of vaccine to healthcare and frontline workers on the day. The second jab was administered to as many as 13,351 healthcare and frontline workers, only 16 per cent of over 85,000 beneficiaries registered for the second dose on Monday. State NHM Director Ravi Shankar Shukla on Monday said that the government was focusing on speeding up the vaccination process as Covid cases were on the rise and vaccination would at least provide safety to senior citizens and people with comorbid conditions. “We are focusing on vaccinating as many senior citizens and vulnerable people as possible at the earliest in order to prevent casualties in the state in case of a rise in Covid cases,” said Shukla. As per government data, as many as 4,94,432 people have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand since the launch of the nationwide immunization programme on January 16. At least, 1,57,684 of these beneficiaries have also received the second jab, reveals NHM data. The state has so far achieved 86 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of vaccine and 68 per cent of the target for administering the second jab, stated a report released by the NHM. Of the close to 5 lakh people vaccinated, more than 3.5 lakh were healthcare and frontline workers. Over 1.16 lakh senior citizens and more than 19,000 middle-agers with comorbid conditions have got the first jab of the vaccine so far. Meanwhile, at least 67 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Monday, while 59 patients recovered, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. The number of active cases of infection crossed the 550 mark on the day and reached 556. The number of active cases also drew close to 350 in Ranchi as the district reported 48 cases against only 31 recoveries. As many as 346 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
16-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi police drive against ‘mob justice’ ||Ranchi police have decided to seek the help of NGOs and local representatives to spread awareness among the people not to take the law into their hands after back-to-back lynching cases in the span of a week. Ranchi senior superintendent of police Surendra Kumar Jha on Monday directed all the 44 officers-in-charge of police stations in the Jharkhand district to take the help of local elected representatives and NGOs for an extensive awareness drive among the masses against mob justice. “We will be taking the help of mukhiyas (panchayat chiefs), zilla parishad members, ward councillors and local MLAs to help the police stations concerned in reaching out to the masses against taking law into their own hands and beating up people suspecting them of involvement in some crimes. “The officers-in-charge have also been directed to disseminate information using the public address system on the patrolling jeeps,” said Jha. The local representatives and police officers have also been asked to inform the masses about rigorous imprisonment after being convicted in mob lynching cases. “We would be trying to spread information among the people that they should hand over any suspect caught by them to the police. Almost all the village heads and mukhiyas possess the mobile numbers of local police officers and it would take less than 10 minutes for the police patrolling unit to reach the site of the incident to catch the suspects. During the awareness drive, we will inform the people that if convicted in lynching cases, they could face rigorous imprisonment upto 14 years which may ruin their entire life and career. “People will also be asked to inform immediately to the local police officials about any mob conspiracy in their locality,” said Ranchi rural superintendent of police Naushad Alam. Alam said that nine accused have been arrested in the lynching of 26-year-old Mubarak Khan in the wee hours of Sunday. Mubarak was tied to a pole and beaten to death for allegedly stealing tyres and battery of a motorcycle in Maheshpur village of Sirka panchayat under Angara police station on the outskirts of Ranchi around 2am on Sunday. Mubarak used to drive a bread container for deliveries. However, relatives of the deceased alleged that personal enmity led to his killing claiming that he had a dispute with some of the villagers a few days back and they had beaten him to death. This is the second incident of lynching in the Jharkhand capital this month. Earlier, 22-year-old Sachin Kumar Verma was beaten by a group of labourers in the Upper Bazar area in Ranchi on March 8 on the suspicion of vehicle theft. He was taken to the police station and succumbed to his injuries before he could be taken to the hospital. In the last 12 months, around 12 mob lynching cases have been reported in different parts of Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
