17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand girls crush Odisha 5-0 in semifinal of national hockey meet||Hosts Jharkhand thrashed Odisha 5-0 in a semifinal tie at the 11th sub-junior women’s national hockey meet underway in Simdega district on Wednesday to set up a summit clash with Haryana in the finals on Thursday. For Jharkhand, Nisha Minj and Fulmani Bhengra scored two goals each while the fifth goal was scored by Purnima Barwa. Right from start, the hosts went on to play their natural attacking game and netted goals at regular intervals. The first goal for Jharkhand came in the 7th minute while the rest came in 21st, 35th, 43rd and 50th minutes of the game. Wednesday’s semi-final saw a massive turnout at the Astroturf stadium that has the capacity to accommodate 4000 people. Since noon, fans from different parts of the district, and even from neighbouring Odisha, turned up to watch the game, which was also beamed live by International Hockey Federation through its social media platforms to over 150 countries. Hockey Jharkhand president Bholanath Singh said it was a momentous occasion for a remote district like Simdega to host a national tournament for the first time, that too flawlessly, amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “The state hockey association is thankful to the district administration and state government for making elaborate arrangements for the conduct of the games while ensuring Covid protocols. All players and team officials maintained the highest standards of precautions to prevent the spread of the virus,” he said. Sub-junior women's teams from 22 states are taking part in this tournament, which began on March 10. Next month, Simdega is scheduled to host junior national women’s championships from April 3 to April 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Doctor tests positive 18 days after vaccination in steel city||A 62-year-old doctor tested Covid positive 18 days after he received the second dose of the Covishield vaccine, but his symptoms are mild, district health officials here have said. The doctor, who is posted at the MGM Medical College Hospital, tested positive along with his 56-year-old wife and 27-year-old son after nasal swab samples were taken from them on Sunday, March 7. The wife and son aren’t vaccinated. All three are all in isolation at their residence at Sakchi now. East Singhbhum district civil surgeon A.K. Lal confirmed the finding but refused to share further details of the doctor who has comorbidities. "This case came to our notice on Tuesday night. We are carrying out further tests. We are closely monitoring the case,” he told The Telegraph Online. The East Singhbhum district health department has so far administered Covishield vaccines to over 8,000 people.  But this is the first case of an inoculated person testing positive. Experts worldwide say immunity or “best protection” should kick in around 15 days after the second dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine. Britain’s National Health Service says there will also be a “significant level” of protection even after the first dose. But doctors globally also say there can be a small chance of getting Covid-19 even after both doses but that the vaccine is likely to reduce the severity of the symptoms. AstraZeneca says Oxford-led clinical trials from the UK, Brazil and South Africa confirmed that the vaccine was 100 per cent protective against severe disease, hospitalisation and death more than 22 days after the first dose. A Lancet study showed that Covishield’s efficacy against contracting Covid-19 was only 55.1 per cent when the two doses were administered less than six weeks apart. If the vaccinations are administered 12 weeks apart, the vaccine has 81.3 per cent efficacy against the coronavirus, according to Lancet. In the UK it is being given after an interval of three months. In India, the second dose is being given with a gap of about 28 days. That’s exactly when the Jamshedpur doctor got his second dose. "I had got the first dose of Covishield on January 19 and the second dose on February 16. But about 10 days ago, my wife complained of fever and cold. I treated her but her fever did not come down. Then I arranged for a Covid test on Sunday. She tested positive," the doctor told The Telegraph Online. The doctor added that he and his son got tested just to be doubly sure. But while his symptoms are mild, both his wife and son have been severely affected. "I have comorbidity. I was down with mouth cancer two years ago. I have also had open-heart surgery. But despite that I have been mildly affected, possibly because I have taken the vaccine,” the doctor said. The doctor revealed that his wife had visited a beauty parlour at Aambagan in Sakchi a fortnight ago. Based on this information, the local civic authority, the Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), sealed the parlour on Wednesday. "We sealed the parlour as two cases of Covid-19 reported from the Sakchi area had visited it," said Ravi Bharti, JNAC city manager. According to the district civil surgeon, East Singhbhum has been reporting very few fresh Covid cases. Currently, only 24 patients are undergoing treatment for the killer virus at home and in hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand mulls Holi curbs in wake of a surge in Covid cases||Jharkhand is contemplating stricter restrictions on Holi festivities in the wake of a rise in Covid-19 cases in the state lately, officials of the home, prison and disaster management department said on Wednesday, adding that Holi Milans (gatherings) are likely to be allowed only for limited people this time around. A highly placed official said that ministers were likely to meet officials and take a call on restrictions for Holi. The meeting, he said, was likely to be held before March 25, and the government may issue guidelines for Holi celebrations on the same day. State disaster management secretary Amitabh Kaushal, however, said that Jharkhand was following guidelines set by the Centre, adding that a prohibition on processions during festivals was already in force as per the Centre’s guidelines. “No decision has been taken regarding restrictions during Holi as of now. The restrictions, as per the last order by the state government, are already in place, and any decision of imposing additional restrictions would be taken by the top most authorities in the state,” said Kaushal. Neighbouring Bihar recently imposed a ban on Holi Milan fearing a second wave of Covid-19 in the state. Several thousand Jharkhand residents also return home from Punjab, Maharashtra, Haryana and New Delhi for Holi. These states have witnessed a spike in the cases of Covid-19 infection, and people returning home for the festival could become carriers of the virus, officials said. Holi Milan events usually include cocktails and lunch. Doctors fear that Holi festivities may trigger a spike in cases as the festival of colours cannot be celebrated while maintaining social distancing. “If people smear colour on each other and come in close contact, then there is obviously a fear of transmission. We need to be extra careful during Holi,” said Dr Prabhat Kumar, coordinator of the Covid Task Force at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). The count of active Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand has jumped from 466 on February 17 to 577 on March 17, as per data with the health department. Ranchi has been the worst-affected district in the state. The district alone has contributed almost 70 per cent of the spike in Jharkhand, and active cases here have jumped from 247 on February 17 to 346 on March 17. The rising number of active cases indicates that fresh cases outnumbered recoveries during the past one month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant hints at stricter curbs in spike zones    ||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday said that Covid-19 situation in Jharkhand was very much under control, but hinted that his government may initiate additional measures in places with a higher rate of infection, like, for instance, in Ranchi and Jamshedpur. Speaking with reporters after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's meeting with chief ministers to counter the surge in some states, Hemant said Ranchi and Jamshedpur were the two concern areas for the state government. “In both these places, the numbers of daily cases are more than other districts. In fact, out of 500-odd active cases at the moment, Ranchi and Jamshedpur together account for more than 90 per cent. This is a concern at the moment. It looks as though some more stringent measures are required to arrest the situation," he said, adding that overall Covid situation was not immediately worrisome. Hemant , however, advised the people of the state to not ignore safety norms. “Please don’t move out without masks and follow all safety precautions,” he said, adding that his government was maintaining regular vigil on the situation. At Wednesday's interaction with the Prime Minister, Hemant did not get a chance to speak. “The PM mainly spoke with those states that are seeing a surge. Covid-19 is still not over. From our end, we have been already taking a restricted approach in allowing lockdown relaxations. For example, we still haven’t allowed reopening of schools up to class 7, and gatherings of more than 1,000 people,” he said. About vaccination, Hemant said the state goovernment was focusing on expanding it at the grassroots. “We are now starting vaccination drives at panchayat levels to cover as many people as we can. On the other hand, plans are afoot to also increase the testing rate for early detection, tracking and curing cases,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||JSCA T20 institution league set to begin from Saturday  ||Eleven outfits will vie for top honours in the Jharkhand State Cricket Association's (JSCA) T20 Institution League (Office League) to be staged at separate venues in Jamshedpur from March 20 to 27. Matches will be held at Keenan stadium, Co-operative College ground and Telco ground. Two matches will be conducted daily, one in the morning and another in the afternoon, a JSCA functionary said. The teams in group A comprises RSB Transmission, Rungta Mines, Tata Motors, Mecon Limited and Gurudev Construction while Tata Steel, Pawan Auto, SAIL, Ramson Developers, Jain Group and Nag Motors are part of group B. RSB Transmission will clash with Tata Motors at Keenan Stadium on the opening day while Rungta Mines will take on Mecon Limited in the second outing at the same venue. Both the semi-finals will be played on March 26 while the final is scheduled on the following day at Keenan Stadium. The institutional league is an old fixture which is continuing from Bihar Cricket Association days. All the venues are in good shape since JSCA's local league was conducted on these grounds. Meanwhile, the JSCA inter-district event for under-14, 16 and 19 age groups will be played from next month. Registration of players is underway at different districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Online portal to book OPD appointments at Dhanbad sadar hospital||With an aim to upgrade the Dhanbad sadar hospital into a superspeciality facility, the district administration has opened an online portal of the hospital management, from where patients can book appointments for OPD consultations without having to go to the hospital. The list of doctors along with their disciplines and qualifications are being uploaded on the website, the process of which is likely to be completed within two days. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh made a surprise visit at the hospital in this regard, where he asked nodal officer Dr Rajkumar Singh to make separate chambers for the doctors and arrange necessary medicines. He also asked the authorities to make drinking water facilities available for patients and make the seating arrangement better, so that the aim of making the facility a superspeciality hospital within six months can be achieved soon. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Singh said that these surprise inspections are necessary to take stock of the progress. “We instructed the nodal officer of the hospital to make separate parking arrangements for two wheeler and four wheeler vehicles, and refurbish the hospital as a whole,” he said. As per plans, development of a small garden, a children’s park, an auditorium for holding meetings, demolition of some old and dilapidated structures, solar system arrangement are also to be made. Rajkumar Singh said that the hospital is trying to take in renowned specialist doctors and talks are going on between both the sides at the moment. This is aimed to help people of the economically weaker sections to get better availability of medical facilities at lower rates. “Once the doctors are engaged the procurement of necessary equipment as per their requirement will be made,” the nodal officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Seniors' tourney brings back offline chess in Jharkhand ||Offline chess in Jharkhand is set to be back after more than a year. The global pandemic had forced the players to make virtual moves but the wait has ended with All Jharkhand Chess Association (AJCA) switching gears to organise the senior championship in Ranchi. The 20th edition of the Aditya Birla Memorial State Senior Chess Championship - 2021 is going to take place from March 20 to 23 at Sarala Birla University, Birla Knowledge City, Mahilong, Ranchi. According to AJCA secretary, Neeraj Kumar Mishra, the state senior women and under-25 team will be selected on the basis of ranking obtained during the championship. "As the national senior meet has been declared from April 12 at Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh, we are required to organise this event in a very short notice," he added. Players can go through the events brochure and enroll themselves online on AJCA's official website www.jharkhandchess.in. The entry fee is Rs 500 for players having ELO Rating and selected from their respective districts. For others, it is Rs 700. The entry fee is exempted for BPL card holders. A total of Rs 69,000 will be distributed amongst the top twenty finishers and the best two veteran (above 55) players. Mishra, an International Master who was recently elected secretary of Chess Players Forum, said that the state senior chess championship will be the first offline event being organised by them since the global pandemic broke out last year. Interested players can contact Neeraj Kumar Mishra (9471190041),Deepak Kumar, chief arbiter (9934465516), Vishal Kumar Minz, deputy chief arbiter (8797356009) and Baisakhi Das (8240803028).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Expect a weekend of rain, storms and lightning  ||A western disturbance passing through north-west India is likely to trigger rain and thunderstorms over Jharkhand this weekend. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre issued an alert on Wednesday, warning of rain and thunderstorm activity over north-west, southern and central Jharkhand on March 20 and 21( Saturday and Sunday). The Met office also issued a lightning alert in several districts of the state. "The passing western disturbance is expected to trigger an induced cyclonic circulation extending 0.9 km above mean sea level. The induced cyclonic circulation would result in adverse weather over Jharkhand this weekend," explained Abhishek Anand, deputy director of IMD's Ranchi Met Centre. He went on to say that dry weather with mainly clear sky was expected to prevail over Jharkhand during the next two days. A wind chart analysis and satellite pictures at Ranchi weather office suggested that cloudswould start to form in isolated pockets of Jharkhand from March 19. The IMD forecast suggested that there wouldn't be much changes in both day and night temperatures over Jharkhand during the next 72-hours. Met data suggested that Ranchi and its adjoining areas recorded a maximum temperature of around 33 degree Celsius on Wednesday while the night reading was around 18 degree Celsius. Jamshedpur recorded a day reading of around 37 degree Celsius while the night reading hovered around 19 degrees. Daltonganj recorded a day reading of 36 degree Celsius while the minimum temperature was around 18 degree Celsius on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Diploma engineers protest for jobs in Dhanbad  ||More than 400 diploma engineers from the across the country on Wednesday carried out a day-long demonstration at the headquarters of mines regulator, Directorate General of Mines Safety (DGMS) in Dhanbad today demanding jobs in various subsidiaries of Coal India Limited (CIL) and Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL). The agitators, who even underwent post diploma practical training but have been unemployed for several years, carried out the agitation under the banner of All India Diploma Engineers and Officials Association (AIDEOA). They also held a meeting with chief inspector of mines of DGMS, Prabhat Kumar demanding him to put pressure on coal companies to carry out immediate recruitment on statutory post of mining sirdar, overman and surveyors, claiming the mines operation without required manpower on statutory posts may endanger the safety of mines. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Dulal Mahto, a protestor who completed his mining diploma in 2015, underwent one year post diploma practical training and cleared the DGMS certification exams in 2017, said, “Several thousand diploma engineers from the across the country who have obtained DGMS certificates since 2017 are unemployed. We are compelled to carry out the protest today as the maximum age for recruitment may expire permanently for several candidates who will be deprived of the job.” “Our parents have invested their hard earned money on our education and training to see us succeed but they are also losing patience off late due to the lack of vacancy and appointment,” Mahto, a native resident of Katras in Dhanbad, said. “Even the coal companies are facing huge shortage of manpower on the statutory posts of Mines suveryor, overman and mining sirdars but instead of recruiting new persons to fill up the positions, they have been putting strenuous pressure on existing limited workforce,” said an overman of a coal company requesting anonymity, adding that they are also participating in demonstration today along with job seekers to ensure the filling of vacancies. “We chose to carry out the protest at mines regulator DGMS office today because being the regulator, they are entrusted with the task of carrying out the risk assessment of mining activities of the coal companies” said the protestor. The mines surveyors are entrusted with the task of making maps and plans of mines with accurate measurement and also to carry risk assessment and viability study of the potential mine sites. The mining overman coordinates and supervises the drilling and blasting work in mines within the budgeted cost while the mining sirdar assists the overman in supervising the drilling work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over 5 lakh Jharkhand residents now vaccinated||The count of Jharkhand residents vaccinated against the Covid-19 virus crossed the 5 lakh mark on Tuesday as the state administered the first dose of the vaccine to over 25,000 beneficiaries on the day, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The total number of people administered the first dose of the Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand form around 1.5 per cent of the state's total population of 3.29 crore, as per the 2011 Census. However, only 1,71,845 of the over 5 lakh vaccinated residents have also received the second jab, thereby completing their course of vaccination, NHM figures reveal. On Tuesday, as many as 18,180 senior citizens and 2,490 middle-agers with comorbid conditions were administered the first dose of the vaccine, taking the total count of senior citizens vaccinated so far to 1,39,481 and those of vaccinated middle-agers to 22,612, a report released by the NHM stated. The state achieved only 7 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine to healthcare and frontline workers on the day by inoculating 3,772 of over 50,000 beneficiaries. The second dose was administered to 10,887 healthcare and frontline workers, hardly 12 per cent of the beneficiaries registered for the second jab on the day. So far, the state has achieved 88 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine to healthcare and frontline workers and 70 per cent for the second dose. The vaccination campaign for senior citizens and middle-agers with comorbid conditions was launched on March 1. The second dose of the vaccine will be administered to senior citizens and middle-agers with comorbid conditions after Holi, which is likely to be celebrated on March 28 and March 29, health officials said. Meanwhile, the Covid toll reached 250 in Ranchi as the district reported one more casualty on Tuesday, a bulletin from NHM stated. The count of active cases also jumped to 577 in the state and 362 in Ranchi alone as fresh cases of infection outnumber Covid recoveries on the day, the bulletin added. Ranchi reported 45 of the 76 fresh cases and 29 of the 54 Covid recoveries on Tuesday. The count of active cases have been on the rise in Jharkhand lately, forcing the government to take precautionary measures and intensifying testing, officials said. As per government data, over 1.20 lakh people have been infected in the state so far and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. The state has reported 1,094 Covid fatalities so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Work for migrant who walked 7 months to reach home||The Sahebganj district administration in Jharkhand has identified the labour contractor who had allegedly duped a tribal worker who had to walk for seven months to return from Delhi after all his money was snatched and he was assaulted. Berjom Bamda Pahadiya, 54, from a primitive tribal group (PTG) who speaks only Santhali, had started walking along railway tracks during the coronavirus-induced lockdown in August and reached home at Amarbitha village in Sahebganj district on March 13, covering more than 1,200km. Sahebganj deputy commissioner Ram Niwas Yadav said The Telegraph report on March 14 on Pahadiya had left him shocked. “It was shocking to read the news…. I directed the block development officer (of Pathna) on Monday to locate the PTG member and also trace the middleman labour contractor who committed the inhuman act. We also received a directive from the chief minister’s office to ensure all social security benefits are given to the victim,” Yadav said. On Tuesday afternoon, Pathna BDO Suman Sourav identified the labour contractor as Rajesh Thakur, a resident of the same panchayat area where Pahadiya lives. Thakur is absconding since Pahadiya returned to the village. “I have lodged a report at Ranga thana against Rajesh Thakur, who had taken villagers to Delhi and assaulted and harassed the victim. We will find out who else were involved. We have asked all panchayat representatives to be alert and ensure that harassment of migrant labourers by middlemen are reported to the administration,” Sourav said. Thakur had allegedly promised good money to Pahadiya. Once in Delhi, Thakur allegedly withheld all his payments and snatched whatever meagre amount the migrant had been carrying. Pahadiya had no option but to walk all the way home, wearing a pair of torn slippers. He had to beg for food and water at villages on the way. Pahadiya says he had not eaten for a fortnight when an NGO worker spotted him at a railway crossing in Dhanbad district on March 11, about 240km from his home. The NGO worker arranged for food, clothes and also a vehicle to take Pahadiya to his village on March 13. BDO Sourav visited Pahadiya’s village on Monday evening and met him. “They are a primitive tribal group belonging to the Pahadiya community which is on the verge of extinction. They live in hills and forest areas in isolation. However, with the help of the village head I was able to trace the victim and his wife (Nandi Pahadin) on Monday evening,” Sourav said. The BDO found out that Nandi had a ration card with the name of her husband and children on it. They receive pension and ration every month. The administration has given work to the couple with the Ajeevika self-help group so that they can receive financial benefits from the government. “We also sent a recommendation to the Sahebganj district administration under the rural housing project (Birsa Awas Yojana) for the tribal couple. They will have a house by March-end or April. We have also ensured that they have a job card and their names are added under the MGNREGS,” Sourav said. The district administration also gave 50kg ration to Pahadiya while an NGO has provided them Rs 5,000 as immediate relief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand youths to join farmers’ agitation||In an attempt to involve youths in a massive way with the farmers’ agitation in response to the call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangarsh Samanvay Samity has decided to organise Yuva Kisan March in all block headquarters in the state on March 23. “March 23 is observed as Shahadat Diwas (Martyrdom Day) to mark the death anniversary of freedom fighters Bhagat Singh, Raj Guru and Sukhdev. Following the call given by the Samyukta Kishan Morcha, we have decided to observe the occasion by taking out Yuva Kisan March in all the 260 blocks headquarters in the state aiming to involve youths in huge numbers with the farmers’ protest,” said Sufal Mahato, state convener of the Samity and a farmer from the Tamar area of Ranchi. The Samity, which is the umbrella organisation coordinating the farmers agitation’ in Jharkhand, has been holding kisan panchayats in different districts and blocks of the state to prepare for the programme on March 23. “We have held kisan panchayats in almost all the blocks of Jharkhand in the run-up to the March 23 event. We are expecting youths to come in large numbers to join hands with the farmers and like-minded supporters of political parties during the rally and express solidarity with the farmers who have been agitating for 111 days against the draconian new farm laws despite oppressive tactics adopted by the central government,” said Mahato. The farmers are also involving youths as they feel their involvement is crucial for the agitation as they brace for a long stand-off with the government. “The government is using all tactics to intimidate the farmer leaders agitating near Delhi since November 26. We fear that it would be a long agitation and the active involvement of youths is necessary for any such agitation. “We have been informing youths about the shortcomings of the three new farm laws and hope that they come in large numbers to take part in the padyatra to show their solidarity with the farmers’ agitation in Delhi,” added Mahato. Sources in the Samity said that apart from the farm laws, they would also be raising their voice and protesting against the government’s failure to keep in check rising fuel prices which has reached an all-time high in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
17-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren sets example on House dignity||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren paid an exemplary tribute to democratic institutions when he chose to speak at the state Assembly for making some cabinet decisions public. “Since the House is in session, it would not be proper to announce the people-friendly decisions the state cabinet took in its meeting of March 12 outside,” he told the Speaker, adding his government was respectful towards democratic norms and the dignity of the House. “We (the leaders) will come and go and the governments will change but the House will always remain there,” Hemant further said, adding it was of utmost importance that everyone maintained and enhanced sadan ki garima (the dignity of the House). “It was like observing the model code of conduct followed during election time,” the chief minister later told media persons, explaining why he thought it would not be proper to make public announcement about those cabinet decisions and added that policy decisions should not be announced publicly when the House is in session. The decisions of the cabinet that Hemeant announced in the Assembly were, however, already known. The chief minister announced in the Assembly that the government decided that 75 per cent of jobs available in private factories and companies would be kept reserved for the local candidates. He also declared that the government would consider road accidents as a disaster and pay Rs 1 lakh to the next-of-the-kin or dependents of the victims. He further announced that such youths who were technically trained but unemployed would be paid an annual assistance of Rs 5,000. Though the details of those decisions were to be worked out by the departments concerned, it is gathered that only such jobs with a monthly salary limited to Rs 30,000 would be reserved for the local candidates. “The decision of reserving three-fourths of such jobs for local candidates is fine but the government should also skill such youths in the trades that are required for the local industrial units,” said Praveen Jain Chabra, president of the state’s apex trade body Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries. “The state government has schemes for providing skill development training and they should skill the youths after identifying the proper trades that are required for the industrial units located within the state,” he further said, adding that would actually be helpful for both the youths and industrial units of the state. There were about 634 such units that were lying idle in the state at present, Chabra further pointed out, adding those could also accommodate many such youths if those were reopened as the state government was also wanted to.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
