18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Covid-19: Jharkhand sees highest single-day spike in March||As many as 97 people were found to be infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Thursday, the highest single-day-spike in the month of March, as per the figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM). The count of active cases of infection also jumped to 624 on the day as the state reported only 72 Covid recoveries against the close to 100 fresh cases, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. However, the number of patients dropped to 363 on Thursday with the district reporting 48 recoveries against 38 cases in the past 24 hours. As per government data, swab samples of over 13,000 people were tested, of which less than 1 per cent were found to be infected. The state administration has, however, launched special drives to check the sudden rise of Covid-19 cases this week. So far, over 1.20 lakh people have been infected by the contagious virus in Jharkhand while over 98 per cent have recovered. So far, the virus has claimed around 1094 lives in the state, however, no fresh cases of deaths were reported on Thursday. Meanwhile, over 18,000 Jharkhand residents, including 12,597 senior citizens and 2604 middle-aged individuals with co-morbid conditions, were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine on Thursday, while 8648 healthcare and frontline workers got the second jab, highlighted the NHM report. The state after failing to achieve more than 10 per cent of vaccination target for the first dose since March 10, it successfully managed to inoculate 33 per cent of healthcare and frontline workers registered for the jab on Thursday, stated a report released by NHM. However, only 11 per cent of over 80,000 beneficiaries registered for the second dose got the jab on the day. Ranchi alone saw 2506 people being vaccinated on Thursday, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. With 174 jabs administered, Koderma was the worst performer for the day. As many as 3194 healthcare and frontline workers got the first jab on Thursday. As per government data, over 5.7 lakh people have already been administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand so far. The state plans to vaccinate more than 10 lakh rural residents, especially senior citizens, in a special Panchayat level drive starting Saturday, officials said. Of the over 5.7 lakh people vaccinated so far, at least 1.75 lakh were senior citizens and more than 27,000 were middle-ages individuals with comorbid conditions. As many as 1,93,196 beneficiaries have also been administered the second dose of the vaccine so far in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Forest clearance a hurdle to Adityapur water project||The mega drinking water project in Adityapur has yet another hurdle to clear - forest clearance as the construction of the master balancing reservoir and one of the water treatment plants fall under the forest area of Krishna Nagar in the NIT area and Sapra village. The drinking water project worth Rs 395 crore which began in the Adityapur municipal corporation (AMC) in May 2018 is yet to get the forest department clearance. The residents of the densely-populated Adityapur area were anxiously looking forward to getting tap water this summer but will have to bear with the perennial drinking water crisis this year as well. The project which is being carried out by the Urban Development Department was to provide tapped water to over 50,000 households in the AMC area. For the project, the executing agency, Jharkhand Urban Development and Infrastructure Corporation (JUDICO) has planned to set up 11 water towers, two water treatment plants and a mass balancing reservoir (MBR) besides laying a 500 km pipeline in the project area. Construction work of the water towers are in progress but work for the MBR and one of the water treatment plants is yet to begin due to a lack of forest department clearance. Ajay Kumar, city manager of AMC, who looks after the drinking water project on behalf of the JUDICO said as the sites for the MBR and one of the water treatment plants fall under the forest area of Krishna Nagar in NIT area and Sapra village, they had submitted a petition for the forest department clearance six months ago, but are yet to get the go-ahead. “In absence of the forest department clearance, the executing agency is not being able to begin the construction work. The forest department clearance is affecting the ambitious drinking water project effectively,” said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. It may be mentioned here that of the 50,000 households, only 7,000 households get tapped water from the Drinking Water & Sanitation Department. The rest of the residents have to manage from the borewell. But as the water table of the area has depleted considerably, most of the borewells have gone defunct, leading the affected residents to arrange drinking water from the adjoining steel city. Significantly, several residents are seen carrying drinking water in bottles back home from the Bistupur locality of the steel city. Divisional forest officer, Seraikela, Aditya Narayan said, “We are yet to receive any petition from the JUDICO or AMC concerning the forest clearance. We will be able to process the petition for the forest clearance only after we receive it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Haryana retain title, Jharkhand finishes second in women's national meet||Jharkhand ended up with the runner’s up trophy after being defeated by Haryana 3-4 in an exciting penalty shootout in the finals of the 11th Hockey India Sub Junior Women National Championship-2021 in Simdega on Thursday. The first half ended goalless in a closely contested final. The deadlock continued in the second half with neither Haryana nor Jharkhand coming close to scoring. Haryana’s captain Nidhi thereafter starred in the shootout, denying Jharkhand’s trio—Edlin Bage, Sweety Dungdung, Nisha Minj’s attempts on goal. Ritika, Kanika Siwach, Manisha and Sakshi Rana scored in the shootout for Haryana. Haryana coach Kuldeep Siwach was full of praise for his side for successfully defended the title. “I am proud of the way my girls performed throughout the tournament. It was a close battle today (Thursday). Hockey Jharkhand played very well and showed good fitness levels. Even when the match went to a shootout, I was confident that the girls could get the job done,” he said. “Our strike partnership of Kanika Siwach and Tamanna Yadav, who finished top scorers of the 11th Hockey India Sub Junior Women National Championship 2021, was the key for us throughout the event,” Siwach added. Earlier in the day, Uttar Pradesh finished third in the tournament by edging out Odisha 3-1. Hockey Jharkhand president Bholanath Singh hailed the state team’s performance. “Winning or losing is part of the game but our girls have exhibited great spirit throughout the series. Today, they missed out by a slender margin but they still deserve the accolades for storming into the finals by winning all their matches,” he said thanking the state government and the local district administration for their support in organising the prestigious tournament in Simdega, known as the state's hockey cradle. The Astroturf stadium in Simdega, which can accommodate 4,000 people, witnessed a massive turnout for the second consecutive day on Thursday in spite of the blazing sun. Next month, Simdega is again set to host the junior national women’s championship from April 3 to 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma witnesses arrival of elephants from Bengal||Herds of elephants have started their journey back to their home in Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary. The trip back to their habitat is also good news for tourists who have started visiting the Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary after the sprawling jumbo abode reopened earlier this month post-Covid pandemic. Forest guards spotted three separate herds of about 35 elephants, including tuskers, near Bijli Ghati (watering hole) on Wednesday afternoon. Some more jumbos moved into the sprawling 192 sq km sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur, in the wee hours of Thursday. The elephants, which had migrated to the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura in Bengal, last year, had been anchored on the fringe pockets of Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary for over two months. Their entry to the sanctuary was imminent. Some elephants had returned home from Bengal early in December last year and owing to the cold uphill had subsequently moved downhill. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra confirmed the presence of elephants near Bijli Ghati. "In all, about 80 elephants have moved into the sanctuary from neighbouring Bengal. We welcome the elephants back home," he added. According to Chandra, they had arranged drones for taking pictures of the elephants but the effort came a cropper as the jumbos did not come near the watering hole. "The elephants moved into the core area and pictures from drone were not possible," the range officer informed. Dalma authorities have made elaborate arrangements – from mending road to trimming bushes – to ensure a hassle-free entry of jumbos into the sanctuary. Besides getting the forest better, roads had been mended at all the six beats of the sanctuary – Bhadodih, Nutandih, Dalma, Mango, Dalma and Patamda – for swift movement of forest patrol. The effort was to minimise man-animal conflict. A forester said all the elephants should be home in a day or two. There are about 152 elephants at the scenic reserve. The jumbos had caught the migration corridor to Bengal in August-September last year. They usually return after the harvesting season in the neighbouring state, in February-March. Elephants follow two designated corridors – one from Jhunjka and the other from Burudih. The first one leads to Nutandih while the second passes through Narsingpur (Ghatshila range), Dalapani, Suklara and Aamdapahari. Both the corridors merge at Mirjadih from where the elephants cross Haludbani, Bhadodih, Bota and Dimna to reach Dalma. Tourists, mostly from Bengal, flock to the sanctuary in summer and winter to spend quality time amid natural surroundings. With the watering holes and check dams brimming, they will get ample opportunity of clicking pictures of the jumbos. Elephants take bath and quench their thirst at the watering holes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi shooter is technical official at international meet ||Tara Shahdeo is excited and raring to go as she gets ready to officiate as a technical official at the ISSF (International Shooting Sports Federation) World Cup which began at Dr Karni Singh Shooting Range in New Delhi on Thursday. The National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) has appointed the former Ranchi-based national-level shooter as one of the technical officials for the World Cup. It is for the first time Tara will be officiating in an international competition. “”I am very excited to have been appointed as a technical official and I am looking forward to learn new things. It will also be the right exposure for me," Tara said over phone from Ranchi. She is among 10 former shooters from India who have been appointed as a technical official for the World Cup. A shooting coach at Jharkhand State Sports Promotion Society (JSSPS), she is flying to New Delhi this evening. "I am leaving for the venue this evening to attend the official meeting. The competition begins on Friday morning. Thursday was earmarked for assembly of participants as well as meetings. I will be on duty at the 50 m shooting range," Tara informed. According to her, she came back home a couple of days ago after officiating as a technical official at the East Zone Shooting Championship in Asansol. “Änd now I am required to officiate in a big-ticket event. It would be a learning curve for me," Tara said. Tara has also officiated as a technical official at the Khelo India Games in Assam last year, All India Inter-school Games in Bihar in 2019 as well as Senior National Shooting Championship in Madhya Pradesh, also in 2019. The ISSF World Cup was supposed to be held last year but was postponed due to the global pandemic. It will be the first international event of 2021 for 13 of 15 Indian shooters who have already won a quota place for the Tokyo Olympics. Three hundred men and women shooters from 53 countries will be seen in action during the event which concludes on March 29. Fifty seven shooters from India are part of the World Cup.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad LIC staff join national protest against FDI, IPO||More than 100 employees of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of India, Dhanbad, on Thursday took out a rally and carried out demonstrations in front of their respective branches as part of the nation wide strike of LIC employees. The employees of all eight branches, who were protesting against the government's decision to bring IPO of LIC of India, increase of FDI in insurance sector and inordinate delay in pay revision later, also held a general meeting on Randhir Verma Chowk near the district collectorate. The protestors, who took out rally from Zila Parishad ground to Randhir Verma chowk, claimed that a loss of Rs 10 crore has been caused in Dhanbad due to closure of all eight branches during the strike. Talking to media at Randhir Verma Chowk,  Hemant Mishra, general Secretary of Hazaribagh division of Insurance employees association, said, “The trade union representatives of district have also extended support to our strike and participated in the meeting held today as they are in principle against the government measures” “The union finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, during her budget speech of 2021-22 announced funds worth Rs 1.75 lakh crore through disinvestment of PSUs out of which some amount is also to be generated through bringing IPO of LIC which is totally wrong and unconstitutional. “A nationwide protest in going against the plan to bring IPO of LIC as the organization established in 1956 with an investment of Rs 5 thousand crore has developed asset of Rs 32 lakh crore through the accumulation of small savings of the investors and provided insurance cover to more than 40 crore people” said Mishra. “We will protest against the privatization drive of the central government as the government has announced to increase FDI in insurance sector from 49% to 74%,” claimed Mishra and added that FDI in insurance sector is not foreign investment but rather foreign interference and an attempt to loot the savings of common people. “The pay revision of LIC of India employees is pending since August 2017 and pay revision is akin to denying the basic rights of the employees” said Prabhulal, a protestor. He also pointed out that the growth rate of LIC is much more than that of the GDP of India but LIC employees, who have played an important role in this success, are being denied the revised pay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Minor sentenced to life for 2019 gang rape of Ranchi student||A special POCSO court sentenced a minor to a life in prison and a fine of Rs 60,000 for his involvement in the gang rape of law college student in Ranchi Kanke area in 2019. Public prosecutor A. K. Rai told reporters here on Thursday that the court of K.M. Prasad convicted the accused on the basis of scientific evidence submitted by police and the victim’s testimony during the trial.  “A total of 12 people were accused in the case of which 11 are already serving life terms,” he said. The incident took place on the evening of November 29, 2019, when a gang of 12 youths, including the minor, tookturns to rape the 25-year-old student. Nine of them had kidnapped the woman from a bus stop when she was returning to the campus from nearby Sangrampur village. Then they called up three more of their friends, took her to a secluded place in Kanke and took turns to rape her. As news of the crime broke, massive protests broke out across Ranchi and elsewhere in the state with various social and civil rights groups joining in. Ranchi police acted swiftly and formed a special investigation team that ensured the arrest of all the culprits from various parts of Kanke within 24 hours. After investigations, police also filed a charge sheet and put the case on fast track. On March 2, the court of judicial commissioner of Ranchi Navneet Kumar concluded the hearing, terming the case as "rarest of rare" before holding 11 persons guilty of the crime and sentencing them to rigorous imrisonment for life. The 11 guilty are Kuldeep Oraon, Sunil Oraon, Sandeep Tirkey, Ajay Munda, Rajan Oraon, Naveen Oraon, Basant, Kacchap, Ravi Oraon, Rohit Oraon and Sunil Munda. They are lodged in Birsa Munda Central Prison. The case of minor was later transferred to juvenile justice board (POCSO court) for trial, which ended on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi steps up mask vigil, 16 shops slapped notices for flouting Covid norms||The Jharkhand government launched a special mask-checking drive on Thursday to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour, especially in Ranchi district, where the administration also slapped notices on at least 16 shops for not adhering to Covid-19 protocols and warned their owners of strict action if they are caught violating the rules again. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan launched the drive at GEL Church Complex on MG Road in the morning and urged the people to follow the thumb rule of “SMS – social distancing, mask and sanitiser”. Ranjan said the administration would run the mask-checking drive throughout the district and any person caught without a facemask would be fined Rs 500 on the spot as per provisions of the law. “As Covid cases are on the rise in our city, I request all citizens of Ranchi to wear facemasks whenever they move out of their homes and follow social distancing in public places,” Ranjan said. Ranchi police had already slapped fines of Rs 500 on over 100 peopel for flouting Covid norms on streets by the time this report was filed, sources said. Most of the violators admitted their mistake and vowed to wear a mask whenever they moved out for any work, police said. As per government data, Ranchi alone accounts for 373 of the 599 active  Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand. The count of active cases here had dropped to as low as 198 in February, and almost doubled by mid-March, according to government data. Ranchi sub-divisional officer (SDO) Sameera S inspected shops in malls and shopping complexes across the city on Thursday and found that at least 16 shops were not following the Covid-19 precautions mentioned in the guidelines of the Centre and state. At least three shops in Nucleus Mall, four in Panchvati Plaza, three in Atal Vendor Market, three shops in Hari Om Tower and three shops on Circular Road were served notices by the administration. The SDO also visited various mobile repair shops on Circular Road and asked them to follow social distancing and other Covid-19 precautions. “Most of the shops that were served notices did not provide sanitisers to customers and did not maintain a register of address and contact details of  customers who visited them,” said Sameera, adding that these shops would be sealed if they were found to be violating rules again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town traders swear by Covid norms amid surge in cases||In deference to directives issued by the district administration, traders of the coal town have decided to adhere to all Covid protocols, including wearing of masks by shopkeepers and customers,  maintaining social distance and using sanitisers at all their establishments. Federation of General secretary of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FDZCCII) Ajay Naryan Lal has sent messages to this effect to all 50 branches of the trade association to ensure compliance. Prabhat Surolia, president of the organisation, also held a meeting with the execute members of the committee where it was decided that they would adhere to the guidelines of the administration. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Surolia said that all shopkeepers in the meeting were told to adhere to the guidelines, as per instructions issued by Dhanbad Sub Divisional Officer Surendra Prasad amid a surge in Covid-19 cases. “No customer will be allowed to enter in shops without wearing masks while the shopkeepers, salespersons and other staff will also have to wear them. Provisions for the use of hand sanitisers in shops have also been made mandatory,” Surolia said. Lal said that the decision was taken keeping in mind the safety of the traders in the market, as well as to curb the sudden spread of the virus. Sub-divisional Surendra Prasad said that it was communicated to the business chambers to follow the guidelines by Friday as regular checks will be done by the authorities, who will impose fines if any norm is violated. “Checking drives for masks at public places has already been launched from today (Thursday) itself. We have carried out checking near City Centre Chowk  and imposed fines on those who were flouting the norms. This will be extended to other parts of the district in the upcoming days,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren keeps promise, provides job letters to 39 needy sportspersons||The Jharkhand government on Wednesday handed over job letters to 39 sportspersons who clinched medals at national and international tournaments in the past but were battling economic issues for years. The chief minister personally handed over the letters to 27 players at a low-key ceremony at Project Building, Ranchi at noon while the rest, who couldn’t make it on the day, will be provided their appointment letters by the department. All the players have been inducted in the police departmrent as inspectors. Speaking on the occasion, Hemant assured other players to not feel disheartened stating that such recruitment was just the beginning. “I am glad to finally give you jobs for your service to the state and the nation on the playing arena but at the same time others, who are pinning hopes on the government, may feel disheartened. I want to assure all players that this government is sensitive towards you and your concerns. Soon, we are coming up with a fool proof plan for overall promotion of sports and players,” he said. Conceding that the majority of the players made a mark on their own mettle more than government support, he promised to change that in the coming days. “I often feel sad when I come across news reports of players selling pakora or tea. I had helped many such players even before coming into active politics and have always wanted to do something for you all. Now that I have got the mandate and responsibility, this government will work for your benefits,” he said, adding that it was also for the first time that his government hired district sports officers since the creation of Jharkhand in 2000. After coming to power, the Hemant Soren government had promised direct employment to players, as a part of which 40 people have so far been formally inducted. On December 29 last year, hockey player Birsi Munda was given a job at a state ceremony. Earlier during the programme, sports secretary Pooja Singhal said that of the 39 players, 27 would receive their letters at the function. “Of the total players, 17 are women and 10 are men. All are inducted in the police department (home) on the post of inspectors,” she said. Ram Kumar Bhatt, a noted cyclist of Dhanbad, looked relieved after getting his job letter. “Other governments made several promises but to no avail. Because of lack of proper support and poverty, I had to work as a watchman for years to run my family and pursue my sport. I am happy today that I will work with dignity.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand records 82 cases of Covid-19, active number of cases near 600||As many as 82 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection against 60 recoveries took the count of active cases in Jharkhand close to 600 on Wednesday, revealed government data. The active caseload in the state reached 599 on the day from 466 a month ago, indicating that fresh cases outnumbered recoveries by more than 100 in the past one month, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Ranchi reported 45 cases against 33 recoveries on Wednesday, and the number of patients here jumped to 373, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand, government data highlighted. As per NHM data, Ranchi alone accounts for more than 60 per cent of active cases in the state. Meanwhile, more than 22,000 Jharkhand residents, including 16,634 senior citizens and 2,434 middle-agers with comorbid conditions, were administered the first dose of the Covishield vaccine on Wednesday, taking the total count of those vaccinated in the state so far above 5.5 lakh, figures compiled by the NHM highlighted. As many as 8,967 healthcare workers and frontline workers were administered the second dose of the vaccine, taking the total count of Jharkhand residents who have completed the vaccination course to 1,84,685, stated a report released by the NHM. The state, however, achieved only 6 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine to healthcare and frontline workers. The second dose was administered to only 9 per cent of the registered healthcare and frontline workers, the NHM report further stated. Over 2,000 people were vaccinated in Ranchi as well as Giridih on the day, while only 147 people got the first jab of the vaccine in Koderma – the lowest among Jharkhand districts. Over 1,300 people in Bokaro and more than 1,100 people in East Singhbhum received the jab on Wednesday. Senior citizens in Giridih have outdone their Ranchi counterparts in getting the first dose of the vaccine, reveals government data. As per data with NHM, as many as 20,442 have got the first dose of the vaccine in Giridih, while 16,420 have got the jabs in Ranchi. Around 8,000 senior citizens have been vaccinated in East Singhbhum so far and close to 12,000 in Bokaro. As per government data, the state has administered the first dose of the vaccine to 1.55 lakh seniors since March 1. As per government data, more than 1.20 lakh people have been infected in Jharkhand so far, and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. The doubling rate in Jharkhand has dropped to 1,516 days from over 2,500 days in the past one week, but it is still lower than the national average of 359 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Government jobs for 27 Jharkhand players under quota||The Jharkhand government on Wednesday gave direct appointment to 27 meritorious sportspersons under the sports quota in government jobs, for the first time since the creation of a separate state from Bihar. Chief minister Hemant Soren handed over the appointment letters to the sportspersons (17 women and 10 men) at the cabinet auditorium in Ranchi. Addressing the sportspersons, he said: “The selected sportspersons have won laurels despite infrastructure constraints and the government will try to involve them in governance and encourage them by making them economically stronger. The handing of appointment letters is just the beginning and we will be seeing similar joining letter distributions in future.” Soren said that those sportspersons who have not received appointment letters should not be disheartened as the government is working on an action plan for all of them. All sportspersons will be given an opportunity to showcase their skills and get job opportunities, he added. “We will be hosting more international and national competitions of different sports in Jharkhand to enable our talents to showcase their skills,” said the chief minister. All the 27 sportspersons have been given jobs as constables in Jharkhand police. The sportspersons who were handed over appointment letters are Lakhi Mandal, Jailaxmi Laguri, Tulsi Hembrom, Sumanlata Murmu and Sukmati Purty (all archery), Kumari Priyanka, Indu Munda, Rahul Minz, Jyoti Kumari and Deepak Bahadur Titung (all wushu), Aparna Kumari, Devanand Baskey, Sima Kumari Sinha and Vimla Munda (all karate), Kavita Kumari, Alok Lakra, Mohammed Abutalib Ansari, Rajiv Kumar Sahu and Nutan Manju Minz (all lawnball), Manisha Singh, Fani Bhusan Prasad, Parvin Akhtar and Priti Kumari (all taekwondo), Navin Kumar and Ramkumar Bhatt (cycling), Wasiul Hassan (handball) and Sangeeta Khalko (boxing). Earlier this year, the government had appointed sports officers in all 24 districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
18-03-2021||Jharkhand||Deoghar bypoll beckons touring BJP campaigners||Senior BJP leaders from Jharkhand currently campaigning in Assam and Bengal for the Assembly polls, including Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda and party’s national vice-president Raghubar Das, will have to make a hasty return to their home state in the next few days to prepare to wrest the Madhupur seat from the JMM. The Election Commission declared on Tuesday that byelection to the Madhupur Assembly seat (which falls under Godda Lok Sabha constituency in Deoghar district) will be held on April 17 and the result will be declared on May 2. The last date for filing nominations is March 30. After losing the 2019 Assembly election, the BJP further lost face in the Dumka and Bermo bypolls and is desperate to wrest the Madhupur Assembly seat. “We are confident of wresting the Madhupur Assembly seat this time as we will be having the support of Ajsu (All Jharkhand Students Union). The core committee of the BJP will be announcing the party candidate in a few days. Soon after, senior party leaders who are campaigning in Bengal will be asked to shuttle between Madhupur and the neighbouring state for canvassing,” said BJP state spokesperson Pratul Sahdeo. The BJP’s confidence stems from the 2019 results in which its voting percentage (28.34 per cent) and Ajsu’s (19.88 per cent) taken together (48.22 per cent) was higher than the JMM (38.4 per cent). However, party insiders revealed that it would not be easy to persuade Ajsu’s probable candidate Ganga Narayan Ray to leave the field for the BJP’s possible nominee Raj Paliwar. “Ganga Narayan Ray has already started campaigning in his circles for the election and it would be very difficult to persuade him to withdraw. He has already made his intention clear that if the BJP wants to win the seat, it should give him the ticket, making his ambitions clear,” said a party insider. The BJP is in a sticky position as it does not want to upset former cabinet minister and state vice-president Paliwar who has also expressed his interest to contest from the Madhupur seat and has the backing of the RSS think tank. The ruling JMM, on the other hand, is unperturbed. “We had already made our candidate for the Madhupur seat clear in February itself by making Hafijul Hassan, son of our senior leader Haji Hussain Ansari, a cabinet minister. It is a tribute from our part to our senior leader who passed away in October due to Covid-related complications. The people of Madhupur know what Haji Sahab has done for them and also know what the current government has done in the last one year despite battling the Covid-19 pandemic. We are confident of retaining the seat and the victory margin would only increase,” said JMM national general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee. The Madhupur seat fell vacant after the death of cabinet minister and JMM legislator Ansari in October last year and his son Hafijul was allocated the minority welfare department in the Hemant Soren government on February 5 this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
