19-03-2021||Jharkhand||Woman nabbed from Adityapur for selling brown sugar||In a breakthrough against running a racket of selling "brown sugar", the police raided a house at Adityapur Muslim Bustee and arrested a 35-year-old woman early on Friday morning. Identified as Salma Khatoon, the woman was arrested for possessing 52 packets of brown sugar along with cash. Revealing about the breakthrough, Seraikela-Kharsawan superintendent of police, Mohammed Arshi said they had information that a middle-aged woman was indulged in drug-peddling in Adityapur Muslim Bustee. "As nabbing any lady drug-peddler was difficult during the day-time, a police team which has been set up for unearthing the drugs from Adityapur area, raided the house early in the morning and succeeded in nailing the lady," said Arshi while talking to reporters here at the Adityapur thana on Friday afternoon. The SP said that Salma was the second lady drug-peddler to be arrested after the detention of the notorious Dolly Begum from the Adityapur Muslim Bustee about six months ago. "After the arrest of Dolly, we had thought that racket of the brown sugar business will subside in Adityapur. But surprisingly, more drug-peddlers emerged from the same slum, leading the police to arrest about half-a-dozen peddlers during this period. We have, however, decided to free Adityapur from brown sugar," said the senior police officer while responding to reporters. The Adityapur police also raided a place near Adityapur industrial area and arrested two women for selling country-made liquor. According to the Seraikela-Kharsawan SP, the police team recovered over 50 bottles of country-made liquor from the women's possession and sent all of them to Seraikela divisional jail after producing them before a judicial magistrate in the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
19-03-2021||Jharkhand||BJP sets up help desk at vaccine centres in Bokaro||The Bokaro district unit of the BJP is helping residents, especially senior citizens, of the steel town by setting up help desks at Covid-19 vaccination centres. This decision was taken at the party meeting held on Thursday in the BJP district office. The members have also begun a Covid-19 vaccination awareness drive to inform people that it is safe to get the vaccine. Sanjay Tyagi, the district head of this campaign said, “It has been decided that the BJP members will form a team and conduct door-to-door campaigns to make people aware of the safety of the vaccine. At the same time, it was also decided to set up a help desk at all the vaccination centres.” The district especially Bokaro Township has a large number of senior citizens most of them are retired employees of Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL). Many of the senior citizens above the age of 70 are residing alone as their children are settled in other cities in the country or abroad. For them, visiting the vaccination centre to take the vaccine is a difficult task. Sensing the problems faced by them, the members of the saffron party came forward to help them. District president Bharat Yadav said, “There will be a provision of clean drinking water, transport of elderly and senior citizens to the vaccination centre at all the help desks. Our workers will extend all possible support to the people for the vaccination process. BJP district unit has also made members in-charge and co-in charge of each of the vaccination centre who will operate the help desk.” Dilip Srivastava, district vice president said, “Under the leadership of Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi, the Covid-19 vaccine made in India is being supplied to 65 countries across the world and the vaccine is safe.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
19-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand health workers to get a month's extra pay ||Jharkhand's frontline health workers who;ve been working round-the-clock since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020 will be provided a month's extra pay, state health minister Banna Gupta announced in the Assembly on Friday. Gupta was responding to a question by BJP MLA Amar Kumar Bauri who wanted to know during Question Hour if the state government had provided any special financial assistance to lakhs of frontline health workers who have been working during the pandemic since last year. “The state government has decided to provided one month’s extra pay to all frontline medical workers for their services. The health department is currently in the process of finalising the modalities and is also identifying frontline workers who deserve to be covered under this special scheme. Soon, we will unveil the final blueprint to provide them extra pay of one month for their exemplary works," the minister said. Notably, many other states have already provided a slew of special incentives to frontline workers for their contribution during the pandemic. BJP MLA from Dhanbad Raj Sinha wanted to know about central assistance the state government had received in terms of PPE kits and other medical aids so far. Taking a jibe at the BJP-led government in the Centre, the state health minister responded, “Yes, the Union government provided us PPEs and other kits but they were untimely and too few in number. However, despite the challenges, the state government succeeded in handling the Covid-19 situation much better than many other states. In the coming days too, we hope we all will work together to keep the momentum going.” Congress MLA from Poriyahat Pradeep Yadav raised a question in the Assembly about the fate of the nursing college in his home district—Godda. “Decks have been cleared and the state government is gearing up to launch the first batch from October this year,” replied Gupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
19-03-2021||Jharkhand||Virat Singh raring to make a mark in this year's IPL||Virat Singh is yet to make his debut in the Indian Premier League (IPL) but the young southpaw is hopeful of a spot in the playing XI this time. The 23-year-old has already slipped into training groove ahead of the highly popular cash-rich tournament which unfolds in India this time on April 9. The global Covid pandemic had forced organisers Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) to host the last edition of IPL in the UAE. Virat, who lives with his parents in the Sonari locality of Jamshedpur, has been retained by Sunrisers Hyderabad which did not avail his services in the last IPL. However, the talented batsman with quick reflexes is least disappointed and knows that he will get an opportunity to let his bat do the talking any day now. "I think I am in good form. I scored an unbeaten 103 off 53 balls (against Assam), 67 off 37 balls (versus Odisha) and 47 off 35 balls (against Bengal) in the recently concluded Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy in Calcutta. I have a good feeling and I am hopeful of getting an opportunity to play for Sunrisers Hyderabad this time," the Jharkhand batsman said. Aware that the IPL would be challenging, Virat is working hard on his fitness. He is already sweating it out in the gym and also sprinting  to keep himself in fine fettle. “I am concentrating on my strength and stamina by working out at the gym of Keenan Stadium. Fitness holds the key and I want to remain fit as a fiddle during the IPL," he added. Virat, who lives with his businessman father Binid Singh, homemaker mother Renu and siblings Vivek and Vishal, informed that he would be leaving for Chennai on March 28. "Our training camp starts in Chennai on April 3. We will be quarantined for 5-6 days before the camp. The camp has been scheduled in Chennai since the first five matches of Sunrisers Hyderabad is in that city. We launch our campaign against Kolkata Knight Riders on April 11," he said. Virat has led the Jharkhand under-19 side and made his debut for the state senior side in Vijay Hazare Trophy in 2014. The left-hander, who also bowls leg spin, has the ability to hold the innings while accelerating. He is a regular in Jharkhand Ranji Trophy side and is known for his attacking approach, a key element when it comes to slam-bang cricket like the IPL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
19-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi mayor launches two buses for women only||Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra flagged off a pair of buses meant for women commuters only on Friday in the presence of a host of officials, including deputy mayor Sanjeev Vijayvargia and town commissioner Mukesh Kumar, at the municipal corporation headquarters on Kutchery Road. Speaking on the occasion, Lakra said that while RMC had launched similar services about two years back, it di not succeed due to various issues. But the latest fleet of "Pink buses" was here to stay this time, she promised. “Today, we are launching two buses that will be reserved exclusively for women passengers. Unlike the last time, we have made certain changes in the mode of operations to run the service. This time, except the driver, all other staffers on the bus will be women. Since pink represents women, we have painted the bus with this colour. Bus personnel too will be dressed in uniform of the same colour,” said Lakra. The two buses will initially run between Kutchery Chowk via Main Road to Birsa Chowk, a distance of about 10 km. Tickets cost Rs 5 only. Lakra asked RMC officials to ensure that the bus service did not face any trouble and that the women-nly rule was enforced strictly. “Earlier, this service failed to evoke much response because bus personnel often allowed men to board the bus to make extra money. As a result, many women were put of. Such problems won’t occur this time,” she said, adding that the RMC had plans to increase the fleet of pink buses to 10 in the coming days. A few women passengers who took the bus on Thursday hailed the decision. “Rs 5 from Birsa Chowk to Kutchery or visa-versa is very economical as neither e-rickshaws or autos can offer such cheap rates. Students will find it a safe travel option too," said Rakhi Murmu, a first-year intermediate student of Ranchi Women’s College.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
19-03-2021||Jharkhand||Charred body of a month-old infant recovered in Ranchi||A charred body of a 42 day old infant girl was recovered under mysterious circumstances about 200 meters away from her home in Bhelatikar village under Satki panchayat in Ranchi’s Angara block on Thursday afternoon, sending shock waves among the local residents. The discovery also sparked various speculations including 'child sacrifice', a social menace which still exists in certain parts of the state. Ranchi police however said that they are probing different angles and have initially detained the deceased's 21-year-old mother identified as Sunita Devi because of her contradictory statements. Initially, she told police that she was alone and had gone to the washroom to take a bath. Upon returning, she discovered her child was missing. Later on, she kept changing her statement, said a police officer but didn't elaborate. Ranchi’s rural SP Naushad Alam confirmed the developments. “Local police rushed to the spot after learning about the incident. The body was completely charred and thrown inside a pit in the bush nearby. We are questioning the baby’s mother, Sunita Devi.” On how the recovery occurred, an official of Angara police station said that around 11 am, Sunita first raised an alarm that her child was missing. "Neighbours and other residents spotted flames coming out of a pit from a nearby bush, around 200m away from the house. A local immediately informed police," he said. Local sources claimed that the mother may have tried to dispose the baby because of domestic tiff or 'sacrificed' her to get a baby boy. Sunita, after marrying Bhuvneshwar Mahto in 2017, gave birth to two daughters. The police declined to comment on the sacrifice angle. “All aspects will be looked into. But prima facie, it could be because she was under pressure from family for giving birth to two daughters. She has a five year old girl too. Her husband Bhuvneshwar Mahto is a daily wager in Ranchi,” he said, adding that other family members will also be questioned soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
19-03-2021||Jharkhand||Haryana bag 11th national sub-junior women’s hockey championship title||Haryana bagged the 11th national sub-junior women’s hockey championship title by defeating hosts Jharkhand in a penalty shootout at the Simdega Astroturf Hockey Stadium on Thursday afternoon. Teams from 22 states participated in the meet that was formally opened by chief minister Hemant Soren on March 10. Though goals rained throughout the championship and strong teams scored up to 17 in a single match, the closely contested final ended in a goalless draw and the winner was decided in a shootout where visitors Haryana scored four goals against three by the hosts Jharkhand. This was the first time a national hockey meet was held in Simdega that has produced many national and international players, both men and women. Local enthusiasts thronged the stadium braving the sun and also ignoring Covid-19 restrictions. While both the teams in the final missed quite a few opportunities to score goals, their defence line deserved plaudits for successfully restricting the opponent. Since Haryana made forays into the Jharkhand territory more often, the defence line of the host state deserved more praise as it stood like a wall that was difficult to breach. Jharkhand goalkeeper Jecinta Lugun drew attention from the very beginning when she foiled an attempt by the Haryana team to convert a penalty corner in the opening minutes and lived up to the expectations during the entire match. The fate of Jharkhand was, however, sealed when it lost the first opportunity of scoring a goal in the penalty shootout and eventually could score only three out of its five attempts. Haryana, in contrast, missed just one attempt. Before the match began, the players were introduced to Kamini Shrivastava, acting vice- chancellor of Ranchi University, who was the chief guest on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
19-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren government to set up kisan service centres to provide free farming gear||As farmers continue their agitation against the central government’s new farm laws near the national capital which has crossed 100 days, there is some solace for the community in Jharkhand. The Hemant Soren government will be setting up at least two kisan service centres in each of the 24 districts this fiscal to provide agriculture machinery, equipment and other needs for free along with market linkage with neighbouring Bengal and Odisha. Jharkhand agriculture minister and Congress legislator Badal Patralekh told The Telegraph that in the first phase a total of 45 such kisan service centres will be set up in each Birsa Gaon (selected villages in a pilot project). “The 45 kisan service centres (KSCs) will also have the facility of custom hiring in the real sense and provide agriculture equipment, fertilisers and seeds suiting the topography and soil texture of that particular village completely free of cost to the self-help groups and these would be community assets for that area,” said Patralekh. State agriculture director Nisha Oraon Singhmar said the kisan service centre was one of its kind scheme started by the Jharkhand government. “It is different from a custom hiring centre. In this case, we would be selecting at least two Birsa Gaons in each district which would be adjacent villages. We have selected 45 Birsa Gaons so far and each would be having one kisan service centre. It would be run by self-help groups constituted by the agriculture department comprising villagers. All the equipment, machinery, seeds and fertilisers would be provided free of cost and would be community assets for that village and the revenue earned would be used for the village’s development,” the agriculture director said. The kisan service centres would also provide market linkage for the farmers. “We have already studied the demand structure of neighbouring Odisha and Bengal and will soon sign an agreement with the authorities of those states wherein products from Birsa Gaons will be supplied to the villages there round the year at least for one year at a fixed price benefiting our farmers. The department will be deputing officials from the Birsa Agriculture University in each of the kisan service centres and also constitute a project monitoring unit (PMU),” added Singhmar. Apart from this, the state government would also open 1,000 custom hiring centres across Jharkhand with assistance from the National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC). “We will be opening 1,000 customised hiring centres in the state and also distribute 4,400 tractors to the farmers. Besides this, 45 agri-clinics will be also set up by the government this year,” Patralekh told the Assembly on Thursday. The custom hiring centres would provide machinery and equipment at subsidised rates to the farmers and the centres will have to be operated through LAMPS (Large Area Multi-Purpose Cooperative Societies). More than 1 lakh farmers have benefited from the loan waiver scheme of the Jharkhand government so far, the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
