20-03-2021||Jharkhand||Police nab two mobile phone snatchers from Sakchi||In a major breakthrough, Jamshedpur police on Saturday nabbed two criminals who used to snatch mobile phones from women and sell them via an online commercial platform. The duo, identified as Mohammed Amman (30) and Mohammed Javed (22), are both residents of Old Purulia Road under the Kapali thana out-post area of adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district. Talking about the breakthrough, additional superintendent of police (city), Kumar Gaurav said that the arrest of the two notorious criminals was made following a mobile-snatching incident which took place under Sakchi thana area on February 7. "On the evening of February 7, a young woman named Annu Singh who is a resident of Sankosai along the Dimna Road in Mango fell victim to two bike-borne criminals. While the victim was walking down the road towards her house, the duo snatched her mobile phone near the Life Line Nursing Home. Soon after the crime was committed, the victim had along with her husband Dhanjeet Singh lodged an FIR with the Sakchi thana, leading the police to set up a special team to apprehended the two criminals, " said Kumar while talking to the reporters at a press conference on Saturday afternoon. Kumar said the police put the snatched mobile phone's IMEI number on surveillance and finally traced a man who was possessing the stolen phone. "On being interrogated, the man pointed out that he had bought the phone through OLX, an online commercial platform. Having received a clue from the man, the special police team on Saturday identified the criminals involved," the additional SP said. According to Kumar, the primary target of the criminals were girls and women and they committed the crime in Golmuri and Mango localities too. The senior police officer informed that the duo had also snatched two mobile phones from Golmuri and Mango areas on February 23 and February 27 respectively. The duo were sent to Ghaghidih Central Jail after their production before a judicial magistrate in the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
20-03-2021||Jharkhand||Rapid antigen tests to screen those with symptoms at railway station, bus stands||In the wake of the rising number of Covid cases, the Jharkhand government has decided to resume Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) on the go for symptomatic people at public places after relying solely on RT PCR tests since November last year owing to the poor efficiency of te antigen tests, officials said on Saturday. The health department has sought RAT kits from the Centre for conducting Covid tests on the go at railway stations, airports, malls, bus stands and other public places. However, the consignment is yet to be delivered, officials said. “Rapid antigen tests will be conducted only for symptomatic people who cannot be asked to wait at public places like bus stands and railway stations until the test result is out,” said National Health Mission (NHM) Director, Ravi Shankar Shukla. “RT PCR tests will continue to be the preferred method for Covid-19 tests at hospitals and clinics,” he added. RAT are also conducted through nasal and throat swabs like RT PCR tests. However, the result of the test is out within an hour. Doctors say that RAT is a low sensitivity test when compared to RT PCR, and may not be as accurate as the latter. The RT PCR test, on the other hand, takes around 48 hours, but the results are more accurate, doctors from the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) said. The state health department had in September last year directed that all Covid patients testing negative in RAT will have to undergo RT PCR test in order to rule out a coronavirus infection. The NHM director defended the government’s decision claiming that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had not asked the government to stop conducting RAT. “There is no such rule prohibiting the use of Rapid Antigen Tests. Its efficiency might not be as high as RT PCR, but it is still an effective way of testing symptomatic patients when you do not have enough time in hand,” said Shukla. Jharkhand reported a triple-digit-spike in Covid cases on Friday. As many as 105 fresh cases against 75 Covid recoveries took the active caseload in the state to 653, as per NHM data. Ranchi reported 39 cases against 36 recoveries and the count of active cases reached 366 here. The capital also reported a Covid casualty, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 1,095 on Friday. The active caseload has jumped from around 400 in February to over 650 in March.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
20-03-2021||Jharkhand||BJP forms 3-man panel to choose Madhupur nominee||A three-member BJP panel, comprising party president Deepak Prakash, leader of legislative party Babulal Marandi and organizational general secretary Dharampal, has been authorised to recommend candidates for the Madhupur bypoll slated to take place on April 17. On Saturday, the state BJP election committee met under the leadership of Prakash in Ranchi to discuss candidates for the Madhupur byelection necessitated after the death of Haji Hussain Ansari. A dozen applicants are vying for the party ticket, said party insiders, but added that Raj Paliwar and Ganga Narayan were strong contenders. Raj Paliwar won on a BJP ticket in Madhupur in 2005 and 2014,  but lost to JMM’s Haji Hussain Ansari in 2019. Ganga Narayan, on the other hand, was in third position in the 2019 Assembly election after contesting as AJSU-P candidate. “The party is considering between Raj Paliwar and Ganga Narayana Singh for Madhupur. If the latter’s name is chosen, he will be made to join BJP,” said a party spokesperson. On why BJP is considering Ganga when he is not a member of the saffron camp, another leader said, “In 2019, he amassed about 40,000 votes to remain third on AJSU-P ticket. AJSU-P doesn't have a base in Madhupur and whatever votes Ganga got was solely on his own merit. So, the party is of the view that if he is fielded, then BJP will have around 40,000 votes, and given the party's election machinery, he may even end up getting more votes. Paliwar on the other hand doesn’t enjoy enough mass support.” Talking to reporters, BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said they are expecting the party high command to announce the candidate soon. “The nomination process will begin from March 23. So, the party high command will make a formal announcement anytime soon,” he said. On the other hand, the JMM-Congress-RJD ruling coalition will field Hafizul Hassan, the late Haji Hussain’s son in Madhupur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
20-03-2021||Jharkhand||Veteran cricketers to battle it out at Chaibasa T20 tourney ||The lush greens of the Birsa Munda Cricket Stadium in Chaibasa, the district headquarters of West Singhbhum, will witness an assembly of former cricketers who will get an opportunity to mingle and share old memories. The inaugural Veteran Cup Cricket, a 20-over affair, is a platform being provided to former cricketers by the West Singhbhum District Cricket Association (WSDCA)  to turn their arms and try and whack the cricket ball. Preparations are complete for the day-long tournament which unfolds on March 21. T-shirts of separate colours will be handed over to the players of two respective A and B teams, said WSDCA secretary Assem Kumar Singh. "We wanted to provide a platform to former cricketers of West Singhbhum district to meet each other and share old memories. The players are mostly from Chaibasa while some are from Chakradharpur, Kiriburu and elsewhere. We have made elaborate arrangements to efficiently conduct the tournament," Singh, who will also be part of the event, said over the phone from Chaibasa, adding that the event would henceforth be an annual affair. The organisers have also arranged for breakfast and a sumptuous lunch for the participating players, umpires and officials. The Birsa Munda Cricket Stadium has been hosting junior BCCI tournaments and training camps for some years. The stadium has dressing rooms as well as a gallery from where spectators can watch matches. The district cricket association has ambitious plans to turn the stadium into a Ranji Trophy venue, with the main obstacle being the size of the stadium. The administration is not able to fulfill the minimum requirement even after BCCI's encouragement for smaller towns. A Ranji venue requires a minimum area of 140 yards, but towns with 120-130 yards are being allowed to host senior matches. After the extention, the Chaibasa venue will  be of 130 yards. The WSDCA has sought vacant land on either side of the stadium. While a football ground is located on one side, the Bihar State Road Transport Corporation depot lies on the other. Accommodation, a key element for any Ranji Trophy venue, will be taken care of with some local hoteliers promising to spruce up their properties to meet the standard. The cricket association has already requested the district administration to provide land to increase the area of the stadium to meet the basic criterion for hosting Ranji matches.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
20-03-2021||Jharkhand||South Eastern Railway refurbishes passenger coaches to carry goods ||In an innovative move, the South Eastern Railway has decided that it will not discard old passenger coaches and utilise them for transporting goods, officials at Garden Reach, headquarters of South Eastern Railway said. Of the 150 unserviceable coaches that are set to be used, 148 will be converted by the Kharagpur workshop of South Eastern Railway by the end of this month, they said. Chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway Sanjay Ghosh said there were a good number of coaching vehicles in different zones attached to passenger trains, which are 15 to 20 years old. “Since the railway is increasing the speed of trains by upgrading the rakes from conventional ICF to LHB advance type coaches, such coaches are planned to be withdrawn from passenger service. To properly utilise such assets, this modification work was planned,” Ghosh said. He said instead of discarding the old coaches, railways have found a new technology to convert these coaches so that they can be used for goods trains. Officials at SER's commercial department revealed that for converting each coach, the cost comes to around Rs 10 lakhs. "After conversion, the life of the coach increases up to 10 years.  At the same time, the railways will also make substantial savings, as the cost of a new VPH (high capacity parcel van) coach is around Rs.1.65 crores," explained an official at SER's commercial section. After conversion, the carrying capacity of modified coaches will become 14 tonnes, which will be able to run at a speed of 110 kmph. Such  modified and redesigned coaches can  be utilised for transportation of vehicles, including tractor, two and four wheelers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
20-03-2021||Jharkhand||Gail and the Ranchi Municipal Corporation sign pact for biogas plant ||Gail (India) Limited, an integrated energy PSU, and the Ranchi Municipal Corporation signed a concession agreement on Thursday for setting up a compressed biogas plant in the Jharkhand capital. The agreement was signed by Gail India executive director K.B. Singh and Ranchi Municipal Corporation commissioner Mukesh Kumar in the presence of Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren in the Assembly building on Thursday evening. The proposed plant would process 300 tonnes organic municipal solid waste daily and will produce five tonnes of compressed biogas and approximately 25 tonnes of fermented bio-manure per day. Principal secretary, urban development department, Vinay Kumar Choubey, urged both Singh and Kumar to start work on the project soon. According to Gail India officials, they would be setting up two plants each with a processing capacity of 150 tonnes per day. In the first phase they would set up one plant which would take nearly two years to be completed. The cost of setting the plant would be around Rs 28.19 crore which would be borne by Gail India. They will be setting up two gas filling plants — one inside the city and another on the outskirts — each spread over 3,600sqm, which would provide a clean and green fuel alternative to the people of Ranchi for their vehicles. The gas manufactured by Gail India will be sold at the filling stations and 10 per cent of the earnings would be given to the municipal corporation. The RMC will provide over eight acres of land near Jhiri on the outskirts of Ranchi to Gail India to set up the plants. The Ranchi corporation will be able to save around Rs 81 crore expenditure incurred at the moment for waste disposal in 20 years. It would also claim to get 100 per cent carbon credit in terms of waste disposal after the plants start functioning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
20-03-2021||Jharkhand||CNG auto drivers face long queues for fuel in Ranchi||Drivers of autorickshaws which run on CNG (compressed natural gas) are having to face a long wait at the fuelling stations in the Jharkhand capital owing to a recent fuel shortage following a sudden rise in such vehicles. “I came here around 4am and am still waiting for my turn,” said Suresh Kumar, an auto driver from Kantatoli, who along with over 250 others had gathered at a CNG fuelling station at Kokar on Friday morning. Asked about the reason for the scarcity, Gail (India) Limited general manager Alok Kumar said: “We understand that over 2,000 new CNG autos have joined the existing fleet over the past one month or so, raising the demand suddenly.” There are only four CNG fuel stations located at Hatia, Doranda, Kokar and Ormanjhi in Ranchi at present. They are finding it difficult to cater to the need of the increased number of autorickshaws. “There will be 10 such fuelling stations coming up very shortly,” Kumar said. Two new stations were ready for commissioning within the next few days while four more would also come up within a month or so, he added. We have a plan to increase the number of CNG stations to 18 in Ranchi and that will be done soon, he said. CNG was being brought to Ranchi from Durgapur in Bengal by special vehicles meant for the purpose, he further said. We are also considering to bring CNG from Bokaro that would help save the transit time, he added. But the auto drivers said they are facing unprecedented problems in the meantime. Many of them preferred running CNG autos as they would be economical compared to petrol or diesel autos, particularly because of the rising fuel prices. “Many of us even opted for an exchange offer and bought CNG autos by taking bank loans,” said Sukhlal Yadav, another auto driver. Many of us are now facing difficulties in paying the EMIs for the loans we took, he added. “We faced financial hardship during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. We are in a fix now on how to earn livelihood if we have to spend almost half a day for getting CNG,” said Suresh. These autos are encouraged as CNG is considered a cheap and green fuel and helps reduce air pollution but many drivers started plying even before the registration process of their vehicles was complete and that added to the problems, alleged an auto operator who did not wish to be named. Gail India also introduced piped natural gas (PNG) for cooking in certain residential areas of Ranchi about two years back but the network could not be expanded as the fuel was brought by vehicles and stored at a station before supplying to the existing households. The expansion of the PNG network to other areas of the city can be done only when the gas reaches via a pipeline. “It will take a few more months before PNG reaches Ranchi through a pipeline,” said Gail India executive director K.B. Singh, who visited the city on Thursday. On the expansion delay, he said that the pipe-laying work between Bokaro and Ranchi was not complete as it was being done over a 35-km stretch that would take some more time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
20-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand para-teachers give ultimatum||The para-teachers of Jharkhand will gherao chief minister Hemant Soren’s residence next month to press for regularisation of their service and proper pay scale. “We will gherao the chief minister’s residence on April 16 if the government doesn’t address our problems during the ongoing budget session,” said Sanjay Kumar Dubey, a leader of the Ekikrit Para Sikshak Sangharsh Morcha, a united forum of para-teachers. The para-teachers concluded their five-day demonstration near the Assembly on Friday. “We will also wear badges carrying the slogan ‘Wada pura karo Hemant sarkar (Hemant government fulfil your promise)’ written on those from next Monday,” Dubey further said, adding they would be wearing the badges everywhere, even outside their schools. The para-teachers also earlier announced that they would demonstrate against the ministers and MLAs belonging to the ruling combine when they go on field visits when the government did not take any decision for addressing their problems even after they staged the demonstration near the Assembly from March 15. The Morcha has been demanding regularisation of the service of para-teachers and a proper pay scale since 2004 and has organised protest rallies several times in the past. During one such demonstration in November 2018 when the Raghubar Das government was in power, the police had lathicharged on the protesting para-teachers leaving some of them injured. Asked why they resorted to fresh agitation, Dubey said: “Chief minister Hemant Soren had earlier announced he would solve our problems within three months after coming to power but nothing has happened so far.” The state government had recruited para-teachers in 2000 for running the schools and offered them a consolidated monthly salary. After four years, those teachers started demanding regularisation of their service and proper pay scale. “Nearly 500 of our colleagues have died and hundreds of them have retired without getting any retirement benefits,” Dubey further said, wondering how many more would have to die before the government acted. “We were given assurances and advised to be patient all these years,” said Hrishikesh Pathak, another Morcha leader. “We have been maintaining patience all through, even during their ongoing agitation but the government did not do anything to solve our problems though it could do so if it had wanted,” he added. “The political parties support us when they are in the Opposition and forget us when they come to power,” he further said, adding that they did not want to side with any particular party. A large section of the 65,000 para-teachers had gathered near the Assembly in batches and demonstrated for five consecutive days since Monday. Para-teachers from Giridih, Ramgarh, Deoghar, Lohardaga and East Singhbhum districts came to Ranchi for demonstrating on the first day while those from Gumla, Dumka, Jamtara, Sahebganj and Bokaro demonstrated on Friday, the last day of their demonstration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
