21-03-2021||Jharkhand||Last 2 of 30 accused arrested for 2017 Nagadih lynching ||Police arrested two persons on Sunday for being a part of a mob that had lynched three youths and an old lady on suspicion of being child-lifters at Nagadih in Baghbera in 2017, four years after the crime made national headlines. The two, Mahi Singh Sardar, alias Mahin, and Ravi Bhumij, are the last of the 30 accused to be arrested, said  Bagbera police station OC Rajesh Kumar Singh. "We were on the lookout for the two accused. We got a tip-off that the duo had returned to their houses. As soon as we got the information, we raided their houses and arrested them," the OC said. On the night of May 18, 2017,  a mob of about 500 people, mostly from Nagadih village, lynched three youths who were labourers scouting the neighbourhood for construction jobs. But the mob acted on rumours that child-lifter gangs were in circulation and attacked the three. They also did not spare the 76-year-old woman, grandmother of two of the youths. She had gone to plead their case. Those who died that night were Vikash Verma (28), Gautam Verma (26) and Gangesh Gupta (27). The elderly woman was identified as Ram Sakhi Devi, who died in hospital days after she was assaulted with a boulder. OC Rajesh Singh pointed out that there were 30 named, besides over 200 unnamed, accused in the case. Earlier, 28 of the named accused had surrendered. He said police had submitted a charge sheet in court. The two who were arrested on Sunday were sent to Ghaghidih Central Jail in the evening. Significantly, four others were lynched the same day at Rajnagar block of neighbouring Seraikela Kharsawan district. The victims were cattle traders whom the mob thought were child-lifters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
21-03-2021||Jharkhand||Police beefing up district committees to prevent mob lynchings||In the wake of recent mob lynchings that rocked the state capital, the Jharkhand government has directed law enforcement agencies to strengthen special district-level committees constituted to avert and probe such incidents in the state and spread awareness among people against taking the law into their own hands. Additional Director General (ADG) headquarters R.K. Mallick said on Sunday that police were adding more teeth to district level committees in a bid to ensure that incidents of mob lynching are averted by spreading awareness among people and instilling the fear of speedy action if at all any such incident occurs in the state. “Special committees to control incidents of mob lynching were formed in all districts back in 2017-2018. These committees are being strengthened to avert such incidents and ensure speedy investigation,” Mallick said. Two men in their twenties were beaten to death by a mob in separate incidents this month over charges of theft. On March 8, Sachin Verma (22) was beaten to death by a mob of 40-odd people within the limits of Kotwali police station on charge of vehicle theft. Later on March 14, Mubarak Khan (27), a resident of Maheshpur in Angara block of suburban Ranchi, was lynched by a mob on charges of stealing a tyre and battery of a bike. Police have made several arrests in connection with both incidents. Since most of the lynchings have been reported from rural areas of the state, police teams have been formed to hold awareness campaigns against such crimes in villages, police said. On Sunday, Ranchi SP (rural) Naushad Alam chaired a meeting with village representatives under the Kanke police station in suburban Ranchi and requested them to spread awareness among fellow villagers. “We will be meeting village representatives and other influential people of the village and ask them to spread awareness against mob lynching. Villagers will be urged to inform police as soon as they find someone committing a crime and not take the law into their own hands,” said Alam, adding that villagers will also be told about the legal provisions under which they could be charged with murder if they beat up someone and the person dies. In an earlier order, the Supreme Court had also asked all the states to hold at least one review meeting of such incidents in every three months, police said. In the wake of several such incidents reported in 2019, then DGP K.N. Choubey had directed police in each district to hold at least one review meeting every month to revisit cases of mob lynching and ensure justice for the kin of those killed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
21-03-2021||Jharkhand||Teachers surprise special kids on World Down Syndrome Day||On the occasion of World Down Syndrome Day, a group of special educators of a Jharia-based government resource centre visited 10 of their students, giving them educational kits, biscuits and chocolates and spending time with them. Physiotherapist Manoj Singh and speech therapists Akhalaque Ahmad and Ashfaque Hussain also took stock regarding the progress of their students, and discussed it with their parents. They also gave them necessary advice regarding the training of the students. Singh, who is the coordinator of the centre, told The Telegraph Online that the institute is currently closed due to the pandemic situation and so they decided to pay these people a visit. “All of them were quite happy meeting us and shared their experiences. Our regular training for the students focuses on guiding them to perform their daily life work,” Singh explained. Giving more details regarding people with down syndrome, speech therapist Ahmad said, “People with this genetic disorder have mild to moderate intellectual disability. Though they prefer the company of their parents and family members they can slowly get acquainted with outsiders and make friends with them. They also need delicate handling as they are emotionally sensitive.” Ahmad informed that they were using smartphones to keep in touch with the students and have also been conducting periodic visits to their homes amid the pandemic-induced constraints. Amiya Kumar Chatterjee, whose 20-year-old daughter Sushri is a part of the school, said she was really excited to meet her teachers. “The centre not only helped her with studies, it also helped her improve a lot,” Chatterjee said. Balmiki Prasad, a daily wager whose daughter Shivani (10) is enrolled in the centre, thanked the teachers for their cooperation. “Despite the centre being closed, all the teachers regularly guided us by making video calls and sometimes visiting our homes,” Prasad said. Established under the inclusive education programme of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan at each block, such resource centres are aimed at making special students be able to take admission into regular schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
21-03-2021||Jharkhand||BJP flays Hemant govt for planning Assembly debate on farm laws||Leader of BJP legislature party Babulal Marandi criticized the state government’s move to hold an Assembly debate on the three new farm laws enacted by the Centre saying it was a ploy to skirt real issues plaguing the state of Jharkhand. Speaking with reporters at the party office on Sunday afternoon, Marandi snubbed the Hemant government for demeaning laws that have been enacted by Parliament. “We have learnt that tomorrow (Monday), a debate on farm laws is scheduled in the Assembly. It is surprising how it is being done in the Assembly after the bill has already been made into law. It is just beyond logic,” he said. Jharkhand Assembly is expected to debate on the contentious farm laws after a proposal by the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD government aimed at passing a resolution against the legislations like some of the non-BJP ruled states such as Delhi, Rajasthan and Chattisgarh. Marandi accused the Hemant government of avoiding real issues to debate in the House. “The state has seen a series of law and order issues since this government came into power. There is corruption everywhere, and illegal mining and other unlawful activities are going on unabated which directly concern the people. But rather than debating real issues, the government is resorting to petty politics," Marandi said. The Congress hit back at the BJP, asking why it was shying away from a debate in the House if it was convinced the farm laws were good. "Amid the Covid-19 pandemic last year, the BJP-led government in the Centre passed the controversial laws through an Ordinance without discussion in Parliament," the state Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said in a statement. "If the laws were so good, there shouldn’t have been nationwide protests by farmers since the last four months. The BJP should debate the laws in the Assembly tomorrow rather than run away,” he said, adding that in the past Delhi, Rajasthan and Chattisgarh assemblies had debated and passed resolutions against the farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
21-03-2021||Jharkhand||Health minister joins steel city residents to clean up river||Steel city residents on Sunday joined Citizen's Campaign, an initiative of Jusco (Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Ltd ) on the eve of World Water Day, to clean  water hyacinths from Domuhani Ghat -- the meeting point of river Subarnarekha and Kharkai, in Sonari. State health minister and local legislator Banna Gupta took part in the cleaning drive along with his supporters. Around 100 local residents, Jusco employees and staff of the Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee ( JNAC) took part in the drive that continued for about three hours on Sunday morning. "Through the Citizen's Campaign we want to create an awareness for keeping rivers clean. With the onset of summer the water crisis increases. Hence, we are trying to make people understand its importance and keeping rivers clean by removing hyacinths, which is a threat to aquatic life," said a Jusco official participating in the campaign. The minister asked his supporters to carry out the cleaning drive once in a week to free both the rivers from the aquatic plants, which are an indication of rising water pollution. Water hyacinths  have started mushrooming in both rivers  Subarnarekha and Kharkai, much earlier this year. Environmentalists attributed the prevailing weather conditions for the early appearance of  hyacinths . They have affected about  three-kilometre-stretch of river Kharkai between Kadma and Sonari and about four-kilometre-stretch of river Subarnarekha between Sonari and Mango.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
21-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over a lakh get jabs in state on Day 1 of Panchayat level drive||The Jharkhand government vaccinated over 1.20 lakh residents, including nearly 1 lakh senior citizens, against Covid-19 virus on Day 1 of its special Panchayat level vaccination drive on Saturday, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The health department has set a target of vaccinating 10 lakh rural residents during the drive and achieved more than 10 per cent of the target on Day 1 of the week-long campaign. Over 1.4 lakh beneficiaries, both rural and urban, were registered for the first dose of the vaccine on the day. The state managed to vaccinate 89 per cent of the registered beneficiaries. State NHM Director Ravi Shankar Shukla inspected vaccination centres in Tati and Churu blocks of Hazaribagh districts on Saturday. Shukla interacted with the beneficiaries and informed them about the benefits of getting vaccinated. He also asked about the reasons behind apprehension of villagers in getting vaccinated and cleared confusion among them. “The objective behind this special vaccination drive is to ensure maximum possible vaccinations in rural Jharkhand and clear all the apprehensions related to vaccination,” said Shukla. As per government data, of the 1,20,528 people vaccinated on the day, at least 99,030 were senior citizens and 16,685 were middle-agers with comorbid conditions. Over 11,000 people got the jab in Ranchi, while Hazaribagh administered the first dose of the vaccine to more than 10,000 people on the day. Most of the beneficiaries vaccinated on Saturday were rural residents, officials said. The special vaccination drive, which started on Saturday, will be held on March 21, 23, 24, 26 and 27. The health department has set up at least one vaccination centre in each of the 4,526 Panchayats. Community Healthcare Centres (CHCs) and Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs) are doubling up as Covid vaccination centres during the campaign, officials said. Meanwhile, the active Covid caseload jumped to 722 in Jharkhand on the day as the state reported 123 fresh cases – the highest single-day-spike this month – and only 54 Covid recoveries, a bulletin from NHM stated. Ranchi reported 57 cases against 35 recoveries on the day, the bulletin further stated. Various healthcare workers and district level health officials inspected the mass vaccination drive at different blocks and Panchayats of the state on Saturday. No major cases of Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) were reported from any of the Panchayats, officials said, adding that preference was given to senior citizens and middle-agers with comorbid conditions during the drive. The second dose of the vaccine was administered to only 6,610 of the over 80,000 people registered for the jab on the day, a report from NHM stated. Jharkhand has so far administered the first dose of the vaccine to more than 7.30 lakh people and the second dose to over 2 lakh people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
21-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand unit of chamber to meet Hemant Soren on quota for tribal entrepreneurs||The Jharkhand unit of the Tribal Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry will meet chief minister Hemant Soren with a demand for reservation for tribal entrepreneurs in the new procurement plan under the 2021 industrial policy of the state government. A decision to meet the chief minister was taken on Saturday on the sidelines of a two-day vendor development programme organised by the chamber in association with Jharkhand Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation and National Scheduled Caste Scheduled Tribe Hub of the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises at the Tribal Culture Centre in Sonari, Jamshedpur. “We have already intimated to state industry director Jitendra Kumar Singh (who was the chief guest at the inaugural programme on Friday) about the need for a separate reservation for tribal entrepreneurs in the procurement plan as part of the new industrial policy being framed by the government. He (Singh) has assured of positive action. “We will also be meeting the chief minister and requesting at least 30 per cent reservation for tribal entrepreneurs and 10 per cent for tribal women entrepreneurs in the new procurement policy of the Jharkhand government,” said Baidyanath Mardi, the chamber’s Jharkhand unit president. The chamber officials felt that the formulation and implementation of a new procurement policy with reservation for tribal entrepreneurs will safeguard the micro and small enterprises in respect of purchases by government departments and state-owned PSUs, including boards, corporations, development authorities, improvement trusts, municipalities, notified area committees, cooperative bodies and institutions aided by the Jharkhand government and companies where the state government’s share is 50 per cent or more. Mardi said at present more than 60 tribal entrepreneurs exist in Jharkhand. “More tribals will get interested in the MSME sector if there is reservation for them in the procurement policy,” he said. He also appealed to the corporate sector, including the Tata Group, to help in providing proper training to tribal entrepreneurs and also provide hand-holding sessions in providing market linkage for their products. “We will also appeal to the chief minister for a separate board to provide loans to tribal entrepreneurs,” added Mardi. The two-day vendor development programme which concluded on Saturday was attended by senior officials of Tata Steel, Tata Motors, Cummins, Tata Power, Indian Steel and Wire Products, Tata BlueScope and Nuvoco Vistas, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
