22-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt fails to debate farm laws in Assembly ||In a major embarrassment for the ruling coalition, the JMM-Congress-RJD government failed to hold a debate and pass a  resolution against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre last year due to a "technical glitch" and ruckus by the Opposition BJP,  forcing Assembly speaker Rabindranath Mahto to adjourn the House till Tuesday. After House coonvened at 2pm, the treasury benches tabled three Bills that were  later passed through voice-vote. Later, CPI(ML) MLA from Bagodar Vinod Singh and Congress lawmaker from Poriyahat Pradeep Yadav tabled notices before the Speaker to debate on inflation and the farm laws. But even before a debate could begin, BJP MLAs ran to the Well of House in protest. Ranchi MLA C. P. Singh later told the Speaker that the debate was technically invalid. “We are ready to debate if it concerns issues regarding farmers and farming but not farm laws. To our knowledge, there is nothing called farm bills that exist anymore. The Bill has become an Act after Parliament passed it. The notice for debate on farm Bills is technically invalid,” he claimed. MLAs of the ruling alliance didn’t wish to speak immediately on it. Later, a senior Congress MLA spoke to the media outside the House. “There should have been a greater consensus and thought process if the treasury benches wished to debate the farm laws. Congress has been critical about the laws and supporting the farmers' agitation and it would have wholeheartedly voted against it in the House.” At least three state governments—Delhi, Rajasthan and Chattisgarh _ have already passed a resolution against the contentious  laws calling them anti-farmer. The Jharkhand government, including chief minister Hemant Soren, has also been critical of the laws. But on Monday, it failed to get a resolution against the laws passed in the Assembly  despite a clear majority. It remains to be seen if the state government tries again to initiate a debate in the Assembly on Tuesday which is the last working day of the ongoing budget session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
22-03-2021||Jharkhand||Smoking in public will attract Rs 1,000 fine in Jharkhand||Sale and consumption of tobacco in public places will henceforth invite a fine of Rs 1,000 while hookah bars will not be allowed to operate in Jharkhand from Monday. The state Assembly passed The Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Amendment) Bill, 2021 to enact stringent provisions to curb the use of tobacco that which several lives in the country. Health minister Banna Gupta told reporters that Jharkhand had become the first state in the country to have successfully passed all the amendments of the central Act to pave way for stricter laws. “The new law will give more teeth to our fight against tobacco to save public lives,” he said. The provisions in Bill that was tabled on Monday also prohibit the sale of all kinds of tobacco within 100 meters of government offices and educational institutions. The Bill also prohibits the sale of tobacco products to those below 21. Gupta said tobacco was one of the biggest killers in the country. “More than 40 per cent of non-communicable diseases like cancer, heart and lung disorders are because of the use of tobacco. Studies suggest that in India, more than 13.5 lakh people die every year because of this. As per the Global Addicts Tobacco Survey (GATS) of 2017, 27 crore people above the age group of 15 consume tobacco of which 59.7 per cent are male. In Jharkhand, 38.9 per cent of the total population in this age group are estimated to consume tobacco. Hence, the government has come up with stringent laws now,” he said. He said the reason behind banning hookah bars was to curb the trend of minors and youths visiting these places and getting addicted to tobacco and its various varieties. The state government also tabled two more Bills, namely, Jharkhand Harit Urja Upkar Vidheyak 2021 (green cess on power tariff to promote renewable energy) and Jharkhand Goods and Service Tax (amendment), 2021. These were also passed by the House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
22-03-2021||Jharkhand||Drugs seized from steel city medicine shop||A team of drug inspectors and police on Monday recovered huge quantity of narcotic drugs from a medical store on Dimna Road under Ulidih thana area in Mango. The raid took place following a tip off from a drug-peddler. After the recovery of the stock of drugs, the police arrested the owner of the medical store while the team of drug inspectors sealed the medical store. Revealing about the breakthrough, Ulidih police station OC Meghnad Mandal said a youth named Mohammed Afzal had been nabbed with a consignment of various narcotic drugs at Sitaramdera bus terminus on Sunday evening. Mandal said following interrogation of Afzal who was a carrier, the police could know that the drugs like Nitrosun-10, which is supposed to be sold on the prescription of a doctor only, is being sold clindestinely to the drug-addicts at a premium. "On the basis of the information gathered from Afzal, the superintendent of police (City) Subhash Chandra Jat instructed the police and the drug inspection office to carry out a joint raid at the medical stores where such restricted drugs are being sold freely. We raided one of the medical stores, Dasmes Medical in Ulidih and recovered a huge stock of Nitrosun-10," said Mandal while talking to The Telegraph Online. The OC said the medical shop owner, Ankit Kumar, was arrested as he could not produce valid papers against the stock of the seized drugs. Drug inspector Jaya Kumari, who was accompanied by two other drug inspectors Kunj Behari Chaudhury and Rajib Ekka, said they seized 10,000 strips of Nitrosun-10 from Dasmes Medical store. "We have information that the owner of Dasmes Medical store used to sell one tablet of Nitrosun-10 for Rs 25 whereas one strip containing 10 tablets costs Rs 47 only, " Jaya Kumari said while talking to this website. The drug inspector said Nitrosun-10 is a highly-intoxicating drug and promotes criminal activity. The drug inspector said they will continue the raid against narcotic drugs being illegally sold in the medical stores.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
22-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant launches hygiene campaign for schools||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
22-03-2021||Jharkhand||Sport climbing gains in popularity in steel city ||Craze for sport climbing is increasing steadily in the steel city with the number of trainees at the cradle run by Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) witnessing an upward climb. Over 40 trainees are honing their skills at the training centre at JRD Tata Sports Complex in Bistupur. There were 30 trainees before Covid struck but it has increased after the cradle reopened nearly a month back after being non-operational for months due to the global pandemic. "Craze for sport climbing is on the rise in Jamshedpur. Though trainees in the young age group (7-15) form the core of the group but off late even those in above-25 age section have started training at the cradle," said TSAF's sport climbing coach Bibhas Roy. Roy, who hails from Calcutta and is with the cradle for some years now, said people are becoming aware about sport climbing. "I think inclusion of sport climbing as a discipline in the upcoming Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan has done a world of good for this exciting game which is all about strength and endurance. It has made people aware of the game, which is a positive sign to say the least. Earlier, people related climbing to mountains," he explained. The premier Jamshedpur-based adventure outfit boasts of  the only sport climbing facility in Jharkhand. The cradle has three separate artificial walls for speed bouldering and lead. Speed climbing pits two climbers against each other, both climbing a route on a 15m wall. In bouldering, athletes scale a number of fixed routes on a wall in a specified time. In lead climbing, one climber has to take the lead while the other climbers follow. TSAF has also approached some schools to generate interest among students towards sport climbing. "Some schools have been approached. This will have a positive bearing on the number of trainees at the cradle," an official said on condition of anonymity. TSAF also utilised Covid times  by continuing training virtually. Wooden boards called ‘monkey boards’ measuring 2x2 ft had been handed over to the children and fixed at their respective homes. The objective behind the online training was to keep the children connected to sport climbing. The adventure outfit also has ambitious plans to set up an academy (for sport climbing) on the lines of Tata football and archery cradles. It has produced three international climbers namely siblings Anisha and Aman Verma and Talim Ansari. Moreover, trainees have claimed medals in state, zonal and national competitions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
22-03-2021||Jharkhand||On World Water Day, Jharia lives through its daily trauma ||As the world celebrates water day on Monday, more than one lakh residents of Jharia are being forced to remain awake for the entire night, waiting for water to which comes during the odd hours of night after a gap of two or three days. The long queue of water outside the limited number of public water standposts are other glaring examples of water crisis in Jharia, with localities like Rajmata Colony, Mishra Para, Poddar Para, Upper Kulhi, Fatehpur lane etc being the worst affected parts. A host of factors, including regular leakages in over 50-year old water supply pipeline of civic body Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA), malfunctioning motor pumps at Jamadoba based water treatment plant, allotment of huge number water connection without increasing the capacity for water supply are deemed to be responsible for the water crisis. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Jitendra Modak, a resident of Rajmata Colony of Jharia said, “Tap water comes between 9 pm to 3 am during the night after every two-three days, compelling us to stay awake the entire night. Sometimes, when all family members fall asleep, we fail to acquire the water.” “We have exchanged the phone numbers of each other within the locality to pass on information to one another during the night about the arrival of water in the tap,” said Modak, a BCCL employee, adding that they have written to the JMADA authorities several times without any improvement in the situation. Echoing sentiments, Arjun Sahni, a neighbour of Modak in the Rajmata Colony said, “We used to get water twice during the day but the situation deteriorated since the last five years”. Worst is the situation in Baniahir locality of Jharia where the people are compelled to bring water in buckets from an adjoining pond. “Lots of students, working people, house makers have to wake up early in the morning to procure water for the family” said Prem Bachchan Das, a social worker of Baniahir locality of Jharia. Manju Devi, a housewife of the same locality said, “My husband, who works at a construction site, leaves early in the morning. Consequently, I have to spend two hours every day to fetch water from the adjoining localities” When contacted, Pankaj Kumar Jha, Sub Divisional Officer of Water Supply Division of JMADA, said, “We have taken several measures during the recent days to improve the water supply in Jharia but the night supply in water in some areas might be due to irregular power supply leading to delay in filling of water tanks. We will try to solve this problem as soon as possible.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
22-03-2021||Jharkhand||Holi Milan in the time of Covid, even state assembly wants to celebrate ||At a time when neighbouring Bihar has imposed a ban on Holi Milan festivities in the wake of rising  Covid-19 cases, several political and non-political organisations in Jharkhand, including the State Assembly, have started sending out invites for grand ceremonies in the state, a practice doctors fear may increase chances of transmission. While the BJP organised a Holi Milan ceremony at its state headquarters in Ranchi on Monday, the Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha is set to hold a Holi Milan ceremony at the assembly premises on Tuesday, for which it has already sent invitations to media persons and others. Assembly Speaker Ravindra Nath Mahto said that all Covid protocols will be followed during the ceremony at the assembly. “We will maintain social distancing during the ceremony. All MLAs have already been tested for Covid-19 prior to the commencement of the Budget session. A detailed SOP will be issued soon related to the Holi Milan,” said Mahto. Earlier this month, Bihar decided to impose a ban on Holi Milan ceremonies in the wake of rising Covid cases, which is being seen as a second wave of the virus spread by experts. On the other hand, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra have ordered special drives to ensure adherence to Covid protocols during the festival. However, Jharkhand is yet to come up with any such directive. Covid cases have witnessed a sudden rise in Jharkhand in the past one week. Last Monday, the active caseload in the state was 556, and in a week, it has jumped to 756, as per data compiled by National Health Mission (NHM). Ranchi, in particular, has reported the bulk of fresh cases. The count of active cases here jumped from 329 to 404 in the past one week. “It is our humble request to the people of Jharkhand, please do not play Holi,” said Dr Prabhat Kumar, the nodal officer of Covid management at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, warning against an unprecedented spike in Covid cases if Holi celebrations go out of control. Dr. Kumar said that he had treated patients in Ranchi when Covid was at its peak, and he would not want that situation to return at any cost. “Playing Holi will not only put you at risk of getting infected, but also put your family members at risk,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
22-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ajsu party leader joins BJP to contest Madhupur bypoll||The BJP, in all likelihood, will field Ajsu-P's Ganga Narayan Singh for the Madhupur byelection after he formally joined the saffron camp at the state party headquarters on Monday morning, ending days of speculation ahead of the start of the nomination process from Tuesday. BJP legislative party leader Babulal Marandi, MLAs Narayan Das (Deoghar), Randhir Kumar Singh (Sarath), among other senior party leaders, were present to welcome him. Singh, 42, contested from Madhupur on a Sudesh Mahto-led Ajsu Party ticket in the 2019 Assembly elections but finished third, garnering about 45,000 votes. While JMM’s Haji Hussain Ansari won the seat, BJP’s Raj Paliwar came second. Ansari, who was in charge of the minority welfare department in the Hemant Soren cabinet, died last October necessitating the byelection in the seat in the tribal stronghold of Santhal Pargana. The byelection in Madhupur is scheduled for April 17. Results will be declared on May 2. Singh said he was glad to join the  BJP, which under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has been working tirelessly for the uplift of various strata of society ever since it came to power at the Centre in 2014. On his expected candidature for Madhupur, he said, “As a party worker, I shall do whatever is expected of me from the central and state leadership.” Reacting to his joining, Marandi said, “Ganga’s entry will strengthen the party in the entire Santhal Pargana.” BJP and Ajsu-P are part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Jharkhand. Singh joining the BJP is as per a tacit understanding between the two allies to stay united in the state, said BJP sources. Although AJSU-P had initially staked claim to the Madhupur seat, it dropped the demand after the BJP allowed it to contest one seat (Baghmundi) in the coming Bengal assembly elections. A senior BJP leader said, “Ganga Narayan Singh’s name is on top among potential candidates recommended to the BJP high command by the state BJP election committee. With his joining the party fold, it’s only a matter of time that his candidature is announced formally.” Another contender, BJP’s Raj Paliwar, had won from Madhupur in 2005 and 2014 but lost in 2019. Another leader said that the reason the BJP is preferring a fresh face in the form of Ganga Narayan is because of his performance in the last election. “Even though he came third, he got over 40,000 votes on his own as AJSU-P doesn’t have any base in Madhupur. In a sense, the BJP candidate lost only because of AJSU-P which ate up our votes after contesting separately. We didn’t want that to happen this time,” he said. The JMM-Congress-RJD coalition on the other hand will field Hafizul Ansari, son of Haji Hussain Ansari,  as the joint candidate. Ansari will fight on a JMM ticket and is expected to file his nomination on March 25, said JMM insiders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
22-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand inoculates over 1.4 lakh residents in a day||The Jharkhand government on Sunday vaccinated over 1.4 lakh people, including a 107-year-old woman from Koderma, on Day 2 of its mass Panchayat level vaccination campaign against Covid-19 virus, figures with the health department highlighted. Makina Khatun, the 107-year-old woman who got the first dose of Covishield vaccine in Koderma, said that she did not feel any discomfort after the jab and was willing to take the second jab on time. Born in 1914, Makina does not suffer from any comorbid conditions and was accompanied to the vaccination centre by her family. “All I could feel was a slight pinch on the arm. I did not feel any discomfort after getting the injection,” said Makina. Besides Makina, the state also administered the first dose of the vaccine to more than 1.14 lakh other senior citizens on Sunday, a majority of who were rural residents, health officials said. State health secretary KK Soan inspected vaccination centres at Tamar and Bundu blocks in Ranchi on the day and interacted with the beneficiaries there. He also sought details about the various challenges faced by healthcare workers during the ongoing vaccination drive and lauded them for their efforts. The state on Sunday achieved 88 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine. As per government data, of the 1,43,575 people inoculated on the day, as many as 1,14,534 were senior citizens and 25,638 were middle-agers with comorbid conditions. The health department, which has set a target of vaccinating at least 10 lakh people during the Panchayat level drive, has achieved more than 20 per cent of its target in the first two days of the campaign. Since the launch of the vaccination campaign on January 16, over 8.8 lakh people have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in the state. More than 4.21 lakh senior citizens and nearly 75,000 middle-agers with comorbid conditions have been administered the first dose of the vaccine so far, reveals government data. However, Jharkhand managed to administer the second dose of the vaccine to only 3771 beneficiaries, hardly 5 per cent of the target, on Sunday. So far, the state has administered the second dose of the vaccine to more than 2.12 lakh people. Meanwhile, 83 fresh Covid cases against 48 recoveries took the count of active cases in Jharkhand to 756 on Sunday, a bulletin released by NHM stated. Besides reporting 48 fresh cases of infection, Ranchi also reported a Covid casualty, which took the Covid toll in the state to 1096 and that in Ranchi to 251, the bulletin added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
