23-03-2021||Jharkhand||Five children drown to death in a pond at Hazaribagh village||Five children, including four girls, drowned in a pond at Gadokhar village on Tuesday. The village falls under Pelawal outpost in Katkamsandi block, 10km away from Hazaribagh district headquarter. The incident occurred as one Jhalo Devi went to wash clothes at the pond. She was busy with her work, when her daughter Kajal went into deep waters. The other four children ran to save her but drowned one after another. Jhalo also jumped into the pond and started drowning. She was saved by a few villagers. Villagers retrieved the bodies and sent them for postmortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital (HMCH). Other than Kajal (14), the deceased include Nikita Kumari (13), Durga Kumari (11), Riya Kumari (11) and Rishu Kumar (10). Riya and Rishu were siblings, studying in Hill Green Public School, Gadokhar. Circle officer of Katkamsandi, Anil Kumar said the family of each of the victims will get compensation of Rs.4 lakh under the disaster management act. He also announced to run an awareness campaign in the village to prevent any future disasters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
23-03-2021||Jharkhand||Two children charred to death in a fire mishap||Two children were charred to death while playing near a pile of straw under Jhinkpani police station area in West Singhbhum district, about 100 kms away from here on Tuesday morning. The tragedy struck the victims identified as Rohit Gope (3) and Rajdeep Gope (4), both cousin brothers, in front of their home in Aashura village, about 11 am today. According to a relative of the victims, the two children were playfully making a house of straw when suddenly the heap caught fire, without anyone taking notice of the mishap. "A passerby saw the smoke and the two children writhing in pain on the ground. The children were rushed to Sadar Hospital, Chaibasa where the doctors declared them dead," said the relative while talking to The Telegraph Online. Jhinkpani police station OC, Ravi Ranjan said at the time the two children were playing with the straw-heap, causing the fire mishap, a loudspeaker was on full volume at a marriage ceremony nearby. "The children must have cried in pain on catching fire, but their cry and scream must have been buried in the high volume of the loudspeaker," said Ranjan, who earlier visited the spot. "If only the volume of the loudspeaker was low, perhaps the people around them would have heard the children's screams and would have rescued them before it was too late," the OC added Both the bodies of the victims were sent for autopsy at the Sadar Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
23-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ban orders issued in Ranchi for two days of Holi  ||Ranchi district administration announced the imposition of prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC within city limits on Tuesday in view of the two-day Holi festival on March 28 and 29. The order, enforced in areas under the jurisdiction of Sadar sub-divisional office, also banned the use of DJs and loudspeakers, airing songs or speeches hurting religious sentiments and rallies or processions. While the administration has not issued any specific directive on Holi Milans (gatherings) that are already taking place across the district in spite of a surge in Covid-19 cases, the district Covid-19 task force, headed by the deputy commissioner, has banned all kinds of religious processions on the occasion of Sarhul, a tribal festival that is scheduled to be held in the second week of April. Ramnavami will fall days ahead of Sarhul, which officials said, would also be restricted. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan, after chairing a meeting of the task force, said, “Although the state government’s earlier unlock orders have already banned religious processions and gatherings, the district administration is issuing a fresh notification to reinforce the orders in toto in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Both SDOs—Utkarsh Gupta of Bundu sub- division and Sameera S of Ranchi Sadar _ have been directed to notify the curbs.” Covid cases in the state, including Ranchi, have seen a rise in recent weeks. In one week, active cases in the state almost doubled to 800. Ranjan said the district administration was stepping up measures to curb infections, which he feared, may rise during the upcoming festivities. “At Tuesday's meeting, concerned officials have been directed to intensify testing at transit points like the airport and railway stations. At railway stations, our main focus is to minutely scan travellers coming from Maharashtra and Kerala,” he said. Ranchi civil surgeon V. B. Prasad has been directed to increase testing facilities at transit points if the need arises, he added. On contract tracing and other measures, Ranjan said all officials and frontline workers have been asked to revisit all procedures to prevent any confusion in the wake of the spike in cases. “We are getting ready for the battle again. Besides  keeping a record of availability of hospital beds at Covid centres, everyone has been asked to follow prescribed SOPs and send daily reports to the headquarters,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
23-03-2021||Jharkhand||Mask violations net Rs 8 lakh in fines in Ranchi in five days  ||Police collected over Rs 8 lakh in fines from  nearly 1,800 people in Ranchi over five days for not wearing masks during a special campaign to enforce Covid safety norms in the wake of the recent spike in cases in parts of the state. An official of the police traffic department confirmed that anyone without a mask was slapped a fine of Rs 500 under section 179 (1) of the Motor Vehicle Act in the campaign that began on March 18. Figures procured from traffic police till Monday night suggest that 415 people were issued challans and fined Rs 2.5 lakh on March 18. The next day, 304 people were caught without masks and Rs 1.1 lakh in fines was collected from them. On March 20, 436 people were fined and Rs 2.18 lakh collected from them. On March 21, 300 people were slapped penalties worth Rs 1.50 lakh, while on March 22, Rs 1.5 lakh was collected from another 300 people in fines. On the other hand, various teams of the district administration conducted surprise inspections at markets, namely, Pandra, Chutia, Jagannathpur, and Namkum among others, and issed notices to 34 shops and business establishments for violation of norms. “The notices were to serve as the first warning for those not adhereing to Covid safety norms. If they repeat such behaviour, we will then seal their shops,” said an official belonging to the district administration. Of the total 796 active cases in the state, Ranchi alone accounts for 406. The district currently has a positivity rate of 6.48 per cent. Ahead of the Holi festival, the local administration is taking all measures to curb a further rise in cases. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said that the special drive to ensure people wore masks would continue daily across public places as a part of the administration’s plan of action to prevent the spread of the virus. “The drive will be intensified in the coming days if things don’t improve. Individual precaution is the first step towards curbing the pandemic. Hence, all are requested to comply with the prescribed guidelines such as use of masks, maintaining social distancing, among others, while moving out,” he said. The administration, he added, was also trying to focus on increasing the vaccination coverage through special drives among the vulnerable population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
23-03-2021||Jharkhand||Halfway homes to come up in Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Dhanbad soon ||The Jharkhand government will come up with halfway homes in three of the most populated cities of the state – Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Dhanbad – in a bid to help mental health patients adjust with  mainstream society after they undergo treatment at psychiatry institutes and are fit to leave the hospital premises, officials from the Women and Child Welfare Department said on Tuesday. The halfway homes coming up in Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Dhanbad, officials said, will not only give mental health patients a new lease of normal life, but also ease the pressure on various state and Centre-run psychiatry institutes which have become a dumping yard of mental patients who are staying on even after being treated as their families have refused to accept them. “The halfway homes will come up in the next financial year in Ranchi, Dhanbad and Jamshedpur. The government has already allotted funds for the project,” said state Women and Child Welfare Secretary Avinash Kumar, adding that the project will be jointly run by the health department and the welfare department. A halfway home, popular in some western countries, is a place that allows people with physical, mental, and emotional disabilities to learn social skills necessary to re-integrate into the society, say psychiatrists. “As the name suggests, halfway homes, are a stoppage for mental health patients in their journey from a mental asylum to the mainstream society,” said DK Saxena, special secretary in the women and child welfare department of Jharkhand. Saxena, who is a member of the team working on the project, said that after spending several years in mental asylums, patients face many challenges in adjusting to the mainstream society. The halfway homes, he added, will impart livelihood skills to the inmates and it is expected that their families too might start accepting them once they heal completely and are ready to lead a normal life. Doctors at the Ranchi Institute of Neuro Psychiatry and Allied Sciences (RINPAS), the largest state-run psychiatry institute in Ranchi, claim that at least 50 patients are staying on at the institute after being treated as they have no place to go. Some of these patients, doctors said, suffered from diseases such as schizophrenia and bipolar disorders and have been staying there  for more than five years. In many cases, police patrol vans pick up mental health patients from roads and take them to RINPAS. Most of such patients, doctors say, are abandoned by their families and do not have a place they could return to after treatment. Dr Siddharth Sinha, a Senior Consultant Psychiatrist at RINPAS, said that the count of such patients has reduced at the hospital lately, but there were still several such patients waiting for discharge. “There are quite a few patients in the male as well as female sections of the institute with nowhere to go despite being ready for discharge,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
23-03-2021||Jharkhand||People have realised what BJP stands for, says senior Left leader ||Left leader Dipankar Bhattacharya has accused the BJP of "muddying" Bengal's water to "fish for votes" and rebuked the party for trying to appropriate the state's cultural and historical icons even though its own ideology was diametrically opposit to theirs. The general secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist Leninist) Liberation also claimed that the BJP's appeal had declined substantially post 2019 during the Modi-2 era due a host of factors like rising unemployment, escalating prices, regular hikes in the cost of petrol and diesel and disinvestment. Talking exclusively to The Telegraph Online at the Circuit House here on Tuesday, Bhattacharya said, “Earlier, the people of Bengal had a remote experience with the BJP, even thinking, 'why not the BJP this time?'. But as the poll campaign progressed, they have come face-to-face with it and realised what the BJP stands for." “People of Bengal have understood that the BJP uses people to gain power and after assuming power makes a mockery of the Constitution, destroys law and order and gets engaged in 'selling the nation'," added Bhattacharya, who is in Dhanbad to attend  a two- day conclave of Marxist Coordination Committee (MCC). Referring to the BJP's promise in its Bengal manifesto about making education free for girls from KG to PG , Bhattacharya posed a simple question. "Why hasn't the BJP not made education free in so many states where it is in power ?" he said. Asked about the Sonar Bengal slogan of BJP, the Left leader said the BJP was in the business of selling dreams. "Why not  Sonar Bihar or Sonar Asam? After all, didn’t they make Jharkhand Sonar Jharkhand during the Raghubar Das rule?," he said sarcastically. The BJP, he added, was using emotional slogans and jugglery of words to usurp power. “BJP is also using Bengal’s historical icons, from Subhash Chandra Bose to Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar and Rabindranath Tagore, portraying them as legacy of BJP and RSS. But they are acting contrary to the teachings of these historical figures,” Bhattachrya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
23-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma tourists can enjoy their stay in a bamboo cottage from April||The bamboo cottage at the Dalma wildlife sanctuary will be made available by the authorities for tourists from April, while all the resorts are already booked after the elephant abode re-opened post-pandemic earlier this month. Orders for upholstery for the bamboo furnitures inside the facility will be shortly placed before it is formally opened. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said the cottage was ready to be let out to the tourists. "It will be a major attraction for visitors who want to spend quality time amid natural surroundings. Upholstery on furniture will be completed soon and the facility will open next month," he added. Built at a cost of Rs 7 lakh under an eco-tourism project, the cottage is situated adjacent to the plush AC and non-AC accommodations at Makulakocha. A forester said funds for the upholstery has already been sanctioned and work would start at the earliest. "Fund for upholstery is not an issue now," he added on condition of anonymity. The cottage has two bedrooms, a drawing-cum-dining room, two attached toilets, bamboo furniture, a veranda in the front and landscaping near it. The facility is implemented by the state forest department. Plans are on to install air-conditioners at the facility which will add to the comfort quotient. The facility is all set to be a huge attraction for tourists from Jharkhand, Bihar, Bengal, Odisha and Chhattisgarh. Another bamboo cottage is also located near the main entrance but it is yet to be commissioned and the facility is not yet completed. Tourists visit Dalma sanctuary mainly to watch elephants. They will not be disappointed now since the jumbos  are presently scattered across the sanctuary after their return from the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura in neighbouring Bengal. They will have ample opportunities to click pictures of jumbos near the watering holes and can also visit the shiva temple on the hill top from where they can enjoy a panoramic view of the sanctuary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
23-03-2021||Jharkhand||71-year old dies two days after vaccination in steel city||A 71-year-old man died at Tata Main Hospital here in the we hours of Monday two days after taking the first dose of the Covishield vaccine at Seraikela-Kharsawan district on March 20. The deceased, Chandredeo Singh was a retired state government employee. He received his vaccine dose at the panchayat-level health hub on the morning of March 20. "My husband fell sick few hours after the vaccination. Since his condition deteriorated, we got him admitted to the Tata Main Hospital the same day (March 20). Early on Monday morning, we were informed that my husband had died," said Sankari Singh, who is mukhiya of Kandra panchayat. A senior officer in the Seraikela-Kharsawan district administration said an autopsy of Chandradeo's body was conducted by a medical board at MGM Medical Colege and Hosptal late on Monday night. "Though the autopsy report is yet to come, it has been confirmed that the recipient of the Covishield was not Covid-19 positive. The cause of his death will be known after the autopsy report is available," said the officer. Neither Seraikela-Kharsawan deputy commissioner Rajkamal nor district civil surgeon Himanshu Bhushan Barwar could be contacted despite repeated attempts. But Rajkamal's counterpart in East Singhbhum district, Suraj Kumar, confirmed that the autopsy had ben done. "The deceased, Chandradeo Singh, who was 70 plus, had been vaccinated in Seraikela-Kharsawan district on March 20. Two days after the vaccination, he died at Tata Main Hospital. As the matter pertains to Seraikela-Kharsawan district, the local deputy commissioner has all the other details," Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
23-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia residents march against corruption in Dhanbad corporation||Over 50 Jharia residents on Tuesday rallied on foot from JP Chowk at Katras to the Dhanbad district headquarters in protest against the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation accusing it of engaging in corruption over developmental work. The protesters, comprising young activists, also burned effigies of Municipal Commissioner Satyendra Kumar and Executive Engineer Anup Kumar Samanta and submitted a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh, demanding action against them . They said that the civic body is engaging in corruption regarding the ongoing renovation and beautification work of the Nehru Park at Katras More, the Children’s Park at Dharamshala Road and several other parks of the area. Akhlaque Ahmad, the founder of social organization Youth Concept, alleged that the boundary bricks at the Nehru Park are being laid atop the existing dilapidated wall instead of constructing a new one, putting the lives of children in danger. “When we objected to it, the contractor said that they have to pay more than 36 per cent  commission to the municipal corporation authorities so they don’t have any option,” said Ahmad. Vikash Kumar, a resident of Katras More alleged that substandard quality material is being used for the construction, and the wall can collapse any day. “The walking track developed in Children’s park at Dharamshala road has developed cracks at several places while around 150 trees have been cut in the name of construction work devoiding the park of greenery,” Anil Jain, a Jharia-based trader, said. Deepak Kumar, Junior Engineer of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation refuted the claims. “As per the estimate of the  project only 45 per cent of the construction work at Nehru park is supposed to be done anew. Moreover, grill laying work is also being carried out, and so there is no provision of construction of a new boundary wall,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
23-03-2021||Jharkhand||Close to 800 active Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand as state reports 110 cases||The active Covid-19 caseload drew close to 800 in Jharkhand and crossed the 400 mark in Ranchi on Monday as the state reported 110 fresh cases against only 69 recoveries, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The death toll reached 1,097 on the day as a resident of Deoghar died during treatment, the NHM bulletin stated. Ranchi reported 46 cases against 41 recoveries and the count of active cases here reached 406, the NHM bulletin stated. Ranchi accounts for more than half of the active cases in Jharkhand and has reported the bulk of fresh cases in March. Meanwhile, as many as 29,051, including over 20,000 senior citizens and nearly 6,000 middle-agers with comorbid conditions, were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand on Monday. The special Panchayat level vaccination drive was not run in the villages on the day, health officials said. In the past two days, Jharkhand vaccinated over 2.6 lakh people, especially rural residents, as special vaccination camps were set up at different villages of the state. The Panchayat level vaccination drive will resume on Tuesday, health officials said. While the state has inoculated several thousand senior citizens since the launch of the second phase of the immunisation programme on March 1, it has performed poorly in vaccinating healthcare workers and frontline workers registered for the first and second jabs of the vaccine, reveals government data. As per a report released by the NHM on Monday, only 2816 healthcare and frontline workers got the first jab of the vaccine on the day, while as many as 5925 got the second jab. The state achieved 8 per cent of its target for the second jab and 47 per cent of its target for the first jab, the NHM report stated. Since the launch of the immunisation programme, Jharkhand has vaccinated as many as 9,55,846 Jharkhand residents have been administered the first dose of the vaccine and over 4.5 lakh of them were senior citizens, highlights NHM data. Over 1 lakh middle-agers with comorbid conditions have also been inoculated. The second dose has been administered to 2,20,641 of the over 9.5 lakh people who got the first dose of the vaccine. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Monday flagged off a mobile van under the 'Apni Suraksha Apne Haath' campaign, which aims at spreading awareness about hygienic practices and Covid-19 precautions among school students in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
