24-03-2021||Jharkhand||Annual congregation at the firing range site in Netarhat plateau||Noted rights activists and economist Jean Drèze and many other social and tribal workers activists attended the programme organsied under Jan Sangharsh Samiti (JSS), which piloted the peaceful mass movement against this project in 1994.  “Since then said thousands of residents have been tirelessly fighting to press for cancellation of Netarhat Firing range project. Through satyagraha movement, we have also ensured no firing activities by Army as part of its annual practice in this range,” said Jerome Kujur of JSS, adding that in 1994 erstwhile Bihar government during undivided Jharkhand notified this firing range for Army till 2022. “With one more year left for the notification to end, we are now gearing up to intensify our satyagraha to ensure that the government permanently cancels this project,” he added.  As per the communiqué issued by JSS, Netarhat field firing range was notified for Army by government under the section 9 of Maneuvers Field Firing and Artillery Practice Act 1938, allowing it to conduct its annual artillery shelling and firing practice here. Netarhat firing range was among the four such pilot ranges which was established in the country. Other places where it was set up include Rewa in Madhya Pradesh, Sameepet in Andhra Pradesh and Koilat in Rajasthan. Netarhat firing range covers around 1471 square km, including 188 square km of impact zone. According to JSS, it impacts over 2 lakh villagers, mostly tribals in 245 villages. “In 2017, former chief minister Raghubar Das had announced to annul the notification of the firing range but nothing came out since then,” read the statement from JSS.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||Mandatory Covid test for travellers from Maharashtra, Kerala||Passengers coming from "high-positivity" states like Maharashtra and Kerala will  have to either undergo a mandatory Covid-19 test or be asked to produce a report of a Covid test conducted through RT PCR within 72 hours of entering Jharkhand, state health secretary K..K Soan has said. While all passengers travelling to Jharkhand from these states by air will have to be either tested on the spot or produce a Covid test report, those travelling by bus or train may be “appropriately stamped and subjected to Covid-19 testing by the concerned district surveillance unit,” Soan further specified in aletter addressed to  the state disaster management department on Wednesday. The health secretary's letter comes in the wake of a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases across the country with Jharkhand being no exception. On Wednesday, the state reported 196  Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day-spike since February taking the count of active cases to 969, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Jharkhand also reported two Covid casualties on the day, one each from Ranchi and Deoghar, taking the Covid toll in the state to 1100. Ranchi alone reported 93 cases against 45 recoveries on the day, taking the count of active cases here to 452. As many as 77 Covid patients recovered across Jharkhand on the day. As per government data, more than 1.21 lakh people have been infected by the coronavirus in Jharkhand so far and over 98 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate in the state was 0.09 per cent against the national average of 0.27 per cent, while the doubling rate in Jharkhand was 790 days against the national average of over 256 days. As many as 1,06,958 Jharkhand residents, including 79,822 senior citizens and 24,562 middle-agers with comorbid conditions, were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine on Wednesday, taking the total count of people vaccinated against the virus to 12,28,408, a report from the NHM stated. The state on Wednesday administered the second dose of the vaccine to as many as 4,477 people, hardly 7 per cent of the nearly 70,000 registered beneficiaries. So far, as many as 2,33,843 beneficiaries have been administered both the vaccine doses in Jharkhand, highlights government data. Jharkhand has achieved 83 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine and 79 per cent for the second dose. Ranchi is the only district where more than 1 lakh residents have been inoculated, reveals government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||Government schools in Bokaro close after students and teacher tests Covid positive||Bokaro district education department has closed two government schools situated in Bermo division after two students and a teacher tested Covid-19 positive in the district. A student in a prominent private school of the town has also been detected Covid-19 positive, following which contact tracing and sampling of other students were done. The school is closed due to CBSE board examination. Dr A.K Pathak, civil surgeon in Bokaro said, "district has again started seeing a rise in Covid-19 cases from March first week as there is 33 active cases at present. Every day 5-10 positive cases are surfacing. District health department has intensified Covid-19 testing to control spread of virus these days. However the major focus is on Covid-19 vaccination, but on Wednesday DC, Rajesh Kumar Singh has ordered to intensify testing and mask checking drive seeing rise in positive cases. The cases in schools surfaced after health department conducted a Covid-19 testing drive by sending teams to government and private schools across the district. District education officer (DEO), Neelam Ileen Toppo said,“a government middle school in Kurpuniya has been closed for eight days after two students of Class-8 tested Covid positive. Similarly, another government school at Koliyadabur has been closed for three days after a teacher-tested positive there.” Both the schools are situated under Bermo Sub-division. All the necessary contact tracing and sampling of students and teachers were done in both institutions. Besides she has directed the management of all the 1626 government schools to follow the Covid-19 protocol strictly to prevent the spread of Covid-19 virus There were nine positive cases of coronavirus on Wednesday in the district. Since March, 2020 6814 persons tested positive in the district. Of them, 6704 persons were cured while 67 patients had died. Health department has done Covid-19 testing of 3.37 lakhs residents here. Covid-19 vaccination have been administered to 72,000 persons in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||BJP looting the country like East India Company, Hemant tells Bengal voters ||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren joined the high octane Bengal election campaign on Wednesday, holding three back-to-back rallies in tribal dominated assembly segments along the Jharkhand-Bengal border and throwing his weight behind Mamata Banerjee and her party, the Trinamool Congress (TMC), to woo adivasi voters. Calling the main challenger, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), as a clone of the erstwhile East India Company, Hemant warned voters in Bandwan constituency not to fall prey to its "double-engine googly, a reference to governments headed by same parties at the state and Centre. “Be very cautious when they (BJP) try to convince you seeking your votes in the name of installing double-engine government  Double-engine, for them,  means looting with both hands. The state (Jharkhand) which is just next to yours suffered a lot because of this as a result of which people threw them (BJP) out of power in the 2019 assembly elections. “BJP’s double engine government in our state robbed farmers, Dalits, and the poor. During their double-engine regime, our state witnessed a slew of mob lynchings because of BJP’s divisive politics. Don’t allow that to happen in Bengal,” he said, referring to the saffron party as a clone of the erstwhile East India Company. “Have you ever wondered how. while the country and its people are increasingly becoming poor, the BJP is getting rich? How did it suddenly amass  so much money to be able to build multi-crore party offices everywhere? It is because of the systematic loot and selling of all the country’s assets, just like the East India Company had done once. BJP is a clone of East India Company, whose only agenda is to pit people of the country, state, tola against each other to divide, rule and loot," he said. Hemant siad the drive to "flush out the BJP" began from Jharkhand in 2019, and that now, it was the turn of Bengal. "This election is going to be historic in many ways and it's time for each one of you to be a part of that history and keep communal forces out of your state. They think Didi is alone and they can harass her using money and muscle power to win the election. Show them that they are wrong,” he roared, adding that tribals — be it in Jharkhand or Bengal _ were fighters who knew how to fight for their rights. Bandwan constituency was Hemant's  second stop of the day. He began his Bengal campaign from Manbazar constituency. His last rally of the day was at Taldangra constituency after which he flew back to Jharkhand. TMC has fielded Sandhya Rani Tudu in Manbazar, Rajiv Soren in Bandwan and Arup Chakraborty in Taldangra. Voting in Bengal will be spread over eight phases starting on Saturday, March 27. Hemant's party, the JMM, which had earlier said that it would contest in about two dozen seats in Bengal,  backed out later on Mamata's request. While the  JMM is in alliance with Congress and RJD in Jharkhand, it agreed to extend support to the TMC in Bengal. But it will back the Congress in Assam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||BJP questions state ban on processions during Sarhul and Ramnavami||The BJP has criticised the Hemant Soren government's decision to ban processions of Sarhul and Ramnavami, which are scheduled between the first and second week of April, to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The Ranchi district administration on Tuesday announced the enforcement of section 144 under CrPC during Holi. Sarhul, a tribal festival, and Ramnavami, a carnival for the Hindus, draw lakhs of crowd on the streets in Ranchi and elsewhere in the state. Other districts too are either in the process of notifying or have already notified the restrictions. “We strongly object to Hemant Soren’s tuglaqi farman (autocratic diktat). It is a direct attack on the religious sentiments of crores of Hindus and our adivasi brothers and sisters. Both the festivals are of great significance and reverence,” said BJP's state chief Deepak Prakash. “Those processions can easily be held through proper planning on a low scale and in total compliance of the covid safety guidelines,” he advocated and stressed that their opposition to the total ban orders shouldn’t be looked through political prism. “If the Hemant Soren government is so serious and concerned about curbing the Covid-19 situation, he (CM) should publicly announce and ensure that he and his party will not hold public campaigns and mass gatherings for Madhupur bypoll. Such electoral gatherings equally pose threat of the virus spread,” he demanded.
The Madhupur bypoll is scheduled on April 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||70 held after another round of evictions at Khasmahal ||The East Singhbhum district administration carried out a massive eviction drive on Wednesday, clearing almost 10 acres of government land in Khaasmahal, and removing encroachments from two other areas, but had to arrest 70 people for obstructing their efforts. Jamshedpur block circle officer Amit Srivastav said the district administration demolished as many as 200 makeshift houses from  Khaasmahal, in addition to clearing areas in two more places, namely, Golpahadi and adjoining Sundernagar where the slum-dwellers had encroached upon government land in the lpast fortnight. "Now,  the government land in Khaasmahal is clear of all encroachments following Wednesday's evicton drive. To ensure the slum-dwellers do not return, we have instructed various government organisatios that had land allotted to them in Khaasmahal to put up boundary walls around designated plots, " Srivastav said. During the drive, a section of the encroachers resisted the administration's action. These men and women had to be taken into custody and  put up in a camp jail set up on the premises of Jamshedpur bock office in Parsudih. The district administration is thinking of setting up a temporary police picket at the spot, sources in the block office said. In all 400 police personnel were pressed into service, besides earth-movers. The drive was led by SDO, Dhalbhum, Nitesh Kumar Singh. SP (city) Subhash Chandra Jat, who was leading the police personnel, said that in all 70 people had been taken into custody. "Those who were arrested had tried to obstruct the administration. We are expect more people to be taken into custody," said Jat. The local administration had carried out a similar drive against encroachers at Khaasmahal on March 9. But those who had been evicted returned within 24 hours of the drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||Draupadi Murmu visits Chinnamastika temple in Ramgarh||Governor Draupadi Murmu on Wednesday visited the famous temple of Chinnamastika in Ramgarh’s Rajarappa for the first time, for mundan (a religious ceremony) of her grandson. Reaching the temple with her daughter, son-in-law and grandson, Murmu was welcomed by Ramgarh deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh, superintendent of police Prabhat Kumar, deputy development commissioner Nagendra Kumar Sinha, DSP Virendra Kumar Choudhary and other officials. The governor, who expressed her happiness over visiting the temple, was given the Guard of Honour by the officials when she reached there. Murmu and her family visited the sanctum in the temple and prayed there, before the ceremony was performed. The temple premises as well as the roads leading to it witnessed a tight security in view of her visit on the day. The main attraction of Chinnamastika temple is the headless deity of Goddess Chinnamasta, which stands on the body of Kamdev and Rati on a lotus bed. The temple is popular for its tantrik style of architectural design. Apart from the main temple, there are 10 temples of various gods and goddesses. It is situated 28kms away from Ramgarh district headquarter in Gola block on the confluence of Damodar and Bhairavi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS trauma centre is Covid-only facility again||The Trauma Cenre at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi has been transformed into a dedicated Covid-care facility again owing to the sudden spike in cases in the state capital, doctors spearheading the Covid control programme at the state-run hospital said on Wednesday. Some parts of centre were opened up for non-Covid patients after the district witnessed a drop in active caseload back in February. But now, things have changed dramatically. “The entire Trauma Centre has been transformed into a Covid-care facility. The top floor has an ICU and the remaining three floors are for Covid patients only. We have more than 100 available beds for Covid patients now,” said the nodal officer of the Covid control programme at RIMS, Dr Prabhat Kumar. At the peak of Covid-19 cases in Ranchi, RIMS had at least 280 dedicated Covid beds, said doctors. The number of Covid beds at RIMS was reduced in January and February after the state registered a significant fall in the count of active cases, doctors said. The Covid care centre at the medicine ward was also made a non-Covid ward owing to the fall in cases. Now, with the rise in cases, at least 45 beds in the Paying Ward have also been made available for Covid patients, doctors said. The count of Covid patients witnessed a sudden spike in Ranchi in the past couple of weeks. As per government data, in the first week of February, there were only 198 Covid patients in the district and by March 24, the count jumped to 404. By Tuesday night, there were more than 850 Covid patients in Jharkhand. As per latest figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 252 people have died of the coronavirus infection in Ranch so far – the second highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The count of Covid beds at RIMS, however, was lower than the total number of patients in the district as many patients were being treated at home. Usually, patients with severe symptoms got admitted at RIMS, said doctors. Doctors also fear that Holi may trigger a spike in Covid cases as it would be difficult to maintain social distancing during the festivities. Many health professionals have requested Jharkhand residents to refrain from smearing colour on each other this Holi. “We have to be prepared for a further spike in cases. The number of patients may increase after Holi,” said Dr Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||Rule spanner in resumption of angling in Jamshedpur||Patience of anglers seems to be running out as three lakes in the steel city still remains out of bounds for them. The Covid-19 pandemic has hit angling hard in the steel city. It forced cancellation of two annual events -- one on the birth anniversary of doyen of Indian industry JRD Tata on July 29 and the day-and night competition in November. Both these competition attract good number of participants, especially from Calcutta and Kharagpur. There is an impressive stock of fish at Jayanti Sarovar, Beldih and Bara lakes. Members are anxious and want angling to resume at the earliest. A wide section of over 250-odd members blame the rules of Jamshedpur Angling Club (JAC) which mentions that the activity cannot be conducted in rest of the lakes if Jayanti Sarovar in Jubilee Park remains shut. This effectively means, angling cannot take place at Beldih Lake (in Dhatkidih) and Bara Lake (near Sidhgora) till Jayanti Sarovar re-opens. Angling is still not conducted at Jayanti sarovar since the Covid-19 pandemic. "The rules of the club should be amended so that we can go for angling at Beldih and Bara lakes. My patience is running out. What is the harm if we catch fish at these two lakes," said Ehtesham Ansari, a JAC member in an angry tone. Biplab Das, another member, echoed him and said: “The rules of the club have become outdated. The club should go for popularising angling in the city. We also want women to join us as members. Continue angling by wearing mask and maintaining social distancing We canBut things cannot go forward till rules were amended." Most of the JAC members came up with similar views. JAC general secretary Sukumar Ghoshal said their hands were tied. "We are helpless. Jayanti sarovar is the mother tank. Angling can only take place at Beldih and Bara lakes when the Sarovar is re-opened. We are keen to resume angling but rules don't allow us," he said. According to Ghoshal, rules of the club are being followed since 1947 and it is for the first time angling has to be stopped owing to the pandemic. "The situation is unique for us but we need to adhere to the existing rules," Ghoshal said. Ghoshal said there was adequate fish stock at all the three lakes."Angling has been forced to discontinue for over a year now. Obviously, fish stock is not an issue. But we shall have to wait till angling is allowed at the sarovar," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||More than 10 lakh receive Covid-19 jabs in state so far||The count of Jharkhand residents vaccinated against the Covid-19 virus crossed the 10 lakh mark on Tuesday as the state administered the first dose of the vaccine to over 1.22 lakh people on the day, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per NHM data, as many as 10,70,204 beneficiaries, including almost 5.5 lakh senior citizens and over 1.20 lakh middle-agers with comorbid conditions, have been administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine since the launch of the nationwide immunisation programme on January 16. On Tuesday, Jharkhand achieved 69 per cent of its vaccination target by administering the first dose of the vaccine to as many as 1,22,622 beneficiaries, including over 95,000 senior citizens and more than 23,000 middle-agers with comorbid conditions. Meanwhile, the state reported 130 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection and one casualty, taking the number of active cases in the state to 854 and the Covid toll to 1,098, a bulletin from NHM stated. The casualty was reported in Dumka. Ranchi reported 47 cases against 49 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported 27 cases against 11 recoveries on the day. The number of active cases in Ranchi dropped to 404 on Tuesday. The count of Ranchi residents vaccinated since the launch of the programme also crossed the 1 lakh mark on the day. As per NHM figures, as many as 1,04,560 Ranchi residents have been administered the first dose of the vaccine so far, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. Ranchi is the only district where more than 1 lakh people have been vaccinated so far. The state also launched the second phase of the weeklong Panchayat level vaccination drive on Tuesday. A majority of the beneficiaries administered the first jab of the vaccine on the day were rural residents, officials said. So far, the state has vaccinated close to 4 lakh people during the special Panchayat level drive. The special drive will also be conducted on Wednesday, Friday and Saturday. However, the state achieved only 7 per cent of its target for administering the second dose of the vaccine on the day by inoculating 4684 of over 70,000 healthcare and frontline workers registered for the second jab. So far, as many as 2,24,934 beneficiaries, around 77 per cent of those registered, have received the second dose of the vaccine. Jharkhand has achieved 84 per cent of its target for the first dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||Single screen cinema halls in Dhanbad stare at closure||Single screen cinema halls are facing one of the worst crises due to almost negligible occupancy since their reopening on March 1. Majority of the owners are now mulling closing their units as they are finding it difficult to manage the staff expense and other overhead expenses like electricity bills, diesel cost of generators, sanitization cost of halls etc. Prashant Singh,owner of Puja Talkies cinema hall of Dhanbad, told The Telegraph Online:“The night shows have never run since March 5 when we reopened our movie hall and matinee and evening shows are also being frequently suspended due to lack a single visitors.” “Even in other shows we are sometimes witnessing 1 to 2% occupancy and thus we repenting our decision to reopen the hall as with such income  we are not able to pay the salaries, pay GST, DMC holding tax etc,” said Singh.
“We have written to the government several times earlier but there is no response at all and it seems that we have been left to die without any care,” charged Singh. Echoing similar sentiments, Nitesh Shahababi, owner of one of oldest single screen cinema hall of Dhanbad Ray Talkies said a combination of factors including decreased income of common people, onslaught of OTT platforms, stiff competition posed by multiplexes are the main reasons for worst ever scenario. “Out of the capacity of 845 seats we are compelled to run shows with seven to eight viewers for majority of times since the last three weeks hoping that the cinema lovers will eventually return but all our expectations are belied every day,” said Shahbadi. “Though, very blockbuster movies are coming but even in big movies like John Abraham starrer, Mumbai Saga which is presently being screened at our hall there is timid response,” said Shahbadi adding that due to latest trend of OTT Platforms the youth are preferring to watch most of the movies on their smart phones and thus there is no rush in the cinema halls. “With no aid of tax holidays from the government in wake of Covid pandemic affecting our business in worst manner we will not be able to sustain for long and the single screen cinema industry will be completely ruined” said Shahbadi and added several states like Andhra Pradesh have provided loan of Rs 10 lakh to cinema halls to recover from the covid crisis after the reopening of hall their and also provided a moratorium on loan interest payment for six months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||Trade dips below normal in Dhanbad during Holi  ||Trade during Holi in Dhanbad this year is likely to be less than 25 per cent than the usual of around Rs 500 crore in previous years. A combination of factors have contributed to this, the first being the rise in Covid cases besides job loss, salary cut, decreased income of entrepreneurs and school admission pressure. President of Hirapur Chamber of Commerce, Sanjeev Chaurasia told The Telegraph Online: “Ever since the end of brighter period of lagan season of November 25 to December 15 we were harping on Holi sale to compensate for extremely dull season of last three months but the latest wave of Covid has destroyed our expectation.” “Those who have lost their jobs during the last year are not in a position to  invest but those who are in job are fearful of losing jobs during the next phase of retrenchment due to covid scenario aggravating day by day,” said Chourasia. Ashish Jindal a gift shop owner of Dhanbad said, “though there is no dearth of items as we have brought new products of Herbal colour and gulal but he fearing of getting infected due to touching the articles during Holi has percolated among the people they only making limited purchasing to complete the formalities of Puja etc." “The admission season in schools coinciding with the Holi also affected the market this year apart from other factors besides investing on admission people are compelled to purchase books and stationeries and uniforms,” said Jindal. Former president of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce, Md Sohrab said, “in our place a Purana Bazar which used to be flooded with customers every year there are limited footfalls and even those who are coming are making some limited purchasing of essential items thus the market sentiments are completely down.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||Tribute to priest who worked for tribal land||The Ranchi archdiocese remembered Father Constant Lievens, one of first Belgium Jesuit priests who came to Chotanagpur for preaching, at a programme organised at a nearby village on Sunday. Father Lievens who came to Ranchi 136 years ago is known not only for spreading Christianity in the region but also for working for establishing the traditional rights of the tribals over their land. The programme was organised at Jamgain village, about 15km away from Ranchi, where Father Lievens reached on March 19 in 1885, the same year the Roman Catholic Church started its activities in Chotanagpur. “He had first reached Jamgain and stayed there for a few months trying to learn the local language and customs but later shifted to Torpa (60km from Ranchi, now in Khunti district) as the condition was not favourable for working at Jamgain,” informed auxiliary Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas, explaining why they organised the programme there. “Besides his missionary work, Father Lievens also worked for our ancestors and freed them from the bondage of landlords,” said Archbishop Felix Toppo who, along with Bishop Mascarenhas, led the rosary procession and presided over the Eucharist that day. “We are still here (with our land in possession) because of him,” added the local MLA of Khijri Rajesh Kachchap while paying tribute to Father Lievens. Finding that forced labour, indebtedness and usurping of tribal land was rampant in the region, Father Lievens had realised that protection of the land of the Mundas was the need of the hour.  He started defending the cases of the Mundas whose land was taken away by deceit before the British judges, emphasising the importance of their unwritten customary law. “It was due to such efforts initiated by him that protective laws such as the Chotanagpur Tenancy Act was eventually implemented,” the Archbishop further said. When the Mundas found that Father Lievens worked for their cause, they became interested in the Church and started embracing Christianity. He was made the director of the mission and shifted to Ranchi in 1888 so that he could work more conveniently. But the priest who had by then had tuberculosis was shifted to Darjeeling by the end of 1891. But he returned to Ranchi only to find soon that tuberculosis relapsed. He was finally sent back to Belgium, expecting he would recuperate after proper treatment there but Father Lievens died in 1893 when he was just 37 years old. But his work among the tribals had a great impact in the region, so much that over 73,000 of them had become Christians by the time the priest left Ranchi. “He is fondly remembered as the Apostle of Chotanagpur and the process for his beatification has already begun,” Bishop Mascarenhas informed, adding declaring him as a saint was under consideration in Rome.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
24-03-2021||Jharkhand||Member of People's Liberation Front escapes from police custody in Latehar ||A member of the banned People's Liberation Front of India, Krishna Yadav alias Tufan, having 29 criminal cases against him, escaped from police custody in Latehar district of Jharkhand on Tuesday. Yadav, 29, the extremist outfit’s sub-zonal commander and a native of Karamtoli village under Chanho police station in Ranchi, was arrested by Lohardaga police in December last year from Senha police station area. He had a reward of Rs 2 lakh on his head. On Tuesday, Yadav came out of the police cell on the pretext of defecating in the open and escaped by climbing the boundary wall of the police station though nine policemen were entrusted to keep a look on him. “It is surprising that three ASI rank officials and six constables (all armed) kept looking as the rebel leader known for his speed in running and nicknamed Tufan was brought out of the cell to defecate in the open in Balumath police station and escaped. It is a model police station and has toilet facilities for those kept in custody. “It is more surprising that the rebel leader climbed the nearly 5-feet wall and escaped around 5.30am when the sun was up,” said a senior police official in Latehar. The official hinted at a nexus between the cops on guard and the rebel leader. “We do not rule out the greasing of palms of the police by the rebel leader,” said the official on the condition of anonymity. Balumath police station, nearly 50km from the Latehar district headquarters, is one of the few model police stations in the district boasting of good facilities. Latehar superintendent of police Prashant Anand said that an investigation would be carried out on the role of the cops entrusted to keep a watch over the rebel. “We will be conducting a probe and taking stern disciplinary action against the cops entrusted to keep a watch on the rebel. We will be tracing out the rebel leader soon. We have already got some leads about his whereabouts,” said Anand. Yadav, who was involved in rebel activities in Ranchi, Latehar, Chatra and Hazaribagh districts, was taken on remand by Balumath police. On Tuesday, the remand period was to end and he was supposed to be sent to jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
