25-03-2021||Jharkhand||Chess tournaments to resume in Kolhan from April  ||District-level chess tournaments will resume in Kolhan post-pandemic from early April. The West Singhbhum District Chess Association (WSDCA) is organising the 11th Padmabai Rungta Memorial District Chess Tournament 2021 from April 2 to 4. The event will be held at S.R. Rungta Recreation Town Hall. West Singhbhum will become the first district in Kolhan to conduct on-board chess event. It is yet to resume in East Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan. WSDCA secretary Basant Khandelwal said the tournament will be played over 7 rounds of Swiss league with a time control of 25 minutes and 10 seconds increment. "Chess event will finally resume in Kolhan after the pandemic. The chess enthusiasts really wanted to once again get a feel of chess board," he said from Chaibasa. The winner of the tournament will receive Rs 5,000 and a trophy and top 15 players will also be awarded cash prizes and trophies. "Entry fee for the tournament is Rs 100 for school students and Rs 200 for other players. Entry fee will be collected at the venue and Jalaram Store Bari Bazar, Chaibasa. S.R. Rungta Group is the sponsor of the tournament," he added. All participants will wear masks and maintain social distancing during the tournament. Saikat Dutta and Priyanka Kumari  from West Singhbhum placed third and fourth at the recently concluded 20th Aditya Birla Memorial Senior State Chess Championship in Ranchi. Both Saikat and Priyanka have been selected to represent Jharkhand in the senior national meet to be held in Kanpur next month. Both players will be part of the district event in Chaibasa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ban orders in Ranchi for farmers' bandh from 5am 5pm on Friday||Ranchi district administration has decided to enforce prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC to ban the assembly of more than five persons, processions, demonstrations and the like from 5am to 10 pm on Friday in the wake of a nationwide bandh call issued by an umbrella outfit of farmers against the Centre's enactment of contentious farm laws. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said on Thursday that the administration could not risk a congregation in the district in name of the bandh due to a spike in Covid-19 cases. He appealed to protestors to abide by the regulations or face action. In a statement, Ranjan said, “Several outfits from the city and state have extended their support to the nationwide bandh tomorrow (Friday). But in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the district administration has decided to enforce prohibitory orders to prevent a spike in cases or a law and order situation.” The bandh has been called by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM). As per the orders, except government workers on duty, assembling of five or more persons at any place isn't allowed. “If anyone wishes to stage peaceful and democratic demonstrations, we have identified a ground in Pundag where one can do so in compliance with Ccovid norms and disperse after submitting a memorandum to the appointed magistrate. This apart, prohibitory orders will remain in force in the entire district,” he said. Several trade unions and outfits backed by Left parties took out a torchlight procession from Ranchi University to Albert Ekka Chowk, a distance of 500m on Thursday night in support of Friday's bandh from morning till noon. The convener of Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangarsh Samanvaya Samiti, Sufal Mahto said, “We will take out processions in rural areas of Ranchi against the Centre’s farm laws.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||Railways issues fresh appeal to adhere to Covid protocols ||The South Eastern Railway on Thursday issued fresh appeal to passengers for maintaining necessary safety and health protocols with the rise in Covid-19 cases across the country. Officials of the SER said for safety purposes they have adopted several measures like regular cleaning and sanitisation of coaches, platforms, wash rooms, encouraging commuters to make online booking to avoid queue at counters, deployment of staff to check whether the health protocols are being maintained, regular announcement at stations and distribution of  pamphlets among travelling passengers for spreading awareness. Passengers without masks are not allowed to enter the station premises and single entry and single exit point at stations has been introduced at various stations under SER zone including Ranchi, Tatanagar, Rourkela, Hatia, Jharsuguda and Chakradharpur. Booking counters are being sanitised regularly for the safety of the commuters and intending passengers are being encouraged to use Unreserved Ticketing System (UTS) and Automatic Ticket Vending Machines (ATVM). Markings have also been drawn for queuing of the passengers at all relevant places including platforms and ticket counters. RPF personnel have also been deployed to ensure that health protocols are followed and passengers do not face any difficulty. To create awareness among the passengers as well as common people, adequate publicity campaigns through mass media has been undertaken to inform the passengers about the train services as well as Covid-19 precautions to be followed before and during journey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||JMM minister Hafizul Hassan files nomination for Madhupur bypoll||A minister in the Hemant Soren cabinet, Hafizul Hassan filed his nomination as the JMM candidate for the Madhupur assembly seat , a byelection for which is scheduled to be held next month, in the presence of the chief minister and his ministerial colleagues on Thursday. In the run up to his nomination, filed in the afternoon, Hemant addressed a mega rally at Pathalchapti ground in the Madhupur constituency asking voters to elect Hafizul and pay a fitting tribute to his father and former MLA Haji Hussain Ansari. At the rally, attended by close to 1,000 people, Hemant turned emotional. "A son of the soil is fighting this election to continue the tradition to serve this constituency. Late Haji Saab represented this seat many times and lived a simple life. He always dreamt about ways to bring development to this constituency. Electing Hafizul will be a fitting tribute to him. It will also strengthen your own government,” he said. Hafizul was inducted into the cabinet early this year before the announcement of the bypoll as the JMM’s strategy of staking claim to the seat and make him the joint candidate of the grand alliance comprising Congress and RJD. State agriculture minister Badal Patralekh, Mahagama MLA Deepika Pandey Singh, in addition to Hafizul and Hemant, were among the battery of  leaders of the grand alliance who were present at the rally. Critising the BJP, Hemant said, “They are wasting time by fighting this election as in 2019, people of this constituency chose JMM. I am sure that you will again elect your leader, who is young and a minister in your government.” The byelection is to be held on April 17. Results will be declared on May 2. After coming to power in 2019, this will be third bypoll for the incumbent JMM-Congress-RJD grand alliance in Jharkhand. Last year, JMM retained Dumka while Congress won back Bermo during the two bypolls held around May. The Madhupur bypoll was necessitated after the demise of Haji Hussain in October last year owing to post Covid complications. Haji Hussain was minister of minority affairs in the Hemant cabinet. BJP on Thursday announced turncoat Ganga Narayan Singh as its candidate for Madhupur bypoll. Few days back, he joined the party after leaving AJSU-P. During 2019 elections, he finished on the third spot contesting on AJSU-P ticket but won BJP’s eyeballs for singlehanded bagging close to 45000 votes, which dented chances of the saffron camp. Gradually, it made him join BJP to contest Madhupur this time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad launches app to resolve water issues ||The district unit of National Informatics Centre of Dhanbad has developed a mobile app to resolve water supply related problems. The Jal drishti app was launched on Thursday by deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh with municipal commissioner Satyendra Kumar, executive engineer of drinking water and sanitation department, Manish Kumar and technical member of Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority, Indresh Shukla. The app is aimed at offering time bound solution of water woes of the residents. “The app developed by Dhanbad NIC besides being citizen centric establishes coordination between different agencies involved in water supply at the district including the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation entrusted with task of water supply in urban areas of Dhanbad; drinking water and sanitation department responsible for water supply in both and rural areas and Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority, entrusted with the task of water supply in Jharia and Katras,” said Singh. “Soon after the registration of the complaint with regard to the any disruption in water supply the message reaches to the concerned officer of the respective agencies responsible for water supply in the concerned area who in turn passes on the information to the valve man or technical manager or supervisor, who will redressal of the complaint within a fixed time” said Singh. “As with the advent of summer season a host of water supply problems arise in the jurisdiction of Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA) as well as Dhanbad Municipal Corporation so we have developed the app and also instructed the concerned authorities as these two civic bodies to beef up their water supply system to avoid the inconvenience of the common people,” summed up Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad villagers protest against urban waste recycling plant||Villagers of Raghunathpur area of Baliapur block about 25 km from Dhanbad district headquarters on Thursday held an hour-long demonstration against the proposed development of waste recycling plant. More than 200 protesters were holding placards bearing slogans like gaon hamara kudedan nahin (our village is not a dumping ground) nagar nigam ka kachara dump gram panchayhat me nahi ho (urban waste should not be dumped in our village). Trilochan Mahto, one of the protester said the district administration  has identified around 20.19 acres of land in mouza number 179 of Raghunathpur village for establishing a waste recycling plant but the identified land is surrounded by a densely populated area. Rajesh Kumar Mahto, a resident of  Raghunathpur and a representative of Village Pramukh Sneha Kumari said, “the proposed site for recycling plant also bears a small pond and a graveyard for children and the recycling plant will affect these facilities.” Sindri MLA, Indrajit Mahto had raised the issue of the proposed development of waste recycling plant in Raghunathpur in the state assembly and expressed his reservation over the development of such a plant in the village. Since the launch of the door to door collection of household garbage of 55 wards of five circles of Dhanbad in 2019, the integrated solid waste management project worth Rs 254 crores had initially identified around 30 acres of FCI land in Sindri. As FCI demanded around Rs 700 crores for proving a 30 year lease for the identified land, the DMC later identified around 17 acres of land in Aamjhar area of Baliapur and another 21 acres at Deoli in Govindpur but the procedural hurdles forced DMC to select around 21 acres of land at Raghunathpur for which the environment clearance has already been obtained and land transfer is in progress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jeevan to enhance suicide prevent efforts ||Jamshedpur-based suicide prevention centre Jeevan will be extending its reach to the community with more, in-person awareness sessions against the futility of ending life prematurely. The centre’s activity (virtual seminars and awareness sessions) is restricted to a handful of schools. Distressed individuals contact its volunteers over phone or Whatsapp. However, it has not been able to physically connect to people post-pandemic. Jeevan is worried over the rise in suicide cases in the city but so far it has not been able to adequately spread awareness among the masses owing to resource crunch and other issues. "A wide section of people in Jamshedpur are not aware of our existence. So, they are unable to reach us for counselling. We have put posters and banners in some parts of the city but it is not enough. We felt the need to physically reach the community and spread awareness about the futility of committing suicide and also ways to overcome stress and depression," said Jeoraj Jain, director of Jeevan. According to him, they are joining hands with Urban Services of Tata Steel to reach people. "Jeevan will be spreading awareness at dozen-odd community centres run by the Urban Services. We are sure Urban Services can bring people to the community centres for attending our awareness session. We will be availing the services of experienced counsellers for conducting the sessions," Jain informed. Jain said they have already met officials of Urban Services and one more meeting is scheduled on March 27."The meeting on March 27 will be the final before we go to the community centres," he added. He expressed concern over the rise in suicide cases in Jamshedpur." We are really very concerned over the rise in suicide cases in the city."Eighteen people (12 men and 6 women) ended their lives in January this year while the number stood at 34 (26 men and 8 women) in February. The trend of suicide is very disturbing," the Jeevan director said. According to him, five school students were among those who committed suicide in the past two months. "The method of suicide was mostly by hanging. Family dispute, financial issues and loneliness have been the main reasons forcing people to take fatal step," he said, adding the pandemic has rendered several people unemployed, which is also one of the reasons for suicides.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||'Ranchi ki Roshni' to light up NDRF missions across India||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), the country’s premier agency for rescue missions in the time of disasters, will now be equipped with portable solar lamps designed by self-help women's groups of Ranchi. The district administration has signed an MoU with NDRF for supplying these lamps as part of which a consignment of 4,000 was handed over to NDRF on Thursday. Speaking to the media on Thursday, Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said the slef-help groups would be givingout close to 40,000 lamps to NDRF gradually. “Lamps made in Ranchi will illuminate disaster hit sites of the country,” he said, adding that NDRF would distribute the lamps to its camps across the country based on requirements. Ranjan said the project was launched in 2018 as a part of a skilling and livelihood mission wherein women self-help groups were trained to make LED solar lamps under a scheme titled "Ranchi ki Roshni". A full-fledged workshop has been set up in Ormanjhi on capital outskirts to make these lamps. “Around two dozen women are engaged in manufacturing lamps right from assembling LEDs to fixing wires and packaging the final product,” said an official at the workshop. “Each lamp is priced at around Rs 160,” he said, adding that they have also begun selling them in the open market and were receiving a good response. The district administration, however, has supplied the lamps to NDRF fee of cost, the deputy commissioner said. “The project is being sustained through CSR funds of IOCL and HPCL. For making the lamps, members of women's self-help groups get a nominal remuneration at the workshop. However, we are now focusing on creating a dedicated market to sell these lamps by setting up kiosks in the city so that the women's groups can become economically independent,” he said. The project, Ranchi ki Roshni, was originally conceptualised in 2018 by My Shelter Foundation and a group of IITians in 2018 while they were pursuing internship with the district administration for providing a cheap source of lighting for the poor. They developed LED bulbs, micro-solar panels and a battery to provide low- cost solutions. Later, the district administration adopted the model and women's goups were trained in the capital. The concept was also applauded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to Ranchi at the time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||Youngsters soak in Pyatkar art, earth colours and stories||The best way to make an art form popular is to pass it on to the younger generation. The four-day Pyatkar art workshop jointly organised by the Indira Gandhi National Centre for Arts (IGNCA), Ranchi and Kalamandir was an initiative to make the students of Arka Jain University's fashion designing department and young artists aware of the art form. The workshop, held at the Amadubi-Panijia Rural Tourism Centre from March 20, was inaugurated by IGNCA, Ranchi regional director, Kumar Sanjay Jha. "The workshop was organised with the aim to provide knowledge about the craftsmanship of Payatkar art form along with its socio-religious significance and tradition of the storytelling songs, to preserve and document this rich tribal cultural heritage," said Jha. Around 20 students from Arka Jain University and Ranchi participated in the workshop where Amadubi based Pyatkar artists like Vijay Chitrakar, Anil Chitrakar and Kishor Gayen were the resource persons. "There are so many people including young artists who are unaware of such wonderful indigenous art forms. It is for this workshop that we came to know about this wonderful art form. We learn the techniques and generation of organic colours," said Priya Kumari, a student from Arka Jain University. In the course of the workshop, participants received extensive training on the unique painting technique of Pyatkar, their strokes and outline; history and projection of organic colours; Santhali plot of Pyatkar and depiction of the folktales. The use of earthly colours and the music and storytelling process of Pyatkar Art. "We try our best but most of the youngsters in our village do not want to learn and take this art form forward primarily due to the low earning artists have. If students from urban areas can come and learn, there is a hope that the heritage art form will live," said Pyatkar artist Vijay Chitrakar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||Daytime flights rescheduled from March 28 to April 27||Daytime flights to and from Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi will remain suspended from March 28 to April 27 as the runway will remain closed for the final layer of carpeting for a month, officials of the only operational airport in Jharkhand said on Thursday. However, despite the suspension of flights from 11am to 5pm, none of the 20 flights taking off from the city at present will have to be cancelled, airport authorities said. “The flights will be rescheduled, not cancelled. The presently operational flights will take off or land from 6.45am to 11am and then from 5pm to 9.15pm,” said the airport director Vinod Sharma. Daytime flights at the airport here were suspended from November 16, 2020 to January 15, 2021 as well for carpeting. The airport director said that three layers of carpeting is done on the strip, and the third layer of carpeting will now be done in April. While none of the existing flights will be cancelled, the rescheduling of flights may also cause inconvenience to passengers as flights might take off and land at odd times, sources said. During the repair of the airstrip in January, many passengers complained that they had to wait  in New Delhi airport for long hours while traveling to other destinations from Ranchi. At present, as many as 20 flights connect Ranchi to New Delhi, Bangalore, Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad. The airport authorities here also plan to increase connectivity with more tier-2 cities once the carpeting work is complete, sources said. Ranchi is likely to get direct flights to Patna, Chandigarh and Trivandrum in the near future, airport officials said. Also, a private airline has pitched the idea of starting direct flights to Jammu and Pune from May, a source at  the Birsa Munda Airport said. Direct flights to Jammu may help pilgrims from Ranchi in visiting Vaishno Devi Temple. The Birsa Munda Airport, which bagged the top position in customer satisfaction index (CSI) last year, at present has a 75 meter basic strip, which is the minimum length required for any airport.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad traders protest Act to hike electricity charges||Traders and industrialists are opposing the state government’s decision to increase charges for commercial and industrial electric connections according to the recently passed Jharkhand Vidyut Shulk (sansodhan) Vidheyak 2021. The act will lead to realisation of higher charges according to the electricity consumption. Electricity connections like domestic low tension, domestic high tension, religious places, temporary, advertisement will have to pay 6% duty, all commercial connections upto 10 MVA will have to pay 8% duty while other connections of more than 10 MVA are required to pay 15% duty. General Secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association (JITA), Rajiv Sharma told The Telegraph Online: “The state chief minister is continuously talking about industrial development and consequent generation of employment opportunities etc.” “Such development can take place only by promotion of trade and industry which will lead to per capita electricity consumption but increasing the rate of electricity will not help in increasing the per capita electricity consumption,” said Sharma “The industrial climate developing in the state will adversely be affected with any such step” opined Sharma. Echoing Sharma’s sentiment, Prabhat Surolia, President of Bank More Chamber of Commerce, said, “At a time when the industry is passing through it’s worst phase such a decision to carry out in electricity charges is completely uncalled for and instead government should have taken step for the waiving off fixed charges for three months of lockdown period of last year from April to June.” Prashant Singh, a cinema hall owner of Dhanbad said,“at a time when our sector is lying almost on death bed and we are clamouring for tax holidays etc such a step may prove to be detrimental for our future.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Assembly gets channel||The Jharkhand Legislative Assembly on Tuesday became the second legislature in the country after Kerala to launch a television channel to telecast House proceedings. Chief minister Hemant Soren along with Assembly Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahato launched the Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha TV and studio on Tuesday evening and termed it a historic step. “Now residents of Jharkhand and those having roots in the state but staying elsewhere can learn about the issues raised in the Assembly and the solution meted out by the respective ministers. Apart from direct telecast on Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha TV, its content can be seen on YouTube and other social media platforms. It will serve as a bridge connecting the people, the government and the Assembly,” the chief minister said. Mahato said the Assembly has acknowledged the changing times and decided to take the House proceedings directly to the people. Kerala had launched Sabha TV in August last year to telecast House proceedings. According to sources in the Jharkhand public relations department, the Vidhan Sabha TV with its own studio will initially rent slots on prominent television channels to telecast programmes. Apart from telecasting the House proceedings and programmes on the two decades of the Assembly, the OTT platform would transform into a full-fledged channel. Vidhan Sabha TV will be run on the lines of Lok Sabha TV. It would be operated by the Vidhan Sabha secretariat. “The channel’s objective is to create awareness among masses even in remote areas about the Assembly proceedings by way of direct communication. We have seen how successful Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha channels have become under the Sansad Television Network. It aims to ensure that democratic processes percolate down to the masses. People have the right to know what their elected representatives are doing in the legislature,” said Soren. Sources in the chief minister’s office revealed that the channel will also try to showcase through the social media platform the role played by the elected representatives from the Opposition and their stand on several important issues in the Assembly. “The Opposition MLAs cannot simply disturb House proceedings as now their action would be directly shown through the OTT platform to the masses,” said a close aide of the chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
25-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ten districts of Jharkhand to observe dry days in view of the Bengal Assembly elections||Ten districts of Jharkhand that share borders with Bengal will have to observe dry days in view of the Bengal Assembly elections. Earlier, only the bordering block used to mark dry day because of polling in a neighbouring district of the adjoining state. Vinay Kumar Chaube, Jharkhand’ secretary-cum-excise commissioner, in a letter on Monday directed the deputy commissioners of the 10 districts to declare dry days according to the directions of the Election Commission of India to ensure free and fair polls in the neighbouring state. Reminding that such prohibition is required as per the provisions of Section 35(c) of the People’s Representation Act, 1951, Chaubey asked the DCs to ensure that their districts remained dry for 48 hours until the end of polling, and also on May 2, the day of counting of votes. Dry day will come into effect on Thursday evening and will continue till Saturday evening in Ranchi, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Ramgarh, East Singhbhum and Saraikela-Kharsawan districts in view of the first phase of polling in Purulia and some other areas of Jungle Mahal in Bengal. Dhanbad, which also shares border with West Burdwan district, will observe dry day also during the seventh phase of polling slated for April 26. Three other districts — Jamtara, Sahebganj and Pakur — will have dry days for a 48-hour period during that time. Jamtara, Sahebganj and Pakur will also have to follow the restrictions along with Dumka for the eighth and last phase on April 29. All 10 districts will observe dry day again on May 2, the day of counting. “This is nothing new,” said Achintya Shah, president of the Jharkhand Wine Dealers Association, adding that earlier such restrictions used to be implemented only in bordering blocks but had been extended to entire districts since the Bihar elections last year. “The Jharkhand government should have requested the Election Commission to restrict the observance of dry days to the bordering areas only as it’s a revenue-earning enterprise and both the state government and the wine dealers suffer financial losses during dry days,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
