26-03-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: steel city hospitals told be stay vigilant ||The East Singhbhum district health department issued a directive to all Covid-designated hospitals in the steel city to be prepared to treat and admit patients after a steady increase in the number of fresh cases over the last week. As many as 30 people tested positive for the Coronavirus on Thursday, taking the total number of cases from March 8 to 190. District civil surgeon A.K. Lal said he had written to all five Covid-designated hospitals in Jamshedpur. "We have asked them to stay prepared to deal with fresh cases like they did last year when the pandemic had struck," he said, adding that thhe directive were issued as a precautionary measure. "It is evident that Covid-19 cases are increasing alarmingly in states like Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Delhi. It is unlikely that the  steel city will be an exception. There are chances cases may increase here like in cities of the surge states," the civil surgeon said. Lal said last year, people followed Covid guidelines strictly. But after the introduction of the vaccine, he felt, the fear factor had all but  disappeared from people's minds. "But the danger of its spread is more now than beore," he claimed. The five Covid designated health hubs in the steel city are Tata Main Hospital, Tata Motors Hospital, MGM Medical College and Hospital, Uma Super Speciality Hospital and St John's Hospital. Presently, most Covid patients are admitted at Tata Main Hospital. About half-a-dozen people are undergoing treatment at MGM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
26-03-2021||Jharkhand||Man gunned down by men on bike in Jamshedpur market||A 35-year-old man was shot dead by four bike-borne assailants at Sidhgora market on Friday afternoon. The victim, identified as Bablu Jha, was smoking marijuana along with a few others under the canopy of a banyan tree in the marketplace at about 2 pm when the criminals shot him. Two of the attackers fired one shot each, targeting the victim's chest and as soon as he fell down, the four fled the scene. The victim was rushed to MGM medical college and hospital but doctors declared him dead on arrival. Police officials reached the spot immediately and sealed the marketplace to carry out a search operation. The assailants could not be traced in the marketplace. A resident of No 10 Bustee in Shidhgora, Bablu Jha worked at a canteen in Tata Main Hospital and also drove an autoricshaw at night. Officer-in-charge of Sidhgora police station, Sandeep Ranjan, said the attack seemed to have been conspired because of an old enmity. "We have identified two of the assailants by means of CCTV footage gathered from near the murder scene. We are getting the names and address of the two verified and expect to detect the case soon," said Ranjan. The OC said some of the attackers had visited Bablu at his house in the morning and had enticed him to smoke marijuana on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
26-03-2021||Jharkhand||Madhupur bypolls: LPG cylinders, autos for voter awareness||Deoghar district administration is using domestic LPG cylinders to propagate messages about the importance of voting and adhering to Covid safety norms ahead of the April 17 Madhupur byelection, the unique initiative drawing kudos from one and all. Deoghar deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri, who is also district election officer, said they are working to ensure a grand turnout for the byelection as a part of the Systematic Voters' Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) campaign. “Since cylinders are an invaluable part of every household, we decided to use them for creating awareness. As per the plan, before being delivered at one's home, every cylinder will carry the message_ 'Pehle mask ke saath matdan, fir jal-paan (First, wear a mask and vote. Then have a snack)'. We have directed all gas agencies in the Madhupur constituency to ensure these awareness stickers are pasted before dispatching cylinders," he said. Bhajantri said the administration was roping in a large fleet of auto rickshaws to amplify the message. On Friday, a rally of autos was held  as part of the voter awareness drive. “Since auto rickshaws are the backbone of public transport here, we have also decided to use them. They will also bear Covid and bypoll related messages while moving about,” he said. The Madhupur Assembly segment is a part of the Godda parliamentary constituency. It has about 3.10 lakh voters. In 2019, the voting percentage was around 60.76 compared to a record 71 during 2014. District administration sources said that ensuring a better voting turnout would be a key challenge amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Bhajantri, however, said they were constantly exploring out-of-the-box ideas to create awareness . The nomination process is on. Minister Hafizul Hassan was among the first to file his candidature as joint candidate of the JMM-Congress-RJD  alliance. BJP nominee Ganga Narayan Singh is expected to file his nomination soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
26-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dol celebrations in Dhanbad, courtesy ISKON||A three-hour Dolotsav event was held at Bekar bandh pond in Dhanbad on Friday. More than 80 people danced to the tune of Rabindra sangeet, played holi with palash flowers and herbal gulal and participated in kirtan. The celebration began with a prabhat pheri taken out at around 7am followed by an hour-long kirtan performance by a 20 member team of ISKCON Dhanbad led by Damodar Govind Das. A two hour cultural programme included Rabindra Sangeet performance by participants belonging to different local dance groups of Dhanbad and Jharia like Parul dance academy, Sompa Mukherjee dance group and Saswati dance academy enthralled people with their dance performance to tune of popular songs like bakul gandhe bonya elo; rangiye diye jao; laglo je dol; ore bhai phagun legechhe and danriye achho tumi amar. Dhanbad Mayor Chandrashekhar Agarwal was the chief guest at the programme along with wife Veena Agarwal. He handed out prizes to winners of a lucky draw organised by Chandan Studio. “The entire scene of Dolotsav of Shantiniketan came to life in Dhanbad today and me and my wife really enjoyed the programme,” the mayor said. A flower jewelry making contest was held among couples in which Santosh Das, an officer of SBI general insurance was adjudged the winner for making the best jewelry for his wife Savanti Sarkar. Savanti Sarkar told The Telegraph Online:“Besides working in an insurance company I am also associated with Shaswati Mukherjee and managed time for dance rehersals which is my passion and enjoyed the programme held today on the line of Dolotsav held at Shantiniketan”. “Our joy was doubled with my husband winning the jewelry making competition,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
26-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand athletics meet in Gumla in April ||Jharkhand athletes have an opportunity to try and make it to the state squad for the 36th National Games in Goa with the Jharkhand Athletics Association (JAA) is hosting the State Senior Open Athletics Championship at Albert Ekka Stadium in Gumla between April 16 and 18. "Performance of athletes (men and women)  will be key during the state championship. We have planned to shortlist 60 athletes for preparing them for the Games. The shortlisted athletes will prepare themselves at a training camp to be organised by us in due course of time," said JAA president Madhukant Pathak. The dates of the much-delayed National Games is yet to be announced. But the state association wants ample time to prepare athletes. According to Pathak, although performance of athletes would be key during the state meet, the association would like to choose those with potential to win medals. "Athletes with potential would be given preference. It is not necessary that athletes finishing in the top three positions would get the nod (for the camp). Our athletes are improving their performances in the national circuit and they have the potential to excel in big-ticket competitions," Pathak, who is also secretary general of Jharkhand Olympic Association, explained. He said they would like to go for quality rather than quantity when it comes to selection of athletes for the Nationals. "We may go for 30-40 athletes for the camp. That is why the state championship is important for the athletes when it comes to finding slots for the Games," Pathak elaborated. According to him, all affiliated district units of JAA would participate at the state championship. "We have already received around 200 athletes," Pathak said over phone from Ranchi. On why the state championship was being held in Gumla and not in Ranchi or Jamshedpur, the JAA president said they want to take athletics to other districts as well. "We want to popularise athletics in other districts as well. The Albert Ekka Stadium lacks a synthetic track but we want to organise the state meet there to popularise athletics," Pathak added. The National Games in Goa was originally schedule to be held in 2019 but got postponed due to the general elections. It was re-scheduled to October 2020 but the Covid pandemic played spoilsport. With Covid making a comeback in the country, the showpiece event might see yet another postponement. Pathak, however, said they would like to prepare their athletes no matter when the Games are held.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
26-03-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: highest one-day spike in state in March||Jharkhand on Thursday reported the highest single-day-spike in Covid cases in the month of March as at least 278 fresh cases took the active caseload above the 1000 mark on the day, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per the bulletin, Ranchi alone reported 170 cases against only 47 recoveries on Thursday, and the active caseload here reached 574. By Thursday evening, at least 1175 Jharkhand residents were battling a Covid-19 infection. The state on Thursday tested swab samples of over 11,000 people and more than 2 per cent of them were found infected. The growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand also reached 0.11 per cent on the day against the national average of 0.29 per cent. As per government data, it would take more than 640 days for the cases to double in the state. Jharkhand on Thursday administered the first dose of the vaccine to as many as 32,669 residents and the second dose to only 3812 beneficiaries, achieving 56 per cent of its target for the first dose and only 4 per cent for the second dose, figures compiled by the NHM highlighted. As many as 24,594 senior citizens and 6,254 middle-agers with comorbid conditions got the first jab of the vaccine in the state on Thursday. While the state has administered the first dose of the vaccine to over 12 lakh Jharkhand residents, it has only managed to administer the second jab to 2.27 lakh beneficiaries, reveals government data. So far, the second dose of the vaccine has only been provided to healthcare and frontline workers. The health department will start administering the second dose of the vaccine to senior citizens and middle-agers with comorbid conditions next month onwards, officials said. Ranchi is the only district in Jharkhand to vaccinate more than 1 lakh residents. So far, over 1.20 lakh residents have received the first dose of the vaccine, while over 25,000 have received the second jab as well. As per government data, Jharkhand has achieved 83 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine and 70 per cent of the target for administering the second dose. Jharkhand also launched a special Panchayat level vaccination drive on March 20 in which it has set a target of vaccinating 10 lakh rural residents. So far, the government has managed to vaccinate over 5 lakh people during the campaign. The special Panchayat level drive will also be conducted on Friday and Saturday, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
26-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand clinches sub-junior men’s hockey national title ||Jharkhand on Thursday beat Haryana 3-1 after a shootout to clinch the trophy of the 11th Hockey India Sub Junior Men National Championship 2021 in Jind (Haryana). All hockey fans and the state hockey unit elated in rejoice as the news broke dubbing it as a fitting reply to Jharkhand’s loss to Haryana in another national meet recently. Last week, female sub-junior team finished runner’s up to Haryana during the 11th hockey India sub junior women national championship 2021 hosted in Jharkhand’s Simedga district. In today’s final, both the teams remained goalless after 60 minutes of the game. Identical to the semifinal performance against Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand goalie Duga Munda emerged as the hero, saving three shots towards the goal. Asim Ekka, Deepak Soreng and Roshan Reetik Lakra scored in the shootout for Jharkhand. Jharkhand coach Adam Horo in a statement said, “It’s a phenomenal achievement for all of us as we had very little time to train. Duga was once again outstanding in the shootout,” adding that the final summit clash went as per their expectation. “We knew it would be a tough game. I was happy with the way the team played in the first three quarters. We lost a little bit of momentum in the final quarter but the boys kept their cool during the shootout. Hockey Jharkhand are champions for the first time. This win is a testament to the way we have worked with the tribal community over the years. I am sure they will bring many more laurels in the future,” he said. Earlier in the day, Uttar Pradesh Hockey clinched third spot with a stunning 23-0 win against Manipur. Back in Simdega, considered as the cradle of hockey players, everyone rejoiced and danced at Astroturf stadium over the emphatic win. Hockey Jharkhand president Bhola Nath Singh, who is currently in Simdega for the upcoming national meet from April 3 said, “The victory is a fitting reply to our slender loss to Haryana last week.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
26-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: 5 arrested in Ranchi for theft of ancient idols||Hazaribagh: A special investigation team formed by superintendent of police Karthik S. arrested five persons from Ranchi in the ancient idols theft case. The white sandstone idols were stolen on March 20. The 1200 years-old idols were found by the Archaeological Survey of India at Bahoranpur, 10kms away from Hazaribagh town. Karthik said during investigation, police caught Kumar Sujit Singh from Ranchi who named Sanjay Agarwal for transporting the idols to Ranchi. Police rounded up Agarwal who confirmed that idols kept in the house of one his friend Yatindra Kumar at Booty More in Ranchi. Within no time, idols were recovered and Yatindra arrested. Karthik said they had also recovered three mobiles from the arrested five. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Ramgarh: A fire broke out at a Maruti car showroom in Ramgarh and damaged items worth lakhs. One of the employees, Sudeep Kumar who had a narrow escape said all of a sudden he spotted fire and smoke in the room in which he was sleeping. Firefighters later doused the flames. Ramgarh police officials said the fire started because of a short circuit in the morning. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: Around 60 students have cracked the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main 2021 in the district, majority of them from Delhi Public School. According to the information shared by schools, Varun Tandon of Delhi Public School, Bokaro topped the school with 99.79 percentile. Tandon has scored highest in the district. Around 50 students of DPS have secured more than 90 percentile in the JEE Main for March Session. Dev Jyoti (99.32), Amisha Singh (99.31), Anurag Ranjan (99.11), Aditya Ray Mishra(98.71), Rahul Dev (98.54), Aditya Kumar (98.45), Shreya Shree (98.32), Ayush Kumar (98.19), Aryan (98.18), Niranjan Verma (98.17) are few DPS students who scored 98 and above percentile in the JEE Main examination. A.S. Gangwar, principal of DPS Bokaro said,“the results are satisfactory, but we do hope for better results in the upcoming exams.” Gangawar extended his best wishes to the students for the forthcoming exams. Director of Sree Ayyappa Public School, S.S. Mahapatra said they yet have come through the names of 10 students who cracked JEE Main. But still, they are in process of compiling names. Of those who qualified, five students have bagged more than 90 percentile. Till Thursday evening, except DPS, the majority of other famed schools did not officially declare the numbers and names of their students who cracked the prestigious JEE Main examination in this session. Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Sanjeev Kumar said they are in process of collecting details. Pentecostal School Assembly is also in process of compiling names of the successful students. Many schools are yet to declare the names. (Our Correspondent) Chatra: A 70-year-old man was beaten to death during a fight between two families on Thursday night in Khirgadda village under Charu panchayat of Rajpur police station in Chatra district. According to police sources the families sparred because of a land dispute, an issue for almost 30 years between them. A house with a sugarcane unit was also gutted by fire during the incident. Officer-in-charge of Rajpur police, Anil Kumar, reached the spot and brought the situation under control following which police officers are camping in the area to prevent any untoward incidents. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
26-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand minister Badal Patralekh bitten by horse||Jharkhand agriculture and animal husbandry minister Badal Patralekh fondness for riding on horse proved a painful affair on Wednesday evening when the minister’s left hand was bitten by a horse at Koderma, around 165km from state capital Ranchi. The 44-year-old Congress MLA from Jarmundi had gone to Koderma to attend a function organised by the district animal husbandry department at Balitand and after the function while on way back the minister saw a horse on the bypass road and expressed desire to ride it. Taking permission from the horse owner, the minister took a ride on the horse for nearly five minutes and after alighting from the horse tried to feed it with a few pieces of gur (jaggery). “The horse in a haste to munch on the gur had a portion of teeth cutting into the left hand of the minister. Immediately the health department team led by Koderma civil surgeon Dr Abhay Bhusan arranged for tetanus and anti-rabies injection for the minister,” said Vikram Patralekh, the brother of the minister. The minister was stable. “I am perfectly stable and I came for participating in the filing of nomination of our UPA alliance candidate on JMM ticket and cabinet minister Hafijul Hassan (son of the deceased sitting MLA Haji Hussain Ansari) for the Madhupur bypoll at Madhupur on Thursday,” said Badal Patralekh. However, the district health department is not taking any chances. “The minister will have to take anti-rabies vaccine shots after three, seven, 14 and 28 days. Our medical team will also be keeping a watch on the health of the horse for the next 10 days. The minister’s condition was stable,” said civil surgeon Dr Abhay Bhusan. Significantly, earlier this month, another Jharkhand MLA from Barkagaon Amba Prasad had come to state Assembly on a horse gifted by legendary polo player Colonel Ravi Rathore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
26-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand government revises dry day order ||The Jharkhand government on Thursday modified its earlier order of Monday and allowed opening of bars and liquor shops in municipal areas of six districts that were to remain closed in view of the first phase of Assembly elections in Bengal on Saturday. According to the earlier order, the whole of six districts — Ranchi, Ramgarh, Bokaro, Dhanbad, Seraikela-Kharsawan and East Singhbhum — were to observe dry day for 48 hours from Thursday evening till Saturday evening in view of the first phase of polling in Purulia and some other areas of Jungle Mahal in Bengal. The Jharkhand Wine Dealers Association had expressed its grievance about the government order on Monday, saying that such restrictions were earlier applicable in only the bordering block because off polling in a neighbouring district of the adjoining state. Closing down liquor shops in the bordering districts would cause loss of revenue to the government and income to wine dealers, the association had told a section of the media, including The Telegraph. Jharkhand secretary-cum-excise commissioner Vinay Kumar Chaubey, in a letter on Thursday, directed the deputy commissioners of those districts to allow opening of liquor shops in urban areas, provided they are not too close to the Bengal border. Such shops in rural areas and also those in urban areas very close to the border have to observe dry days according to the provisions of the People’s Representation Act, 1951, the letter added. Accordingly, bars and liquor shops located within Ranchi Municipal Corporation and Bundu Nagar Parishad in Ranchi district, Ramgarh Nagar Parishad and cantonment area in Ramgarh, Bokaro Steel City, Chas Municipal Corporation and Bermo Nagar Parishad in Bokaro, Dhanbad Municipal Corporation in Dhanbad, Adityapur Municipal Corporation, Kapali Nagar Parishad and Seraikela Nagar Panchayat in Seraikela-Kharsawan and Jamshedpur Notified Area Council, Mango Municipal Corporation and Jugsalai Nagar Parishad in East Singhbhum district will not require to close from Thursday evening. “Thanks to the media for highlighting our problem that prompted the state government to reconsider the matter and issue a revised order,” said Achintya Shah, president of the association. According to the earlier order, Dhanbad along with four other districts — Jamtara, Dumka, Pakur and Sahebganj — will also have to observe dry days during the seventh and eighth phase of the Bengal polls. All the 10 districts are also required to observe dry day on May 2, the day of counting. “We expect that similar revised orders exempting liquor shops in municipal areas of those districts will also be issued in due course,” Shah said, adding there was enough time left for that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
26-03-2021||Jharkhand||Bengal Polls 2021: Jharkhand tribal leaders help Mamata Banerjee||Tribal leaders who had played a crucial role in the struggle for a separate Jharkhand state and still hold considerable clout among the people have been roped in by Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s political strategist Prashant Kishor’s team and cabinet minister Moloy Ghatak to campaign for Trinamul Congress candidates in tribal areas. The tribal leaders, including former state tribal advisory council member Ratan Tirkey, founder president of All Jharkhand Students Union (Ajsu), Prabhakar Tirkey, former Jagannathpur JMM legislator Mangal Singh Bobonga, founder vice-president of Ajsu and tribal scholar Naresh Murmu and statehood movement leader Nirmal Bhattacharya held a discussion with Kishor’s team in Calcutta and also held a meeting with Bengal labour minister Ghatak in early March. “We were surprised to know that Kishor’s team knew about our participation in the tribal students’ movement in Jhargram and Midnapore in the 1980s. In fact, Ajsu was born in 1986 in Jhargram. They sought our help in campaigning among tribals for this election. We readily agreed as we feel that the time has come for another struggle against fascist forces unleashed by the BJP government at the Centre,” said Ratan, a Ranchi-based tribal leader. The Jharkhand tribal leaders went straight from Calcutta to Jhargram on March 14. “According to the discussions held with Ghatak, we had to campaign in as many panchayats as possible in the two Assembly constituencies of Nayagram (ST-reserved) and Jhargram for TMC candidates Dulal Murmu and Birbaha Hansda (daughter of former Jhargram MLA late Noren Hansda). We covered almost all the panchayats in both the constituencies and informed our tribal people about the anti-tribal policies of the BJP government, especially during its tenure in Jharkhand, the new anti-farmer laws and its hidden agenda to wipe out tribal identity and culture,” said Prabhakar. The leaders held small meetings with tribal groups at various levels, campaigning based on issues, and counter the BJP in terms of national tribal policies with special reference to Jharkhand which was under the saffron party’s regime for most of the time since the state was carved out of Bihar in 2000. “Nayagram and Jhargram are mostly inhabited by Santhal and Munda community people. Using our old roots in this region during our agitation days, we have managed to convince the people to make a right decision while casting their vote,” added Ratan. The tribal leaders would be now moving for campaigning in north Bengal. _“As per the strategy, we will be going to north Bengal from April 9 onwards and campaigning in Assembly constituencies of Nagrakata (ST-reserved), Siliguri and Phansidewa (ST) till April 15,” said Ratan. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren also campaigned for Trinamul candidates in Purulia and Bankura Assembly constituencies on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
