27-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur lawyers stand by rape-accused colleague ||Over 1,500 lawyers of Jamshedpur civil court on Saturday resorted to a pen-down strike protesting the arrest of one of their fellow lawyers by Noamundi police on Friday night. Advocate Birendra Kumar Singh has been accused of raping a 30-year-old woman in February this year. The Jamshedpur Bar Association’s general secretary, Anil Tiwary convened a meeting of the JBA's executive committee which unanimously resolved to go on a strike. The JBA members also burnt deputy inspector general (DIG), Kolhan, Rajiv Ranjan Singh effigy under whom the Noamundi thana falls. "Advocate Birendra Singh (64) is a gentleman and one cannot imagine to have outraged the modesty of any woman. He has been framed by some vested interest. His arrest is illegal and he must be released immediately, " Tiwary told The Telegraph. The JBA general secretary said if advocate Singh is not released unconditionally, then the association will continue its agitation. According to the FIR lodged by the woman, advocate Birendra Singh had promised the victim to provide her a job in Tata Steel. Though the alleged victim was originally a resident of Noamundi, but she would work at a construction site in Potka in East Singhbhum district, she was asked to come to the steel city in connection with her job in Tata Steel and she was subsequently raped by the advocate. The OC of Noamundi thana, Laxman Prasad confirmed that they have picked up Birendra Singh from his house at Baridih on Friday night, but for enquiry only. "Birendra Singh is accused in a rape case registered with the Noamundi thana in February. We are verifying whether the allegation made by a 30-year-old woman was prima facie true, "the OC said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
27-03-2021||Jharkhand||Young archers dream of becoming a Deepika or Paltan ||Padma Shri awardee Deepika Kumari and former junior world champion Paltan Hansda who learnt the nuances of archery at Kharsawan, justifies the ambitious plans of Seraikela-Kharsawan District Archery Association of trying to produce more such world class players. Nearly 100 archers (boys and girls) in the under-9, under-12 and under-14 age group are undergoing training at Maa Damidiri archery ground at Kharsawan, 51 km from Jamshedpur. "Both Deepika and Paltan learnt archery lessons during their formative years in Kharsawan. Training these budding archers is a serious attempt to find more Deepikas and Paltans in future," said SKDAA secretary Sumanta  Mohanty. Mohanty, joint secretary of Archery Association of India (AAI) said, "The beginners are shooting at the target kept at a distance of 5m. Our coaches Sumit Mishra, Rajiv Mohanty and Shib Kumar Kumbhakar are presently focussing on the posture, draw and the grip. Trainees are making slow but steady progress." Meera Munda, president of SKDAA and wife of Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda, has presented Indian round bows and arrows as well as quiver,chest guard, finger tape, arm guard and bow stand to the trainees who hail from Kharsawan as and its interior pockets. In Indian round, archers shoot with traditional wooden bows and arrows. "Trainees are taking baby steps in archery but they will become adjusted to shooting technique in due course of time. We feel happy for the interest being shown by the trainees. It would be a huge achievement if we manage to make some of these trainees follow in the footsteps of Deepika and Paltan," said coach Mishra, a former archer. Most of the trainees are aware about the exploits of Deepika and Paltan. They recently wished Deepika, a Padma Shri and former world number 1, for the Olympic Games to be held in Tokyo, Japan in July this year. Deepika first learnt archery at Arjuna Archery Academy in Kharsawan in 2005 before heading to the elite Tata Archery Academy in Jamshedpur the following year. Paltan, on the other hand, hails from Kharsawan and also took initial archery lessons in Kharsawan. Paltan won gold (in compound division) at the Ninth Junior and Third Cadet World Archery Championship held at Merida in Mexico in 2006. He is working for the Railways and presently posted in Bilaspur, Chhatisgarh. Mohanty said the trainees would be gradually put into the globally acceptable recurve division. "Putting the trainees into recurve division is a long process but we have definite plans to go for in a gradual manner. We also have plans to produce Olympians in future," the SKDAA secretary added. Needless to say, Seraikela-Kharsawan is the cradle for archery in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
27-03-2021||Jharkhand||Railways to run two Holi specials for Bihar||The South Eastern Railway has decided to run a pair of Holi special trains between Santragachi and Darbhanga via Tatanagar railway station. Holi will be celebrated on Monday. The train will leave from Santragachi on March 28 and will return from Darbhanga on March 29. The office of chief passenger transportation manager on Saturday issued the time-table of the special train. According to the time-table the Santragachi-Darbhanga Special will leave  Santragachi on March 28 at 3.40 pm . The train will reach Darbhanga at 9.40 am the next day. In the opposite direction, Darbhanga-Santragachi Special will leave Darbhanga on March 29 at 9.10 pm and  will arrive Santragachi at 3.30 pm the next day, after an 18-hour journey. Chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway Sanjay Ghosh said,"The Holi special train was introduced keeping in view the rush of passengers. The special train will help in easing the rush," he said. The train with four  AC 3-tier,  eleven sleeper class and two general second class coaches will have stoppages at Kharagpur, Tatanagar, Muri, Bokaro Steel City, Jasidih, Jhajha, Kiul and Barauni  between Santragachi and Darbhanga. Passengers have been asked to strictly follow all the safety protocols before and during journey in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19 cases. With the festival around the rush of passengers in both trains and long distance buses heading for Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and other destinations have gained momentum. Confirmed berths were not available in several trains including Puri-New Delhi Purushottam Express which goes via Tatanagar. Railway sources said a similar rush is witnessed in Bihar-bound trains leaving from Ranchi and Hatia stations. Bihar-bound buses leaving Sitaramdera Bus Terminus have witnessed a rush of passengers since Friday. Over 250 buses leave for various destinations in Bihar and Jharkhand daily from the bus terminus, which happens to be the biggest in the entire Kolhan region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
27-03-2021||Jharkhand||Minor girls beaten up by employer for pet's injury||Two minor girls aged 6 and 8, working as household maids here in Hazaribagh, were tortured and beaten by their employer for injuring her pet dog while playing with it. The woman has been identified as Asha Choudhary, wife of late Ramsharan Choudhary, a resident of Vidya Vihar Colony on Baba Path in Huruhu of Hazaribagh town. She escaped after the matter reached the police. The minors, who are from Mahua Toli mohalla of Ranchi, said they were working as maids at Asha's house for two years. They alleged they did all the household work and never served food. The girls said that while playing with the dog, it injured its leg. This angered Asha who, the girls alleged, started beating them mercilessly with a stick. Asha also slashed at the hand of the 8-year-old with a sharp shaving blade resulting in multiple cuts. Neighbours informed Bara Bazar outpost police after hearing their cries. Police reached the house and admitted the girls to Hazaribagh Medical College and Hospital. They are now on the lookout for Asha. District childline officer Sanjay Prasad said they will ensure that the girls get justice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
27-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand bans Holi celebrations in public, asks residents to stay indoors||The Jharkhand government has imposed a ban on Holi celebrations in public places, including banquet halls and parks, in the wake of a rise in Covid cases and asked residents to celebrate the festival of colour at indoors with family members only. As per a notification issued by the home, prison and disaster management department on Friday, “All celebrations and congregations at public places during festivals like Holi, Sarhul, Shab-e-Barat, Navratri and Ramnavami, Easter etc. shall not be allowed in the state. People may celebrate Holi with family members in their respective houses.” "Religious processions, including those on Sarhul and Ramnavami, shall remain prohibited until further notice," the notification further stated. Besides, the Ranchi district administration has decided to enforce Section 144 of the CrPC in Ranchi from 6am on Sunday to 6am on Tuesday, prohibiting all gatherings in public places during this period. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan urged residents of the state capital to inform the nearest police station in case they find people participating in Holi Milan ceremonies in public. Police patroll vehicles, he said, will maintain a vigil on the roads during the festival and discourage people to play Holi on the streets of the state capital. “Necessary action, as per the provision of the law, will be taken against those found violating the restrictions during the festival,” he said. The district administration, in a separate notification, also prohibited Kavi Sammelans (conference of poets), which are common during Holi evenings in the urban areas of the state. Guests often smear Gulal on each other during such gatherings, many of which also include cocktail parties. 3 Covid deaths on Friday Covid cases have been on the rise in Jharkhand, particularly in Ranchi, which accounts for more than half of the 1,399 active cases in the state. The count of active cases has tripled in Jharkhand since February, reveals government data. As per figures with the National Health Mission (NHM), the active caseload of Covid-19 jumped from 198 in February to 702 on Friday in Ranchi. The Covid toll in the state has also reached 1,103 with three casualties reported on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
27-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad book traders stare at uncertain future ||Book retailers and whole-sellers of Dhanbad are facing uncertainty in sales this year again with the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic preventing primary  and middle school sections to reopen leading to a drop in demand . Book traders have not ordered new consignments of books for Class I to VIII and stationery as unsold stock from last year is still lying in their godowns. Online classes during the pandemic worsened their situation. With job losses and a dip in household income, parents are looking to purchase old and used books in order to save money instead of buying new books. Uday Pratap Singh, one of senior-most book retailers of Dhanbad and president of book traders union told The Telegraph Online: “One of worst sufferers of the pandemic are the book and stationary traders.” “This as even after the delayed opening of garment shops they managed to make up for losses due to brisk sell during festivals etc but in our trade  as the books were not sold in beginning of the session there was no make up for the loss due to online classes for the entire session,” rued Singh. Rajesh Kumar Gupta, one of biggest whole-seller of copies at Purana Bazar locality who is general secretary of Pustak Vyavsai Sangh said, “the lockdown came into effect last year immediately after we brought the new stock thus only 25% of stock were sold while around around 25 % more were sold in minor relaxation provided to sell books in April but 50% stock is still lying rotting.” “This year also as only the results of around a dozen CISCE affiliated schools have been announced so far and the pandemic situation is aggravating so we are very sceptical of launching of classes from nursery to Standard VIII and thus not going to bring more stock and instead keep waiting for utilization or old stock” said Gupta. He also requested the state government to clarify situation regarding launching of classes from nursery to VIII so that some necessary preparations can be made by the book traders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
27-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand ties up with BIT-Mesra, IIT-ISM to tackle air pollution||The state government has roped in two premier institutes for consultancy and advisory activities in a bid to reduce air pollution in key towns of Jharkhand under centrally sponsored National Clean Air Programme (NACP). A formal memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed with BIT-Mesra (Ranchi) and IIT-ISM (Dhanbad) for rolling out different activities under five different urban local bodies (ULBs) in coming days. Union minister of forest, environment and climate change Prakash Javedkar and senior officials also attended the MoU signing programme via video conferencing held at Project Building. Officials of the state urban development department, which is the overall controlling body of all the ULBs, said that the MoU was signed between concerned civic body, Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) and the institute. While BIT-Mesra is entrusted to provide technical guidance to reduce air pollution in Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Jugsalai and Mango, IIT-ISM will be in charge of Dhanbad, country’s coal capital. “BIT signed MoU with respective ULBs in Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Jugsalai and Mango. As part of this, they will conduct studies on the current situation of the air pollution in these places, and suggest on ways to tackle the impending dangers to ensure clear air for residents. Similarly, IIT-ISM will work in coordination with the civic body in Dhanbad. JPCB will be an overall agency to monitor the ongoing works, and developments to ensure timely implementation of different mitigation plans,” read an official note, released by the state urban development department on Friday evening. Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra said, "We have been focusing to ensure all-round cleanliness, both in locality and local environment through different initiatives in the recent times. The tie-up will further equip them with latest and technical knowledge to pursue their mission." “Recently, we roped in a specialized agency for waste collection and disposal in a scientific manner. Also, GAIL India came on board to help us generate biomass using the organic municipal waste for clean fuel. This apart, we are trying to increase the urban green cover through plantation drives wherever possible and also beautifying different parts of the city to give it a refreshing look. In terms of mobility too, focus is on promoting cycling, CNG autos and the likes as individual and public transport,” she said. Earlier during the programme, Union minister Javedkar informed about the initiatives undertaken by the Centre under the national clean air programme. He said, “The union government has now allowed BS-6 vehicles to phase out the older ones to reduce vehicular pollution. This apart, under Amrut yojana scheme, union government is asking states to focus on improving eco-friendly public transport system for which central assistance is being provided.” Notably, NCAP was launched in January 2019 by the Government of India to keep a tab on air pollution. It aims to reduce PM 2.5 and PM10 levels by 20-30 per cent by 2024 from that recorded in 2017. Among the 122 cities falling under the non-attainment cities, Dhanbad from Jharkhand is part of the list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
27-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Family feud leads to lynching of 70-year-old in Chatra||Chatra: A 70-year-old man was beaten to death during a fight between two families on Thursday night in Khirgadda village under Charu panchayat of Rajpur police station in Chatra district. According to police sources the families sparred because of a land dispute, an issue for almost 30 years between them. A house with a sugarcane unit was also gutted by fire during the incident. Officer-in-charge of Rajpur police, Anil Kumar, reached the spot and brought the situation under control following which police officers are camping in the area to prevent any untoward incidents. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: More than a dozen home-makers of Jharia joined activists of Samadhan, a youth organisation, in celebrating holi by sweeping and collecting garbage from the roads. More than a dozen housemakers of Jharia in association with activists of youth organization, Samadhan gave a cleanliness message by celebrating holi by  brooming, sweeping the coal town roads and also collecting garbage from the road side and dumping it into bins. The group led by Samadhan founder, Chandan Singh began the drive at around 3pm near Sahid Hira Jha Sanskarshala. Singh told The Telegraph Online: “Holi is a festival known for its colour and vibrancy but due to the bad habit of a few, huge amount of garbage is generated during the  celebration.” Babita Devi, wife of a chowmein seller whose son is a  student of Sahid Hira Jha Sanskarshala said, “we were provided hand gloves and masks and we picked the garbage and thrown it away in the adjoining bins as nothing could have been better way to celebrate holi.” (Praduman Choubey) Ramgarh: A Munsi was shot dead by unidentified criminals on Wednesday night at Banwar Kanta (wheigh house) of CCL Topa Colliery in Ramgarh district. Doctors at Sadar Hospital declared him dead on arrival. Villagers have shut down the project office at Topa and Kanta House demanding the arrest of the perpetrators. They have stopped the production and dispatch of coal and demanded a job to the next of kin and compensation to his family. Circle Officer Mandu Jai Kumar Ram Kuju and OP in-charge Ajit Bharti requested the villagers to withdraw their protest but they did not comply. (Our correspondent) Bokaro: Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) has come out with an advisory for its 12,000 employees asking them to avoid Holi Milans and other such gatherings for effective control of Covid- 19 after new cases are rising all over the country. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, “this notice is being issued in the interest of the employees of BSL and their families.” The district administration has appealed to residents to avoid gatherings. The district is seeing a rise in Covid-19 cases. On Thursday, 11 positive cases had surfaced while the active cases are 42. The Bokaro General Hospital’s management has geared up for making appropriate arrangements with Covid patients increasing every day . At present, there are two wards each for suspected and Covid positive patients functional in Dhanvantari Block of the hospital. Sub-divisional officer Shashi Prakash Singh has ordered to continue a mask checking drive on roads. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: A police constable and a driver were crushed to death on GT road by a truck on Friday morning near Chouparan, 65kms away from Hazaribagh district headquarter. The deceased constable was part of a police team that had reached Danuwa Ghati because of a collision between a container and a truck. Sources said after getting the news about collision, the police team reached Danuwa Ghati. They were inspecting the vehicles when a driver of the speeding truck coming from other direction was heard shouting asking all to move aside. He said he had lost control on his vehicle. Seeing the warning, one assistant sub-inspector and four police jawans ran for safe cover. But the constable, Mritunjay Paswan and a driver of the container didn't move away from there. The speeding truck crushed them to death after which it overturned but the driver escaped unhurt. Officials said they have failed to identify the deceased driver. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Jamshedpur: In a major breakthrough, Seraikela-Kharsawan police on Friday arrested two of the three criminals who had robbed a trader at Bagmundi in Purulia district on Thursday evening. The police have recovered two loaded pistols from the arrested criminals. A third accused in the gang, managed to escape. Seraikela-Kharsawan superintendent of police, Mohammed Arshi said that a 38-year-old trader, Bhagirathi Pramanic was cycling home having sold out a stock of goats at the Bagmundi market. The trio who were on foot intercepted the trader at a remote location and took the sale proceeds from him at gun- point on Friday evening. The criminals had looted Rs 15,000 and a smart phone from the victim before firing in the air and moving on foot towards Ichagarh. (Kumud Jenamani Hazaribagh: Deputy Commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand on Friday handed a cheque of Rs.4 lakh to the parents of each of the five children who drowned in a pond on Wednesday afternoon in Gadokhar village in Katkamsandi block of the district. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
27-03-2021||Jharkhand||Bharat Bandh: mixed response in Ranchi, Dhanbad||The Bharat bandh called by Samyukt Kisan Morcha marking four months of protests across the country to demand rollback of three contentious farm laws evoked lukewarm response in the state capital and adjoining areas owing to prohibitory orders by the district administration in the run up to the event. The streets were less congested compared with other days but private vehicles and autos plied normally with markets, commercial establishments and banks conducting their usual operations. At around 10 am in the morning, bandh supporters from different outfits backed by Left parties staged a symbolic protest march from Albert Ekka chowk to Sujata chowk for about an hour to press for their demands in violation of the prohibitory orders imposed by the district administration. However, there have been no reports of any formal arrests so far. On the other hand, protesters also blocked roads and staged protests in some rural pockets of the district to enforce the bandh. Police had erected barricades at strategic points since Thursday night at key junctions both in the city and across the district after district administration announced enforcement of section 144 under section CrPc banning assembling of five or more persons, carrying arms among others prohibiting mass gathering. General secretary of CITU Prakash Viplav claimed the bandh was successful. “Farmers of the country are tirelessly protesting the centre's black laws since the last four months and today’s protest too was successful. Till the time, the government of India doesn’t take back the anti-farmer laws, farmers will continue to fight for their genuine demands,” he said. State convenor of Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangharsh Samanvaya Samiti (JRKSSS) Sufal Mahto said they had completely blocked the Bundu-Silli state highway from 6am till 6pm. “Everyone cooperated with the bandh, the issue for which country’s farmers are fighting concerns every citizen,” he said. Mixed response in Dhanbad Urban areas almost remained unaffected due to the strike but the remote rural areas like Topchanchi, Tundi and Nirsa faced some road blockades. Over 100 supporters at Topchanchi market blocked the National Highway for about half an hour under the banner of Topchani Kisan Sabha. A similar protest was carried out in Nirsa where protesters blocked Maithon Sahebganj road for around half an hour that disrupted vehicular traffic. In the main town, over 100 activists of joint front of different left parties including CPI, CPI (M), CPI (ML), Marxist Coordination Committee and All India Forward Bloc led by district president of Marxist Coordination Committee, Hari Prasad Pappu took out a rally from Jila Parishad Ground of Dhanbad which reached near Dharna site of Randhir Verma Chowk where it culminated into a meeting. The participants of the dharna were shouting slogans like Mazdor-kisan- Chhatra-Naujawan-Mahile ekta zindabad; desh ke kisano tum aage badho ham tumhare Saath hai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
27-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi district administration advises festivity via SMS||In view of rising cases of Covid-19 infection, Ranchi district administration has advised people to opt for SMS during Holi and Shab-e-Barat. By SMS it did not mean short message service for wishing friends and relatives but go for social distancing, mask and sanitiser. “Considering that coronavirus is rising its head once again, it is desired that people observed the festivals at home and followed SMS,” Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said while addressing a district-level peace committee meeting at the local collectorate on Thursday that was also attended by other senior officials. “We expect that the people of Ranchi will cooperate the same way they did during the pandemic and celebrate the festivals in a friendly atmosphere,” he further said, also advising all to ignore if they came across any rumour circulated through social media. “Our primary objective is to maintain peace and law and order,” said senior superintendent of police Surendra Jha, adding that they had already taken necessary preparations for the purpose. They would watch the goings-on in the city through CCTV cameras installed at strategic locations and also deploy drones for effective surveillance, he informed. Section 144 has been imposed in the entire area under Ranchi sub-division during March 26-28, banning gatherings of five or more people. Further, DJ and high-decible sound system have also been banned while any songs, speeches or other such materials depicting vulgarity and communal feelings have also been declared as strictly prohibited. Meanwhile, the number of Covid positive cases have considerably increased in the state and also in Ranchi during the past one month. While there was below 500 active cases in the state in mid-February, it went up to 1,175 by 9 pm on Thursday, with Ranchi alone having 574 cases that accounted for 48.85 per cent of the total cases in the state. The increase in the past one week particularly indicated the rising trend of Covid-19 positive cases. There were 624 active cases in the state on March 18 with 97 new cases and 72 recoveries on that day. In Ranchi, there were 363 active cases on March 18 but it went up to 574 on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
27-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand farmers to burn copies of new farm laws to mark Holika Dahan||Farmers in all the 24 districts of Jharkhand will be lighting copies of the three new farm laws on March 28 to mark Holika Dahan. “As per call of Sanyuk Kissan Morcha leader we would be lighting copies of the draconian three farm laws. We are already making copies of the farm laws at all the block level and it will be circulated amongst the farmers. The lighting of the copies of the farm laws will be done as part of the Holika Dahan rituals on March 28 across the country and we would also be a part of it to demonstrate our protest against the three farm laws,” said Sufal Mahato, state convenor of Jharkhand Rajya Kissan Sangharsh Samanvyay Samity (coordinating the farmer’s agitation in Jharkhand). The Bharat Bandh call by the farmers outfit saw mixed response in Jharkhand. Nearly 15,000 farmers supported by the Left parties and trade unions squatted on the state highways and highways for a few hours before being whisked away by the police. “We had made extensive preparation through maha panchayats at block level and also at district level for the Bharat Bandh. It was a peaceful bandh as our members following our directive did not enter into any scuffle to enforce the bandh. Nearly 150 supporters were taken under preventive custody along the G.T. Road in Dhanbad before being released in the evening,” added Sufal Mahato, a farmer at Tamar near Ranchi. Meanwhile, following the order of the Ranchi sub-divisional magistrate, Sameera S, Section 144 was clamped in the capital city preventing assembling of crowd (more than five persons) at any place between 5 am and 10 pm. Around 50 persons from the farmers outfit and Left supported unions took part in a demonstration at Albert Ekka roundabout for over an hour in defiance of the Section 144. However, business establishments and commercial vehicles plied on the road of Ranchi as usual. Similar rallies were taken out by farmer’s outfit and Left backed unions in all the important cities of the state. Bandh supporters were not seen enforcing bandh anywhere in city areas though. However, in rural areas, of all the 24 districts bandh call was noticeable with vacant roads and very few establishments opened from morning. ADG operations, Jharkhand police, R.K. Mallick said that there was no report of violence during the bandh call anywhere from the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
