28-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Twin accidents in Hazaribagh, Chatra dampen Holi spirit||Hazaribagh: A 12-year-old and a 30-year-old kulfi seller were killed in two separate road accidents in Hazaribagh and Chatra. The first accident took place in in Salga village of Keredari block, 57kms away from Hazaribagh where Rupesh Kumar, 12, was crushed to death by a speeding tractor on Saturday evening. The driver fled the spot immediately. Sanoj Sahu, 30, a kulfi seller and resident of Karma village under Huntergunj police station in Chatra was crushed to death by a truck when he was travelling for work on his bike. Huntergunj officer-in-charge Rajeev Ranjan arrested the driver of the truck. Villagers blocked the Chatra-Gaya road demanding compensation and other benefits for the family as Sanoj was the sole earner. Circle officer Mithilesh Kumar assured the villagers of proper compensation and other benefits as per government norms in accidental deaths. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Giridih: An illegal stock of explosives kept in a house for mining purposes blew off on Saturday night killing two women and two children. The devastating incident took place in the house of Budhan Rai at Khidia Moad under Tisri Block of the Giridih district. The entire house had collapsed because of the blast. Initially it was suspected that it was a cooking cylinder which caused the blast, but the forensic team from Ranchi who reached the spot on Sunday confirmed that the explosives caused the blast. Deputy comissioner, Rahul Kumar Sinha, SP, Amit Renu and other officials also visited the spot to assess the situation. “Based on the report given by the forensic team, the police lodge FIR. The preliminary investigation indicated that it was explosives that blew off and four persons including two children were killed,” said SP. The village has illegal mica and stone mines. Police sources said, the explosives were kept in the house of Budhan Rai by individuals involved in illegal mining in that area. Raids are being conducted to arrest them. (Our correspondent) Latehar police on Sunday said Rs 4,48,500 was extracted from four over ground couriers of two rebel groups. SP Prashant Anand said the cash was to go to CPI Maoists’ top cadre Chhotu Kharwar and Jitender of the TSPC. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
28-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi administration to set up Covid centre at mega sports complex ||The Ranchi district administration is setting up a 700 bed Covid care centre at mega sports complex in Hotwar in the wake of a rise in cases. In the last four days, 629 new cases have been reported in the capital. Civil surgeon V.B. Prasad said they have begun ground works for setting up of the centre which will exclusively cater to asymptomatic patients. “Following the deputy commissioner’s directives, we are making logistic arrangements for laying beds, and making other arrangements like water connection, electricity, food among others to house asymptomatic patients. Last year too, Hotwar complex was utilised when the Covid cases peaked. Even though, we can’t say cases are on peak now, but the way they are on the rise, we have to be prepared to handle the influx of infections,” said Prasad on Sunday. He added that the rise in testing, mainly at transit points are one of the reasons for the spike. “The spike is part of growing trend in the country. As people are returning from high load states for Holi and other festivals, we are making them undergo testing at railway station and airport, which is leading to the spike,” he said. Currently, district administration has already readied 1500 beds including both public and private hospitals. The new addition in Hotwar will take the numbers to 2100. Meanwhile, extending its earlier order, the district administration has extended prohibitory orders till April 30 under which all kinds of congregations, processions, religious functions and the likes have been banned. Earlier, the administration had only enforced section 144 under Crpc for Holi on March 28 and 29 and on Ramnavami and Sarhul falling in the second week of April. In a late night notification, Ranchi SDO Sameera S has annulled previous orders to enforce fresh ban till the end of April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
28-03-2021||Jharkhand||IMD forecasts dry weather in Jharkhand during Holi||IMD's Ranchi Met Centre predicts dry weather conditions to revail acros the state on Holi on Monday, adding that similar condistions are expected to last in all 24 districts for the next two days. Met statistics revealed that dry weather prevailed over Jharkhand during the last 24 hours. The highest maximum temperature of 38.1°C was recorded at Pakur while the lowest minimum temperature of 17.6°C was recorded at Bokaro. " We find no significant weather system which will impact Jharkhand's weather during the next three days at least. Maximum temperatured will witness a rising trend in the next few days," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Met Centre. Statistics revealed that most districts across Jharkhand on Sunday recorded maximum temperatures two to three notches above normal. Sunday's chart analysis and satellite images suggested a cyclonic circulation over western Rajasthan which was unlikely to have any impact on Jharkhand's weather. Weathermen at IMD's Patna Met Centre also predicted dry and clear weather over Jharkhand during Holi. The predictions suggested dry weather till the end of March. The Patna Met Centre hinted rain and thundershowers over Jharkhand from around April 1. The Met office did not rule out the possibility of a Nor'wester in Jharkhand on April 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
28-03-2021||Jharkhand||Gadkari set to inaugurate road projects worth Rs 3,300 in Jharkhand||Union minister of road transport and highway Nitin Gadkari will launch road projects covering 277 kms in Jharkhand on April 3 and also lay foundation stones for another 293km network. A formal communiqué in this regard was sent by Gadkari’s office to his cabinet colleague Arjun Munda, union ministry of tribal affairs, on Saturday seeking his participation for the ceremony which is scheduled to take place at 11am via online. Munda’s office has released the launch date and other details to local media in the evening stating that the projects that are set for inauguration will be dedicated to the nation. As per the details, the road projects that are set for inauguration are worth Rs 2536.05 crore, while those getting readied for laying the foundation stones are estimated to cost about Rs 859 crore. The roads that are ready for inauguration include Ghagra-Gumla road on NH 143A (27km; 27.37 cr), Mahulia-Bahragora highway along Jharkhand-Bengal border (71 km; Rs 815 cr), four lane from Kutchery chow in Ranchi via Piska More-Bijupara section (34km; 352.73 cr), Barhi to Hazaribagh four lane (41.28km; Rs 700.68 cr), four lane of Piska More-Palma on NH23 (22.4km; Rs 280.32 cr), Hatgamariah-Jaintgarh on NH75 (27.9km; Rs 27.56 cr) and two lane on NH-114 A (32km; Rs 102.39 cr). On the other hand, foundation stones for as many as 16 projects worth 859.33 crore encompassing 293 km encompassing will be put on the occasion, some of which includes strengthening of a 36km patch on Koleibera-Simdega NH 23, construction of a bridge over NH 23, construction of road over bridge (ROB) at Chandwa in Latehar at NH-99 among others. An official at the regional office of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in Ranchi confirmed the programmes stating that they are readying for the launch. “Final touches are being given on few roads that are set for inauguration,” said an official, not willing to be quoted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
28-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs 340 fresh Covid cases, four casualties in a day||Jharkhand on Saturday reported 340 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection and four casualties, taking the count of active cases to 1636 and the Covid toll to 1107, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM). Sahebganj reported two Covid casualties on the day, while Ranchi and Gumla reported one fatality each. The active Covid caseload reached 853 in Ranchi on the day as the district reported only 39 recoveries against the 187 fresh cases, highlighted the NHM bulletin. As many as 99 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection on the day. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand reached 0.16 per cent against the national average of 0.32 per cent on the day, while the doubling rate dropped to 435.04 days. The doubling rate in the state was above 2500 in the month of February. The State government achieved around 80 per cent of its target of vaccinating 10 lakh residents during a week-long Panchayat level vaccination drive, which concluded on Saturday, health officials said. As per a report released by the NHM on Saturday night, as many as 1,03,848 people, including over 78,000 senior citizens, got the first jab of the Covishield vaccine on the day. As per data compiled by the NHM, Jharkhand had vaccinated over 6 lakh residents before the launch of the Panchayat level drive, and by Saturday, the state managed to vaccinate as many as 13,87,462 people, primarily rural residents. Of the close to 14 lakh people administered the first dose of the vaccine in the state, around 7.86 lakh were senior citizens and over 1.8 lakh were middle-agers with comorbid conditions. As per government data, the state has so far achieved 84 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine. As per the NHM report, over 1.31 lakh people in Ranchi have got the first dose of the vaccine – the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. Over 1 lakh residents in East Singhbhum have got the first jab, while more than 72,000 people have got the first dose of the vaccine in Bokaro. However, the state on Saturday managed to administer the second dose of the vaccine to only 3 per cent of the over 1 lakh registered beneficiaries. So far, the state has administered the second dose of the vaccine to as many as 2,33,686 beneficiaries, around 71 per cent of those registered. So far, more than 1.22 lakh people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand and 97.76 per cent of them have recovered. The recovery rate in the state has also dropped from over 98.60 per cent in February, reveals government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
28-03-2021||Jharkhand||Withdrawal of Pathalgadi cases: Hemant Soren approves home department’s resolution||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday evening gave his nod to the state home department’s resolution on withdrawal of pathalgadi cases lodged in different districts during the erstwhile Raghubar Das-led BJP government between 2017 and 2018. The Munda Adivasis of Khunti district had in 2016-17 began erecting stone slabs in their villages inscribed with the provisions of Schedule V of the Constitution — excerpts from the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act, 1996 — that grants special autonomy to tribal areas after the then BJP government tried to amend the age-old land laws (CNT-SPT Act). The erection of stone slabs (pathalgadi) was an age-old tribal tradition to demarcate ancestral lands by commemorating the contributions of ancestors. It came to be known as the “pathalgadi movement in 2017-18”. However, the BJP government perceived the movement to be “anti-development and anti-national”. The government deployed paramilitary troops and police forces to suppress the movement with villagers alleging that they were subjected to “police brutality” and “state’s repression”. The Soren government had in its first cabinet meeting after coming to power in December 2019 had announced withdrawal of all pathalgadi related cases lodged in different police stations. The government will now send a requisition to the court to withdraw all such cases, many of which involved charges of sedition. According to a communiqué issued by the chief minister’s office on Friday at 8.50pm, three-tier committees were formed to look into the issue of withdrawal of cases registered in Seraikela-Kharsawan, Khunti and West Singhbhum led by deputy commissioners, head of the police (superintendent of police) and public prosecutors of the respective districts. A total of 23 such cases were registered in the police stations of these districts, it said. However, the data does not match with the figures provided by the Jharkhand Janadhikar Manch, a social outfit, on the basis of an RTI application filed in January 2020. There a total of 30 cases (Khunti- 23, Seraikela-Kharsawan- 5 and West Singhbhum- 2), the Manch said. The social outfit further said that out of the 30 cases pertaining to pathalgadi registered in different police stations, the sedition charge was invoked in 19. The government’s reply to the outfit’s RTI plea said that only one sedition case was recommended for withdrawal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
