29-03-2021||Jharkhand||Private security guard found dead at work in steel city||A 55-year-old private security guard was found dead in front of the gate of a residential apartment in Adityapur in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district on Monday. The deceased identified as Chandradeo Prasad is suspected to have consumed poisonous food. "The deceased security guard who was a resident of Sakchi would work as a night guard at the entrance gate of the Rameswaram Apartment. But the circumstances under which he died is yet to be established. We have, therefore, recovered the body and sent it to the MGM medical college for autopsy," said OC, Adityapur thana, Rajendra Prasad Mahto to The Telegraph Online. Mahto said there are chances that this is being a period of Holi festival, the security guard might have consumed liquor in the night. "But the residents of the apartment pointed out that they knew the guard well and he was never found in a drunken state. Hence we suspect that he might have fallen victim to a food poison," said the OC. Mahto said the reason behind the security guard's death will be ascertained once the autopsy is done. The Rameswaram Apartment is located along the Tata-Kandra Road. The police have found more than one person lying in a drunken state along this road on the occasion of Holi on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
29-03-2021||Jharkhand||Low key Holi celebrations across Jharkhand||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
29-03-2021||Jharkhand||At Palamau Tiger Reserve, officials alert to foil poaching bids||Officials of Palamau Tiger Reserve are more busy than ever, on a mission as they always are during Holi to foil attempts of local villagers to hunt deer and wild boar. Those living in and around the tiger reserve can't resist poaching deer and wild boar for their sumptuous lunch or dinner on the day of holi festival. The north division of the Palamau tiger reserve has plenty of deer while the south division is filled with wild boars. Mukesh Kumar, deputy director of South division said, "We face this problem almost every festival when we pull out all stops to save the wild boars from reaching the kitchen of the unscrupulous villagers who don't mind hunting this wild life for meat as well as sport. "During the last holi, we retrieved a hunted wild boar in Mahuadanr and booked two people on charges of killing wild life and destroying eco balance," he said. Deers and wild boars are killed with muzzle loaded guns which most villagers possess. Sources said there are more than 190 villages in and around the tiger reserve. Mukesh Kumar informed that they have alerted their field staff to remain on high alert to curb and contain the poachers. "Our men will walk down to village meat sellers to find if the meat of wild boars are also on sale," he said. Kumar Ashish, deputy director of North division said, "We have launched a no-break patrolling of our north division to foil any poaching bid. Our main areas of concern are the Ouranga river side and the Palamau Quila where we find vulnerability of poaching is too high." He said four patrol teams are on the job in each of the four ranges that the north division has under it, adding that other teams in the Chhipadohar east and west ranges are on high alert too. Field director and chief conservator of the tiger reserve Y K Das has issued an order to the deputy directors and rangers and asked them to do everything in their power to stifle any attempt of poaching. A noted wildlife expert, D S Srivastava said, "Free feast on deer and wild boar is everyone's choice in festivals like holi and Christmas. Deers and wild boars are chased more now as our tiger reserve has no sambhar except seventeen which are under human custody at the sambhar soft release centre in the south division of the Palamau tiger reserve." Srivastava said the idea behind sambhar in soft release centre was to increase its progeny to replenish the prey base for carnivores in the tiger reserve since 2015-16 but its number has been stagnant at seventeen following deaths of a few by cobra snake bite and due to infighting among them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
29-03-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city celebrates Holi indoors||Holi was celebrated peacefully in the steel city on Monday. No public celebrations took place as the East Singhbhum district administration imposed prohibitory orders under section 144 CrPC on Sunday. People celebrated the festival in their own houses and apartments in various localities - Sakchi, Bistupur, Golmuri, Kadma, Sonari, Baridih and Telco. The office of Dhalbhum SDO Nitish Kumar Singh issued the prohibitory orders which came into effect from Sunday night keeping in view Shab-e-Barat and Holi festivities. The prohibitory orders will remain imposed till March 31. Sec 144 prohibited public gatherings. There were no untoward incidents reported from any parts of the city till filing of this report. Police were deployed at strategic locations and sensitive pockets to prevent any unlawful activities. "We played Holi and enjoyed the festival with family members at our own apartment, " said Manoj Ghosal, who owns a duplex at Alok Vihar in Telco. Many people celebrated the festival on their terraces and roof tops instead of going out. Children were also seen playing Holi with their friends in different apartments and flat complexes across the city. Teams of state excise department also remained vigilant to check sale and consumption of spurious liquor across the district. The South Eastern Railway (SER) had also issued an alert and vigil was intensified in trains and in various railway stations concerned over spurt in cases of Covid-19. Notably, the state government had earlier imposed a ban on Holi celebrations in public places, including banquet halls and parks, in the wake of a rise in Covid cases and asked residents to celebrate the festival of colour at indoors with family members only. According to a circular issued by the home, prison and disaster management department on Friday restrictions was imposed on all celebrations and congregations at public places during Holi, Sarhul, Shab-e-Barat, Navratri Ramnavami and Easter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
