30-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren visits ancestral village, hears out problems of residents||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
30-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand in midst of season's first heat wave ||Jharkhand is experiencing a heat wave - the first one this year - with maximum temperatures staying four to five notches above normal at several places in north-western, central and southern Jharkhand. According to the IMD centre in Ranchi, Jamshedpur was the warmest place in the state with an oppressive  42.9°C. Tuesday's maximum reading in Jamshedpur was five notches above normal. Daltonganj, the Palamau headquarters, recorded 42.2 °C, six notches above normal. "A heatwave condition is prevailing in several places including Palamau, Garhwa, Chatra, Jamshedpur and  Ranchi. Several places in South eastern and north western Jharkhand  also experienced Loo, the hot and dry wind which blows in the plains during peak summer. The situation is expected to remain the same for the next 48 hours or so, " said Abhishek Anand, deputy  director of  Ranchi Met Centre. Ruling out  possibility of rain, he said, several places would experience strong dry gusty wind, blowing at a speed of 30kmph to 40 kmph during the next two days. In Met parlance, a heat wave condition is declared when the maximum temperature climbs five notches above the average normal. The maximum reading in Ranchi and its adjoining areas in central Jharkhand was close to 40 °C on Tuesday. Tuesday's maximum reading in Ranchi was five notches above normal. Met statistics revealed that Chaibasa in West Singhbhum, Bokaro, Deoghar, Dhanbad, Ramgarh and several other places recorded an oppressive 40°C prompting the weather office to declare a heat wave in Jharkhand on Tuesday. Notably, weathermen had earlier predicted a severe summer. Met data revealed that heat wave made an early debut this summer. Last year ( 2020 ), heat wave conditionsset in in the second week of May. A weather bulletin issued by Ranchi Met Centre said dry weather condition is expected to prevail in Jharkhand during the next three days.  Day temperature  would hover above normal by 4-5°C  in the districts of Garhwa, Palamu, Chatra, Latehar, Gumla, Simdega, Lohardaga, Khunti and Ranchi and Kolhan region, said the Met bulletin. In Jamshedpur, Ranchi and other places people preferred to stay indoors due to the heat wave condition. "Fans were of no use. We had to switch on our ACs through the day as the heat was unbearable. If such is the condition we are facing now what will happen during peak summer? " said a Sunita Sinha, a homemaker at Bistupur in Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
30-03-2021||Jharkhand||Madhupur byelection: AJSU turncoat files nomination as BJP candidate ||Ganga Narayan Singh, who left AJSU Party to join the BJP and be the candidate for the April 17 Madhupur bypoll, filed his nomination on Tuesday in the presence of veterans from the saffron camp. The 42-year-old will take on the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance candidate and incumbent minister Hafizul Hassan. Hassan, a debutant in electoral politics, filed his nomination in the presence of chief minister Hemant Soren last week. Singh filed nomination in four sets after which a massive rally was held at Ramleela ground in Madhupur with chants of "Jai Shri Ram". In 2019, he fought on an AJSU-P ticket and finished third with 45,000 seats. State BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash, Godda MP Nishikant Dubey, former Dumka MLA Louis Marandi, were among those present at the rally. Madhupur, which will be the third byelection to be held after the  formation of the Hemant Soren government, will be significant since voters will be forced to choose between a minister and an MLA. The ruling alliance is more than confident of clinching victory. BJP on the other hand is in no mood to give a walk-over. Addressing the rally in Madhupur, Marandi said, “The government’s nervousness can be assessed from the fact that even without being an MLA, Hemant government has made Hafizul a minister and now fielded him as a candidate. But he must remember that in 2009, a sitting CM (Shibu Soren) had lost his seat (Tamar).” Notably, the Madhupur seat fell vacant last year after the demise of Haji Hussain Ansari, who was also a cabinet minister in the Hemant Soren government. Earlier this year, his son, Hafizul was inducted as a minister before being fielded as candidate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
30-03-2021||Jharkhand||BIT-Sindri students concerned over offline exams amid rising Covid-19 cases||Around 1,500 students of BIT-Sindri and their parents have raised concern over their safety amid rising Covid-19 cases in the country, as the institute has started to gear up for the shifting of the pupils. Seventh semester students, who are scheduled to shift to their hostels between April 3 to 5, are required to furnish their own Covid-negative reports as well as those of their parents, for the offline examinations set to begin on April 8. Several students, who got recruited during the campus drive, are also worried as their employers have asked them to shift to their workplaces and have to come back to the institute to sit for the examinations. “We had to book expensive air tickets to go to the college since trains were not available. We are not even sure if we have to return in case new guidelines are issued,” a parent of a Madhya Pradesh-based told The Telegraph Online. He said that the examinations could have been easily conducted online, much like the classes, to avoid unnecessary health risks. A third year student of the M.Tech department agreed and said, “At a time when institutes like IIT-ISM have not launched offline classes, this decision of holding examinations is incomprehensible.” A teacher told The Telegraph Online that despite understanding the situation, nothing much can be done as the examinations are conducted by the Vinoba Bhave University. “Who will take responsibility if a Covid outbreak takes place in the college? The university should consider conducting online examinations,” the teacher added. Contacted, Dean (Student Welfare) of BIT Sindri, Pankaj Rai said the authorities will act accordingly if fresh guidelines are issued by the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
30-03-2021||Jharkhand||Foresters issue high alert in Dalma villages as elephants return||The forest department has issued a high alert across 80 villages hamlets dotting the Dalma wildlife sanctuary, as most of the 155 elephants have returned to the jungle after their annual sojourn West Midnapore and Bankura in neighbouring Bengal. The jumbos are presently scattered everywhere inside the sanctuary, located 30 km away from Jamshedpur, while some are positioned in the foothills. A herd damaged a kutcha house at Gerua village on the foothills on Sunday night and foresters apprehend more such incidents. Gerua has been a favourite place for elephants. Day and night patrolling has been intensified across the jumbo abode and villagers have been handed over torches, kerosene and crackers. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said a high alert has been issued among villagers since most of the elephants have returned from Bengal. "We are working hard to avert man-animal conflict. Elephants are present inside the sanctuary and it is our responsibility to alert villagers lest something untoward happens," he added. “Most of the jumbos are anchored near Bota (the largest jungle inside the sanctuary) while some are located near Bhilaipahari, Gerua ,Nutandih, Konkadasa and other villages," a forest guard said on condition of anonymity. A section of elephants are also anchored near the Badka Bandh, a watering hole not far from the Pinderbera forest guest house, he said. According to him, villagers have been asked to not venture out of their homes at night. "Villagers should avoid coming out of their homes at night unnecessarily. You never know about the presence of elephants, who usually make movement in the dark," the forest guard said. The elephants had migrated to Bengal in August-September last year. They usually come back to Dalma after harvesting season in Bengal. This year, some elephants had returned to the sanctuary early. The elephants follow two designated corridors – one from Jhunjka and the other from Burudih. The first one leads to Nutandih while the second passes through Narsingpur (Ghatshila range), Dalapani, Suklara and Aamdapahari. Both the corridors merge at Mirjadih from where they cross Haludbani, Bhadodih, Bota and  Dimna to reach Dalma. Foresters have also instructed trackers to keep a tab on the animals since it is peak tourist season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
30-03-2021||Jharkhand||Health department to conduct massive Covid test drive in East Singhbhum||Health authorities of East Singhbhum are set to launch a special Covid-19 testing drive across urban and rural areas of the district from Wednesday to gauge the extent of cases, which are on the rise since March. The authorities have also decided to carry out Covid-19 tests of every commuter travelling from Bengal to Odisha. District disease surveillance officer Sahir Pal informed that 2,000 tests will be carried out in urban areas, and 400 tests will be done at each of the nine blocks in the district. “Rapid Antigen Tests will be conducted in government health hubs like MGM Medical College Hospital, Sadar Hospital, Khaasmahal and the private-run Tata Main Hospital across urban areas. In rural areas, primary health centres will carry them out,” Pal elaborated. The disease surveillance officer pointed out that in absence of adequate  tests, the extent of actual number of Covid cases is not known. Additional District Magistrate (ADM), Nand Kishore Lal said that the authorities have ordered 10,000 Rapid Antigen Test kits. “We are expecting them to reach here by Wednesday morning. As soon as they arrive, the health officials put them for use,” he added. District health department authorities apprehend a post-Holi surge in the Covid cases here. As of Tuesday, 269 active cases of Covid-19 have been detected in the district and the total number of the cases since last year has gone up to 18,751.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
30-03-2021||Jharkhand||Two Jharkhand athletes bag medals in para athletics meet ||Jharkhand athletes bagged two medals -- a silver and bronze --at the 19th National Para Athletics Championship held under the aegis of Paralympic Committee of India in Bangalore from March 24 to 27. N S Krishna and Ryan Francis claimed silver and bronze respectively in running long jump event at the national meet. Both were part of a 5-member team from Jharkhand. Krishna, who claimed two medals at the Special Olympics International World Summer Games in Abu Dhabi in 2019, and Francis are students of Jeevika, a special school in Jamshedpur which is promoting intellecually impaired for over a decade. Akash Sharma (Jeevika), Anirudh Pandit (Deogarh) and Prakash Chandra Saha (Dumka) were other members of the state side. Avtar Singh, founder of Jeevika and a former international cyclist who accompanied the Jharkhand outfit as support staff  to Bangalore, said he was happy over the medal-winning feat of Krishna and Francis. "All our athletes tried their best during the four-day national meet. However, only two finished with medals," he added. Singh informed that the organisers would despatch the medals to respective athletes by post. Sugandh Narayan Prasad and Madhav Gope went as team manager and escort, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
30-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand asks for gene-sequencer to detect new virus strains ||The Jharkhand National Health Mission (NHM) has sent a proposal to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for procurement of a gene-sequencer machine to detect  new strains and mutated variants of the coronavirus  in the state, officials said on Tuesday. The machine, if procured, will be installed at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, the largest Covid-care facility in the state, NHM officials said. The health department is expecting a reply to their proposal from the Government of India within a week, and the procurement would depend on the reply, officials added. “We have sent a proposal to the Centre for a gene-sequencer machine, which will be installed at RIMS. A reply from the concerned agencies is awaited,” said Ravi Shankar Shukla, the Director of NHM in Jharkhand. While the ‘Double Mutant’ Coronavirus has already been found in India, there is no mechanism in the state to detect the new and more lethal strain of the deadly virus. As of now, Jharkhand is dependent on RT PCR and Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT), which do not specify if the tested sample is infected by a mutated form of the virus or not, officials said. The state has reported a significant spike in cases of Covid-19 infection in the past couple of weeks, swinging the government into action for checking the spread of the virus during the festive season. As per government data, the count of active cases in Jharkhand jumped from 485 on March 1 to 1968 on March 30. In the wake of the rise in cases, the government has also intensified vigil in public places and made Covid tests mandatory for people travelling from ‘high-positivity’ states like Maharashtra and Kerala. A sequencer machine will not only help detect new strains of Coronavirus, but also make detection of new strain of Rotavirus and Chikungunya easier, say doctors. A sequencer machine helps detect new strains of virus by examining the DNA of the subject. If the procurement is made, then this would be the first ever sequencer machine for Bihar and Jharkhand, doctors from RIMS said. As of now, the machine is available only in New Delhi and Pune, they added. In a "double mutant" virus, two mutations of the virus come together in one virus, say scientists. Researchers in India are currently studying the genome of the new strains of virus found in other states of the country. However, Jharkhand needs to be prepared to detect the new mutation of the virus if at all such cases surface in the state, and a sequencer machine was a must for doing so, say doctors spearheading Jharkhand’s fight against the Covid-19 virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
30-03-2021||Jharkhand||Texas couple donates over Rs 1 lakh crore to health sector in Bihar, Jharkhand||An Indian American couple has donated over Rs 1 crore for healthcare works in Bihar and Jharkhand, the Bihar Jharkhand Association of North America (BJANA) announced on Monday. The generous donation of USD 150,000 by the Ramesh and Kalpana Bhatia Family Foundation to the BJANA would be used for healthcare efforts in the rural areas of the two states through the PRAN-BJANA clinic initiative. The Pravasi Alumni Nisshulk (PRAN) is an initiative by like-minded Indian-American physicians who are working to provide healthcare to the underprivileged and underserved in Bihar and Jharkhand. These doctors have set up a PRAN clinic in Ranchi, providing free healthcare services to the needy. Their endeavour is to provide free healthcare services across the states. "With the generous donation of Ramesh and Kalpana Bhatia, this became possible. BJANA getting a large donation is a testament to its ongoing philanthropic activities both here and back home," BJANA president Avinash Gupta said. Alok Kumar, former FIA president, said this kind of donation would help the BJANA carry out its healthcare works in the region. Bhatia came from NIT, Patna, and runs a successful business in Texas. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
30-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over 50 makeshift shops gutted in fire in Dhanbad market ||Over 50 makeshift road side shops, including a large number of vegetable shops and a few grocery shops, were gutted in a fire that broke out last night at Steel Gate area under Saraidhela police station about 5 km from district headquarters and continued till the wee hours of today. Though no one was injured as the majority of shops were closed due to Holi, a rough estimate suggests that properties worth more than five lakh were gutted in the fire. Dhanbad fire officer, Surendra Yadav said, “We received information about the incident at around 8 pm last night and immediately rushed to the spot with fire tenders and doused the fire after four hours at around 12.30 pm. “Altogether five fire tenders of our station were used in the operation,” said Yadav. “Though the exact cause of the fire will be known after detailed investigation, local residents informed us that several LPG cylinders stocked in two illegally operated LPG refilling shops operating in the market aggravated the fire. One is owned by Manoj Rawani and other by Mukesh Kumar Mallick,” said Yadav and added that around 16 LPG cylinders including 10 small cylinders of five liters and six large cylinders of 14 liters blasted in the fire. “The exact estimate of losses caused in fire is yet to be made as the majority of the shopkeepers remained busy in collecting their remaining articles from the rubbles till the next morning but we have asked them to submit details” said Yadav. Rajesh Keshri, a puja paraphernalia shop owner of Kunti Market, situated less than 100 meters from the site said, “My shop was also closed like every other shop. We received information around 8 pm last night over the phone about the fire and reached the site to find huge flames engulfing the adjoining shops.” “The bursting of LPG cylinders invited the risk of fire being spread further throughout the market. We stood at the site till the fire was controlled,” said Keshri. A large number of CISF personnels of adjoining CISF post of BCCL also helped in the fire fighting operation. Fire in the Steel gate vegetable market last night propelled the district administration to tighten the noose against the illegally operated LPG refilling stations dotting different market places of the district including the densely populated market places. This, amidst criticism of lack of administrative action by Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha during inspection of the market site this morning. Dhanbad Sub Divisional Officer, Surendra Prasad, who reached the accident site this morning said, “We launched an enquiry into the causes of fire and enquiry will look into details of the presence of LPG refilling shops in densely populated areas.” Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha accused the district administration of not being proactive about the incident of last night He said, “No officer was present at the site even after 12 hours of the incident, while the SDO just reached this morning after being called by me. "How the LPG refilling shops operated in the area need to be looked into,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
30-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand activist to speak at international webinar||Ranchi-based tribal and women’s rights activist Aloka Kujur will represent India as a speaker at a webinar as part of the Israel Apartheid Week campaign of the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement (a Palestinian-led movement promoting boycotts, divestments and economic sanctions against Israel) on April 3. Kujur will be speaking at the webinar whose theme is “Crack in the Wall: Resistance to Racism and Discrimination in Asia Pacific”. “I got a call from the Delhi unit of BDS on Sunday evening informing me about the webinar. I will be speaking on discrimination against tribal people and women in Jharkhand and in our country and the suppression of voices raised against such discrimination by the current BJP-led government,” she said. Kujur, who was in Jamshedpur on Sunday evening, has written several research papers on tribal and women’s rights, especially on atrocities committed against them in stone mines and bidi factories. She had been at the forefront of the protest demanding the release of jailed octogenarian Jesuit priest Father Stan Swamy. She said that there will be selected activists from New Zealand, Australia and Malaysia at the webinar who will share their views on racial discrimination in their own country. Kujur had written on the witch-hunting menace prevailing in the state in the Jharkhand Encyclopaedia and is a member of the National Alliance for People’s Movement (NAPM). She is also a recipient of the National Foundation for Media Fellowship, the Jharkhand government media fellowship and the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) award. She has also written the script for the documentary Burugadha (rivers of hills) in 2008, which received an award from the then President Pratibha Patil. Kujur has been at the forefront of raising her voice against alleged fake encounters of tribals in the name of anti-Maoist operations, displacement related issues, etc. Israel Apartheid Week is a tool for mobilising grassroots support on the global level for the Palestinian struggle for justice. It is a grassroots mechanism to raise awareness about Israeli “apartheid” and to mobilise support for strategic BDS campaigns to help bring an end to this system of oppression. It provides an opportunity to network and strengthen the links between the Palestinian liberation struggle and other struggles against racism, oppression and discrimination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
