31-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand: Priority vaccination in high-positivity localities||The state health department will run special vaccination programmes on priority in localities that have seen a surge in  Covid-19 cases recently, Health Secretary K..K Soan said on Wednesday while chairing a meeting with officials in Ranchi. “We cannot deny the fact that timely vaccination is the only way to beat Covid-19. I, therefore, suggest that we hold vaccination drives on priority basis in localities where several cases of infection have been reported,” said Soan, adding that timely vaccination of people living in high-positivity areas will prevent further spread of the virus. So far, the state has vaccinated over 14 lakh people. Even if special vaccination drives are run in high-positivity localities, only senior citizens and people above the age of 45 years will be eligible for jabs, health officials said. During Wednesday's meeting, Soan also directed the district administration to deploy Covid testing squads at railway stations and bus stands in the state capital. Following the directive, Ranchi Deputy Commissioner Chhavi Ranjan organised Covid testing teams at ITI Bus Stand, Khadgada Bus Stand, Ranchi Railway Station and Hatia Railway Station. He also asked for loudspeakers to be installed for regular announcements related to Covid tests at these places. Jharkhand has reported a significant rise in Covid cases during the past couple of weeks. As per government data, the active case load jumped from 450 on March 1 to over 2,250 on Tuesday in the state. Ranchi alone accounts for more than 1,200 active cases in Jharkhand. Addressing the meeting, Soan directed officials to focus on contact tracing to ensure that asymptomatic carriers of the infection can be identified before they transmit the virus among people with weaker immune systems. “Timely contact tracing of all infected people is the key to identifying new patients before they spread the virus in other places. We also need to maintain all records related to the travel history of Covid patients,” said Soan. Ranchi deputy commssioner Ranjan, who attended the meeting, said that a report related to contact tracing of all Covid patients in the district will be submitted to the DSP City every day. Soan also asked all the districts to hold meetings with private hospitals and ensure sufficient availability of beds for Covid patients. Later in the day, Ranjan asked officials to seek details about the availability of Covid beds in private hospitals and Covid care centres across the district. Ranjan asked private labs to maintain records of people approaching them for Covid tests and ensure that they do not hide their identity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
31-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad to intensify Covid testing ||Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Wednesday carried out inspection of Sadar Hospital,Dhanbad and Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital (SNMMCH) to give necessary instructions to authorities to scale-up the Covid related facilities. The deputy commissioner also carried out inspection of Dhanbad railway station and supervised the covid test of passengers arriving from different sensitive areas including Madhya Pradesh, Mahrastra, Kerala, Gujraat, Rajasthan etc. “The district administration in view of increasing cases of Covid 19 has taken several steps including, testing of cent percent passengers arriving from Covid sensitive places,” said Singh. “We also carried out inspection of OPD, Covid treatment facilities at SNMMCH and found some shortcomings and instructed the hospital management to plug the lacunae at the earliest,” he said. Singh said the testing drive will be further intensified at the Dhanbad Railway station and interstate highway checkpoints. “Besides carrying the Covid test of OPD patients at SNMMCH we have also ensured covid tests of patients arriving at OPD Centres of Sadar Hospital all Community Health Centres of the district,” he further elaborated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
31-03-2021||Jharkhand||East Singhbhum gets cracking with Covid tests ||The East Singhbhum health authorities carried out a special Covid-19 testing drive in various urban and rural areas on Wednesday. Camps were set up in various rural blocks and urban areas for the purpose. Officials of civic bodies like Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) and Mango Notified Area Committee (MNAC) with incident commanders assisted the health authorities during the special drive. All visitors at Sakchi market had to undergo the RT-PCR test at the Bazar Master's office. Similarly, visitors to other markets like Mango and Golmuri also had to undergo RT-PCR test. JNAC special officer Krishna Kumar said the special test drive was carried out  to gauge the extent of cases, which are on the rise for the last couple of weeks. A team led by JNAC special officer also inspected the Sidhgora-based Professional College which will be temporarily converted into a quarantine centre. "We inspected the newly built college campus to take stock of things. The college campus will be converted into a quarantine centre by the end of this week, " said Kumar, the JNAC special officer. The health department officials also carried out Covid-19 tests for those coming to Jharkhand from Bengal and Odisha by road. District health department apprehends a post-Holi surge in the Covid cases here. According to health department officials they had set a target of conducting 2,000 tests in urban areas and 400 tests in each of the nine blocks of East Singhbhum during the day-long special drive. Data available from the office of East Singhbhum civil surgeon suggests that till Tuesday, 269 active Covid cases were detected in the district and the total number of the cases since last year has gone up to 18,751.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
31-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma wildlife sanctuary fires under control||Fires are raging in some parts of the scenic Dalma wildlife sanctuary,  but foresters are working tirelessly to prevent the flames from spreading across the elephant abode. The authorities have formed two teams to douse the flames. While 24 fire watchers are deputed in the eastern range of the sanctuary, 21 are on duty in the western range. R.P. Singh, Assistant Conservator of Forest, said fire was under control but they were against taking any risk and were doing their best to prevent it from spreading. The fire was reported to have caught inside Bota (the largest jungle inside the sanctuary) on Monday night. "Fire has also caught in the jungles near Nutandih, Koira, Bota, Konkadasa and Pardih (along the NH 33). However, it is under control now," Singh informed. "We have deputed 24 fire watchers in the eastern range. Fire watchers are village youths who have been recruited for the job. They would be on duty till May. Depending on rains, their duty would be extended till mid-July," he added. "Large scale plantations have contributed to the fire. Villagers throw bidis inside the jungles and the embers cause fire. Moreover, it has also been observed that people who visit the sanctuary also throw cigarettes which may lead to fire. It is the dry season and takes seconds for fire to catch. We are very alert," Singh said. Dalma authorities have repeatedly tried to spread awareness among villagers about the dangers of throwing lit bidis inside the forests. An awareness campaign was carried out during the World Wildlife Day on March 3. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said fire was under control in the western range. "Twenty one fire watchers are on job. We don't want fire to spread in this dry season," he added. A fire was first spotted in the sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur last month near Dimna lake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
31-03-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town residents worried over lack of green cover||Dhanbad residents are concerned over the depleting green cover as over 30,000 trees have been felled in the last five years for broadening of major roads. The scorching summer temperatures have added to the woes of the residents. Procedural delay in deciding the agency to carry out plantation work, delay in transfer of funds and lack of free space are mainly responsible for the poor state of affairs. Only 10% seeds have been sown so far. Around 417 tress were cut down during broadening work of the 5.5km City Center to Barawaddah road carried out at a cost of Rs 34.67 crore by Road construction Department  in 2017-2019. Around 6000 trees were razed ahead of the eight-laning of 20 km Kako Math- Gol Building road since May 2019 carried out by the State Highway Authority of Jharkhand for Rs 416 crore. In 2017-18, 54 trees were chopped for four-laning of 25.71 km Bank More to Sindri road carried out for Rs 44.83 crore by road construction department. Apart from this, 3,142 trees were cleared for broadening of the Govindpur Mahuda road  being carried by the State Highway Authority of Jharkhand. Vimal Lakra, Divisional forest officer of Dhanbad, said, “We have already carried out plantation work plantation of 2,000 trees in lieu of 417 trees felled during the four laning of city centre Barwaddah and funds of other agency are in process of being transferred.” “We are facing difficulty in finding vacant land besides the broadened road for plantation work and are in process of identifying land for more plantation work,” explained Lakra. Mritunjay Banerjee headmaster of a government school in Aamtal said, “my school located around 18km from my place at Moonidih and returning back to home during summer was never so tiresome and difficult like own due to lack of tree shades.” Sanjay Kumar Mahto, manager of a pharmaceutical company told The Telegraph Online: “Our job entails long travels of 100 to 200 km a day on bike to different parts of the district for making doctors call, visiting to stockists and distributors for taking medicine orders etc.” “It was quite a usual practice for us taking rests under the shades of trees during the long journeys and solace but since most of the roads and have been denuded of trees our fatigue increases during the travel which in turn affects our efficiency,” said Sanjay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
31-03-2021||Jharkhand||National hockey meet postponed in view of rising Covid cases||The 11th Hockey India Junior Women National Championship 2021 scheduled to begin on April 3 in Jharkhand’s Simdega district was called off on Wednesday till further notice in light of the rising number of covid-19 cases. Hockey India made the formal announcement following an emergent meeting with district administration of Simdega and authorities of state government amid the emerging concerns of fresh infections. Sources said that organizers were forced to review the situation after about a dozen players from different state teams, which has already started arriving since Tuesday, tested positive for Covid-19 following mandatory testing upon arriving in the host venue. About 26 teams across the country were supposed to take part in the meet which was scheduled to be held till April 12. "In light of the rising number of Covid-19 cases and after the advice from the local state authorities, Hockey India in consultation with the host Hockey Jharkhand arrived at the decision to postpone the 11th Hockey India Junior Women National Championship 2021. Hockey Jharkhand received tremendous support from the state government to host the recently concluded 11th Hockey India Sub Junior Women National Championship 2021. However, with new protocols and guidelines in the state to combat the rapid rise of cases, it was in the best interest of the players that this decision was taken. For Hockey India, safety of the players is paramount," Hockey India President Gyanendro Ningombam said in a formal statement, adding that all the participating member units have been informed by Hockey India. Hockey Jharkhand president Bholanath Singh said that many teams, who had already arrived, planned to hold day and night matches. “But the way virus is spreading once again, all were of the view that postponement was the best option in the interest of public health and safety,” he said, adding that they will definitely put up a bigger show whenever situation permits again. Sources said the Astroturf stadium in Simdega has now been declared as quarantine centre to tackle the possible surge in cases. “Meanwhile, six players each of Chandigarh and Jharkhand besides a coach of Chandigarh after having tested positive has been shifted to a Covid care centre,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
31-03-2021||Jharkhand||Highest single-day spike takes active caseload above 2,000 in the state||The count of active Covid-19 cases crossed the 2,000 mark in Jharkhand on Tuesday as the state reported its highest single-day-spike in Covid cases this year, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, at least 418 people, including 262 from Ranchi alone, were found infected by the dreaded virus on Tuesday. The state reported only 129 Covid recoveries on the day and the active caseload reached 2,254, the bulletin further stated. The active caseload jumped to 1,263 in Ranchi alone as the district reported only 44 recoveries against over 250 fresh cases. The state capital also reported three Covid casualties on the day, taking the Covid toll in the state to 1113 and that in Ranchi to 259, NHM stated in its bulletin. Government data highlights that the growth rate of Covid-19 infection has also increased in Jharkhand lately, while the doubling rate has dropped significantly. On Tuesday, the growth rate in Jharkhand was 0.21 per cent against the national average of 0.47 per cent. Earlier this month, the growth rate in Jharkhand was less than 0.10 per cent, while the doubling rate was over 2000 days. On Tuesday, the doubling rate had dropped to 328.10 days against the national average of 188.23 days, revealed government data. As per government data, over 1.23 lakh people have been infected by Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far, and more than 97 per cent of them have recovered. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.90 per cent. Meanwhile, Jharkhand achieved 28 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine and only 2 per cent of its target for administering the second dose of the vaccine on Tuesday, a report released by the NHM stated. As many as 8,598 beneficiaries, including 5747 senior citizens and 1902 middle-agers with comorbid conditions, got the first jab of Covishield vaccine in the state on the day, the NHM report stated. As per the report, as many as 1908 beneficiaries, including 247 senior citizens and 39 middle-agers with comorbid conditions, got the second jab on the day. As per government data, the state has so far administered the first dose of the vaccine to over 14 lakh residents, and more than 7.5 lakh of them were senior citizens. The second dose has been administered to 2.35 lakh beneficiaries, mostly frontline and healthcare workers, so far, highlights government data. The state has achieved 83 per cent of its target for the first dose of vaccination and 70 per cent of the target for second dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
31-03-2021||Jharkhand||Mandatory Covid tests for restaurant, supermarket staff in Ranchi ||Ranchi Deputy Commissioner Chhavi Ranjan ordered mandatory Covid tests for staff working in restaurants and supermarkets across the state capital by April 8 in a bid to identify asymptomatic Covid-19 patients working in crowded places and prevent transmission of the virus., These places, he said, attract huge crowds and the chances of transmission were higher if any of the staff working there was infected. Chairing a meeting of district officials, Ranjan also directed builder associations and auto-rickshaw associations to get workers and drivers tested at the earliest in a bid to avert further transmission among people who use public transport or visit construction sites. “All staff working in restaurants and supermarkets will have to be mandatorily tested for Covid-19 by April 8,” said Ranjan, adding that such establishments should follow all Covid-19 precautions and maintain a record of guests along with their contact details. The Deputy Commissioner also directed the District Education Officer (DEO) to ensure that students of all private and government schools across the district are tested for Covid-19. College students, he said, should also be duly tested for Covid-19 in order to prevent spread of the virus in educational institutions. Most private schools in Ranchi are likely to resume in-person classes from the first week of April. The students of classes 8, 9 and 11 may have to undergo Covid tests before resuming regular classes, sources present in the meeting on Tuesday said. The district administration has also tightened the noose around travelers visiting Ranchi from neighbouring Chhattisgarh, which has reported a huge spike in cases in the past week. The deputy commissioner on Tuesday directed mandatory Covid test for passengers coming to Ranchi by bus from Chhattisgarh. A special team, he said, will be deployed at the ITI Bus Stand near Piska More in Ranchi for testing travelers. Last week, the health department had made Covid tests mandatory for travelers from Kerala and Maharashtra. Besides, the state government is also conducting Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) on the go for symptomatic patients at airports and railway stations. Ranchi has reported a four-fold spike in the active caseload since March 1. As per figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), there were 282 active cases of Covid-19 infection in the district on March 1, and the count of patients jumped to 1002 by Tuesday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
31-03-2021||Jharkhand||Holi: FIR demand against MLA for violating state govt guidelines||Opposition BJP has criticised Hemant Soren-led UPA government in Jharkhand over Congress MLA from Barkagaon Amba Prasad taking part in a Holi congregation at a village in Keradari block of Barkagaon Assembly constituency under Hazaribagh district on Monday in violation of the state government guidelines banning any kind of celebration and congregation at public places to contain a surge in Covid-19 cases. BJP state spokesperson Pratul Sahdeo has demanded from the Hazaribagh district administration to lodge an FIR against the MLA. “There cannot be one law for lawmakers and another for common masses. The state government had itself put a ban on celebrating Holi publicly due to increase in Covid-19 cases. Now an MLA of a party which is in the coalition government has celebrated Holi publicly in the presence of hundreds of people on Monday and till Tuesday no action has been taken. We would not let such double standards and would launch an agitation to force the deputy commissioner of Hazaribagh to lodge an FIR for violation of Covid-19 guidelines,” said Pratul Sahdeo. Amba Prasad, 31, who is the youngest lawmaker in Jharkhand Assembly at the moment, had taken part in a matka phod (bursting of a an earthen vessel) done usually in Holi at Pahra village on Monday evening. “The matka phod ritual is held every year and I was asked by the public to take burst the matka. I had followed all the precautions and there has not been a single Covid-19 case in the village where it happened. I would like to remind the BJP leaders that if FIR has to be lodged against me for violation of Covid-19 guidelines then I would also like FIR to be lodged against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah for addressing huge rallies in states like Bengal and Assam which has witnessed a spurt in Covid-19 cases,” said Amba Prasad. Hazaribagh deputy commissioner Aditya Anand assured to look into the issue. “I am not aware of any such incident for violation of Covid-19 guidelines and would check the facts and assure to take action if there is any violation of Covid-19 guidelines,” the deputy commissioner said. The Jharkhand government had on Friday banned any kind of celebration and congregation at public places during Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Easter and Ramnavami festivities to contain a surge in Covid-19 cases in the state. Significantly, on Monday, the state witnessed 155 Covid-19 positive cases taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 1,23,090.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
31-03-2021||Jharkhand||Pension issues: First Nabard strike in decade||The officers and employees of the Ranchi regional office of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) struck work on Tuesday, for the first time in a decade, for pressing their pension related issues. “This is a part of the national programme chalked out by the joint forum of our associations,” informed Prashun Chandra, the secretary of the local unit of Nabard officers’ association, adding the call was given by the united forum of officers, employees and retirees of the organisation and observed at all offices of the bank across the country. While those serving struck work, the retirees who were present in the city came to the office gate for lending their support, he further informed. “Though the service conditions of Nabard employees were supposed to be the same of those of Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the revisions in pension regulations of RBI employees that were made over the past eight years were not effected in case of Nabard employees and that created discrepancies,” Chandra informed about the reason behind their going on a strike. Nabard was carved out of the RBI by an act of the Parliament in 1981 when three RBI departments — agriculture credit department, rural planning and credit department and agriculture refinance and development department — were taken out to form it so that focus could be given to agriculture and rural development. “In 1982, RBI management appealed to its employees to join the newly formed organisation, Nabard, with the assurance that their pay, allowances and retirement benefits would be protected then and even in subsequent revisions in case of RBI employees who would stay back in the parent organisation,” Chandra informed about the background, adding it was also guaranteed in section 50 of the Nabard Act 1981. The parity with RBI employees in all service conditions including pension was further cemented during all the seven subsequent bipartite wage settlements with the employees’ associations of Nabard, he further said, adding pension regulations of Nabard was also formed in the same line in 1993. “But the revisions made in pension regulations of RBI and approved by department of financial services of the Union finance ministry over the past eight years created disparities among the employees of RBI and Nabard,” Chandra further said, adding that created grievances among Nabard employees who demanded parity. They started agitating since January 29 when they wore black badges or staged demonstration and dharna in front of their office before striking work for the whole day on Tuesday, Chandra informed, adding their next course of action would be decided by their national leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
