01-04-2021||Jharkhand||State surpasses 2021’s highest single-day-spike with 693 cases||The state on Wednesday surpassed the last highest single-day-spike in Covid cases this month as at least 693 people, including 351 in Ranchi, were found positive on Thursday. On Tuesday, the state reported 418 fresh cases of infection, the highest in a day in 2021. On Wednesday, only 129 Covid patients recovered from the infection, and the active caseload reached 2825. According to the National Health Mission bulletin, the active Covid caseload in Ranchi alone was 1562 after Wednesday’s findings, which is more than 50 per cent of the total active cases in the state. Even though the state did not report any fresh Covid casualties on the day, the growth rate of infection in Jharkhand further increased to 0.26 per cent from 0.21 per cent on Tuesday. Jharkhand’s Covid growth rate was less than 0.10 per cent in mid-March. The growth rate of infection in the state was, however, lower than the national average of 0.36 per cent, highlighted the NHM bulletin. In the wake of rising cases of Covid-19 infection among lawyers, the Principal Commissioner of District Civil Court in Ranchi on Wednesday ordered only virtual hearings from April 1 to April 8. No physical hearing will be held at any of the district courts during this period, and the decision was taken in accordance with the demands of the Ranchi District Bar Association. East Singhbhum also reported a triple-digit-spike in cases on the day. With 121 fresh cases and only 22 recoveries, the active caseload in the district reached 363. Barring Ranchi and East Singhbhum, none of the remaining 22 districts reported a triple-digit-spike. According to government data, as many as 1,24,201 people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far, and 96.82 per cent of them have recovered. The Covid recovery rate in the state has also dropped from over 98.60 per cent in mid-March to less than 97 per cent at present. At the current rate, it would take 268.4 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand. The doubling rate of infection in the state was above 2500 days in the beginning of March, and it has witnessed a significant drop in the past one month. The national doubling rate on Wednesday was 192.48 days. The state government managed to administer the first dose of Covishield vaccine to only 18,494 people, achieving 39 per cent of the day’s target, stated a report released by the NHM. As many as 3,588 beneficiaries, including 847 senior citizens and 162 middle-agers with comorbid conditions, were administered the second dose of the vaccine on the day. According to government data, over 14.23 lakh people in Jharkhand, including more than 7.70 lakh senior citizens and 2.31 lakh middle-agers with comorbid conditions, have received the first dose of the vaccine. The second dose has been administered to over 2.38 lakh beneficiaries, and 847 of them were senior citizens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
01-04-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel MD, his wife take first vaccine dose in Jamshedpur ||Tata Steel managing director T. V. Narendran and his wife Ruchi  took their first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at the Tata Main Hospital here on Thursday. Praising the process of vaccination, Narendran said,  “I am happy to get the first dose of Covid vaccine today (Thursday). It is a simple and painless process. As Covid-19 cases in India are rising I urge everyone to come forward and take the vaccine to protect themselves and their families. With this small step, we can control the spread of Covid-19.” Narendran went in to say that even after vaccination, one must continue to follow Covid-19 safety protocols including wearing of mask, use of hand sanitisers, adhering to social distancing and avoiding crowded places. Tata Main Hospital, a private hospital run by Tata Steel, started the online slot booking facility for Covid vaccination through the TMH Vishwas portal. Vaccination is being made available to those eligible as per the existing guidelines of the Union ministry of health and  family welfare. As per the government guidelines, all those above the age of 45 years, irrespective of the comorbidities, is eligible for vaccination from April 1. Advance appointment at the TMH can be booked through cowin.gov.in. Apart from the MD and his spouse, several senior officials of Tata Steel also took their first dose of the vaccine on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
01-04-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city's special athlete finds employment again||Sanjeev Kumar Das can finally look forward to better days. The Jamshedpur-based former special athlete, who had been running from pillar to post for a job, has been called back by his employers in Gujarat. He re-joined Sodexo Facilities Management Services in Ahmedabad, Gujarat on Thursday. Das, who is married and has an infant son, was working with Sodexo Facilities Management Services in Baroda last year but the company shut business owing to the global pandemic. He had been jobless since then and was forced to return to Jamshedpur. "I am extremely glad to have found employment. I faced a lot of problems and was finding it hard to sustain my family," Das said on the phone from Ahmedabad. Das, who represented India’s handball squad in the Special Olympics International World Summer Games in Dublin, in 2003, and later assisted bronze-winning Jharkhand’s special handball athletes who participated in the next edition of the Games held at Shanghai in 2007, was not even in a position to afford a train ticket to Ahmedabad. Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) assistant area Satbir Singh Sahota arranged his train ticket and also helped him out with Rs 2,000. "Das requested me for help since he was asked to join duty in Ahmedabad. Das had no money at his disposal and I was glad to help him out. After all, he has donned India jerseys and also mentored Jharkhand handballers. Das badly needed a job. We are very happy and wish him the best," Sahota, a former international cyclist said. He informed that Das will be getting Rs 18,000 as monthly salary with free accommodation. "It's a huge development for a man who had been unemployed for nearly a year. His (Das) wife and son would join him in due course of time," Sahota said. The hapless former special athlete has received financial aid from different quarters. Das was stuck in Baroda for nearly two months after the nationwide lockdown was first imposed on March 25 last year. He was anxious to go to New Delhi to be by his pregnant wife’s side. He was finally able to board a special train thanks to SOJ, who requested Gujarat Special Olympics to arrange a train ticket and necessary medical documents for Das. Moreover, Special Olympics Bharat (SOB), a national organisation which works for the promotion of the intellectually impaired, also helped him out with Rs 10,000. Former Jamshedpur Football Club goalkeeper Subrata Paul also chipped in with Rs 5,000 for the treatment of his (Das) son last month. Sahota and Arjuna awardee Bagicha Singh also extended monetary help. Earlier, Das worked on a part-time basis for a few organisations in Surat, Bhavnagar and Ahmedabad but had to return to Jamshedpur a few years ago due to unrest in Gujarat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
01-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant tweet spurs Dhanbad police lathicharge probe||Dhanbad police on Thursday started a probe into police lathicharge at the family members of a deceased employee of a private mining company at Ena Colliery of BCCL. The probe was initiated on the instructions given by chief minister Hemant Soren after the incident was brought to his notice by a Dhanbad resident who tweeted a video of the lathicharge where Jharia inspector, P.K. Singh is shown manhandling the elder brother of the deceased. Mohit Srivsatava of East Basuria area went missing on March 29. His body was found at Nimiaghat Police station area of Giridih district about 60 km from the workplace on March 30. Family members suspect foul play in his death. A police team led by officer in charge of Jharia Police station, P.K. Singh resorted to lathicharge on Mohit’s family members, relatives and local residents at the mining site of R.K. Mining Company on Wednesday while they were staging a protest demanding compensation for the dependents of the deceased. Former chief minister, Raghubar Das while retweeting the same video of the lathicharge wrote- Sthithi arajak hoti ja rahi hai Jharkhand men; ek or apradhi bekhauf hokar rojana vardaat kar rahen hain; dusri or polie nirdosh nagrikon par apna ruab dikha rahi hai; kabhi kisano par lathicharge to kabhi muawja ke liye pradarshan kar rahe logon ki pitai; yah kya hai (the situation is turning anarchic in Jharkhand; On one hand criminals are carrying out incidents without any fear of law and on the other hand police is expressing its prowess against common people; sometimes  lathicharge on farmers and on other occasion beating of people demanding compensation; what all is this? DSP of Sindri, Ajit Kumar Sinha visited the Ena Colliery and took details of the incident from the family members and the private contractor R.K. Mining Company. He also visited the Tetulmari area where the motorcycle of the deceased, Mohit Srivastava, was recovered. Mayur Shekhar Jha, social media in-charge of Congress, in his tweet addressed to Hemant Soren suggested structural changes to improve the style of police functioning. Dhanbad Sub Divisional Officer Surendra Prasad meanwhile also visited the site of the private mining company at Ena Colliery of Jharia and took details from the family members of the deceased as well as the officer in charge of Jharia police, P.K. Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
01-04-2021||Jharkhand||Two steel city schools shut after students test positive ||Two English medium schools and the chief judicial magistrate court remained closed on Thursday after three persons including a ninth standard student tested positive for Covid-19 in the steel city on Wednesday. The schools, both located in Kadma locality, are DBMS English School and Andhra Association School. Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) city manager, Ravi Bharti who looks after Covid control measures on behalf of the administration said authorities will seal both the schools so as to prevent the spread of the virus. "As a large number of students used to come to these schools, there is always a great chance of the virus to spread to other students. We have decided to seal these schools and are waiting for the deputation of a magistrate for the job, "said Bharti to The Telegraph Online. "Though a ninth standard student tested positive on Wednesday, the student in question was at his home when this happened. Moreover, we have kept the school closed on Thursday keeping in view of the district health department's directive," said Rajni Shekhar, principal of DBMS English. She said following administration's directive they have intimated parents of all the students from standard VIII to XII to get a Covid test. At the Andhra Association School, a teacher tested positive, leading the school management to close the school from Thursday till further instructions by the administration. The court of chief judicial magistrate was also closed on Thursday after a judicial clerk tested Covid positive on Wednesday. A special drive was carried out throughout the East Singhbhum district on Wednesday where 121 Covid cases were detected. Suraj Kumar, deputy commissioner, held a meeting with health department officials on Thursday afternoon where it was decided that the Covid test drive will have to be increased immensely.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
01-04-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi imposes strict home isolation rules amid Covid surge ||Covid positive residents of the state capital must either get official sanction for home isolation or move to a dedicated Covid care facility within 48 hours of testing, Ranchi Deputy Commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said on Thursday. Chairing a meeting with all incident commanders in the district, Ranjan said that Covid patients in the district will not be allowed to stay in home isolation without the consent of the local Incident commander, who will inspect facilities available at the residence of the patient and then take a call accordingly. Owing to a sudden spike in Covid cases, the district administration has decided to ensure strict adherence to home isolation norms, said Ranjan, adding that medical teams will inspect all patients in home isolation at least twice every week. “Covid cases are rapidly rising in Ranchi, and we need to be ready with all details regarding the number of beds available in hospitals, Covid care facilities and isolation centres,” said Ranjan. “We need to ensure that all home isolation rules are followed before any Covid patient is allowed to stay at home,” he added. Home isolation was not a default right of every Covid patient, but a privilege given only to those who fulfil all the parameters set by the government, officials said, clarifying that hospitalisation should be the ideal approach towards treating Covid patients in Jharkhand despite a crisis of hospital beds. Only asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients will be allowed home isolation, officials added. Owing to the rise in cases, the deputy commissioner also directed that posters be put up outside homs of Covid patients. When Covid cases peaked in the state last year, the government started pasting warning posters outside the residence of infected people and used barricades to prohibit entry of outsiders in such properties. “Start installing barricades and pasting posters outside houses of Covid patients as and when required,” Ranjan told the circle officers of Argora, Kanke and Badgain. The deputy commissioner also directed teams in the district to hold surprise inspections of containment zones and ensure that the rules regarding containment zones are not flouted at any cost. As per government data, Ranchi alone accounts for more than half the active Covid cases in Jharkhand. Of the 2,825 active patients in the state, at least 1,562 are residents of Ranchi. The active caseload here has skyrocketed from 198 in the last week of February to almost 1,600 now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
01-04-2021||Jharkhand||Chatra police arrest culprits in two murder cases||Chatra police on Thursday arrested the offenders in two murder cases including activists associated with New Jharkhand Prastuti Committee. Pratappur police arrested Mukesh Saw’s girlfriend and two others in his murder within 24 hours of recovering his body from Karamdihtand. Officer-in-charge of Pratappur police station, Naim Ansari said Kajal and Mukesh, both from Nandai village in Gaya district, were in a relationship. Kajal contacted her cousin Ranjan Kumar and hatched a murder plan to get rid of Mukesh. Ranjan included his friend Ravindra Kumar in the plan. Mukesh was called to Karamdihtand in Jaipur village for a meeting where he was attacked with a sharp edged weapon. They slit his throat and stabbed him in his stomach. The trio escaped in a hurry from the spot and reached Ravindra's in-law’ s house. Seeing blood on their clothes, Ravindra's in-laws suspected foul play and informed the local chowkidar. The trio was arrested and during interrogation, they confessed to their crime. They were remanded in judicial custody on Wednesday. In the second case, police arrested five criminals associated with New Jharkhand Prastuti Committee in the murder of a youth in Piri Bazar. Superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha said the five who killed the youth on January 17 were identified as Manoj Bhokta, Tarkeshwar Bhokta, Binod Ganjhu, Birendra Ganjhu and Manoj Ganjhu. Jha said two were arrested from Bogadag village and three from Hurnali village under Simaria police station. Two rifles, 56 round bullets and 2 country-made pistols were also recovered from their possession.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
01-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand state digest: Covid management cells reactivated in Bokaro||The district administration has decided to reactivate about half a dozen cells, which were formed six months ago to monitor and control the spread of Covid-19. Deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh on Thursday issued the order to control the spread of the virus. The cells virtually became non-functional with a decline in cases in December end. Civil surgeon Dr A.K. Pathak said these cells will have separate jobs and will work with accuracy and efficacy. “Soon they will Vaccination cell, Testing cell, Monitoring cell, Cell for forming containment zone and strengthen contact tracing, Data Entry cell and others. The administration has decided to reactivate different cells similarly as it was functional six months ago when corona was at its peak in the district,” said Dr Pathak. At present, there are reportedly 74 active cases of Covid-19 in the district with 10-15 positive cases surfacing every day. On Thursday 11 people have been tested positive for Covid-19. Sub-divisional officer of Chas Shashi Prakash Singh has been directed by DC to constitute cells and prepare a work plan. The DC has also directed the concerned officials to monitor the home-quarantined patients and strengthen contact tracing. (Our correspondent) The interstate football tournament in memory of the martyred police in Daltonganj has been cancelled following the increase in Covid-19 cases in the state. President of the Palamau Football Ayojan Samiti Sanjeev Kumar who is also the SP Palamau said the tournament cannot be held at the police line Daltonganj stadium. “Our police line Daltonganj stadium is a sensitive location and if any spectator or player is later found to be down with Coronavirus then it would have meant putting our whole of the police line under containment zone which we could not even afford for a day in Palamau where anti naxal operation is always on and its containment would have meant a lot of problems for us,” he said. (Our correspondent) Dhanbad: Dhanbad shopkeepers whose shops were burnt to the ground on Monday night’s fire were back to work and selling goods from the very same spot. The district administration has initiated a process for collecting details of losses incurred by the shopkeepers. The authorities have formed a committee led by a DSP to conduct raids against the illegal LPG refilling  shops operating in densely populated areas. Ajit Kumar, a potato retailer, told The Telegraph Online:“I have suffered a loss of around Rs 40,000 during the Monday night blaze and submitted the details to district administration.” “I received information about the fire on Holi night at around 8pm from a neighbourhood shop keeper  and rushed immediately at the site to find my shop engulfed in fire but could not save my articles as the busting of LPG cylinders prevented our entry to the site,”said Kumar. Ravi Vishwakarma, son of a welding shop owner said, “Our’s was the oldest shop of the market established  more than 45 years by my father, and it was quite popular or all the iron welding related work in the area and we never imagined about the fire.” “The income from the shop somehow helped sustain the life of nine person or our family including four brothers, parents and our three children and since we could not survive with the closure of shops we reconstructed our shop,”said Vishwakarma. (Praduman Choubey) Hazaribagh: Deputy Mayor of Hazaribagh muncipal corporation, Rajkumar Lal died of a heart attack at his Bansi Lal Chowk residence on Tuesday. Former external affairs minister Yashwant Sinha, his son Jayant Sinha, legislators including Manish Jaiswal(Sadar), Uma Shankar Akela(Barhi), Amba Prasad(Barkagaon), Kishun Das(Tandwa) and Amit Kumar Yadav of Barkatha constituency visited Lal's home to pay their condolences. Lal was the BJP district president and contested for the post of deputy mayor in 2018, which he won. Jayant Sinha and Manish Jaiswal said his death was a big loss for Hazaribagh. Former chief ministers Babulal Marandi and Raghubar Das also expressed their condolences on Lal's sudden demise. Lal was cremated at Khirgaon muktidham crematorium on Wednesday afternoon. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: A police team led by the officer in charge of Jharia police station on Wednesday carried out a lathicharge against a group of protesters at the mining site of private contractor R.K. Mining in Ena Colliery of BCCL. The protesters included the family members of a deceased employee of the private mining company. Mohit Srivastava, a 26-year-old attendance clerk went missing on March 29 night and his dead body was recovered on March 30 at Nimiaghat Police station area of Giridih district. His family suspects foul play behind his death. The protesters were demanding compensation for the dependents of the deceased by disrupting production work. (Praduman Choubey) Bokaro: Two suicide incidents were reported at two different places under City police station area on Wednesday. The first case was reported from Sonatand area where a 33-year-old woman hanged herself from a pipe in bathroom. The deceased was the wife of a bank officer, posted in Dhanbad. According to police, the deceased was under mental stress. In the second case, the deceased hanged herself in the kitchen of the house. The victim was newly-married. Officer-in-charge of City police station, Santosh Kumar, said that police is registering a case of unnatural death in both the incidents. (Our correspondent) Dhanbad: Dhanbad deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Wednesday has instructed Covid tests to be arranged for all students besides the teaching and non teaching staff of major technical and academic institutes from Thursday. Arrangement for Covid test through reverse RTPCH method has been made for the students, teachers and staff of SSLNT Women's College, PK Roy Memorial College and IIT(ISM). "To ensure proper management of Covid and also to prevent covid spread it is necessary to carry out intensive testing and isolating the affected persons to provide them proper treatment," he said. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
01-04-2021||Jharkhand||Protest against labour rules in Jharkhand||As the country begins a new financial year (2021-22) on Thursday, more than 10,000 workers at factories, industrial areas, mines and PSU offices across all 24 districts of Jharkhand will burn or tear up copies of the new labour codes as a part of their agitation against the four rules that subsumed 29 central labour laws. “Directive has been sent to all cities and districts in the state which have a sizable labour force for Thursday’s agitation. We have asked the workforce and trade union leaders not to affect work at any cost. Copies of the new labour codes will be burnt either during the lunch hour or during change of work shifts especially at mines and plants,” said Prakash Viplav on behalf of the Central Trade Unions’ Jharkhand unit. The joint platform of the 10 central trade unions have been demanding withdrawal of the four codes, which were passed by Parliament in 2019 and 2020. “We had taken part in a three-day protest from March 24 along with other parts of the country demanding withdrawal of the four labour codes, the three new farm laws, repeal of the Electricity (Amendment) Act, 2021, enactment of a law to provide guarantee of MSP, end to wholesale privatisation and disinvestment of public sector enterprises and government departments, corporatisation and privatisation of government sectors. We are forced to protest against the arrogant attitude of the (Narendra) Modi government for not responding to the demands of the trade unions,” said Viplav. The 10 trade unions — Intuc (Indian National Trade Union Congress), Aituc (All India Trade Union Congress), Citu (Centre of Indian Trade Unions), HMS (Hind Mazdoor Sabha), Aiutuc (All India United Trade Union Centre), TUCC (Trade Union Coordination Centre), SEWA (Self-Employed Women’s Association), Aicctu (All India Central Council of Trade Unions), UTUC (United Trade Union Congress) and LPF (Labour Progressive Federation) — will be taking part in the agitation. “The time has come to teach a lesson to the ruling party at the Centre for pursuing anti-worker, anti-farmer, anti-people and anti-national policies. We are geared up for the success of the symbolic protest against the government on Thursday,” added Viplav. However, the Centre has decided that the four labour codes will not come into effect from Thursday as states are yet to finalise the relevant rules, reports PTI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
