02-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Man murdered in Nirsa for alleged affair ||Dhanbad: Nirsa police on Friday arrested the main accused in the murder of a 39-year-old resident of Shashanberia area whose partially decomposed body was found a kilometre from his house. Gardish Munda, his elder brother Kishun Munda and a friend Chandramohan Sawaiya strangulated Alda Singh on March 28 because of an alleged affair with Gardish’s wife. Police first apprehended Gardish Munda on the basis of suspicion but he later accepted his involvement in the murder following his interrogation. Raids are on to arrest the other two. Sub Divional police officer of Nirsa, Bijay Kumar Kushwaha said, “Gardish Munda during the police interrogation revealed that he suspected that his wife Narmadeshwari Munda having illicit relationship with Adla Singh”. “Gardish discussed his problem with his elder brother; and other friend and they prepared the murder plot,” said Kushwaha. “The trio dumped the dead body in a den like opening and blocked its entrance with some boulders,” said Kushawaha adding that police recovered the slippers, clothes, torchlight, and a necklace of the deceased as evidence which were hidden by them. (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: PVC pipes worth over Rs 2 lakh were gutted in a fire mishap at Hari Bagan area under Bagbera police station on Friday. Initial investigation suggests that the heap of pipes caught fire as it was kept on a pile of municipal garbage. The pipes were supposed to be laid down for drinking water supply in the densely-populated Bagbera Colony. Local residents noticed the fire at around 12:15pm and informed the Bagbera police. A fire tender reached the spot in an hour, but by that time the whole lot of pipes were completely gutted. According to an official of the fire station, the spot was about seven kilometre away from the fire station and the fire tender had to naviagate through narrow and congested roads of the adjoining densely-populated Jugsalai area. The OC of Bagbera thana, Rajesh Kumar Singh said the pipes were kept there for a fortnight. "The department of Rural Drinking Water Supply had dumping the pipes on a heap of garbage.  As it is a season of scorching sun, leading every thing exposed to the sun to getting dry, someone might have dropped a burning cigarette on the garbage heap, thus triggering the fire, "said Singh to The Telegraph Online. (Kumud Jenamani) Hazaribagh: The contractor of a filtration plant being constructed at bada jheel of the Hazaribagh lake had to cease work after a public outrage on Friday. Hazaribagh lake is cluster of four lakes and attracts large numbers of tourists due to its natural beauty and greenery. Local residents reached the picturesque spot in large numbers including Hazaribagh sadar MLA of BJP Manish Jaiswal, mayor Roshni Tirkey, BJP leaders Bateshwar Prasad Mehta, Bhaiya Abhimanyu Prasad and environmentalist Mritunjay Sharma. The contractor said the water filter plant is being constructed to supply water to Hazaribagh medical college. He said 90% of a portion of the bada jheel was going to be filled with sand on Friday. Hazaribagh sadar MLA of BJP Manish Jaiswal said, “This is totally a wrong project and I will not allow to get it constructed on lake area.” Mayor Roshni Tirkey told The Telegraph online that for anyconstruction work, concerned agency or department has to take an NOC from municipal corporation. But, in this case, no NOC was obtained. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A jeweller was killed in a road accident on Friday on GT road while returning to Jhumritelaiya in Koderma from Calcutta. The deceased has been identified as Chandrakant Soni. Two others who were in the car with Soni sustained serious injuries. Soni who was behind the wheels, had lost control over the vehicle and hit a stationary truck from behind near Hotel Rajasthan in Panchmadhav of Barkatha block. After hitting the truck, it hit a bridge killing Soni on the spot. The body has been sent for postmortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Police on Thursday recovered the dead body of a private school teacher from Charwa dam, 6km away from the town. Officials said Shiv Shankar Prasad, 50, had stepped out of his house to go to the local market in Salgawan village. His relatives had lodged an FIR when he did not return for hours. Police have sent his body for postmortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. “We are working on murder and suicide angles and are waiting for the postmortem report before reaching on any conclusion,” said officials. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Police on Thursday arrested two members of the notorious Aman Srivastava gang who were behind the killing of LNT company engineer Satyendra Kumar Singh on February 19. Singh was shot dead in a moving SUV near Pundri Chowk on Hazaribagh-Barkagaon road. Hazaribagh superintendent of police Karthik S. said both were caught while going to Bes village on a bike. After interrogation, the duo admitted that they were behind the killing of the engineer. The duo have been identified as Shivaji Rao and Rakesh Kumar Saw. Police have recovered a pistol, a few live bullets, mobile phones and sim cards. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A jawan of the Cobra battalion on Thursday hung himself from the ceiling fan of his office in Barhi, 40kms away from Hazaribagh district headquarter. Barhi police officials said Sandeep Nayak, 27, was suffering from depression and undergoing treatment in Ranchi. The body has been sent for postmortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
02-04-2021||Jharkhand||Loyola school sealed for 72 hours after teacher tests positive||Civic officials sealed Loyola School on Friday after a teacher tested positive for the Coronavirus with Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) indicating that the school wil remain shut for the next 72 hours at least. JNAC city manager Ravi Bharti said that as per directives of the East Singhbhum district administration, they have directed the Loyola management to ensure that all those who had come in contact with the  teacher students in particular be made to undergo a Covid test. "The school may be reopened after 72 hours and only after all students who had come in contact with the teacher have undergone a Covid test," Bharti told The Telegraph Online. On Thursday, the management of DBMS English School and Andhra Association English School decided to close their schools after a student and a teacher tested positive a day earlier. Covid-19 cases have been rising in East Singhbhum district, especially in the steel city since the last week. On Thursday, 71 people tested positive for Covid after testing 2,256 samples, taking he total number of cases to 413 since March 1 and 18,977 since March 2020. On Friday, concerned over the spike in Covid cases, the district health department sent nine Covid awareness vehicles to as many blocks in East Singhbhum district. District disease surveillance officer Sahir Pal said, "We are not only focusing on detection of Covid cases by conducting more tests, we are also trying to create awareness among people living in rural areas. The nine Covid awareness vehicles were pressed into service for creating awareness among villagers."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
02-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia teacher visits homes of autistic children ||A teacher of a Jharia based government run resource centre for physically and mentally challenged persons visited the houses of autistic children belonging to the economically weaker section and provided them with educational kits on World Autism Awareness day. The teacher provided tips in music therapy, play therapy, speech therapy, parent-child interaction therapy and applied behaviour analysis to their parents. Akhlaque Ahmad, a special educator cum speech and behaviour therapist, told The Telegraph Online: “As our centre is lying closed due to Covid we have decided to visit the homes of the autistic children today.” “Though altogether 8 autistic children are registered at our centre, we could visit only two of them living in the vicinity of the center, including 15 year old Shafufta Naz and 12 year old Priyanshu Kumar and interacted with the others over phone,” said Ahmad. “During the year-long closure of the centre we remained in regular touch with the students through their parents over smart phones and provided them with tips in play therapy, speech therapy etc,” said Ahmad. Prakash Singh, father Priyanshu Kumar said, “my son, Priyanshu is good in play therapy, watches videos with keen interest and with little special care, is no way inferior to any other student of his age group.” “We owe a lot to the teachers of the resource centre of Jharia as they take special care of such children like our son and helped them to improve their communication skills a lot,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
02-04-2021||Jharkhand||JFC to offer tutorials to help budding footballers learn basics of the game||Young and aspiring footballers can now look forward to learning the nitty gritty of football under elite coaches. Come Tuesday, Jamshedpur FC will be starting football tutorials `Football for Tomorrow' on its social media platforms. The Tata Steel-owned club's head coach Owen Coyle and his deputies Sandy Stewart and Noel Wilson will be teaching short and long passes, defending, throw-ins, shooting, heading etc. The episodes of football tutorials will be uploaded on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Youtube. A JFC official said the football tutorials will be held every Tuesdays for nine weeks. "The plan for football tutorials was discussed and sorted out when we were playing the Indian Super League (ISL) in Goa. The videos have already been shot and can be seen every Tuesdays by those who are interested to learn the basics of the game. Even coaches are welcome to attend the tutorials on our social platforms," he said on the condition of anonymity. Scotland-born Coyle, who mentored JFC in the last ISL season, is a coach with a proven track record. He guided Chennayin FC to finish runners-up in the 2019-20 ISL season. He will be shedding light on shooting and heading. Stewart, a Scottish footballer and coach, will teach short and long passes while Wilson, a former graduate of Tata Football Academy in Jamshedpur, will be focussing on defending and throw-ins. He has also worked as JFC reserve team’s head coach in the 2019-20 season and led the team to some excellent performances in I-League 2nd Division and various other tournaments. JFC, in a bid to build a football ecosystem in and around the steel city , had started a grassroot programme for under-12, 13,14 and 15 kids under Spanish coach Carlos Santamarina but the programme had to be abandoned owing to the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
02-04-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro artist's painting makes it to international show||A Bokaro-based artist’s painting with coal dust has found a place in an online international art exhibition. The work by Ajay Shankar Mahto, which depicts Jharkhand's culture and nature, was selected for the exhibition organised by the Positive Energy Art, an international open platform of art expressions in India, in collaboration with SEE-DIN Studio (Thailand), Charcoal Foundation Bangora (India), Shashtriya Art Studio (Mauritius), Kalagiri Arts and Culture Foundation (India), Rebel Art Space (Thailand) and Avant Garde Art Foundation (Thailand). Mahto, a resident of Shilfor Suyadih village in Chandankiyari block of Bokaro district, said he feels proud that his painting has been selected for the international exhibition. "It took me less than two days to finish the painting. Jharkhand is known for coal deposits and my work  finding a place on an international platform makes me really proud,” he said. Mahto uses oil, watercolour and acrylic medium for his paintings. The exhibition started on March 25 and will conclude on April 20. Artists from India, United States, Germany, UAE, Turkey, South Africa, Iran, Iraq, Panama, Thailand, Algeria, Croatia, Senegal and Mauritius are part of the event. The artist has previously made sand sculptures of M.S Dhoni, Swami Vivekananda, Gautam Buddha, Olympic Day and Kargil heroes. An art lecturer at Ravi Mahto Smarak Teachers Training College in Dhanbad, Mahto did his masters in fine arts from Chandigarh-based Prachin Kala Kendra . He is planning to come up with yet another sand art and is also keen to spread awareness on the perils of pollution. Mahto has received several awards including international human rights award and was also the Bokaro district icon (cVigil) during the parliamentary elections in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
02-04-2021||Jharkhand||Koderma to spend Rs 2.20cr on revamping Telaiya dam||The Koderma district administration has laid out a beautification plan for the popular tourist hotspot Telaiya dam. The dam was the first of four multi-purpose dams included in the first phase of the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). Constructed across the Barakar river and inaugurated in 1953 by the then prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru, it attracts a large number of tourists round the year from Bihar and Jharkhand as well as other states including Bengal. A total of Rs.2.20 crore will be spent to construct a watch tower, a selfie point, cafeteria, solar lights and kiosks. Parking zones, drinking water facilities and toilets are also part of the proposed plan. Deputy commissioner Ramesh Gholap said the watch tower will come near the boating site of the dam. The Jheel Restaurant is the only option for accommodation situated on the Ranchi-Patna highway. The proposed plan also includes a new state-of-the-art guest house. “We are searching for the land and soon we will go ahead in this regard also,” said Gholap. Gholap said he is also working on the possibility of developing water sports at Telaiya dam. “Developing this spot by ensuring maximum facilities will woo visitors in large numbers,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
02-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs almost 700 fresh Covid cases, one casualty in a day||The active Covid caseload in Jharkhand crossed the 3000 mark for the first time in 2021 on Thursday as at least 690 people, including 369 in Ranchi alone, were found infected by the mysterious virus, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. A bulletin released by the NHM revealed that the state reported only 162 Covid recoveries against the over 650 cases, which took the count of active cases in Jharkhand to 3352 on Thursday. Ranchi reported 59 Covid recoveries on the day, and the active caseload here jumped to 1872, which is more than 50 per cent of the total active cases in Jharkhand. Another Covid patient, a resident of Dumka, died during treatment on Thursday, taking the Covid toll in the state to 1114, NHM stated in its bulletin. More than five Jharkhand residents have died of Covid-19 infection in the state this week and at least three casualties were reported in Ranchi, the worst-affected district in terms of caseload and growth rate of infection. The growth rate of Covid infection in Jharkhand also reached 0.30 per cent on Thursday against the national average of 0.37 per cent. As per NHM records, the growth rate in Jharkhand was 0.10 per cent in the beginning of March. As per government data, the doubling rate too has dropped to 229.73 days in Jharkhand from above 2500 days back in March first week. The data indicates that it would take around 229 days for the number of Covid cases to double in Jharkhand at the current pace. With fresh cases outnumbering recoveries almost every day since mid-March, the Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand has also dripped to 96.42 per cent, reveals government data. The recovery rate in the state was above 98.60 per cent in the first week of March. Ranchi was the only district to report a triple-digit-spike in cases on Thursday. Among other districts, East Singhbhum reported 71 fresh cases, while Dhanbad reported 31 fresh cases of infection, stated a bulletin released by the NHM. As per government data, more than 1.24 lakh people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far, and over 1.20 lakh of them have recovered. More than 35,000 of these cases were reported in Ranchi. Meanwhile, the state on Thursday administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine to as many as 21,318 people, including over 19,500 senior citizens, thereby achieving 44 per cent of its target for the day. As many as 3667 beneficiaries, around 74 per cent of the registered beneficiaries, were administered the second dose of the vaccine on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
02-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Covid test for students, vaccine drive by traders||Research scholars including day and hostelites at IIT (ISM) Dhanbad welcomed the Covid test drive launched by Dhanbad district administration on Thursday. Covid test of all students, teachers as well as non teaching staff of IIT (ISM), P.K. Roy Memorial College and SSLNT Women’s was also launched according to the direction of Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh. The test was conducted for only research scholars since labs for PhD students were only functional at IIT (ISM) and classroom teaching is yet to begin for all B.Tech and M.Tech students. Sawan Kumar, a PhD final semester student of Mechanical Engineering said, “Though our Covid test was conducted during the time of hostel shifting in November last year but today the second test was conducted which we welcome.” “Despite the fact that we observe all Covid Protocols of mandatory mask wearing while attending labs, social distance observation and use of sanitizers etc we feel that periodic testing is only way of preventing the spread of diseases as it helps to isolate the affected person and thereby prevents other getting infected from him” said Kumar a native of Darbhanga in Bihar. Pankaj Sharma, an electronics engineering research scholar said,”though I am not a hosteller and rather a day scholar but since we use the hostel mess together with other hostellers so we feel that infection can spread from any source.” “We also want the administration to make arrangements for vaccination of all students” said Sharma. The federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FDZCCI) organised the first free of cost Covid vaccination camp at Purana Bazar on Thursday. A total of 105 shopkeepers from different parts of the district took the vaccine at the camp. This is the first camp of its kind for vaccination organised by the trade body for shopkeepers which began at around 10am at Marwari Yuva Manch office of Purana Bazar in presence of General Secretary of Purana FDZCCI Ajay Narayan Lal. “We had a target of around 200 vaccination at the camp. We will try to extend the camps for one more day to achieve the target,” said Lal and added they would also try to organise similar camps at the offices of different units of FDZCCI spread across the district. Ashanarayan Bharti , a grocer of Bank More Tiwari Gali locality who took the first vaccine on Thursday at the camp said, “I reached at the camp at around 9.45am and became the first person to take the vaccine and the entire process was quite smooth and I felt no reaction at all and retuned back to my home after spending half an hour at the centre.” “Though, I also wanted to take by wife at centre for vaccination but as she was slightly unwell she couldn’t accompany me,” said Bharti and added that after returning to home he also convinced the residents of his locality to take vaccines as soon as possible to avoid the risk of infected by Covid 19. The district administration on Thursday also decided to increase the ambit of Covid test for all passengers reaching Dhanbad through buses  from outside the state at Bartand based Bus depot of Dhanbad from tomorrow. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh said, “as large number of passengers arrive at Dhanbad through buses from adjoining Bihar and Bengal so it is imperative to carry out their Covid test to identify the infected persons in order to isolate them and provide treatment to them” Notably, Covid test of all passengers arriving from different states including Madhya Pradesh, Gujraat, Karnataka, Kerala and Maharastra is already going on at Dhanbad Railway station ahead of Holi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
02-04-2021||Jharkhand||Elderly man hacked to death in Jharkhand||A 65-year-old man was hacked to death in front of his house in Jharkhand’s Gumla district on Wednesday night on the suspicion of practicing sorcery. The incident happened in Parsa Navatoli village under Raidih police station in Gumla district, around 120km south-west of the state capital Ranchi. The deceased Ranthu Munda used to treat people with traditional herbs. According to police sources, two neighbours Sudhir Munda and Chotu Munda, both in their early 20s, forcibly entered the house of Ranthu around 11.30pm on Wednesday by breaking open the door. They then locked up three members of his family in a room and started beating up Ranthu. Later the duo dragged Ranthu outside and hacked him to death with an axe. Raidih police station officer-in-charge Nitish Kumar said: “We reached the village in the morning after getting information about the murder. We learnt from the villagers that Sudhir’s sister (16-year-old Sangita Kumari), who had been suffering from some disease for the last seven months, died on Holi (March 29). Sudhir blamed Ranthu for using black magic which led to the death of his sister. On Wednesday night, he conspired with his friend and cousin brother Chotu to kill Ranthu.” Senior police officials, including Chainpur subdivisional police officer Cyril Marandi, visited the spot. After a search, both the accused were arrested from their houses in the same village. On the basis of their confession, the axe used for the murder was recovered and the accused were remanded in custody. The body of the victim was sent to the Sadar Hospital in Gumla for post-mortem. Ranthu’s wife Jamuni Mundain said that her husband used to treat people claiming to know sorcery and this proved to be the reason for his death. Jharkhand has witnessed the killings of more than 1,500 people for allegedly practicing black magic and witchcraft, a majority of them being women, since its formation in 2000. In March this year, Jharkhand High Court, taking suo motu cognisance of the killing of five members of a family in Gumla district on the suspicion of practicing witchcraft, had chided the authorities and directed to take “remedial measures and also take serious steps for generating awareness in the people regarding evils of such type of practice”. Kumar said that almost all police stations have started awareness programmes against superstitions but it seems the people are still believing in such practices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
02-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid-19: Health department asks deputy commissioners to prepare database of high-risk patients||The Jharkhand health department has asked all the deputy commissioners of 24 districts to prepare a database of immune-compromised and high risk patients at the earliest and conduct routine RT-PCR and TrueNat tests for Covid-19. In a directive issued to the deputy commissioners on Thursday, secretary health, Jharkhand government has given stress on ‘Test, track and treat’ strategy to curb growing Covid-19 cases and as part of this effort has asked all the deputy commissioners to direct district health units and in-charge of the non-communicable diseases to start preparing database of all such high risk patients. “The database of all such immune-compromised and high risk patients suffering from HIV, under dialysis, TB, heart and kidney diseases and cancer patients should be prepared district wise and should be available with the surveillance and district health teams for routine RT-PCR and TrueNat testing for Covid-19. The district administration should arrange for Covid-testing at camps near to residence of such patients by informing such patients well in advance. Ideally the camps should be conducted on a weekly basis,” the letter states. The directive also directs the district administration to ensure routine checking of other frontline workers who interact with large number of masses like public transport drivers, bank staff, front desk workers, post office personnel and private couriers, food delivery workers, hotel staff, industrial workers, civic body officials, health staff, street vendors and vegetable sellers, workers in bus terminus and railway station. It also advises district administration to undertake sample collection and testing through mobile vans in urban slums while asking district administration to take help of NGOs, civil societies and other organisations in undertaking awareness about preventive steps and symptoms of Covid-19. Significantly, the state had in the last week of March directed respective deputy commissioners to undertake sample collection and testing of all persons coming from states of Maharashtra, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Chhattisgarh by air, road and rail. Incidentally, the state registered 693 positive cases on Wednesday with a total of 124201 positive cases out of which 120263 have been discharged after recovery.  The state has a positivity rate of 4.94 per cent as against national average of 6.5 per cent and recovery rate of 96.83 per cent as against national average of 93.90 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
