03-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Fire at Dhanbad power sub-station ||Dhanbad: Fire engulfed the Kaliasol based power sub-station of Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited about 35km from Dhanbad distirict headquarters on Saturday. The fire was brought under control in one hour with two fire brigades pressed into service. Circle officer of Kaliasol, Diwakar Dubey said,"fire started from adjoining bushes and gradually engulfed some cables lying in the power sub-station but fortunately the transformers remained unaffected due to which the losses remained nominal." Power supply was discontinued for three hours during the incident. (Praduman Choubey) Bokaro: Principal district and session judge Pradeep Kumar Srivastava on Saturday flagged off ‘Justice on Wheels’ at Tenughat of Bermo, with an aim to provide easy access to justice for the people in remote areas. The mobile Lok Adalat and legal awareness vehicle will visit all nine blocks of the district. The van will travel through different panchayats with magistrates accompanied by advocates. The judicial team will provide legal remedies available to overcome any dispute faced by villagers. The villagers can also come with their grievances. The air-conditioned bus is equipped with tables and rotating chairs. A large section of society, specially in remote areas, is unaware of their rights and legal services made available to them. It becomes necessary for the District Legal Service Authourity (DLSA) to reach out to the people. The initiative was launched by Jharkhand State Legal Service Authority (Jhalsa). The van will make a stop at Bokaro from April 3 to April 30. (Our correspondent) Bokaro: District health department officials on Saturday instructed hospitals and nursing homes to prepare extra beds for Covid-19 patients as cases rise every day. The number of Covid patients has crossed above 100 in the district. All doctors have been asked to prescribe Covid-19 testing to anyone found suffering from severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) symptoms. The private hospitals have also been instructed to provide details of patients coming to their institutions with SARI symptoms. There are more than 50 private hospitals and nursing homes in the district. Mostly of them are functional in Bokaro Township. The dedicated Covid hospital Bokaro General Hospital has already augmented its beds by reopening a 40-bed Covid Ward. Last week BGH reopened its Covid Critical Care Unit. Dr A.K. Pathak, civil surgeon, said: “I have asked each of the private hospitals to dedicate few beds for treating corona patients. The rising number of Covid-19 positive cases requires their contribution in treating the patients.” There are 22 private hospitals and nursing homes which are enrolled for administering Covid-91 vaccine. They have been asked to treat Covid-19 patients too. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
03-04-2021||Jharkhand||Left to back JMM nominee for Madhupur byelection ||Left parties, although not a part of the UPA government in Jharkhand, have decided to support the JMM candidate, cabinet minister Hafizul Hassan, for the Madhupur byelection scheduled on April 17. In a joint press statement issued in Ranchi, four Left parties _  CPI(M), CPI, CPI(ML) and Marxist Coordination Committee _ announced their support to the JMM-UPA candidate in the bypoll. “We had extended our support to UPA candidates during the Bermo and Dumka bypolls against the BJP. Now, we have decided to do the same for the Madhupur bypoll too. This is to show our opposition to the BJP government which has been taking anti-people decisions since the last few years, visible in the new farm laws, privatisation of national assets, dismal employment opportunities. We would campaign against the BJP candidate and support the JMM candidate,” said Prakash Viplav after a meeting of all Left parties at the state CPM office in Ranchi. Though Left parties have never made an impact in any Assembly election at Madhupur, they do have followers among factory workers in few pockets of the constituency, especially after recent agitations against the new farm laws and privatisation of banks. Meanwhile, both UPA and BJP have stepped up campaigning. State minority welfare minister Hafijul Hassan, son of the deceased minister Haji Hussain Ansari, is pitted against Ganga Narayan Singh, who joined BJP from Ajsu on March 22 and was announced as a candidate a few days before filing his nomination on March 30, the last date. While BJP party leader and former chief minister Babulal Marandi, Deoghar MP Nishikant Dubey and a host of senior BJP leaders are campaigning for their party candidate,  ruling alliance leaders, including Congress minister Badal Patralekh, chief minister Hemant Soren and RJD leaders, have been campaigning for Hafijul Hassan. Byelection is being held as the sitting Madhupur MLA, Haji Hussain Ansari, died due to Covid-19 related complications in October last year. In the 2019 assembly polls, the voting percentage of BJP (28.34) and Ajsu (19.88), if considered together (48.22) works out to be higher than the JMM's (38.4). This has made BJP field Ajsu turncoat, relying on traditional voters and the Ajsu support base to defeat the ruling alliance candidate. “I am confident of victory in the bypoll as the party has fielded a son of Madhupur for the first time in the last two-decades. I have worked tirelessly for the people of the region and my priority would remain to work for the people in any capacity. This time, I will be getting traditional BJP voters and my own supporters who helped me finish third in the 2019 assembly polls,” said Ganga Narayan Ray, alias Ganga Narayan Singh. However, state BJP vice-president Raj Paliwar, who was eyeing a ticket and had been the party candidate for the last few elections, even winning in the 2014 elections, wasn't even invited on the day Ganga Narayan filed his nomination. "Raj Paliwar is the face of BJP for the last two decades and holds considerable clout among party rank and file. But he has been badly insulted by our party this time. He is maintaining silence and this can prove to be a disadvantage for the BJP candidate," said a Madhupur block BJP leader, indicaing that all is not well in the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
03-04-2021||Jharkhand||BSL sets new records in fiscal year||The Bokaro Steel Plant overcame unprecedented challenges and hurdles posed by the Covid-19 pandemic to set several new monthly and annual production records in 2020-21. BSL, a unit of Steel Authority of India Limited, registered a record cash collection of Rs 2,858 crore in March. The fiscal year also proved to be a good year in terms of performance in Despatch and Techno-Economic indices. With the addition of some new facilities, the plant also upgraded its production processes last year. In 2020-21, BSL registered a growth of 2.6% in production of HR Plate and HR Sheet compared with 2019-20 and a 1.5% increase in the production of CR Saleable from CRM-3, said Manikant Dhan, chief of communication. In the financial year 2020-21, BSL exported more than three lakh tonnes of steel to several countries including China. In the month of March, BSL made forays into the European market by exporting 12,436 tonnes of steel with CI mark certification for the first time. BSL signed a MoU with NHAI for supply of fly ash for road construction projects. Till now, BSL has already supplied 1,70,000 cubic metre of fly ash to NHAI. “The year 2020-21 was also remarkable in terms of progress and stabilisation in the new facilities in the plant including installation of caster in the new Steel Melting Shop, commissioning of zero liquid discharge facility in CRM-3, commissioning of second stream along with alternating network line of coke oven gas line etc,” said Dhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
03-04-2021||Jharkhand||Adityapur faces acute shortage of drinking water||A local NGO of Adityapur in Seraikela-Kharsawan district has demanded the closure of car-wash centres amid acute drinking water crisis in the township. According to Jan Kalyan Morcha’s recently conducted survey, while the majority of about three lakh residents were facing acute shortage of drinking water, the owners of car wash facilities are running their units by using drinking water. The township, under the Adityapur Municipal Corporation, largely depends on tube-wells. Of about 50,000 households, only 7,000 get tap water facilities. The remaining 43,000 households have to depend on tube-wells. "Be the water being raised from the deep-boring or supplied from the Drinking Water and & Sanitation Department (DW&SD), over a dozen car-washing units operating in Adityapur are being run with drinking water. Such units must be stopped with immediate effect," said Om Prakash, president of the JKM in a petition submitted to the Seraikela-Kharsawan deputy commissioner. The JKM president told The Telegraph Online that those who wish to keep four-wheelers neat and clean may drive over to Sitarampur reservoir for getting their vehicles washed. With the underground water table depleted considerably, most of the tube-wells have become defunct. As a result, the residents have started asking the AMC authority to supply drinking water through tankers. But due to absence of adequate number of water tankers the AMC is not being able to provide the residents with drinking water through tankers. "We only have seven tankers which are not adequate to meet the demand of all the residents. We are planning to procure 15 more tankers on an emergency basis to cope up with the drinking water crisis," said Vinod Shrivastav, mayor, AMC to The Telegraph Online. A section of drinking water dealers operating in Mango and Jugsalai localities of the steel city are doing a brisk business by supplying drinking water through water tankers. These dealers are charging Rs 500 a tanker, containing 1,000 litres of water whereas the same quantity of the water is available in Mango and Jugsalai for Rs 300 only. A mega drinking water project worth Rs 400 crore is being set up at Adityapur by the state government but due absence of forest clearance at a number of points, the ambitious project is making progress at a snail's pace and is not likely to be completed before March 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
03-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad to intensify Covid vigil as cases rise||Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Saturday carried out an inspection of Covid hot spots and testing centres in the district. Singh instructed authorities to intensify the testing in the hot spots as the district recorded 31 cases on April 1 and 33 on April 3. At present there are 78 active Covid cases. On Friday, 10 cases were reported in one colony of ward Number 11 of Jamadoba. The DC instructed officials to carry out Covid tests of all 81 families living in the colony. The DC visited Sadar Hospital at around 1 pm and instructed hospital in-charge, Dr Rajkumar Singh to test patients visiting the OPD centre. Singh accompanied by Civil Surgeon Dr Gopal Das and others later took stock of testing preparedness at the Swadeshi Mela at Zila Parisahd ground and inspected the Covid ICU at Central Hospital of BCCL in Jagjivan Nagar and Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital. During the last leg of his inspection drive, Singh reviewed the testing of passengers arriving in Dhanbad through other states at Bartand based Bus Depot and the arrangements made at the district control room. “The inspection drive was aimed at beefing up the Covid treatment facilities as well as intensifying Covid testing drive as per which we instructed the authorities to carry out Covid test of all patients arriving at four prominent hospitals including Central Hospital, SNMMCH, Sadar Hospital and Tata Central Hospital Jamadoba,” said Singh. “In Jamadoba as well as other hotspots we are conducting tests of all persons within 200-300 meter of the hot spot zones,” he further added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
03-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid halts green crusaders' expansion plans||Padma Shri awardee Jamuna Tudu’s expansion plans for Van Suraksha Samity (VSS) across Kolhan has hit a roadblock due to the second wave of Covid-19. Known as Lady Tarzan for ferociously fighting the timber mafia to protect forests, Jamuna leads a group of women members who are active in Sunsunia, Beladih, Madhupur, Laubera, Dhalukdingha, Baraghat and Muhulbera forests in Chakulia. The group patrol the jungles of the Chakulia forest range to prevent tree felling. Jamuna lives at Muturkham in Chakulia village. The global pandemic has forced the green crusader to temporarily shelve the plans even though she has extensively toured West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan to spread the wings of VSS. Jamuna and some members of VSS undertook a tour of West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan when the Covid-related situation improved and things opened up. "I have already discussed the expansion plans with some women groups in West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan during our tour. I was very sure that the expansion plan was going in the right direction. But the return of Covid has played spoilsport. We shall have to wait till the situation improves," said Jamuna. Jamuna says it requires a lot of convincing to groups of other districts when it comes to expanding the base of VSS. “The Samity cannot be expanded overnight. I will have to tour the other districts again to convince women groups and explain the importance of protecting forests,” she said. "It would not be a wise idea to undertake a tour in this situation. We have to take care of ourselves in difficult times," she said. Asked if tree felling has stopped, Jamuna replied in the affirmative."Though villagers still pick dry wood for cooking food but overall tree felling has stopped. We have support from foresters," the environmentalist added. Cases of tree felling have come down as the VSS has imposed a fine of Rs 5,001 for those venturing into the jungles. There are over 300 members of VSS in the East Singhbhum unit. VSS committees were formed in Dumka, Giridih, Godda and Pakur earlier last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
03-04-2021||Jharkhand||1000-year-old Avalokiteshvara statue retrieved in Hazaribagh village||The Archaeological Survey of India has recovered a 1000-year-old white sandstone statue of Avalokiteshvara in Bahoranpur on Saturday. ASI experts said the six feet tall statue can be dated back to the Pala dynasty who ruled from the 8th century to 12th century. Bahoranpur village is in Sitagarha, around 20 kilometres away from the district headquarters. The ASI started working at the site after Buddhist monk Bhante Tiswarro revealed details about Bahoranpur, widely considered to be a popular monastery during its time. Many residents in the area had found ancient idols in the area while constructing their houses, leading to the discovery of the place. Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara occupies a unique place in the Mahayana Buddhist pantheon. Buddhist sutras speak of several bodhisattvas but it is Avalokitesvara who is revered and adored by followers of both Hinayana and Mahayana Buddhism and by all art lovers. ASI team leader Rajendra Dahuri said a smaller statue of Avalokiteshvara has also been recovered earlier. Two ancient statues were also stolen from the site last week which were recovered by the police from Ranchi. The central agency has now established that Bahoranpur was not only a shrine or a monastery, but a well-developed city of its time. The ASI had first started excavating the site in November 2019, but had to pause it for some months due to the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
03-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand minister who underwent lung transplant in hospital again||Jharkhand Education Minister Jagarnath Mahto, who had to undergo lung transplant following Covid-induced fibrosis, had to be hospitalised again in Chennai after developing an infection on his chest wall, doctors at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Healthcare  said on Saturday. Mahto, who was staying in Chennai after being discharged from hospital on February 8, complained of discomfort and pain in his chest last week, said Dr Suresh Rao, the Co-Director, Institute of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support at MGM Healthcare. “He has developed an infection on his chest wall. We have collected a sample of the infection for culture and the minister has been kept under observation,” said Dr. Rao, adding that Mahto’s condition was stable, and his transplanted lungs were functioning fine. Rao, who was a member of the team that transplanted Mahto’s lung at MGM on November 10, said that such infections occur in some patients after undergoing lung transplant surgery, and therefore they must take utmost precautions. “We have been administering antibiotics to him (Mahto). The culture test report will give us a clearer picture on the gravity of the situation,” said Rao. Mahto, who tested positive for Covid-19 on September 28, 2020, underwent treatment in various hospitals for four months.  Soon after testing positive, he was admitted to state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi. He was shifted to the ICU hasof Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in the state capital on October 1, 2020 and put on non-invasive ventilation. The 54-year-old MLA from Dumri was put on a life support system called Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) for around three weeks in Chennai before he underwent a lung transplant surgery on November 10, 2020. Despite being declared fit to travel and lead a normal life, the minister did not attend the Budget Session of  the Jharkhand Assembly in person as a precautionary measure. Doctors suggested he  avoid crowded places and public interaction for a few weeks as a relapse could have proved fatal. Mahto, a Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) MLA, is a first-time minister in the State cabinet. Before being detected with Covid-19, he had taken important decisions related to relaxations in school fees during the lockdown period. Mahto had also assured better payment to para teachers in the state and became the first ever Education Minister in Jharkhand to gift cars to board exam toppers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
03-04-2021||Jharkhand||Cornhole Baggo introduced across Jharkhand||Dhanbad and Jamshedpur apart, special athletes from other districts in Jharkhand can also enjoy the popular game of Cornhole Baggo. The Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) on Friday introduced the game to its affiliated district units with virtual demonstration via webinar at a simple function attended by coaches and volunteers at JRD Tata Sports Complex. The SOJ has already introduced the game in Jamshedpur and Dhanbad in February and March, respectively. "We feel happy to introduce the game in other districts of Jharkhand as well. The game should be enjoyed by the entire special fraternity of the state," said SOJ assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota. According to him, Special Olympics Bharat (SOB) has given approval to provide boards (for Cornhole Baggo) to Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Dhanbad and Ramgarh and the boards have already been provided to Jamshedpur and Dhanbad. The SOJ was supposed to physically introduce the game in Ranchi and Ramgarh this month but postponed it due to the rising Covid cases. The SOJ assistant area director said they would send the specification of the Cornhole Baggo to the rest of their affiliated district units so that they can make the same and start playing the game. The state chapter of Special Olympics has plans to include Cornhole Baggo as one of the events of the State Games. "The State Games would be organised once the Covid-related situation improves. We have definite plans to include Cornhole Baggo as one of the disciplines," Sahota, who had some months ago attended a webinar on Cornhole Baggo conducted by SOB, added. In Cornhole Baggo, which is highly popular in Europe, United States and Canada, specials throw 6 inches x 6 inches bags full of corn into a 6 inch hole on a 4 ft x 2 ft board. Participants with lower ability are required to throw the bag from a distance of 3 m, middle ability from 4 m and higher ability from 5 m. Each bag, which are of red and green colours and filled with corns, weigh 454 grams. The board is placed in an inclined position and the game is spread over three sets. Each set has two points and participants putting the bag into the hole maximum time emerges as winners. It is an interesting game and is somewhat similar to bocce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
03-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand raises MGNREGA daily wage to Rs 225||The Jharkhand government has decided to hike the daily wage under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme to Rs 225 using funds from its own coffers from April after the central government failed to consider its request to increase the amount from Rs 198. Sources in the state rural development department said that according to the state-wise wage rate for unskilled manual workers notified by the Union ministry of rural development, the MGNREGA wage rate for Jharkhand and Bihar has been increased by a mere Rs 4 from Rs 194 in 2020-21 to Rs 198 in 2021-22. “We are among the states with the lowest wage rate at Rs 194, above only Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh, which have been set at Rs 193 each. We had requested the central government to increase the wage rate to Rs 225 in January. However, in the state-wise wage rate for unskilled manual workers issued by the Union government, the increase for Jharkhand (and Bihar) was only Rs 4. We again requested the Centre (to increase the wage rate) but received no response. We had no option but to increase the wage rate from our own funds. There seems to be no transparency in why and how these wage rates are determined for different states,” said a source in the chief minister’s office. Under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, 2005, the Centre determines the state-wise wage rates for unskilled manual workers under the scheme. These rates are determined according to changes in the Consumer Price Index for Agricultural Labour, which reflects inflation in rural areas. “The government should disclose the process by which they have increased the rate or the reasons why they have not. Are they increasing the wages arbitrarily or on political grounds or is it based on an index like the agricultural wage index?” asked an official in chief minister’s office. “The MGNREGA is a lifeline for the rural poor. But people do not show much interest in working under the scheme due to poor wages. So, we have decided to enhance the wage from the existing amount fixed by the Centre at Rs 198 to Rs 225 from the state exchequer,” said chief minister Hemant Soren. On January 2, Soren had announced at a public meeting that his government would spend out of its own pocket to raise the job scheme wage for workers in the state. The scheme’s wages are fixed and paid by the Centre, which is accused of keeping them too low. In about half the states including Jharkhand, the job scheme wage is lower than the minimum wage fixed by the state government. The minimum wage rate in Jharkhand is Rs 283, while a labourer working under the rural job scheme used to get Rs 194 as minimum wage till March. When the job scheme was launched in 2006, the wage was linked to the minimum wage in every state. But since 2008, the job scheme wage has been revised in the light of the CPIAL for the state concerned, bringing it below the minimum wage in some states that revise wages through consultation. Sources in the state rural development department further said that there are provisions in the MGNREGA under which a state can increase the minimum wage of workers from its own exchequer. Several states, including Bihar, have already done it. However, they have requested the Centre for creating a separate column for the state’s wage contribution in the management information system of the MGNREGA. State MGNREGS commissioner and rural development director Aditya Ranjan said that the deputy commissioners and deputy development commissioners in all 24 districts of the state have been directed to pay the increased wage rate for work under the rural job scheme effective from April 1. Additional reporting by Basant Kumar Mohanty in Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
