04-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: IPL fever grips Dhanbad||Dhanbad: City-based art teacher Victor Ghosh organised a short art camp today, themed around IPL 2021 at his art training center ‑ Anuva Academy of Fine Arts. Around 25 students made portraits of their favourite players and also painted the logos of their team. The participants who were segregated into three different categories ‑ Group A (Class IV to VI), Group B (Class VII to  IX) and Group C (Class X and open to all). Talking to The Telegraph Online, Ghosh said, “Besides being an artist and sports enthusiasts too. Each time that a mega sport event takes place I organize such competition. I hosted such events on June 2, 2019 ahead of Cricket World Cup and on July 1, 2018 ahead of FIFA World Cup.” “The enthusiasm among the students was palpable as they put their best effort to make their favorite paintings etc,” said elaborated Ghosh. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Kajal Kheria, winner of Group C said, “Mumbai Indians being my favourite team I made a pencil sketch portrait of Rohit Rana and added that she is very interested in cricket since her early childhood.” Praduman Choubey Bokaro: In the absence of regular water supply, residents of Chas Township are facing acute water crisis. The issue has made the Bokaro Chamber of Commerce and Industries (BCCI) to send a letter to the chief secretary asking it to ensure that water is supplied regularly to their homes. Chamber President Sanjay Baid mentioned that the households face acute hardship everytime that Chas Municipal Corporation (CMC) fails to supply water regularly. “In the month of March, water was supplied only for 12 days. There is a lot of anger and resentment amongst residents against CMC.” Chief executive officer, CMC, Shashiprakash Jha said, “We are trying our best for 100 %water supply and collection of 100% water user charges.” There are over a lakh residents living in Chas Township, who have requested local administration to provide water regularly. Sonu Rana(29) angered not only his parents but also his relatives and villagers of his native village Raksi by marrying he married his maternal aunt Soni (25) on Friday. The duo who had eloped to marry surrendered before the police on Saturday night seeking police intervention to pacify those resenting their relationship. Officer-in-charge Luv Kumar Singh told the couple’s relatives that as both are adults they were free to take their own decision. He asked them to accept the relationship and allowed duo to go after signing a PR bond. A relative on condition of anonymity said, “What Sonu did is wrong, him marrying his mausi is not the correct thing so, it will not be easy for his parents to accept the girl who is a close relative of them.” Apprehending threat to their lives and acknowledging the fact that things won’t be smooth for them, Sonu maintained that they would be shifting to Hyderabad, where he works at a private company||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
04-04-2021||Jharkhand||Army jawan assaulted with beer bottles by partying youngsters in Jamshedpur||Two persons were seriously injured in two separate incidents that took place in Golmuri and Bistupur locality of steel city. Twenty-eight-year-old army jawan identified as Karmbir Tiwary was seriously injured at Hotel Ramada in Bistupur by partying youths on Saturday night, while in another incident a 34-year-old man identified as Mohammed Farooq was attacked with a knife at Golmuri market on Sunday afternoon. Both the injured persons have been admitted to Tata Main Hospital for treatment. Condition of Farooq is said to be critical. According to police, Farooq, a resident of Muslim bustee in Golmuri area ran a refrigerator-repairing shop at Golmuri market. “At about 1.30 pm, Farooq and a youth who runs a stationary shop in the adjoining shop clashed with each other over some old dispute. In the heat of the moment, the other shop-keeper, identified as Mohammed Firoz took out a knife from his shop and attacked Farooq repeatedly with it. Farooq who sustained the knife injuries in the neck and shoulder fell down,” said Arvind Kumar, OC, Golmuri thana while talking to The Telegraph Online. Kumar added that the attacker Firoz fled from the scene of crime, following which other shopkeepers rushed and injured Farooq to Tata Main Hospital. In another incident, an army jawan was injured by a group of youths, who attacked the army man with beer bottles at Hotel Ramada late on Saturday night. According to police, the army jawan, Karmbir Tiwary was enjoying a dinner party along with three of his friends whereas a group of 15 youths were partying alongside. “It was about 11 pm when the group of youngsters, which also had the son of a local BJP leader attacked the army jawan with beer bottles. The jawan was rescued by his friends and was later taken to Tata Main Hospital,” said Vishnu Raut, OC, Bistupur thana while talking to this website. Raut said they have registered a case against the attackers on an FIR lodged by Ramashankar Tiwarya. He added that they are investigating into the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
04-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jal Drishti app fails to resolve water crisis in Dhanbad||Within 10 days of the district administration launching the much hyped Jal Drishti mobile App, which promises to keep a tab of water crisis and resolve complaints related to water supply, protest erupted in several colonies of Dhanbad including in Sriramnagar Colony of Dhansar and Putki area of Katras. Over 100 residents of Sriramnagar colony of Dhansar Police station area gheraoed the house of Dhanbad MP PN Singh and former councilor of ward number 31, Suman Singh in Dhansar, which lies within four kilometers of the district headquarters, to protest against the lack of piped water supply in their area and contamination of ground water, which was affecting the hand pump water supply. The protestors shouting slogans against the people’s representatives of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation charged that despite taking water connection more than two years back they are yet to receive a drop of piped water supply at their residence. They also accused erroneous drain construction of their area, which often contaminates the ground water, thereby compelling residents to consume contaminated water that they get from the hand pumps. Talking to the media, Suraj Singh, a octogenarian resident of the colony who also participated in the gherao-cum-demonstration said, “Our locality is  in the colliery area and has limited ground water sources. We took Dhanbad Municipal Connection for water two years ago with high hopes of getting piped water of Maithon lake but have not received a single drop till date.” He added, “Our problem has been aggravated recently due to erroneous drain construction in our area, which runs parallel with the water supply pipeline. Ruptured pipelines make the drain water contaminate our drinking water” said Singh. “We carried out a protest here in front of the residence of Dhanbad MP, PN Singh and local councilor Suman Singh as the drain construction work took place through the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation fund and councilor being the people’s representative of the our area in Dhanbad Municipal Corporation was entrusted with supervision of all developmental works including the drain construction work” said Dilip Kumar, another resident of the Sriramnagar Colony charged. He added, “Such was the shoddy execution of drain construction work that hand pumps which were the sole source of water in colony have also been affected due to contamination of ground water and repeated complaints in this regard failed compelling us to come on the streets.” Meanwhile, water supply being meted out to the residents by another civic body, Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA) in Putki, Moonidih area has also been affected due to irregular water supply by Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited. Md Asalam, in charge of Kusunda water supply division of JMADA said “Despite our best efforts to ensure water supply, regular power cuts is affecting the water supply in Putki area.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
04-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad College opts for parent teacher meet||Taking cue from parent-teacher meeting held in schools Dhanbad’s Guru Nanak College, a minority institute affiliated to Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University (BBMKU) organized a parent-teacher meeting (PTM) during which parents of 125 students participated, today. Around 62 students were from the History department of the college and 63 from the Political Science department. College principal, Purnendu Shekhar along with five different teachers from the above mentioned department were present for the meeting. They took feedback from both the students and parent regarding teaching, extra-curricular activities as well the infrastructure facilities of the college. They also apprised them about the institute’s plan to augment the infrastructure facilities and improving the academic activities etc. Talking to The Telegraph Online today Shekhar, said, “We have been organizing such meetings on a regular basis since 2019. Just ahead of the lockdown, we had conducted a PTM, last year.” “After the campus reopening this year, we have started PTM and subject wise PTM for Computer Science, Economics etc have already been conducted. Today during the first session we engaged with 62 students pursuing their undergraduate degree in History, the second session was for 63 students from the Political Science department,” he said. According to him similar meetings will be held with parents of students pursing degrees in English, Commerce and Psychology on April 11. “Such kind of interactions are best way of improving the academic as well as infrastructural facilities of the campus, we are keen on continuing this practice. In fact, we have carried out a lot of improvement based on feedbacks received during the PTMs. Betting our library facilities and having it turned into a digital library was on the basis of some feedback that we got,” said Shekhar. Sunil Kumar, a government school teacher of Putki was present for the meeting along with her daughter Sushila Kishore, a semester 1 student of BA (History Honours). He said, “The meeting was quite informative as we came to know about the way of teaching and also received information about the performance of our wards.” “We suggested the teachers and principal of college present during the meeting to organize excursion trip for the History students to the nearby historical places in order to increase the interest of the students in the subject,” added Kumar. Uzma Kayenat, a student of semester I of BA (History Honours) who attended the PTM along with her mother Sazda Khatoon said, “This has helped our parents connect with our educational pursuit in a better manner. Having them involved in the process will only help us get better support from our family members too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
04-04-2021||Jharkhand||Easter Mass in Ranchi, steel city amid Covid protocols||The state saw low-profile Easter celebrations due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but churches in Ranchi and Jamshedpur conducted services while ensuring everyone adhered to safety protocols like wearing masks and maintaining social distance. In Ranchi, the Easter mass was conducted in St Mary's Cathedral on Purulia Road, but no outdoor programme was held. In wake of the rising Covid cases in Ranchi and other parts of the state, the Ranchi Archdiocese, under the Roman Catholic Church, had earlier called off all outdoor Easter programmes, including Thursday’s evening mass and Friday’s Easter Vigil, which were supposed to be held at the Loyola Grounds on Purulia Road. The traditional Palm Sunday procession on March 28 had to be cancelled too as a precautionary move. In Jamshedpur, members of Christian community offered special prayers in various  churches on Easter Sunday and also visited cemeteries to remember their dear departed by offering flowers and lighting candles. The Beldih cemetery at Bistupur witnessed a rush of the faithful since Sunday morning. Catholics thronged  the St Mary's Church in Bistupur, St George's Church in Northern Town and St Joseph's Cathedral in Golmuri, among others, to attend the special morning mass amid strict Covid-19 safety protocols. Facades of parishes were adorned with decorative lights and altars were bedecked with flowers and messages. Easter hymns and songs were sung at the prayer services. "Easter Sunday is the central religious feast observed by the  Christian community. Christ was resurrected on the third day after his crucifixion and this signifies the concept of life after death. It means death is not an end," explained James Davis, a  member of St. Joseph's  Cathedral at Golmuri. Bakeries across the steel city lined up Easter goodies, including cakes and fresh hot cross buns. Brown Bunch, a leading bakery in Bistupur brought out a variety of hard chocolates to prepare yummy Easter Eggs for youngsters. The traditional Easter peace rally was, however, not taken out on account of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
04-04-2021||Jharkhand||Private schools say no to on-campus classes in new session amid Covid spike||Most private schools of  Ranchi have decided not to resume in-person classes from the new academic session owing to the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases and continue online teaching  until the pandemic eases,  authorities from leading private schools said on Sunday. Even though the government allowed resumption of on- campus classes for students in class 8 and above last month itself, many private schools decided to resume in-person classes from the new academic session in April. The government allowed regular classes from March 1, but the number of Covid cases in the state, especially in Ranchi, grew at a significantly high pace since mid-March. “The decision of resuming regular offline classes in April was taken because Covid cases had reduced in the city. But we cannot take the risk of running in-person classes at this stage, when the city is reporting an alarming spike in cases every day,” said principal of Jawahar Vidya Mandir (JVM), Shaymli, Samarjeet Jana. Owing to the rise in Covid cases, the active caseload in Ranchi has shot up from only 198 in February last week to over 2,600 on Sunday. As per figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), Ranchi alone accounts for more than 50 per cent of the 4,613 active  Covid-19 cases in the state. In the wake of the rise in cases, the health department recently directed all schools and colleges to test students and teachers for Covid-19 as a precautionary measure. Two schools in Jamshedpur had to be sealed after students and teachers tested positive for Covid-19. Later, at least 25 girls of Indira Gandhi Balika Vidyalas in Ranchi’s Bundu block were found infected. Delhi Public School, another leading private school in Ranchi, has also decided to continue with online classes. Both DPS and JVM Shaymli are located close to MECON colony, where several houses have been sealed after at least 60 people were found infected in the locality. While many schools have already decided to continue with online classes, some of the city schools will soon hold meetings with parents and decide whether they should resume offline classes or not. DAV Kapil Deo School will hold an online meeting with parents and take a decision on the mode of teaching in the new session. Oxford Public School and Surendranath Centenary School will also hold meetings with parents soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
04-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 873 cases in a day, biggest jump this year||Jharkhand reported 873 fresh Covid-19 cases, surpassing 2021’s highest single-day-spike of 694 cases reported on Friday, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. At least seven Covid patients, including three from Ranchi, died during treatment on this day, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The fresh cases outnumbered the 161 recoveries with a significant margin, taking the active caseload in the state to 4,613, the bulletin further stated. As per government data, Ranchi accounted for 472 of the cases and 43 of the 161 recoveries. The active caseload in Ranchi, Jharkhand’s worst-affected district, jumped to 2,625. Among other districts, East Singhbhum reported 101 cases and one casualty against 26 recoveries. Bokaro, Chatra and Dhanbad reported one Covid casualty each on the day, taking the Covid toll in the state to 1,122, the NHM stated in its daily Covid bulletin. No district other than Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported a triple-digit-spike in cases on the day, which jointly reported more than 65 per cent of the fresh cases in the state on Saturday. The growth rate of Covid-19 cases in the state neared the national average after reporting a significant spike in the past couple of weeks. The growth rate in Jharkhand shot up from 0.10 per cent in February to 0.40 per cent on Saturday against the national average of 0.41 per cent. The doubling rate of cases in the state also dropped to 171.22 days on Saturday against the national average of 167.87 days, NHM highlighted in its bulletin. As per records with NHM, the doubling rate in Jharkhand was above 2500 days in February. The Covid recovery rate dropped to 95.46 per cent on the day in Jharkhand. The government on Saturday tested swab samples of 19,741 people on the day and more than 4 per cent of them were found infected by the Covid-19 virus. As per government data, as many as 1,26,458 people have been infected so far and 1,20,723 of them have recovered. On Saturday, the government administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to 23,430 people, including over 21,000 commoners above the age of 45 years, thereby achieving 67 per cent of its target for the day. The second dose of the vaccine was administered to 4,279 of the over 1.44 lakh beneficiaries registered for the jab. The state achieved only 3 per cent of its target for the second dose of the vaccine on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
04-04-2021||Jharkhand||Madhupur bypoll: Left parties to support JMM candidate||Left parties who are not part of the JMM-led UPA government in Jharkhand have decided to support JMM candidate and cabinet minister Hafijul Hassan for the Madhupur bypoll scheduled on April 17. In a joint media statement issued at the CPM state office in Ranchi, four Left parties — CPI(M), CPI, CPI(ML) and Marxist Coordination Committee — announced their support to the JMM-UPA candidate. “We had extended our support to the UPA candidates at Bermo and Dumka bypolls against the BJP candidates and have decided to do the same for Madhupur. This has been done as a protest against the pro-corporate policies of the BJP government reflected in the new farm laws, privatisation of national assets and dismal employment opportunities,” said Prakash Viplav on behalf of the joint coordination committee of the Left parties. Left parties do not have a sizable presence in Madhupur constituency but have a few pockets of where factory workers have shown their support for the Left parties. Both the UPA and the BJP have started campaigning for their respective candidates. State minority welfare minister Hafijul Hassan, son of the sitting MLA and senior JMM leader Haji Hussain Ansari, is pitted against Ganga Narayan Singh who had joined the BJP from Ajsu on March 22. Singh was announced the party candidate a few days before March 30, the last date for filing nomination. BJP party leader and former chief minister Babulal Marandi, Deoghar MP Nishi­kant Dubey and a host of senior BJP leaders are campaigning for their party candidate. Leader from the ruling alliance, including Congress minister Badal Patralekh, chief minister Hemant Soren and RJD leaders are campaigning for Hafijul Hassan. The Madhupur seat fell vacant after sitting MLA Haji Hussain Ansari died of Covid-related complications last year. In the 2019 Assembly polls, the voting percentage of the BJP (28.34 per cent) and Ajsu (19.88 per cent) combined together (48.22 per cent) was higher than the JMM (38.4 per cent). This has made the BJP, which is relying on its traditional voters and Ajsu support to defeat the ruling alliance candidate, field an Ajsu turncoat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
04-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren pledges prompt road plan consent||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday assured the Centre of prompt nod for land acquisition and forest clearance for road construction while requesting the Union government to focus on tree plantation and elephant corridors along the roads. Speaking during an online ceremony for the inauguration of seven road projects and laying of foundation stones of 14 roads by Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari, Soren said: “We are a mineral-based state. Minerals are transported by roads and we would require good quality roads. We would like to assure the Centre that our government is serious on prompt nod for land acquisition and forest clearance for road infrastructure projects. However, we would want that tree plantations are given priority alongside the newly constructed roads and the roads are designed and constructed keeping in view the designated elephant corridors with underpass systems wherever possible.” Soren also requested the road transport ministry to speed up the construction of five economic corridors connecting Jharkhand under the Bharatmala scheme (a centrally sponsored and funded road and highways project) — Raipur (Chhattisgarh) to Dhanbad, Sambalpur (Odisha) to Ranchi, Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh) to Ranchi, Ranchi to Paradip (Odisha) and Bakhtiyarpur (Bihar) to Ormanjhi. Soren also urged for linking of Jharkhand with Uttar Pradesh, Bengal and Odisha through a high-speed corridor which will help his state develop as an industrial hub. During the event, seven roads, whose total length was 245.19km and which were built at a cost of Rs 2,433.66 crore, were inaugurated, while foundation stones were laid for 14 road projects with a total length of 184.8km, which will be built at a cost of around Rs 754.71 crore. Addressing the ceremony through videoconference, Gadkari said that the roads would be constructed keeping in view the state’s aspirations and the economic corridors being built under the Bharatmala scheme would be completed before the next fiscal. Gadkari further said that in the next three years nearly Rs 1 lakh crore would be spent for road construction in Jharkhand. The projects inaugurated on Saturday include the Ghaghra-Gumla road strengthening, Hatgamharia-Jaintagarh road strengthening, Mohulia-Baharagora road, Bijupada-Kudu four-lane, Kutchery Chowk, Ranchi-Piska More-Bijupada four-lane, Barhi-Hazaribagh road, Piska More-Palma Section four-lane. Foundation stones were laid for projects which include — Kolebira-Simdega National Highway 23 road strengthening and reconstruction, Simdega-Bansjor NH 23 repair and reconstruction, RCC bridge construction at Chindnala on NH 23, RCC bridge construction on local sewer on NH 23, 79-117km road on NH 99 widening and strengthening, widening and other works of road between 11 and 30km on NH 22, widening and other work of road between 48 and 62km on NH 100, widening of road between 23 and 62km on NH 133 and other works, Annaraj Valley on NH 345, improvement and other work of curved road in Garhwa, widening and other work of Kudu-Ghaghra double-lane road, strengthening and reconstruction of road between 10 and 54km on NH 218, canopy on NH 99, construction of road overbridge at NH 114, strengthening of road and other works from 68 to 87km on NH 114, bridge on NH 114 and bridge construction at 46km of NH 419.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
