05-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: 19 Bokaro Steel Plant employees test Covid positive in 5 days||Bokaro: Around 19 Bokaro Steel Plant employees have tested positive for Covid-19 and admitted to Bokaro General Hospital. BSL has issued an advisory asking its employees to follow Covid protocols. In the first phase of the pandemic, there were around 194 executives and non-executives of BSL who tested positive and all of them were cured. Bokaro General Hospital has dedicated a 10 bed ward for BSL executives. Chief of communication, Manikant Dhan, said, “BGH has 62 positive cases of Covid-19. They are admitted in three Covid Wards functional including Critical Care Unit (CCU). Those admitted patients include 19 BSL employees.” The district has 154 active cases of Covid. More than 100 positive cases surfaced in the past five days. As a precautionary measure, the management has advised all BSL employees to avoid mass gathering in public places, public grounds, public  parks, markets  and religious places etc. Civil surgeon, Bokaro, Dr A.K. Pathak said there is a sharp rise in positive cases of Covid in five days. “48 positive cases surfaced on Sunday which is highest in past two months span. We are appealing people to wear masks and maintain social distancing,” he added. (Our correspondent) Bokaro: Nine villagers including three women have been injured when the commercial vehicle they were travelling in, skidded and turned on Monday. The victims were residents of Badkdi Sidhawara and were going to attend a wedding ceremony under the Gola police station area of Ramgarh district. CRPF jawans of 26 battalion and local villagers rushed to the spot and helped the victims. They were sent to Ramgarh Sadar Hospital. Four critically injured victims have been referred from there to RIMS, Ranchi. The incident occurred at Ledaam village situated in the foothills of Maoist prone Jhumra under Gomia Block. There were 20 passengers riding the vehicle. The others suffered minor injuries. The police officer said the driver lost control over the vehicle and it skidded off the road and turned turtle which was later lifted by villagers. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: A vegetable seller was shot dead on Bishnupur road behind Balyogeshwar Ashram under Telaiya police station in Koderma on Monday morning. Victim was identified as Baleshwar Yadav, a resident of Piprahi village under Chandwara police station of the district. Yadav came with vegetables to Telaiya market and at 10am, was returning to his village on his bike. Near the Ashram, someone fired at him, killing him on the spot. Sources said shooters were hired to kill Yadav. Police have taken two youths into custody. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
05-04-2021||Jharkhand||Birsa Agriculture University postpones admissions due to Covid cases on campus||Birsa Agriculture University, the state’s premier agriculture varsity, on Monday announced postponement of the counselling process for admission into post graduate and Ph.d programmes till further notice owing to the shutdown of its administrative unit for two days after three staff members tested positive for Covid on Sunday. “Counselling for all PG and Ph.D programmes for admission scheduled on April 7, 9 and 12, is hereby postponed due to the second phase of Covid outbreak. The next schedule for Offline / Online counselling will be announced well in advance,” read a statement from the varsity. Vice chancellor Onkar Nath Singh, said, the decision to postpone admissions was taken after a meeting with all the deans of the varsity in the afternoon in the wake of the virus threat. Singh added that all the resident students of the varsity including staff have been asked to be alert and not venture out unnecessarily without taking enough mandatory precautions. The varsity also announced its decision to return to the online mode of teaching by suspending all offline classes as precaution. On the other hand, Marwari College, an autonomous college affiliated to Ranchi University has also announced to suspend offline mode of mid-semester exam for undergraduate and post graduate students that was scheduled to commence from April 7. A notice in this regard has been put up on the college’s website in the evening. Principal of Marwari College, U.C. Mehta, said, “Students of UG (2020-23) and PG (2020-22) had their mid-semester exam scheduled from April 7 via offline mode, but that has been cancelled due to the rapid rise in the covid-19 cases in Ranchi. We have now decided to take online exams, but fresh dates will be notified on the website after modalities are chalked out soon.” Educational institutions, which started functioning earlier this year after being closed for months since last year’s lockdown, has been hit by increasing number of Covid-19 cases. Last week, over two dozen students and staff of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) in Bundu got infected with the virus forcing authorities to seal the school as a precaution. Bishop Westcott boys in Namkum too closed after a few students and teachers tested positive during the same time. In Jamshedpur too, at least three schools were shut down owing to Covid cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
05-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad and Ranchi emerge winners in JSCA under-14 cricket tournament||Dhanbad defeated Koderma by nine runs at Tata Digwadih Stadium on Monday on the inaugural day of JSCA Under-14 Inter District Cricket Tournament. Batting first, Dhanbad scored 180 runs at the loss of seven wickets in 40 overs. Md Muzammil who scored 39 runs with the help of five fours emerged as the most successful batsman. Openers Siddharth Sinha and Soumya Raj who scored 31 and 29 runs respectively also played an important role in scoring the total for their team. Chasing the victory target Koderma players scored 171 runs for a loss of eight wickets in 40 overs but lost the match by nine runs due to slightly slower run rate. For Dhanbad Eklavya Singh took maximum wickets while Sunny Kumar Samad, Zishan Hussain, Md Muzammil and Ranvir Singh took one wicket each. In the second match played at Jealgora stadium, Ranchi defeated Khunti by six wickets. Khunti batted first and scored 87 runs in 25.5 overs. Chasing the target, Ranchi showed some good batting and comfortably won the match in 15 overs by scoring 91 runs. For Ranchi, Aman Kumar scored 20 runs. For Khunti, Aditya Raj took two wickets while Ranbir Singh and Sushil S Raj took a wicket each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
05-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid patient flees MGM hospital in Jamshedpur ||A 42-year-old Covid patient fled the MGM Medical College and Hospital's Covid ward on Sunday night, prompting authorities to launch a frenetic search so as to stop him from becoming a silent virus spreader. "A 42-year-old male patient fled the medical college hospital's Covid ward on Sunday night. We along with the hospital authorities are searching for the patient, "said Sahir Pal, the district surveillance officer. Hospital superintendent Sanjay Kumar said that the 90 Home Guard jawans who maintain the security system of the hospital have been on strike for the past 10 days. "Had the Home Guard jawans been on duty, perhaps such an incident would not have taken place," said Kumar. At present, the medical college hospital's Covid ward has 26 patients, but only one guard to handle security arrangements. The East Singhbhum health department has stepped up Covid-19 testing and vaccination efforts. District civil surgeon A.K. Lal said, "By Monday one lakh has crossed in Covid vaccination in the district. We are trying to expedite the vaccination drive further in near future."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
05-04-2021||Jharkhand||Tribal outfit gears up for annual hunting festival at Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary||Dolma Buru Sendra Samity, a frontal outfit of tribals, has started preparations for Bishu Shikar, an annual hunting festival, at the Dalma wildlife sanctuary. The samity convened a meeting at Gadra on the outskirts of Jamshedpur on Sunday evening to discuss the festival, called Sendra, celebrated every year between April and May. Chaired by Rakesh Hembrom, chief priest of DBSS, the members focussed on the global pandemic which had played a spoilsport to Sendra last year. The nationwide lockdown had kept the tribals living in villages dotting the sanctuary and suburbs of Jamshedpur indoors. Hembrom said they would announce the date of the festival on April 9 and would invite the Dalma forest authorities when they meet for the second time. "Bishu Shikar is an annual event celebrated by us at the Dalma sanctuary. We will celebrate the occasion by keeping with the tradition and rituals. Invitations to our tribal brethrens will also be sent on April 14," he added. Tribals from Jharkhand, Bengal and Odisha, armed with spears, bows and arrows and even firearms, converge inside the elephant abode, and spend the day there in the festival, held symbolically, as hunting is banned in the sanctuary. Besides DBSS, Dolma Buru Sendra Dishua Samiti (DBSDS), a parallel tribal outfit, also celebrates the festival. The outfit is likely to announce a separate date. Dalma authorities keep a tight vigil at the sanctuary in the run-up to the hunt festival. Patrol teams tour the sanctuary and also siege traps and nets which are spread at strategic pockets by the tribals. Frisking is also done at the Makukalocha and Fadlugora entry points to prevent entry of firearms. “We will request DBSS to celebrate the festival sans killing of innocent animals. We will ask the members to keep the festival symbolic,” an official at the forest range office in Mango said. According to him, Sendra is likely to be held in the first week of May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
05-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand men qualify for National Games in handball||Jharkhand’s men’s handball team made it to the 36th National Games in Goa by virtue of making it to the quarter-finals of the just concluded senior national championship. The state outfit reached the last eight in the 49th Senior Men’s Handball Championship held at Malwa Institute of Technology in Indore, Madhya Pradesh between March 30 to April 3. Jharkhand lost the quarters to Delhi. Jharkhand last played the National Games held in the state in 2011. Eight top teams qualify for the National Games. Expressing happiness, Jharkhand State Handball Association (JSHA) secretary Khurshid Khan said it was an honour to once again qualify for prestigious tournament. “We last played the Games in Jharkhand in 2011. We didn’t qualify for the 2015 Kerala Games. Our team played very well in Indore but lost to Delhi in the quarter-final,” he added. Khan, also the co-chairman Handball Federation of India’s technical committee, said the dates of the Goa National Games was yet to be announced but they were keen to prepare the state outfit in an adequate manner. “We don’t want to wait for the Goa Games to be announced. We will shortly convene a meeting and discuss plans for coaching camp. We also have plans to play as many tournaments as possible. After all, National Games is a huge event and we want to put in a solid show,” the JHA secretary said. The state association is working professionally under the leadership of its president Pradeep Kumar Balmuchu, a former Congress member of Rajya Sabha. The association sends its men and women teams of different groups to compete in national competitions. The game of handball is growing in Jharkhand and has produced internationals, mostly from Jamshedpur. Tata Steel sports wing runs a dedicated handball training centre at JRD Tata Sports Complex in Bistupur. Around 10 trainees of the cradle have found employment, mostly in the armed forces and railways. The National Games in Goa was originally scheduled in 2019 but got postponed due to the general elections. It was re-scheduled to October 2020 but the global pandemic played spoilsport. With Covid making a comeback in the country, the showpiece event might see yet another postponement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
05-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad to re-launch Covid centre for pregnant women||The Dhanbad district administration has developed the SSLNT women’s Hospital situated in Bank More area into a dedicated Covid Care Centre for pregnant women. The centre, to be inaugurated on Tuesday, has been developed at the instruction of Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh in view of the rising Covid cases in the district. The dedicated Covid care center for women was first established during first week of August 2020 and functioned for more than four months but as the Covid situation improved and no patients turned up the center was discontinued. Singh said that deputation of doctor, medical staff and other workforce besides provision of other logistics including, equipments and medicines have already been made at the hospital which will start functioning from tomorrow. “The decision to re-launch the center for women patients in addition to the six existing Dedicated Covid Care Centers for common Covid patients has been taken to provide separate treatment facility for women and pregnant women have been taken in view of possible rise in the number of Covid affected women patients,” said Singh. In a related development, district administration led by Chief Executive officer of District Disaster Management Authority, Shyam Narayan Ram on Monday developed 10 containment zones at different places of the district Nawadih 265 mouza (Purvi Tundi); Jha Niwas Vrindawan Colony near Sabalpur petrol pump;Harmony apartment near Pragati Nursing home Saraidhela; Sunflower Apartment, Nawadih; Veer Kunwar Singh Colony Karmik Nagar; Main road near Raj Ground Jharia; Nagri Kala Tetulmari; Rajganj Number 198; Kharkhari 307; C block ward number 22 near Saraidhela. At present 120 active Covid cases are there in the district and there are 19 containment zones including 10 containment zones developed on Monday. Dhanbad has recorded 117 cases in the last four days, including 27 cases on April 4 (Sunday), 26 cases on April 3 (Saturday); 33 cases on April 2 (Friday) and 31 Cases on April 1 (Thursday). Meanwhile, Dhanbad Sub Divisional officer, Surendra Prasad on Monday carried out inspection of three containment zones including two at Karmik Nagar Dhanbad and one in Karmik Nagar, Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
05-04-2021||Jharkhand||3 lakh vaccine doses left in Jharkhand, supply delay may hit immunisation ||A delay by the Centre in providing vaccine vials to Jharkhand may prove to be a stumbling block in the immunisation drive against Covid-19 as Jharkhand is now left with about 3 lakh vaccine doses which may not last for more than a week, officials spearheading the vaccination programme in the state said on Monday. Health officials in the state are hopeful that the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare will provide additional vials of Covishield as well as Covaxin vaccines to the state by the end of Tuesday. However, if the vaccines do not reach on time, then the state may have to deny the first jab to some residents in order to save them for second jabs, which are  supposed to be given within six weeks of the first. A senior official in the health department, requesting not to be quoted, said there was no reason to panic as the state would get more vials of vaccines from the Centre before the available doses are administered to beneficiaries. However, the immunisation programme may get affected if fresh doses are not provided on time, he admitted. “We are expecting more vaccine vials from the Centre on Tuesday. The immunisation programme will continue,” said the official, adding that the vaccine in stock will last up till April 10. The state on Sunday administered the first dose of the vaccine to over 80,000 residents, but the second dose was only administered to 2,391 people, hardly 2 per cent of the over 1.4 lakh registered beneficiaries. If 80,000 people are administered vaccine jabs every day, then the stock will last for hardly four days. Jharkhand has so far received around 21 lakh doses of vaccine from the Centre and more than 16 lakh people have been administered the jabs in the state since the launch of the immunisation programme on January 16, said Dr Ajit Prasad, the immunisation officer of Jharkhand. The health department has been pressing for timely vaccination in order to tackle the second wave of Covid-19 in the state. Chief minister Hemant Soren said on Sunday that besides taking precautions, it was important to get vaccinated on time in order to defeat Covid-19. The state recently ran a panchayat level vaccination campaign in which more than 8 lakh rural residents got the first jab of the vaccine. Covid cases have been on the rise in Jharkhand since mid-March. As per government data, the active caseload in the state has jumped above 5,000, while that in Ranchi has crossed the 3,000 mark.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
05-04-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town auto drivers protest 'illegal' parking fees||More than 100 auto rickshaw drivers on Monday carried out a day-long strike and staged a demonstration in front of  Dhanbad Municipal Corporation protesting against collection of "illegal" parking fees and the lack of demarcated auto stops. The protesters burnt the effigy of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation commissioner Satyendra Kumar. The agitators have been on the boil over the beating of one of their colleagues on Sunday near the Bartand based bus depot by one of the parking agents of the corporation. The protesters, who were also demanding an end to the practice of collection of illegal parking charges from them by allottees of the DMC parking lot on the road away far away from the parking lot threatened to intensify their strike if immediate steps are not taken to improve the situation. Chhotan Singh, president of Jharkhand Pradesh Diesel Chalak Mahasangh said, “Everywhere in the district, illegal parking charges are being realised by the allottees outside the parking lots despite the fact we are already paying the charges designated for parking lots.” “The problem of illegal parking charges realization is prevalent everywhere in district be it Bartand Bus depot or Bank More or Shramik Chowk,” said Singh. Citing an example of difficulties faced by them, Sunil Rawani an autodriver said, “On every trip of journey we are being compelled to illegally pay Rs 10 at the three to four places in name of parking charges.” Md Rashid, the auto rickshaw driver who was beaten, said “the parking lot agent yesterday caught hold of me outside the lot near the Bus depot and beaten up despite the fact that I was ready to pay the parking charge.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
05-04-2021||Jharkhand||Bodies of 2 minor boys found in Chatra pond||Police on Monday recovered the bodies of two minor boys who went missing on Saturday afternoon from their Gwala Toli mohalla in industrial town Tandwa. The recovery led to widespread anger in the area as locals suspected a pre planned murder. Hundreds of people gathered on the banks of the pond and demanded the arrest of the culprits. The boys namely Sumit Kumar,7 and Vivek Kumar, 8, were students of Class two. The boys stepped out of their house to play in a field close to their mohalla. As they had to go for their tuition class but didn’t return back till 3pm on Saturday afternoon their parents started a search. Their bodies were spotted in a pond. Vivek Kumar was the son of Ramu Yadav, a health department employee and Sumit was the only son of mason Ishwar Yadav. Superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha said police will solve the case soon. He said sub divisional police officer of Tandwa, Vikas Pandey has been given the responsibility to investigate the case. He said investigation will be done keeping all aspects in mind. “We will wait for their postmortem report also,” said Jha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
05-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs 788 fresh Covid cases, 149 recoveries in a day||At least eight more Jharkhand residents, including five from Ranchi and two from Dhanbad, died of a Covid-19 infection on Sunday, while the count of active cases in the state crossed the 5000 mark, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The state reported 788 fresh cases of infection on the day against 149 recoveries, and the active caseload jumped to 5244, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. With 446 fresh cases, Ranchi alone accounted for more than 60 per cent of the cases on Sunday, which took the active caseload here to 3015, the NHM bulletin further stated. Sunday’s casualties took the Covid toll in the state to 1130 and that in Ranchi to 267, the second highest among districts in Jharkhand. East Singhbhum has so far reported 358 Covid casualties, the highest in the state. Bokaro also reported one Covid casualty on the day, while two Covid patients’ death in Dhanbad took the toll there to 121. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand crossed the national average of 0.45 per cent on the day, revealed government data. As per figures with the NHM, the growth rate of infection in the state shot up from 0.10 per cent in February to 0.48 per cent on Sunday. Meanwhile, the doubling rate in Jharkhand also dropped below the national average. As per NHM data, it would take 145.97 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand against the national average of 153.35 days. The doubling rate in Jharkhand was above 2500 days in the first week of March. As per government data, as many as 1,27,246 people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand so far, and 94.98 per cent of them have recovered. The government on Sunday tested swab samples of 12,072 people and more than 5 per cent of them were found infected. Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Sunday admitted that the second wave of Covid-19 has hit Jharkhand and urged the residents of the state to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. He also requested Jharkhand residents to get vaccinated on time. On Sunday, the state administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine to 80,184 people, thereby achieving 70 per cent of its target for the day, NHM data highlighted. More than 80,000 of the beneficiaries on Sunday were commoners above the age of 45 years. The second dose of the vaccine was administered to only 2,391 beneficiaries, hardly 2 per cent of the over 1.41 lakh people registered for the second jab on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
05-04-2021||Jharkhand||Award hattrick for two Jharkhand panchayats||Two gram panchayats of Jharkhand have created hattricks of sorts by bagging national panchayat awards for three consecutive years for their outstanding performances. While Bundu pnachayat of Bokaro district bagged the award for being the best child-friendly panchayat in the state in 2019-20, Kapila panchayat of Giridih received the Nanaji Deshmukh Rashtriya Gaurav Gram Sabha Puraskar for its outstanding contribution to socio-economic development by involving gram sabha. B.K. Behara, economic adviser to the Union panchayati raj ministry, in a letter addressed to panchayat secretaries of different states on Wednesday, informed about the panchayats that had bagged awards for their performances during 2019-20. Bundu panchayat had also received the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar in recognition of the good work done by it during 2017-18 and also for being a child-friendly panchayat in 2018-19. Similarly, Kapila panchayat had also bagged the Deen Dayal award in 2017-18 and the gram sabha award in 2018-19. Besides these two panchayats, Khutahari gram panchayat in Sahebganj district bagged the Gram Panchayat Development Plan Award for drafting its development plan according to specific guidelines during 2019-20. Khunti zilla parishad, panchayat samitis or intermediary panchayati raj institutions at block level of Golmuri-Jugsalai in East Singhbhum district and Khunti proper of that district and gram panchayats of Budhudih in Giridih district, Chapri in Bokaro and Pindrakon in Hazaribagh also bagged the Deen Dayal award for their good performances during 2019-20. After the expiry of their terms, fresh elections for panchayati raj institutions that became due in 2020 could not be held in Jharkhand because of the coronavirus pandemic. At present, the outgoing mukhiyas (chiefs) of gram panchayats are working as pradhans (heads) of executive committees that are running the show. On the reasons why the Bundu panchayat was recognised as the best child-friendly panchayat in the state for two successive years, its former mukhiya and present head Ajay Kumar Singh said: “Every child in our panchayat goes to school. They all are also covered under the immunisation programme and their nutrition issues are addressed properly.” “We have well-run anganwadi centres for kids and also developed playgrounds for the children,” he further said, adding that the panchayat members got themselves involved at every stage and even rushed children to hospitals in case of medical emergencies. Asked about the recognition received by Kapila panchayat for outstanding contribution towards socio-economic development by involving gram sabhas, its former mukhiya and present head Indu Devi said: “We hold gram sabha regularly and plan development programmes only after taking consent from villagers. We also maintain transparency at every stage.” “That is why we get whole-hearted support and cooperation from the villagers, who are the members of gram sabha, at every stage during execution of any work that is taken up with its consent.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
