06-04-2021||Jharkhand||Centre promises 10 lakh vaccine doses to Jharkhand by April 9||The Centre has assured Jharkhand that it would provide 10 lakh doses of the Covid vaccine by April 9, until which time the state would have to manage with the less than 3 lakh doses available in its stock, the communication coming at a time when several districts have stopped administering the first dose to eligible recipients fearing a shortfall later. Late on Tuesday night, the state government stated that in response to its demand for more vaccine doses, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had promised to provide 20 lakh doses to Jharkhand, half of which  would reach the state by April 9. “We have requested the Centre to provide us more vaccines as our state, like many other states in India, is dealing with the second wave of Covid-19, and timely vaccination was an important part of combating this menace,” said Health Minister Banna Gupta. As per records with the National Health Mission (NHM), the state has been provided about 21 lakh doses of vaccine so far, and is left with only around 2.8 lakh doses in stock. Due to the shortage of Covaxin in some parts of the state, doses were administered only to those beneficiaries who were registered for the second jab on Tuesday, sources said. The state also administered vaccine jabs to fewer residents on Tuesday compared to Monday. Over 80,000 beneficiaries were administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand on Sunday and Monday, but the count of those administered the first jab dropped to 23,078 on Tuesday. The second dose was administered to only 3,998 beneficiaries, hardly 2 per cent of the total residents registered for the dose on the day. A senior health official admitted there was a shortage of vaccine in some parts of the state, but the shortage, he said, would not impact the immunisation programme as the state would receive more doses of vaccine within the next 72 hours. East Singhbhum civil surgeon A.K. Lal said that there was a supply disruption in government health hubs, claiming that some health centres were borrowing vaccines from neighbouring districts to meet the demands. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V.B. Prasad, however, denied reports of vaccine shortage in the district. He said that many beneficiaries registered for the second dose were asked to come after 15 days as the protocol has changed and now beneficiaries are supposed to get the second jab at least 6 weeks after the first. “People could not understand the reason why they were asked to come after 15 days, and thought that there was a vaccine crisis,” said Pathak. As per government records, Jharkhand has so far administered the first dose of the vaccine to as many as 17,25,891 residents, including nearly 13 lakh people above the age of 45 years. As many as 2,74,153 of these beneficiaries have also received the second jab, figures with the NHM reveal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
06-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand orders all schools shut; shops, restaurants must close by 8pm amid Covid spike||The Jharkhand government on Tuesday decided to close all government and private schools, besides mandating that all shops, restaurants, clubs and bars would have to down their shutters by 8pm in the wake of the rising cases of Covid-19 in the state, . However, students appearing for their board exams will be allowed to visit their respective examination centres and appear for the exams as per the schedule set by the various boards. Other students will attend classes online and through digital mediums,a notification released by the Home Prison and Disaster Management Department stated. Chairing a meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA), Chief Minister Hemant Soren pondered upon measures that could slow down the spread of the virus in the state. During the meeting, the authority decided to close gyms, swimming pools and amusement parks, which were reopened earlier this year after staying closed for almost a year during the first wave of Covid-19 in the state. Jharkhand has also prohibited all social gatherings other than marriages and funerals. The government notification stated, “All indoor and outdoor congregations are prohibited in the state with the exception of marriage functions with the upper limit of 200 people and last rites with the upper limit of 50 people.” The government imposed a ban on all kinds of processions, fairs and exhibitions until further notice. All sports events shall remain prohibited until further notice, the notification stated. But sportspersons would still be allowed to train in the various facilities including gyms and swimming pools. Bars and restaurants will be allowed to operate only at 50 per cent capacity till 8pm. While dine-out facilities will not be allowed after 8pm, restaurants can deliver food at home through delivery partners like Swiggy and Zomato, a source who attended the SDMA meeting said. As per Tuesday's notification, the number of persons gathering at religious places shall not exceed 50 per cent of the accommodation capacity. Besides, people will not be allowed to enter government offices, airports, railway stations, bus stands and places of worship without a facemask. The Covid-19 trajectory in the state has witnessed an upward trend since mid-March with the active caseload shooting up from hardly 500 to over 6,000 in a fortnight. Covid casualties have also been on the rise lately. The state has reported more than two dozen Covid deaths in the past 48 hours, while the growth rate of the infection in the state has surpassed the national average for the first time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
06-04-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi University reverts to online classes||Ranchi University, the state’s oldest varsity, will be back to conducting online classes for all disciplines in undergraduate and post graduate studies from Wednesday. A formal order in this regard by issued by the varsity on Tuesday evening to all the departmental heads, constituent and affiliated colleges following a meeting of RU’s covid-19 task force. Acting vice chancellor Kamini Kumar said that online teaching was the best option available under the present scenario when the state was witnessing a surge in number of Covid cases, as it would enable students to continue regular classes. “All head of the departments have been asked to devise roster and relay it to the respective teachers and students so that we can conduct regular online classes,” said Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
06-04-2021||Jharkhand||Norwesters likely over Jharkhand on Thursday, Friday ||Fed up with the prevailing heat and sultry conditions? Respite is at hand with the weather office issuing a Nor'wester alert over Jharkhand on Thursday and Friday. "Situations are gradually becoming conducive for Nor'wester activity in Jharkhand," said Abhishek Anand, deputy Director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre on Tuesday. "Today's (Tuesday's) weather chart analysis and satellite pictures suggest Nor'wester activity on April 8 and 9. A low-pressure trough over Jharkhand is expected to trigger Nor'westers. There will be rain accompanied by lightning, thunder and gusty winds blowing at a speed of 40kmph. The rain and thunderstorm will cover districts located in north-east, central and southern Jharkhand," he said. Usually,  Nor'westers occur due to excessive heating of land. Dry weather with maximum temperature over two to three degree Celsius as been prevailing in most parts of the state for the last few days. As per Met statistics, Tuesday's reading at Daltonganj in Palamau hovered around 40 degree Celsius. Similarly, the day's reading at Chaibasa in neighbouring West Singhbhum district was close to 40 degree Celsius. It has been so for the last 48 hours. The maximum reading in capital Ranchi and its adjoining areas has been hovering between 36 and 37 degree Celsius for the last two days. The day reading at Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas has been around 39 degree Celsius for the last two days. As per the forecast issued by IMD's Ranchi Met Centre, the day's reading is expected to rise by another two to three degree Celsius during the next 48 hours followed by a gradual fall in temperature by at least two degree Celsius. Weathermen asked people to stay indoors and not take shelter under trees during Nor'westers that would be accompanied by lightning and rain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
06-04-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city cyclist rues cruel joke, no job even after being summoned to Ranchi ||Jharkhand’s lone international cyclist Lakhan Hansda does not seem to have much hope when it comes to the prospects of getting a government job. He was among the 39 sportspersons who were called to Ranchi where Chief Minister Hemant Soren handed over job letters last month. However, Hansda missed the chance. He is now keeping his fingers crossed if he would be ever called again. The chief minister handed job letters to 27 sportspersons while the rest returned home empty handed.  Hemant, however, has said the government would chalk out an action plan for providing employment to those who have been left out. “I went to Ranchi with high hopes of finally getting a job. However, I was disappointed when I was told that my name was not on the list,” Hansda, a resident of Damodih village in Potka block of East Singhbhum, 25 km from Jamshedpur, recalled. The 32-year-old who  won bronze for Jharkhand in the team trial event at the 2011 National Games in Ranchi, said he was not sure as to when the government would offer him a job. “I have run from pillar to post for a government job. Despite getting so close I could not make it to the list. I am very disillusioned and don’t know how to sustain my family,” Hansda said on the phone from Damodih. The talented tribal cyclist has joined Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) as a cycling coach. He accompanied the Indian cycling team to Abu Dhabi as one of the coaches for the Special Olympics World Summer Games in 2019. However, such assignments are temporary in nature and Hansda needs a permanent government job to make ends meet. “I am keeping my fingers crossed but am disheartened. I don’t know if I would be able to get a job at all. I pray to the government to give me a job,” said the cyclist who has opted farming in his ancestral land. Asked if he was continuing training, Hansda said it was just for maintaining fitness. “I am not very inclined in taking part in competitions. What is the need for winning medals when I have to remain jobless,” he asked. He said that the wait for a job was getting longer and he was losing his patience. “I hope the government calls us and provides a job. It is proving to be difficult to wait any longer,” Hansda added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
06-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma foresters conduct street plays to help stop animal hunting||Foresters at the Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary have come up with an innovative way to spread awareness among villagers about the futility of killing innocent animals and protecting the jungles from fires. Ahead of Bishu Shikar or Sendra, the annual hunting festival of tribals, the state forest department has been conducting street plays and playing videos to send messages to villagers in and around the area. The exercise has been going on for a few days now and covers villages under both eastern and western ranges of the elephant abode. ”The entire exercise is aimed at making the villagers understand about the importance of not killing animals and the need to protect the Dalma forests from fires,” a forester said on condition of anonymity. Villagers throw cigarettes inside the sanctuary and the embers cause fire. A part of the forest had been already ablaze but it is under control with foresters deploying two separate teams for the purpose. The forester said an amount of Rs 7,000 was being spent for each street play. “Some locals groups as well as a few from Jamshedpur have been roped in for the job. Village youths are coordinating the exercise and helping the forest team,” he added. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said street plays were being conducted Chilgu bazaar, Chandil bazaar, ,Chaliama, Tetla, Bandhdih, Makulakocha, Dangardih, Chakulia, Dahubera and other villages. The Dolma Buru Sendra Samity, a frontal outfit of tribals, will announce the date of Bishu Shikar on April 9. The hunting festival will take place at the Dalma wildlife sanctuary on the earmarked date. Hundreds of tribals armed with bows and arrows, spears and other weapons will assemble at the sanctuary to try and kill animals. However, the forest department is serious about not making the festival bloodless. Though the number of animal killings have come down  for some years, the department is in no mood to take any chance. Strict vigil will be kept at the sanctuary. Teams from other forest divisions of Jharkhand will also participate to prevent hunting of animals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
06-04-2021||Jharkhand||School students undergo Covid test on campus in Jamshedpur||The East Singhbhum district health department began conducting Covid tests on students of private English medium schools in Jamshedpur on Tuesday starting with DBMS English High School in Kadma where a student had contracted the virus last week after which the  school had to be closed for sanitisation. Health officials said over 200 students between Class IX and XII underwent RT-PCR tests that were conducted in their classroom. "The school authorities called students for undergoing the Covid test, reports of which will be sent through SMS to the respective students within the next 48 hours," said a health department official who conducted the tests. He said similar Covid tests would be carried out for senior students in other schools including Loyola that had to be sealed for three days last week after a teacher tested Covid positive. The management of DBMS English School and Andhra Association English School in Kadma had to close their schools on April 1 after a student and  teacher tested positive. There has been a a spurt in Covid-19 cases in East Singhbhum district, especially in steel city, since the last one week. District health authorities have issued an alert to all hospitals over the rising cases of Covid-19. Sidhgora-based Professional College has been converted into a Covid care centre. "Almost everyday we are recording Covid positive cases from places like Kadma, Sakchi, Sonari and Mango in urban areas. Cases are also coming in from various rural blocks of the district. Covid tests have,  therefore, been intensified across the district," said Sahir Pal, the district surveillance officer. he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
06-04-2021||Jharkhand||Two die of Covid in Jamshedpur amid vaccine shortage||Covid-19 claimed two lives here in the steel city in the last 24 hours in East Singhbhum district that saw 99 more cases, according to health department officials, who also confirmed on Tuesday that there was a shortage of vaccines in government health centres. The deceased, both men from Mango, were aged 34 and 61. In all, as per district health authorities, East Singhbhum district has recorded 702 Covid cases since March 1. Most of them are from the steel city. The total number of Covid cases in the district as of Tuesday was 19,364. According to district disease surveillance officer Sahir Pal, the 34-year-old man was admitted to Tata Main Hospital with high fever on Sunday. He was tested the same day. By Monday evening he was experiencing breathing difficulty, and finally succumbed to the ailment late at night. Pal said the 64-year-old was admitted to Tata Main Hospital five days ago with fever and a bad cough. He tested Covid positive on the of his admission. On Monday night, he complained of acute breathing problems and subsequently died late at night. "Two men died of Covid at Tata Main Hospital late on Monday night. This is the first twin deaths to have taken place in the steel city in the second phase of the pandemic," Pal told The Telegraph Online. The disease surveillance officer admitted Covid cases were mounting, adding that health officials were now paying more attention to detection of cases and vaccinations. Significantly, the district health authorities have stopped administering vaccines to first-time recepients as fressh vaccine stocks are yet to arrive. In most of the 20 goverment health hubs, the vaccine is being given only to those awating their second dose. But there is no vaccine shortage at the 27 private health clinics/hospitals where jabs are being offered for Rs 250 a dose. District civil surgeon A.K. Lal admitted there was a supply disruption at government health hubs. "A vaccine crisis has cropped up after several private health hubs have lifted stocks of Covishield from our departmental storage. But these stocks are being used. We will be able to get fresh stocks after submitting accounts of previous stocks," he said, adding that some health centres were borrowing vaccines from neighbouring districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
06-04-2021||Jharkhand||Laser show comes alive at Birsa Munda Park in coal town||Authorities at Dhanbad’s Birsa Munda Park have started to conduct laser shows in the ground from this week, more than a month after it reopened, in a bid to attract more crowds. The 25-minute show, which is being held everyday from 6:30 pm, has been attracting a large number of people. The laser fountain was established in 2018 at a cost of Rs 3.75 crore and was the dream project of former Dhanbad mayor Chandrashekhar Agarwal. “We have conducted the demo show of laser fountain on Sunday, after which it is going on everyday. There is no extra charge for witnessing this show,” Niwas Kumbhkar, manager of the Birsa Munda Park, told The Telegraph Online. Kumbhkar said that previously, the show was held on two days of a week, on the weekends. He also informed that it depends on the availability of power supply. “We are running one show at present during the evening after it gets dark. The theme is that of Bollywood,” the manager added. However, other facilities in the park, like swings, slides, the toy train, and the vortex are still lying non functional for the lack of repair. “We have already sent the estimate for the repair of other facilities but are yet to get clearance for it. We will begin the work as soon as the fund is provided,” said Kumbhkar. As of now, the 24-acre park, established in 2009, is witnessing a footfall of around 500 persons per day generating enough funds for the payment of salaries of the 31 people working there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
06-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid curbs may come in the way of Tikait rally in steel city ||A farmers’ mahapanchayat that was scheduled to be addressed by Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait might be marred due to strict restrictions imposed by the Jharkhand government in a few districts amid the second wave of Covid-19, sources in the chief minister's office indicated on Tuesday. Tikait, along with several other leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, is set to address kisan mahapanchayats at the industrial hub of Jamshedpur and Khunti, which witnessed tribals’ rebellion as part of the Pathalgarhi movement during the erstwhile BJP rule in the state. A solidary front, Kisan Majdoor Andolan Ekjuttha Manch a joint forum of rights defenders, NGOs, civil society organisations, trade union members and farmers expressing solidarity with farmer’s struggle has invited Tikait and other leaders of the SKM, including Darshan Pal Singh, Gurnam Singh Chaduni, Balbir Singh Rajewal and several others. “Rakesh Tikait ji and other leaders  will be holding the mahapanchayat in Jamshedpur on April 18.They will also interact with academicians, trade union leaders, civil society representatives, NGOs and human rights activists in Ranchi on April 19 morning and address the media. They will then  leave for a mahapanchayat at Khunti on the same afternoon, before leaving for Delhi in the evening. The visit of the leaders representing the farmer's movement is to let people know about the demerits of the farm laws and intensify the agitation,” said the convenor of the manch. Members of the manch, informed that attending of large crowds would be a problem due to the government directive regarding holding such events. “We cannot have large gatherings due to Covid-19 restrictions. We will adhere to the guidelines and may have to hold the meeting on large grounds to ensure social distancing,” said Prakash Viplav,  representing CITU (Left backed trade union body) and a member of the solidarity front.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
06-04-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1000 fresh Covid cases in the state in a day||Jharkhand on Monday reported over 1000 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection – the highest in a day this year – and at least 10 Covid casualties, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 1140, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. At least three Covid patients in Ranchi, two in East Singhbhum and one each in Simdega, Sahebganj, Lohardaga, Bokaro and Dhanbad died during treatment in 24 hours, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. The state has reported 18 Covid fatalities in the past 48 hours, highlights data with the government. As many as 1086 Jharkhand residents, including 569 from Ranchi alone, were found infected by the mysterious virus on the day, while the state reported only 438 Covid recoveries. Monday’s test results take the active caseload in Jharkhand to 5882 and that in Ranchi to 3,267, the NHM stated in its daily Covid bulletin released at 10.30pm on Monday. This is the first instance of Jharkhand reporting more than 1000 cases of infection in a day in 2021. For the first time since the entry of the virus in the tribal state, the growth rate of infection in Jharkhand has surpassed the growth rate in India, officials said. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 0.55 per cent on Monday against the national average of 0.51 per cent. The doubling rate of infection in the state has also dropped below the national average, indicating that it would take fewer days for the cases to double in Jharkhand than in India. As per NHM data, the doubling rate in Jharkhand was 126.33 days against the national average of 136.20 days. As per government data, as many as 1,28,332 people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far and 94.52 per cent of them have recovered. The Covid recovery rate in the state has dropped from close to 99 per cent in the first week of March. On Monday, the state tested swab samples of 18,230 people and more than 5 per cent of them were found infected. Ranchi Civil Surgeon, Dr. VB Prasad on Monday said that the health department will run special Covid testing programmes in suburban Ranchi and set up new vaccination centre in the urban areas. Ranchi is the worst-affected district in terms of caseload in Jharkhand and second worst-affected in terms of Covid casualties. The state administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 virus to 89,787 residents, while the second jab was administered to 4,205 beneficiaries, stated a separate report released by the NHM. So far, the state has vaccinated close to 17 lakh people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
