07-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Bokaro closes vaccination Centres due to shortage||Bokaro: The district health department has declared that the stock of Covid-19 vaccines has come to an end and they have suspended the vaccination drive for a few  days until fresh stock arrives. More than two dozen Covid-19 vaccination centres remained closed on Wednesday due to shortage of vaccines. The ANM Vaccination Centre situated at Camp 2 near Sadar Hospital, which has inoculated the highest number of senior citizens and other beneficiaries, in the evening hung a notice saying the centre will remain closed due to shortage of vaccine. In many other caccination centres, residents returned home after centre declared the shortage. Residents staged a demonstration at Vaccination Centre in Chas Block criticising the government for the shortage of vaccine. Of the 64 Vaccination centres operational across the district, only 39 remained functional with their limited stock. Civil surgeon, Dr A. K. Pathak said, “we have to halt the vaccination drive on Thursday due to shortage of Covid-19 vaccines. The state headquarter had sent 1500 doses of vaccine on Tuesday, which all got consumed on Wednesday.” “We have requested from state headquarter for the vaccine, and the vaccination drive will only continue after more stock will be received. Till yet since the start of Vaccination drive, we have received 1.17 lakhs of vaccine including Covaxin and Covishield. Successfully continuing the drive more than 1.7 lakh people were inoculated in the district. Remaining thousands of vaccines were sent to neighbouring districts as per state government instructions,” he said. (Our correspondent) Bokaro: A 32-year-old woman was trampled to death by a herd of elephants in Kurakuria forest area near Bajto village of Giridih on Wednesday morning. The jungle, where the incident occurred is an elephant corridor. The incident occurred when the deceased, Lalita Devi has gone to jungle to collect Mahua, said a forest officer. Lalita Devi’s body has been sent for post mortem. The kin of the deceased has been assured a compensation by the forest department. (Our correspondent) Dhanbad: The district administration will be carrying out an ‘Up’ mask campaign from Thursday as per which the Covid norm violators will be caught  by members of a special flying squad and taken to a sensitisation camp. The camp, developed at Jharkhand Armed Police Camp at Govindpur, will be showcasing a film apprising the Covid norm violators about the significance of Covid rules. The violators will be required to pay a fine also sign a bond. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh said, "Three flying squads consisting of eight women policemen and one officer and four lady police constables and one lady police officer have been constituted who would be visiting in their respective buses in their allotted route and catch the rule violators to be taken to the sensitisation camp." (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
07-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Parents in coal town welcome school shutdown amid rising cases||Parents of students at government and private schools of coal town have welcomed the state government’s decision to close down schools and colleges in view of the rising Covid-19 cases. Students appearing for their board exams will be allowed to visit their respective examination centres and appear for the exams as per the schedule set by the various boards. Other students will attend classes online and through digital mediums, a notification released by the Home Prison and Disaster Management Department stated on Tuesday. Ashwini Singh , a Dhaiya based chemist, told The Telegraph Online: “I was very concerned over the safety of my son, a student of class X at J.K. Sinha Memorial International School and praying to god for the government restrictions in view of the increasing cases of Covid.” “I felt quite relaxed after the arrival of the latest diktat of the  government as there is no logic of risking the life of the children,” said Singh. Biswajit Bhattacharjee, a Dhanbad based lawyer whose daughter is in Class  VIII said, “me and my wife were having sleepless night ever since we came to know about the offline classes beginning in our daughter’s school since Monday (April 5) and didn’t  send our daughter to the school but eventually the government re-imposed the restrictions.” Khusi Kumari, a student of Class IX of BSS Balwadi High School said, “We reached the school this morning  at around 6.30 am  but after an hour we were informed by the school authorities about the  latest government order and we returned back to home.” “Though, offline classes are slightly better than the online classes but safety is equally important so we are happy with the government decision in  this regard,” said Kumari. Office bearers of parents association, Jharkhand Abhibhavak Manch, also welcomed  the government decision. Madhurendra Singh, president of Jharkhand Abhibhavak Manch said, “We have been demanding closure of schools ever since their reopening as there was no logic  of opening the schools at a time when the pandemic situation is turning grimmer day by day” “We welcome the government decision and at same times request the government to take cognizance of the demand of the annual charges by the management of different private schools despite the fact offline classes were not  held during the last session,” said Singh. Anajali Gupta, principal of BSS Balwadi high school,Dhanbad said, “We have closed the school for Class I to IX as per the government order but the class X students will have to come to the schools for their practical classes and some pending examinations etc.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
07-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad fitness industry asks govt to amend second shutdown order ||Gym owners and fitness trainers on Wednesday demanded the relaxation of the state’s decision to close all fitness centers due to rise in Covid cases. The protesters led by the president of gym owners association of Dhanbad, Gautam Tiwari, handed a memorandum to Dhanbad deputy commissioner apprising him about the financial difficulties being faced by them during the pandemic and thus demanded to amend the order regarding closure of gyms. They sought permission for operating gyms with 50% capacity in line with permission given to restaurants. Tiwari said, “we are the worst sufferer of pandemic and resultant restrictions as we were the last sector which has been given permission  to reopen but the government re-imposed the restriction first on us.” “The financial condition of the majority of gym owners has turned precarious as many who have purchased their equipment  by taking loans from banks or finance companies are failing to pay the EMIs and risking the loss of equipment,” said Tiwari. “A large number of others have not even been able to pay the rent for the last eight months,” he said. Sonali Roy, operator of a gymnasium for women  at Katras said, “we can’t understand the reason for step-motherly treatment to us while hotels, restaurants, markets etc are open.” “On one hand there are no restrictions in such places where elections are taking place and on the other hand all restrictions are being implemented on such people who are ready to follow the norms,” she said. “Closure besides affecting the operators like us also affects the livelihood of a large number of people associated with us like trainers, sweepers, peons, security guards etc,” said Roshan Gupta, a Jharia based fitness expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
07-04-2021||Jharkhand||South Eastern Railway conducts fire-safety awareness drive ||An extensive fire safety awareness drive has been launched at various railway stations under South Eastern Railway including Ranchi, Tatanagar , Jharsuguda and Chakradharpur. SER has taken initiatives to educate all the stakeholders - rail users and railway/non-railway employees working at stations and in trains about precautions to be taken against fire incidents like enforcing “No Smoking”, preventing "Carriage of Inflammable Materials” as per provisions of the Railway Act. As part of this awareness drive, a preparedness meeting chaired by Anupam Sharma, additional general manager, SER was held at the Garden Reach, the Calcutta-based headquarters of SER last week. Railway sources said senior officers and other employees attended the meeting to discuss the measures and improve alertness in case of a fire accident. Major focus was given to no smoking in trains and station premises and against carriage of inflammable articles. SER also started conducting awareness campaigns among the employees and passengers with live demonstrations and distribution of leaflets. Mock fire-drills were organised at different places under SER’s jurisdictions to assess the preparedness of the employees. Along with social media campaigning, announcements are also being made through public address systems and mass media. Video and print advertisements on fire-safety themes are also published to spread awareness. SER has also initiated regular checks by RPF personnel in trains and at stations against smoking and carriage of inflammable and explosive materials. "Seminar on fire safety and joint mock drills with the fire service department would be carried out in regular intervals, " said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of SER. According to the CPRO, the awareness drive about fire-safety and precautionary measures will continue till April 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
07-04-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi has more Covid patients than dedicated beds in private hospitals||The lack of availability of dedicated Covid beds in private hospitals is haunting Ranchi at a time when cases of infection have skyrocketed here in the past fortnight. While the government claims that many beds were lying vacant in hospitals, the owners of private hospitals beg to differ. The number of Covid patients undergoing treatment in most of the private healthcare facilities in the state capital was higher than the number of beds assigned for Covid cases, hospital owners said on Wednesday, warning that a further increase in the count of Covid beds may make segregation of Covid and non-Covid patients difficult and create chaos. Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital, where most VIPs and politicians undergo treatment, had all of its 50 Covid beds occupied.  It has  had to turn away patients. “We have 50 Covid beds and all of them are occupied. Around 13 Covid patients are on ventilator, while one is on ECMO in our hospital,” said Anil Kumar, the Assistant Vice President of Medica, Ranchi. Kumar added that the last time there were fewer non-Covid patients in the hospital, so the hospital authorities could manage more beds for Covid patients. However, this time around, the number of non-Covid patients was also high, thereby leaving limited scope for increasing Covid beds. Raj Hospital on MG Road was also dealing with a high demand for Covid beds. Yogesh Gambhir, the owner of the hospital, said that all Covid beds in the facility were occupied and there was limited scope of adding more Covid beds. “We have 45 dedicated Covid beds and we are treating 50 patients. Similarly, there are four ventilators for Covid patients in our hospital, and at least nine Covid patients are on ventilator here,” said Gambhir. Gambhir, who is also president of the Association of Healthcare Providers of India (AHPI), said that most hospitals have reached a point where adding more Covid beds might affect non-Covid patients. Almost all Covid beds, he said, were occupied. “Most private hospitals have as many Covid beds as they had during the last peak in 2020,” added Gambhir. As per latest figures released by the health department, there are 2115 dedicated Covid beds in Ranchi, including those in private hospitals. The number of active cases in the district, however, clearly outnumbers the Covid beds available. As per government data, there were 3,665 Covid patients in the district on Wednesday morning, and more than 2,500 of them were in home isolation. As per records with the state health department, there were 1,211 beds without oxygen, 556 with oxygen, 348 ICU beds and 166 beds with ventilators for Covid patients in Ranchi. While only 215 of the 1,211 non-oxygen support beds were occupied, at least 442 of the 556 beds with oxygen support were occupied. At least 205 patients were in ICU, while 45 were on ventilators, highlights data with the health department. Even though most Covid patients in the district were either asymptomatic or suffered from minor symptoms, many patients may not be able to meet the requirements for home isolation despite being asymptomatic, health officials said. As per the set protocol, patients are allowed to stay in home isolation only if they have a separate room, separate toilet, utensils and cooperative family members who are aware of the disease and how it spreads. The government has also launched a 104 helpline number for counselling Covid patients in home isolation and providing them medical assistance in case of an emergency, health officials said. The health department has also appointed a deputy director rank official as the nodal officer for home isolated Covid patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
07-04-2021||Jharkhand||Private hospitals still have vaccine stocks in steel city||The East Singhbhum district health authority, battling a shortfall in vaccine doses, has sent an SOS to Ranchi seeking directives to retrieve unused vaccines stocks from private hospitals so that these can be administered at public health centres, the district civil surgeon indiccated on Wednesday. In Jamshedpur, where the civic authorities and police have launched a drive to impose strict Covid safety norms, there are 20 government-run vaccination facilities. As many as 11 of these are in the steel city. The district is waiting for a fresh supply of the Covishield vaccine and, as reported in The Telegraph Online, the state is expected to receive the next lot after two days. But the 27 private health facilities that are providing the vaccine at a price of Rs 250 per dose are yet to exhaust their stocks. District civil surgeon A.K. Lal said they were awating a directive from Ranchi on using the unused stocks of private clinics. "While stocks have run out at government-run centres, in most private health facilities, Covishield vaccine vials are lying unutilised. Tata Main Hospital still has 1,800 vials of Covishield. Similarly, Tata Motors Hospital has 1,940 vials of the vaccine. This is why we have written to the concerned authorities in Ranchi," he said. Lal said vaccination was carried out out at 3 of 20 government-run centres on Wednesday, but only those schedule for their second dose were served. Police and officials of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) hit the streets of the steel city on Wednesday to ensure strict adherance to Covid protocols. They are also spreading the word about the state government's latest orders as per which all government and private schools are to remain closed and all shops, restaurants, clubs and bars would have to down shutters by 8pm  from Thursday onwards. JNAC offiials, accompanied by magistrates and police, went around Sakchi and Bistupur markets on Wednesday. Armed with a public address system, they spoke about the new guidelines and asked people to follow them. The team, led by JNAC special officer Krishna Kumar, asked the eateries to serve only packed food, and instructed shop owners to allow a maximum of five persons inside their premises. "We will impose fines on shopkeepers from Thursday if they don't abide by the guidelines," said Kumar, adding that as per the state government's directive  night curfew would be imposed between 8pm and 6am . Covid claimed as many as three lives in East Singhbhum during the past two days. On Tuesday, the district recorded 191 new cases. District health officials said 60 new cases were recorded till Wednesday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
07-04-2021||Jharkhand||Selection trials to take place at Seraikela archery cradle ||Budding archers (boys and girls) from Jharkhand will be trying their luck at the two-day selection trials to be held at the government-run archery academy at Dugni (near Seraikela) on April 9 and 10. Preparations for the trials are complete and coaches are waiting for the arrival of aspirants, mostly from Seraikela-Kharsawan and West Singhbhum. The opening day (April 9) would be for the girls and the following day will be reserved for boys. “We are expecting around 50 boys and girls for the trials. The aspirants would be in the 10 to 14 age group,” said B Sriniwas Rao, chief coach of the cradle. He said Covid protocols, including social distancing, would be strictly maintained, during the trials. Speaking on the phone from Dugni, he clarified that they would not be conducting shooting as such. “The aspirants would be given light weight traditional bows and arrows. We’ll basically  judge the draw style (of the bow string). We’ll also put them through some physical exercises,” Rao added. The chief coach said they would be going for raw talent and that was the reason for not putting the aspirants into the actual rigours of trials. According to Rao, a total of 21 candidates (10 boys and 11 girls) would be inducted into the cradle as cadets. “The tenure of the cadets would be for a period of five years,” he said and added there were at present 29 cadets (15 boys and 14 girls) at the residential academy. The academy in Dugni, which is functioning for over a decade, has produced a number of international archers, including Gora Ho. Golden Girl Deepika Kumari also trained here before heading to the elite Tata Archery Academy in Jamshedpur in 2006. An impressive number of archers from the cradle have landed jobs, mostly in the armed forces. Rao, who is based in Jamshedpur, said they guide the cadets in finding employment. “We are happy that a good number of cadets of our academy have found jobs. The trend will continue,”  he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
07-04-2021||Jharkhand||Fans vote T.P. Rehenesh best player of the season for JFC ||A stellar show under the crossbar has led Jamshedpur FC goalkeeper Rehenesh TP win the Fans' Player of the Season 2020-21 award. The 28-year-old Kerala-born shot-stopper was one of the best performers, not just for the club, but also in Indian Super League (ISL) 2020-21. Rehenesh pipped clubmate Nigerian defender Stefen Eze to grab the honour. Rehenesh won the award via an online poll conducted on Jamshedpur FC’s social media handles last week. Content with the accolade, Rehenesh shared a message directed to the fans. "Thank you so much for selecting me as your Fans’ Player of the Season. I am really glad my performance meant a lot to you. Sending lots of love and once again thank you for choosing me. Hopefully, we’ll come back with an even better performance in the next season.” The Jamshedpur custodian made a dominating presence in the goal for JFC and also competed in the race for the Golden Glove award alongside Arindam Bhattacharya (ATK Mohun Bagan) and Amrinder Singh (Mumbai City FC). With a miserly 89.11 minutes per goal conceded, Rehenesh closed the season on a strong note as he finished 3rd in the Golden Glove award race. Rehenesh also dominated the clean sheet table with 8 clean sheets in the 19 games he appeared in for Jamshedpur FC, and finished 3rd again in the ‘most clean sheets’ list this season. He registered some solid statistical figures in his first season at Jamshedpur FC too and established himself as a regular starter at the goal for the team. In the 1693 minutes that he was on the field, he faced a total of 176 shots out of which 73 were on target. Out of the 73 shots on target, Rehenesh successfully managed to keep out 54 of those shots with a stunning save percentage of 73.97%. With an average of 1 goal conceded per game, Rehenesh conceded 19 goals in as many games he played. Rehenesh made some notable and key saves during the season. His penalty save against NorthEast United was crucial in inflicting the Highlanders’ first defeat of the season. His saves against Mumbai City FC when Jamshedpur were a man down and against Bengaluru FC made for some of his exemplary performances during the season. Delighted with the outstanding performance showcased by Rehenesh in his first season at Jamshedpur FC, some Red Miners (JFC official fan club) too had some words and thoughts to share on the goalkeeper being crowned as the fans’ champion. “The season was young, the season was new, the season was filled with footballing action. While the team lacked consistency, Rehnesh was outstanding. Replacing the legend Subrata Paul in the team is not an easy task, but he made goalkeeping look so easy.. A true deserving achievement," said Rahul Mukherjee. “Congratulations, TP! He totally deserves this award! Being a goalkeeper myself, I can understand how crucial it is to win these kinds of awards for a goalkeeper in competition with the other outfield players. He was phenomenal throughout the season and did his job very well. We are delighted to have him with us at Jamshedpur FC. We can't wait to see him guarding the Red Miners' goal next season,” said Imran Sheikh. “When we signed him, many people were critical of his move to Jamshedpur FC. But with his solid performance, he proved all of them wrong and topped it up by winning the Fans’ Player of the Season award. What a remarkable achievement it is for him. We are proud of our Superman TP,” said Naman Sumit. After a phenomenal debut season for Jamshedpur FC, Rehenesh will be aiming to bring the same consistency and form to the upcoming season, and with his quick reflexes, dives and dominating presence at the back, he will surely be one of the most anticipated players in the Men of Steel squad to look for on the field, for the fans. Notably, Jamshedpur finished sixth in the cash-rich ISL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
07-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad hotel owners report losses amid second Covid wave||Hotel owners of Dhanbad are bearing the brunt of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic with over 200 claiming less than 10 per cent occupancy. The hospitality business was completely derailed during the first seven months of the pandemic last year. The state government on Tuesday restricted the number of people at a marriage function to 200. Hoteliers are worried their plans to recover losses during the wedding season beginning April to July, will be adversely affected. Anutosh Bagchi, Senior General Manager of Skylark Hotel told The Telegraph Online: “After witnessing good flow of business during the last three months we were now expecting a better situation during the bumper marriage season beginning from April and also due to other factors like industries and offices operating at full pace.” “All our hopes have been dashed to the ground with the second wave causing sharp increase in Covid cases in several parts of the country leading to restricting the movement of people since April first week and our booking have gone down to less than 10% since April first week,”said Baghchi. “The latest restriction on the number of participants for less than 200 persons will also affect our business as higher number of guests means higher number of plates for food which is also provided by the restaurant of the hotel,” he said. Binay Singh, owner of Ramson Hotel, who is also general secretary of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Dhanbad said, “though, we have somehow survived the first phase of Covid but the second phase may be more tough and may prove an acid test for us due to reduced business and huge overhead expense.” “Though, we are ready to abide by all restrictions but we also need government support like relaxation of various kinds of taxes like Holding tax, user charges for garbage disposal, and also waiver of fixed electricity charges of the lockdown period of last year and other subsidies otherwise the latest phase of covid may prove a fatal blow for us,” said Singh. Echoing Singh’s sentiments, project manager of Sales and Operation of Sonotel Hotel, Arka Ghosh said, “The Hotels having their own restaurants like us are suffering the double blow as the latest diktat of closure of all shops including restaurant before 8pm will drastically affect the restaurant business”  said Ghosh and added for closure at 8am the customers will have to sit for dinner before 7 pm which is  not a usual practice of any customer.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
07-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: BSL management launches sanitisation drive amid rise in Covid cases||Bokaro: The Bokaro Steel Plant management on Tuesday started a sanitisation drive in the township to control the spread of Covid-19. The total active cases recorded on Tuesday was 65. At present, the district has 249 active cases. The BSL management which has put its teams in town administration and water supply department to perform the sanitation work. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, “effort is being laid to contain virus from spreading in BSL’s township and plant. Sanitisation work has been started in various areas of the township and plant premises to prevent from the increasing infection of Covid-19 pandemic. There are about 20 BSL executives and non-executives who are infected with the coronavirus.” Sanitisation was done in various areas of the Bokaro Steel Township including Sector-6 Market, Sector-5 Market, Sector-4G, Ram Mandir Market, Naya Moad and Administrative Building etc. Sanitiser was being sprayed by a van in the above areas. The sanitisation work will be done daily in different areas of the township, said Dhan. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: A state-of-the-art tuberculosis ward will be constructed at the Chatra Sadar hospital, funded by a Calcutta based company. Deputy commissioner, Divaynshu Kumar Jha, took the initiative in negotiating the deal. The number of tuberculosis patients are on the rise and lack proper facilities for their treatment. Jha said, “it will take a year in construction of this wing. But once completed, it will be a big facility for tuberculosis patient who will get the required treatment here in best possible way.” (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Chatra police on Tuesday arrested four interstate smugglers with 435gm of opium. Subdivisional police officer of Simaria, Ashok Priyadarshi, said the gang of four came here to purchase opium when they received a tip-off resulting in their arrest. The recovered opium costs Rs.7.5lakh. “We are taking action against other members of this gang,” said Ashok. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
