08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Bokaro zoo gets animals from Ranchi zoo||Bokaro: A male Black Himalayan bear and a pair of porcupines arrived at the Jawaharlal Nehru Biological Park popularly known as Bokaro zoo, on Thursday. The animals were brought from Bhagwan Birsa Biological Park in Ranchi. “These animals were brought after permission of Central Zoo Authourity (CZA) without any exchange from Ranchi Zoo,“said Manikant Dhan, spokesperson of Bokaro zoo. Dhan said, “The male bear that has arrived is 2 years old. The female bear is 2.5 years old. It was spending days alone in absence of any partner after its parents died a few years ago. Meanwhile, the pair of porcupines is also an attraction for the visitors when the Zoo gets opened.” Since 2005, the Bokaro zoo has lost more than a dozen inmates including eight tigers, two lions, two bears, a hippopotamus, three Leopards, and others. At present the zoo boasts several varieties of animals and birds among which a tigress, a female Himalayan bear, a female Hippopotamus are major attractions for visitors. They all are single without pairs. (Our correspondent) Jamshedpur: Jharkhand Excise division on Wednesday seized a huge consignment of spurious Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) at Mango. Acting on a tip off, the Excise department's officials had raided the basement of Neelkanth Apartment along Dimna Road in Mango at about 11 pm and seized 50 cartons, containing 600 bottles of whiskey from a stationary SUV. No arrests have been made. Assistant commissioner, Jharkhand Excise, Arun Kumar Mishra said from the initial investigation, it was established that it was a consignment of spurious liquor. "There was no batch number mentioned on the liquor bottles as it is mandatory. Moreover, the state tag like "this liquor to be sold in Jharkhand only" was not mentioned neither on the liquor bottles nor on the cartons, " Mishra told The Telegraph Online. He pointed out during the investigation they have succeeded to establish the identity of the SUV owner, but his whereabouts are yet to be traced. The senior excise official said the seized liquor has been sent to a Ranchi-based lab for chemical examination. (Kumud Jenamani) Bokaro: The dead bodies of a woman and her two children were recovered from a well in Parasbani village under of Giridih on Thursday. Hemanti Devi, 26, is believed to have jumped into the well with her son Ayush Kumar, 4, and daughter Sanjana Kumari, 2. “The reason which prompted her to commit suicide is yet to be ascertained. We received information about the incident from the villager and reached the spot. The husband of the deceased Shiv Kumar Das lives outstation. He works in a private firm in Kolkata. We are inquiring from her in-laws about the incident,” said Sharmanand Singh, officer incharge of Birni police station. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to host national senior men's handball meet||Jharkhand has won the hosting rights to the National Senior Men’s Handball Championship after over a decade and a half. The Handball Federation of India has allotted the 50th national men’s meet to Jharkhand State Handball Association (JSHA) during its annual general meeting held on April 2. State association secretary, Khurshid Khan, said it was a moment of pride for Jharkhand in getting the rights to host the golden jubilee edition of national senior meet. The steel city last hosted the National Senior Handball Championship at JRD Tata Sports Complex and Gopal Maidan in 2004. The junior handball national (in 2014) and the national sub-junior event (in 2016) was also organised in Jamshedpur. “Maharashtra had also tried to get the hosting rights of the senior meet but the HFI finally gave us the nod. JSHA president and senior vice-president of the national outfit Pradeep Kumar Balmuchu was also present at the AGM,” he said. He added the national meet will be organised in Jamshedpur. On when the nationals would be held, Khan, co-chairman of the technical panel of the HFI, said they would convene a meeting to discuss the global pandemic and probable dates. “Covid has emerged as an impediment. We’ll discuss the pandemic at the meeting and discuss probable dates. But, first the Covid-related situation needs to ease. We’ll keep a watch and see how the situation pans out in the months to come,” the JSHA secretary added. A host of logistics needs to be worked out for hosting an event like the nationals. Issues like accommodation, food, training and transport are part of the programme. “These issues need to be worked for hassle-free conduct of the event,” Khan said. According to him, they have to host the national handball event by March 31 next year. “We have ample time to organise the event. So, we won’t rush with the dates. Hope the pandemic gets over soon,” Khan added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Private hospitals told to reserve 25% beds for Covid patients||Jharkhand health secretary K.K. Soan has directed all private hospitals to reserve at least 25 per cent of their beds for Covid patients and work on increasing the number of Covid beds every three to four days. Addressing a meeting with representatives of private hospitals on Thursday, Soan directed all private hospitals to provide updates on Covid beds and patients to the district administration every six hours. The health secretary encouraged home isolation for asymptomatic patients. Besides, he asked all private hospitals to mention treatment charges for  Covid patients on their website and also on the hospital premises in order to avoid confusion and unpleasantness while clearing final bills. “All private hospitals have to mention the per-day treatment charges for Covid patients on their websites as well as in notices pasted on the hospital premises,” he said. While the government claims many Covid beds in private hospitals were vacant, hospital managements have maintained that all their Covid beds were occupied since the last week of March. Many private hospitals also fear that increasing the count of Covid beds would make it difficult to segregate Covid and non-Covid patients. However, after Thursday’s meeting, they agreed to reserve 25 per cent beds for Covid patients and also increase the count of Covid beds gradually. State health minister Banna Gupta came down heavily on private hospitals that did not attend the meeting on Thursday and directed the health department to send out showcause notices to the absentee hospitals. A visibly furious Gupta also directed officials to hold surprise inspections at the premises of the private hospitals that skipped the meeting. He also warned all private healthcare facilities of action under the Disaster Management Act if they violate or tweak rules set by the state government while treating Covid patients. Private hospitals, he said, played an important role in fighting the second wave of the pandemic, and the government expected them to be cooperate. Private facilities treating Covid patients should not charge exorbitant fees but follow the  slabs set by the government, the minister added while talking to the representatives of private hospitals in Ranchi on Thursday. “All necessary medicines needed for Covid treatment should be made available to private as well as government healthcare facilities,” said Gupta, asking the State Drug Directorate to provide sanitisers and other necessary medicines in sufficient quantity. During the meeting, State National Health Mission (NHM) Director Ravi Shankar Shukla asked hospitals to prioritise symptomatic patients while providing Covid beds. Oxygen cylinders, he said, would be provided within two to three days of requisition to all private hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Nor'wester brings much-needed relief across Jharkhand||The season's second Nor'wester hit Jamshedpur and several other parts of Jharkhand on Thursday, resulting in lightning and thundershowers. The  storm, the first in April, originated from the Chhotanagpur plateau area this afternoon and covered places like Ramgarh and Bokaro before hitting the eastern part of Ranchi and later Khunti, Jamshedpur and  other parts of Kolhan on Thursday evening with wind speeds touching 40 kmph. The storm, which was accompanied by rain and lightning, brought respite from the oppressive heat which the state has been experiencing for the last one week.Weathermen said excessive heat coupled with a prevailing  cyclonic circulation hovering 1.5km above sea level triggered the Nor'wester. Daltonganj and other districts in north western Jharkhand which has been experiencing extreme heat for the last few days also experienced the storm around the same time, while Ramgarh experienced a one-minute squall. Jamshedpur recorded 1mm rain while Chaibasa in West Singhbhum got 2mm rain. Ghatshila in East Singhbhum experienced 3mm rain while the IMD observatory in Daltonganj recorded 2mm rain. Ranchi and its adjoining areas where the impact of the storm was less witnessed rainfall in traces. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre deputy director Abhishek Anand said, "The Nor'wester gained momentum due to the cyclonic circulation over Bihar and Jharkhand. A partly cloudy sky with light rain and thunderstorm is also expected at isolated places over Jharkhand during the next two days." A weather analyst at the Patna Meteorological Centre said, 'Our observations indicated lightning and thundershowers in different areas of Jharkhand with varying wind speed.” The day temperatures witnessed a sudden drop in several districts of Jharkhand due to the thundershowers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Rebels torch four vehicles in West Singhbhum||Insurgents belonging to outlawed outfit CPI-Maoist torched four vehicles in Lanji region in Chakradharpur sub-division of West Singhbhum district on Thursday. The vehicles were parked close to the warehouse of a road construction contractor. It is suspected that non-payment of levy by a contractor concerned led the insurgents to take this step. Police and paramilitary forces started an anti-insurgency operation at the Lanji region which is located at the bordering Khunti and Seraikela-Kharsawan district. Sub-divisional police officer, Chakradharpur, Sudhir Kumar confirmed about the incident at Lanji. "Lanji region continues to be a naxal hotbed where the rebels have torched four vehicles being used for a road construction project on fire at the wee hours on Thursday," said Kumar to The Telegraph Online. He said the violent act committed at Lanji is suspected to have been committed by a group of Maharaj Pramanik. "Pramanik who carries a bounty of Rs 15 lakh on his head is active at Chowka area in Seraikela-Kharsawan district and also at Kuchai as well as Lanji region is suspected to have torched the four vehicles. Fortunately, the naxals did not inflict any injury to any of the construction staff who were present near the spot when the vehicles were torched," said the SDPO. On March 4, three jawans of paramilitary forces were killed in an IED blast.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Godda gets its first train; local MP, rival MLAs vie for credit ||Godda railway station was witness to unruly scenes on Thursday afternoon during an online function to inuagurate a new track and flag off what will be the town's first ever passenger train with MLAs belonging to the rulng dispensation clashing with colleagues of the BJP over taking credit for the successful completion of the project. In New Delhi, railway minister Piyush Goyal launched the 32km Godda-Hansdiha railway line under the East Central Railway and also flagged off the Humsafar Express at 3pm to put the sleepy town of Godda in Santhal Parganas on the railway map of the country. But at the rail station in Godda, supporters of local BJP MP Nishikant Dubey got into a scuffle with supporters of Congress MLA Pradeep Yadav (Poriyahat) at  while the programme was underway. Yadav was accompanied by Mahagama MLA Dipika Pandey, state transport minister and JMM MLA from Seraikela Champai Soren, who represented the state government at the programme. But according to an eye witness, security personnel assigned to the MLAs and those from the district administration swung into action and prevented the skirmish to snowball into a full-fledged clash. “BJP MP (Dubey) was present with a large contingent of supporters at the station to flag off the train. Simultaneously, MLAs of the ruling coalition  and a minister also turned up with supporters. While one section was hailing the BJP and the Prime Minister for the success of the project, others heaped praise on chief minister Hemant Soren and the erstwhile UPA government at the Centre for the project. Claims and counter-claims led to a verbal altercation, but it was soon brought under under control,” said a local journalist. Later, the BJP took to social media to accuse chief minister Hemant Soren of sending government sponsored "goons" to attack its MP. The Congress on the other hand hit back at the BJP. “It is shameful of him (Nishikant Dubey) to misbehave with MLAs of the ruling coalition and try to deny their contributions,” said party spokesperson Alok Dubey. Thursday's event, held about a week before a byelection in Madhupur, holds immense significance for Godda. Speaking during the function from Railway Board headquarters in Delhi, rail minister Goyal dedicated the new track and train to the nation. “Even though this project was first approved during the UPA tenure in 2011, the credit for its successful completion goes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It is because between 2011-2014, the project didn’t move an inch and after the formation of NDA government, all such pending projects were given pace,” he said. Goyal said the project was a milestone for Godda and the Santhal Parganas. The 32km railway line from Godda to Hansdiha was built at a cost of about Rs 550 crore. The line has seven big bridges, 31 small bridges, 10 over-bridges, and 9 under-bridges, he said. “For the first time, Godda will have train connectivity. To begin with, we are flagging off Humsafar superfast (Express), a direct link to Delhi from today,” he said. “Before 2014, a meager Rs 257 crore was allocated for rail projects in Jharkhand. But now it is over Rs 4000 crore. There are about 22 new rail projects that are underway in Jharkhand. Some of the projects are in partnership with the state government. I urge the state government to provide its monetary contribution on time and ensure timely land allocation to speed up other projects,” he said. An official of Malda rail division under which Godda station clarified that Humsafar Express was a weekly train. “From April 19, it will run regularly. From Godda, it will leave every Monday at 12.40pm and from Delhi, it will start its journey Tuesdays at 11.45pm. The train will reach Delhi from Godda in about 24 hours,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Elephant count set to go up at Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary||The elephant count at Dalma wildlife sanctuary is all set to pep up during the census as foresters have spotted around 20 calves inside the sprawling 192 sq km sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur. The calves have been spotted with herds at both the eastern and western forest range of the sanctuary. Calves were also seen with a herd near the Chotka Bandh watering holes on Wednesday evening. “Calves were born at the Dalma and Bengal jungles. The calves are 5 to 6 months old,” Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra confirmed. According to Chandra, animal census is scheduled at the sanctuary in May or June. The elephants had migrated to the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura in neighbouring Bengal in August-September last year. Some jumbos returned to Dalma home early while almost all returned in March. There are 155 elephants at Dalma reserve. A forester said the animal census could be postponed in view of the global pandemic. “Animal census takes places in May or June but it could be postponed due to the pandemic. The state government may issue directives to close the sanctuary. We are keeping our fingers crossed,” he added, with a request not to be quoted. However, elephant sighting was drastically low during the day-long animal census conducted at the sanctuary on June 10 last year. Showers had dashed hopes of foresters who were looking forward to an impressive elephant count at the jumbo abode. Altogether 50 elephants were sighted at the east and west forest ranges during the census last time. The animal census was based on field surveys and actual sightings near watering holes. Since water was abundant at the sanctuary as well as pockets falling outside it, most of the elephants moved out of the sanctuary in search of water when the count began. Only a few were sighted during the exercise. Elephants are roving animals and venture out anywhere. The jumbos chose to quench their thirst outside their abode during the last census. Consequently, fewer elephants were sighted Foresters blamed the timing of census for the decrease in the number of elephants. “The animal count is usually conducted in May when heat is at its peak. It usually takes place a week after the annual Bishu Shikar (a tribal hunting festival). But the exercise had to be postponed in view of Covid-19. We could have sighted an impressive number of elephants if the exercise was conducted in May,” one of the foresters said. Bamboo cottage opens The bamboo cottage inside the sanctuary was opened for tourists on Tuesday. The gates of the facility were thrown open after necessary furnishing was completed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Bengal polls slows down trade in coal town  ||The Bengal election has adversely affected trade in Dhanbad at a time when traders are already reeling under the impact of Covid affected downturn. The transport of goods from Bengal to Dhanbad has been hit due to apprehensions of seizure of vehicles for security checks by police and administration. Trade in coal town is largely dependent on the wholesale purchase of a wide variety of products ranging from foodgrains, garments to footwear from Calcutta. Traders, who travel back and forth from Calcutta on the Black Diamond Express and Coalfield Express, are also desisting from visiting the city due to rallies and political programmes. Md Sohrab, former president of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce, told The Telegraph Online: “The worst affected section are the small time traders and retailers who lack capital for bulk purchase of articles, dependent on daily purchase as they are finding it difficult to bring articles on daily basis due to restricted movement from Calcutta.” Citing an example, he said that garment traders of Dhanbad are even avoiding visiting their favorite place, Metiabruz Haat which is the biggest garment market in Calcutta due to the election rush. “The fear of their own security as well as the safety of goods purchased during heightened election campaigning and stiff competition between rival political parties is also preventing coal town traders to visit Calcutta,” said Sohrab. Echoing Sohrab’s sentiments, Prabhat Surolia, President of Bank More Chamber of Commerce, said, “not only Calcutta, but as Dhanbad shares long borders with Asansol and Purulia area of Bengal, the trade from these places have also been affected as traders could not visit these places freely and commercial vehicles of Dhanbad are not willing to enter Bengal borders.” “Our trade is also largely dependent on supply of articles in colliery areas, including collieries of Eastern Coalfields Limited in  Maithon , Chirkunda and Barakar sharing borders with Bengal so we could not even visit to these places due to increased police checking; frisking of belongings, verification of vehicles documents etc,” said Surolia. Rajesh Kumar Gupta, Patron of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said, “Besides the election related restricted movement, the Covid testing of passengers being carried out at railway stations is also affecting the movement of Dhanbad traders in Bengal, although we appeal to all traders to cooperate with testing as it is meant for their own safety and the safety of their family members.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Weddings cancelled, planners stare at losses and debts||The wedding planners of Dhanbad are in despair as 25 per cent to 30 per cent of marriages scheduled between April and July have been cancelled due to Covid-19 restrictions. More than 1200 decorators, tent house owners, band party operators, wedding photographers, florists and caterers hoping to cash in on the wedding season to compensate for the losses from last year’s lockdown are facing a similar situation this year. At present, the biggest predicament being faced by them is with regard to customers demanding a return of the advance payments. Majority of the planners have already invested the money in purchasing articles for the events. Pradeep Singh, president of Dhanbad Jila Decorator Association, told The Telegraph Online: “Out of an average of ten bookings for almost all the decorators everyone has suffered cancellation of three bookings and resultant demand for return of advance but facing very difficult financial condition no one is in position to return the advance money as we have in turn paid the money for purchase of articles.” “Instead of returning the advance money, we are requesting the parties to adjust the advance during rescheduled marriage functions,” said Singh adding that the last opportunity to compensate for losses has been lost. Ram Lakhan Ram, operator of Lakshmi band situated near IIT (ISM) gate, said: “We are very concerned about the cancellation of bookings due to Covid situation turning grim day by day as we have a limited season of two months and thus if the bookings are cancelled during this period and Covid situation improves later it will of no advantage for us as the next lagan season will begin only in November.” “The government diktat to restrict number of  participant to 200 for marriage functions have led another blow to our income besides the cancellation losses as for majority of  marriage functions we used to receive orders of at least 300 plates of food but now the orders are being now truncated to 200 plates,” said a caterer of Hirapur in Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to get 2 lakh Covaxin doses on Thursday||Jharkhand will receive 2 lakh doses of Covaxin on Thursday to meet  demands until the Centre provides 10 lakh more vaccine doses by April 9, an official communique from the health department stated on Wednesday. As per data provided by the state health department, Jharkhand had 97,037 doses of Covishield vaccine and 20,124 doses of Covaxin in stock at 7pm on Wednesday. The health department in its communique stated that the 2 lakh additional Covaxin doses provided by the Centre will ensure sufficient availability of Covaxin as well as Covishield vaccines in the state for the time being. Meanwhile, the state reported seven more Covid deaths, including four in Ranchi alone, on Wednesday, taking the Covid toll in the state to 1,151 and that in Ranchi to 276, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. At least 1,312 fresh cases cases against only 277 Covid recoveries, also took the active caseload in the Jharkhand to 7,872. The active caseload in Ranchi crossed the 4,000 mark on Wednesday as the district alone reported 562 cases against 113 recoveries. As per government data, as many as 4,112 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi by Wednesday night. Only Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported a triple-digit-spike on the day.With 149 fresh cases and 40 recoveries reported in the past 24 hours, East Singhbhum’s active caseload stood at 913. As per figures with the NHM, the growth rate of Covid in Jharkhand further increased to 0.67 per cent against the national average of 0.57 per cent on the day. The doubling rate of cases in the state was also lower than the national average _ it would take 103.11 days for cases to double in the state against the national doubling rate of 122.12 days. So far, over 1.3 lakh people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand, and 93.10 per cent of them have recovered. The recovery rate in the state has shot up from close to 99 per cent in mid-March to a shade above 93 per cent in the first week of April. A report released by the NHM on Wednesday highlighted that as many as 86,594 Jharkhand residents, 72 per cent of those registered, were administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 on the day. On the other hand, the second dose was administered to only 4,199 beneficiaries, hardly 3 per cent of the 1.61 lakh people registered for the second jab on the day. As per government data, Jharkhand has so far administered the first dose of the vaccine to 18,27,886 people, including nearly 14 lakh people above the age of 45 years. The second jab has been administered to as many as 2,78,989 people in the state so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand cop-villager connect initiative to counter rebels||Jharkhand police have opted for the time-tested initiative of connecting with the community more vigorously to win back the trust of villagers in their offensive against Maoists in the dense forest and hilly terrains of rebel-hit areas. On Wednesday afternoon, Jharkhand director-general of police Niraj Sinha started the community policing initiative at Pilisai police picket in one of the worst rebel-hit areas under Tonto block in Chaibasa subdivision of West Singhbhum district, quite close to the area where three security personnel were killed in an IED blast triggered by suspected Maoists in March this year. “Community policing and bridging the gap between the masses and security forces is the key to gather information and inputs about Maoist movement in the dense forest and treacherous hilly terrains. It had yielded results during the Saranda Action Plan in the 2011-13 in the Saranda forest area. We hope to do the same this time too,” said a senior police official in the special branch unit. Sinha, a 1987-batch IPS officer, was accompanied by senior police officers, including additional director-general of police (special branch) M.L. Meena, CRPF director-general (Jharkhand sector) Maheshwar Dayal and inspector-general of police (operations) Amol V. Homkar, among others. Sinha and Dayal held a discussion with West Singhbhum police and CRPF officials deputed in the district on the strategy to counter the Maoist offensive, especially its strategy to use improvised explosive devices targeting security personnel. “Talks were held on redrawing strategies in the wake of the Chattisgarh incident and also after last month’s incident when three security personnel were killed in an IED blast at Chaibasa. It was decided to win back the confidence of the local villagers which might have taken a beating after the recent IED blast in Chaibasa and news about CRPF jawans being killed and one being taken hostage by Maoists in Chhattisgarh,” said a senior police official deputed in Chaibasa on the condition of anonymity. After the discussion, the senior officers also interacted with CRPF jawans. Thereafter, the DGP and other senior police officers held a meeting with Manki Munda (tribal village heads) and local villagers and learnt about the issues plaguing them. “The villagers opened up to the officers about a litany of problems ranging from drinking water and lack of banking facilities to poor mobile network. The DGP noted down all the grievances aired by the villagers and assured to take up the issues with officials concerned in the administration so that they are addressed promptly,” the police official said. Sinha also distributed 150 jerseys and 10 footballs to tribal youths, 50 dhotis, 50 vests, 50 saris to tribal women, 50 lungis, 60 towels and 100 pairs of slippers. “It is an ongoing process and community policing has always proved to be successful. On the directive of the DGP it will be carried out with new vigour in all rebel-hit areas of the state. The police would try to understand their concern and ameliorate their grievances in the best possible manner through proper execution of developmental programmes of the state government. It is an endeavour to take security and development hand-in-hand,” said R.K. Mallick, additional director-general of police (operations).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand night curfew till month-end in view of rising Covid cases||The Jharkhand government has decided to impose night curfew in the state from Wednesday till the end of this month in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases. A high-level meeting chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren and attended by state health minister Banna Gupta, chief secretary Sukhdeo Singh and senior officials of other government departments, including health and disaster management, in Ranchi decided to impose a night curfew between April 8 and 30. “The night curfew would come into effect from 8pm and continue till the morning and start from April 8 for a month. During the night curfew no shops, barring medical shops and other emergencies, would be allowed to be open. More than four persons would not be allowed to be gathered at one spot during this time,” said a notification issued by the state government on Tuesday evening. The night curfew would be in force from 8pm to 6am. School, colleges and coaching institutions will also be closed along with gyms, clubs and parks. For marriage functions, a maximum of 200 people will be allowed on the condition of strictly following Covid-19 norms. This apart, the government has strictly prohibited religious processions and fairs anywhere in the state. “People can gather at religious places but authorities would have to ensure that only 50 per cent of the capacity of the religious places are allowed inside... at any point of time. However, no  religious procession or fairs can be held anywhere in the state,” the notification added. Ram Navami falls on April 21 which witnesses processions by devotees in large numbers across the state. However, students appearing for their board examinations (ICSE, CBSE and state boards) will be allowed to go to their exam centres during this period. Jharkhand registered the largest number of positive cases in a single day on Monday amid the second wave of the coronavirus with 1,086 and as many as 10 deaths. The total number of fatalities has touched 1,140. Ranchi with 37,125 positive cases and East Singhbhum with 19,554 have been the largest contributors in terms of positive cases out of a total number of 1,27,246 cases. The state’s seven-day doubling rate is 126.63 days, a tad more than the national average of 136.20 days. Jharkhand also has a higher recovery rate of 94.52 per cent as against the national average of 92.80 per cent, while it has a mortality rate of 0.88 per cent, much less than the national average of 1.30 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
