09-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Students in Hazaribagh protest coaching centre closure||Hazaribagh: Around 1000 to 1500 students belonging to a coaching centre in Korra Chowk area protested its closure following government restrictions due to Covid-19. The students said the lockdown last year had affected their preparations and they were not willing to go through another such phase. On April.7, Chief minister Hemant Soren had taken the decision to shut down all educational institutions including coaching centres due to surge in Covid cases. One of the protesting students said if political rallies and elections can be held then why would they let their education suffer. The students said they require guidance for their board exams and the coaching centre is beneficial for their preparations. “Keep your politics away from education and if you will try to force your decision on us, we will not sit quietly this time,” said one of the students. The agitators refused a proposal to form a team and meet senior district officials to discuss the matter. Block development officer of Sadar, Amitabh Bhagat and subdivisional police officer Mahesh Prajapati told them that it was a government order to prevent the spread of Covid. The students said they will return on Saturday to resume their classes. “We will move ahead after taking directives from the senior officials,” said district officials. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: Administrative and police officials on Friday lodged 24 FIRs, seized more than one and a half dozen vehicles and imposed fines of about Rs 40,000 from residents, vehicle riders, shopkeepers, vendors and all those who were caught without masks in public places. The teams headed by IAS officer, sub-divisional officer of Chas, Shashi Prakash Singh, conducted a massive mask-checking drive in Bokaro Steel Township, Chas Township and Chandankyari areas under Chas sub-division. The maximum number of FIRs and vehicle seizure was done in main market areas of Bokaro Township under Sector-IV Police Station. Many people wandering in the City Centre market of Bokaro Township without masks managed to escape. At present, the Bokaro township has about 350 active cases of Covid-19. On Friday, there were 61 cases detected. The rising cases have raised concern in administrations. The administration has grown tough to ensure that the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the state government should be implemented without any lapses in the district. On Thursday, officials were out in public places and had requested vendors, shopkeepers and residents to wear masks and follow the guidelines. But many shopkeepers and residents were found wandering without masks. SDO said, “We have conducted the mask checking drive massively and this time we lodged FIR under different sections of the IPC and DDMA Act against those who were found without masks. The vehicle riders were also slapped with a fine of Rs 500 apart from an FIR. The drive will continue.” (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
09-04-2021||Jharkhand||HC raps civil surgeon for Covid tests report delay||Jharkhand high court on Friday passed a scathing remark against Ranchi civil surgeon V.B.Prasad describing as "inhumane" the inordinate delays conducting Covid tests and asked him not to play with the lives of of people. A division bench of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujit Narayan Prasad made the observation during a virtual hearing of a PIL related to poor management of the state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). State health secretary K.K.Soan, Ranchi civil surgeon Prasad, and  others involved were connected to the day's court proceedings online. During the course of hearing, the  wanted to know on the reasons behind delay in test reports of the samples collected from high court. The bench noted that the samples were collected by Sadar hospital on April 5, but the test reports were yet to be given. The bench criticised the  civil surgeon for the delay. “If this is the situation of high court personnel, then we can imagine how common people could be struggling for getting timely test reports. Such delays could lead to destroying of the samples and results could be inaccurate, putting one’s life in jeopardy,” the court  observed. The bench then told the  civil surgeon that it was " inhumane" and you (civil surgeon) should tender your resignation if the official concerned isn’t able to do the job properly. The court, will hear the matter on April 2, directed the civil surgeon to furnish a detailed report before that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
09-04-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city cancels Basanti Durga Puja and Ram Navami celebrations ||The Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samiti has decided to cancel Basanti Durga Puja and Ram Navami celebrations for the second consecutive year due to the second wave of Covid-19. The 10-day Basanti Durga Puja begins on April 13, and will end on April 22. The Ram Navami procession in the respective localities of varios Akhara committees was supposed to be taken out on April 21. The steel city witnesses as many as 14 Basanti Durga Puja and altogether there are 175- odd Ram Navami Akhara committees including 149 licenced ones. Some of the prominent Basanti Pujas are organised at the Beldih Kalibari in Bistupur and Sakchi-based Durgabari. Last year, Basanti Durga Puja and Ram Navami were organised with minimal arrangements due to the lockdown. "Concerned over rising cases of Covid-19 and the government imposed restrictions, we have asked the  organisers of Basanti Durga Puja and Ram Navami Akharas to cancel all celebrations including cultural programmes and processions. However, to keep the tradition alive symbolic puja will be done with smaller idols, " said Ram Babu Singh, general secretary of JDPKS. According to the decision of the state government, the night curfew was implemented from Thursday between 8 pm and 6 am on Friday. Police had to force shops to close beyond 8 pm at several places in Mango and Sonari. On Friday morning, Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee ( JNAC ) sealed an eatery and a beverage stall doing brisk business at Sakchi by violating Covid protocols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
09-04-2021||Jharkhand|| Forest dept to plant 87,000 saplings in Chandil ||The forest department is going to start a tree planting drive in Chandil range area in the Seraikela-Kharsawan district. At a time when man-elephant conflict continues to rise in the area, the forest department has decided to plant around 87,000 saplings during the monsoon season. Chandil forest range is an elephant corridor and jumbos from Bengal, Chaibasa and Dalma elephant sanctuary visit it for a sojourn. Range officer of Chandil, Ashok Kumar, said the massive tree plantation drive is aimed at making the forest range more environment-friendly. "We are going to plant 87,000 saplings of various kinds of trees, especially fruit-bearing trees. Except for saplings of Mango tree, the afforestation drive will make room for almost all kinds of fruits-bearing trees," said Kumar to The Telegraph Online. The range officer pointed out while most of the saplings will be covered in the vacant space in forest, saplings will also be planted along the roads and also in and around the government office as well as school promises. He said the plantation done along the roadside and other government institutions will be supported with tree-guards. The range officer informed that the tree plantation will be done mainly at Dobo, Jhawri and Rudia jungles, all falling under the Chandil forest range. He said of the 87,000 plants, 45,000 saplings will be planted in Dobo jungle. According to the forest department, the herds of migratory elephants first come to the forests in Chandil range, but in absence of adequate vegetation the elephants tend to stray into human habitats causing destruction of crops and also human life. According to sources, in 2020-2021, the forest department has paid Rs 53 lakh as compensation for the loss of crops, residential houses and human lives in the Chandil forest range. If the forest cover in Chandil gets dense, the migratory elephants will not tend to invade into human habitat as there will be enough food for them in the jungle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
09-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad officials to penalise illegal Covid test centres||Radiological centres across Dhanbad have been warned of strict action against illegal Covid-19 tests by the district administration on Friday. The administration has instructed the centres to share data of every individual visiting the centre, including their diagnostic reports, with the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme  (IDSP) cell of the district on a daily basis before 5 pm. The instructions were given by Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh during a meeting held at the district collectorate on Friday with all radiological centre operators. Singh has directed the operators to carry out thorough santisation of the place immediately after the detection of a case and test all their employees. “All centre operators should take their responsibility seriously of preventing Covid infection and such a practice of illegal covid detection and allowing the affected persons to remain untreated may lead to spread of infection,” said Singh. The Deputy Commissioner will be reviewing the situation every 15 days and will take immediate action against anyone not adhering to the measures. Singh inspected the sensitisation camp developed at Jharkhand Armed Police camp in Govindpur and took stock of facilities at the centre. He interacted with the Covid rule violators brought to the camp. The sensitisation camp was started earlier this week, to catch Covid rule violators and inform them about the importance of maintaining norms. The violators are made to spend a day at the camp and can leave only after they take a test and sign a bond.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
09-04-2021||Jharkhand||Special Olympics Jharkhand issues advisory to parents amid Covid spike||The Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) on Friday issued an advisory to parents of mentally impaired to ensure that their wards remain engaged in activities while staying indoors as the pandemic spreads its wings across the state. The advisory has been issued to parents of around 34,000 special athletes in Jharkhand. “Our athletes are forced to stay indoors in view of the pandemic. We want them to continue with their daily drills and keep themselves occupied. This would keep them in good stead when we resume our outdoor training,” said the board’s assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota. He added since it is not possible to inform all the parents physically, they have created a Facebook account for the same. “Parents can read the advisory on our Facebook page,” Sahota, a former international cyclist, added. According to him,  special athletes can do physical exercises, dribbling (by placing cones) and also practice throws. “Parents can act as coaches for the same. National and international competitions  would resume once Covid-related situation improves and we want our athletes to slip into outdoor training mode once it starts” Sahota, also resource person (for cycling) at the Special Olympics Bharat (SOB), a national organisation working for the promotion of mentally impaired, emphasised. The state chapter also advised parents to not allow their children to unnecessarily venture out of homes and also not allow them to ride bikes. “There are chances of special athletes getting injured in road mishaps. Sometimes, it may prove to be fatal,” Sahota said. The Special Olympics Jharkhand has branches across the state. It has tied up with Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan to pep up activities in government schools. It recently introduced Cornhole Baggo, a highly popular game in Europe and the United States, across the state via webinar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
09-04-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city mom of 3 gears up for Trans Himalayan trip||Payo Murmu is working hard to strike the right balance between her age and family commitments. The 57-year-old mother of three grown up sons is keen to give a good account of herself when she joins the FIT@50+ Women’s Trans Himalayan Expedition ’21 being organised in collaboration with the ministry of youth affairs and sports under the FIT India banner. The expedition, which is also being supported by Tata Motors and Tata Sports Club as drive and fitness partners respectively,is expected to begin in the first week of May and will conclude in the second week of October this year. For Payo, a former employee of Tata Steel’s loco traffic wing and a resident of New Baridih locality of the city, gearing up for the challenge is the need of the hour, and she understands it. Her early morning routine consists of jogging, brisk walking and light exercises. She wakes up at 4 am and covers 7 km on the Baridih-Tinplate Chowk stretch before returning home to take care of daily homely chores. "I am very excited to be part of the expedition. It's a challenging journey and I need to keep myself fit and motivated. I also do yoga and meditation," Payo told The Telegraph Online. A hard working tribal, Payo lives with her husband Sawna and sons Chandra, Ram and Lakshman. Sawna runs a motor garage near his house. "I'll be again going to the mountains after a gap of almost five years. I had left climbing after failing to annex Mount Everest in 2017. I was very disappointed and never thought of being part of any expedition. It's an opportunity for me and I don't want to miss it. Though climbing Everest is a different proposition but I would like to make amends this time and complete the journey," she added. Payo and Tata Steel Adventure Foundation's Hemant Gupta could not make it to the 29,029 ft Everest Peak as the 2015 earthquake in Nepal stopped them from making further progress. She again failed to conquer the peak in 2017 due to fatigue and a stomach bug. Hemant, however, made it to the summit. "Bahut dukh hua tha. Ek mauka tha duniya ki sabse badi choti par pahuchne ka" (Was very sad. It was an opportunity to reach the world's tallest roof)," she recalled. The FIT@50+ Women’s Trans Himalayan Expedition will be led by Bachendri Pal, the first Indian woman to climb Mount Everest in 1984. The team members, selected from across India, comprises of retired professionals and homemakers. The 10-member team also boasts of three women Everest summiteers. The 5-month long expedition involves traversing the Himalayas from Arunachal to Karakoram range (East to West), covering around 4,500 kms and dissecting about 40 mountain passes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
09-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant in Madhupur to spearhead bypoll campaign||Chief minister Hemant Soren joined workers of his party and those of coalition partners in Madhupur on Friday afternoon to step up campaigning for the April 17 byelection with plans to camp there for the next five days. The ruling UPA comprising JMM, Congress and RJD have put up incumbent minister Hafizul Hassan as their joint candidate in Madhupur. The seat fell vacant following the demise of Hafizul’s father and former minister in the Hemant Soren cabinet in October last year. BJP on the other hand has fielded Ganga Narayan Singh, an AJSU-P turncoat, as NDA candidate, making it a bipolar contest. Madhupur is going to be the third byelection ever since the Hemant Soren government came to power in 2019. Ahead of voting, the ruling coalition is confident of victory, pitching the contest as one to elect a "minister". Hemant inducted Hafizul in his cabinet early in the year to ensure JMM’s claim on the seat. Hemant will return to Ranchi on the night of April 14, said JMM sources. Asked about his long stay, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said it was only natural for th chief minister to spearhead the campaign as he was the executive president of the JMM and the leader of the coalition government. “JMM is more than confident of retaining the seat. All coalition partners are working together to ensure Hafizul’s win,” he said. According to party sources, Hemant was to hold an election rally at Thana ground at Margomunda on Friday evening. On Saturday, he is expected to hold rallies in Devipur and Ghasko Hatia. Thereafter, he will address close to half a dozen rallies over the next few days till April 14. Congress has deputed workers across the region too. On Wednesday night, state Congress president Rameshwar Oraon arrived in Madhupur for a three-day electoral tour. The Opposition BJP is also canvassing vigorously with Babulal Marandi, the leader of the BJP legislature party, leading from the front. Since the last week, Marandi has been actively holding rallies across the constituency in favour of the BJP candidate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
09-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad starts helpline for vaccine recipients||The district health committee has launched a helpline number for Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries developing adverse reactions following the immunisation. The After Event Following Immunization (AEFI) cases can call 9608264821 if they are suffering from side effects like itching, headache, abdominal pain, body ache or fever and other complications. Dr Vikas Rana, District Reproductive and Child Health Officer, told The Telegraph Online: “We were not receiving district level feedbacks with regard to effects of covid vaccination  and thus launched the helpline number to get feed backs and ensure necessary intervention to manage any side effect or complication for which proper arrangement are in place at different hospitals of the district including, Sadar Hospitals.” The minor side effects of Covishield site tenderness, injection site pain, headache, fatigue, myalgia, malaise, pyrexia, chills, arthralgia and nausea etc. Similarly, for Covaxin, minor side effects include injection site pain and swelling, headache, fatigue, fever, body ache, abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, giddiness, tremor, sweating, cold and cough. “We are getting unverified news about side effects of Covid vaccination which sometimes creates confusion among other people who have yet not taken the vaccine,” said Rana. “Our aim by launching the helpline number is to get the feedback and provide support to vaccinated people to manage his complication and at same time preventing the confusion among others,” said Rana and added, within an hour of launching the helpline at around 10pm he has received over six calls. Around 1,613 were vaccinated on Thursday at 10 centers across the district including 468 at Sadar Hospital, Dhanbad, 213 at CHC Jharia; 99 at CHC Tundi; 131 at CHC Baliapur; 182 at CHC Baghmara; 131 at CHC Govindpur; 100 at CHC Topchanchi; 167 at CHC Nirsa; 92 at Central Hospital of BCCL and 30 at Sahid Nirmal Memorial Medical College and Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
09-04-2021||Jharkhand||Fearing lockdown, migrant workers returning to Jharkhand||Imposition of a host of curbs and the fear of another nationwide lockdown prompted by a surge in Covid cases in as many as 12 states has led to many workers to return to their homes in Jharkhand which is also seeing a steady rise in infections. Thirty-four-year-old Md Gulfam of Jamtara district is among several other migrant workers who got off at Hatia railway station on Thursday night as the Pune-Hatia biweekly special train chugged in. According to sources in Ranchi railway division, the train was almost full with people, primarily students and migrant workers from Pune and other parts of Maharashtra. Gulfam said he was among the 11 from his village to have gone to Pune in November last year to work in a hotel. “Due to the weekend lockdown and night curfew till April 30, hotels are badly hit in Pune. Our employer said he would not be able to afford to pay our salaries and provide for us in the coming days. Hence, we thought of returning home before the situation worsens,” Gulfam told The TelegraphOnline over telephone while on way to Jamtara on Friday. With him was Md Khalid who said they used to work in a tyre company in Chennai until last year’s lockdown led to job losses. “We wanted to stay on in Jamtara but since we did not get any work for months, we headed to Pune through a common contact who got us work at a hotel as waiters and cooks. We managed to earn Rs 20,000-Rs 25,000 per month. Accommodation was free,” he said, but added that they chose to return to Jharkhand now to avoid being stranded in the event of another lockdown. Rakesh Minz (42) of Ranchi’s Ormanjhi, who spent days on the road while trying to return home from Delhi after last year’s lockdown, got back home earlier in the week. Minz, who used to work in an automobile spare parts company in Gurgaon, said he, along with 50 other contractual workers from Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Bihar, was asked by their employer last month to cut down on working hours as a cost cutting measure. “Less working hours meant less earnings which would make it difficult for us to sustain. Many were even removed from the job, citing lack of enough work. So, I chose to return as my salary fell short by more than half,” he said. Minz has now bought himself a push cart. He would like to start selling fruits and vegetables. Ironically, The Jharkhand government was unable to provide any comprehensive count of workers returning. But officials in the state labour department conceded that many were indeed returning to the state. Last year, about six lakh migrants returned to Jharkhand via shramik special trains, buses and flights. Owing to lack of jobs here, many migrated to big cities to explore opportunities after lockdown curbs were eased. Chief minister Hemant Soren had on many occasions announced that the state government was working to set up a proper mechanism to keep a tab on Jharkhand residents working in other states to ensure their welfare. These efforts have largely remianed a non-starter. According to a senior officer of the state labour department, migrant workers leaving the state could register themselves  through the https://shramadhan.jharkhand.gov.in/home portal. "But, such declarations are voluntary and it is virtually impossible to keep tabs on migrant   workers of the unorganised sector," he said. But additional labour commissioner S. S. Pathak claimed the labour department was still running a migrant helpline (18003456526), which was launched last year. “The department usually swings into action depending on the nature of complaints or grievances that are registered on this helpline,” he said. Jharkhand NREGA Watch, a social outfit working on rural employment, has appealed to the state government to be ready with contingency plans to reduce the impending rural distress. “Return of migrants would spur demand for rural jobs," said NREGA Watch convener James Herenj. "As we are already seeing many coming back, we appeal to the government to direct all district administrations to work out pre-approved plans under MNREGA so that people can get jobs readily as an immediate cushion for livelihood," he said, adding that ahead of the monsoon season, people could be engaged in work like digging of ponds and wells.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
09-04-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1880 fresh Covid cases takes active caseload to 9429 in the state||At least seven Covid patients, including six from Ranchi alone, died during treatment in Jharkhand on Thursday, while the active caseload in the state jumped to 9429 as at least 1882 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus from Wednesday night to Thursday night, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. Besides reporting six Covid casualties, Ranchi also reported 858 fresh cases of infection on the day – the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. Ranchi also reported 239 of the 498 Covid recoveries on Thursday, but the active caseload here still rose to 4,727, which is more than 50 per cent of the total number of active cases in the state. As per government data, as many as 1158 people have died of Covid-19 in Jharkhand and at least 282 of them were from Ranchi, which has reported the highest number of Covid casualties in the state since mid-March. The Covid toll was 360 in East Singhbhum, which reported the highest number of Covid deaths during the first wave of the virus last year. The active caseload also crossed the 1000 mark in East SInghbhum on Thursday as the district reported 204 cases of infection against 56 Covid recoveries, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. In terms of caseload, East Singhbhum is only second to Ranchi in the state. Thursday’s findings took the growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand to 0.80 per cent against the national average of 0.61 per cent, government data revealed. The doubling rate of cases in the state also dropped below 100 days for the first time this year on Thursday. As per government data, it would take 86.97 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand against the national doubling rate of 114.53 days. As per government records, more than 1.32 lakh people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand so far and 92.16 per cent of them have recovered. The Covid recovery rate in the state has dropped from close to 99 per cent in mid-March to 92.16 per cent in the first week of April. Meanwhile, the state administered the first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 virus to 40,584 residents, while the second dose was administered to as many as 5119 people. As per NHM data, the state achieved 50 per cent of its target for the first dose of the vaccine and only 3 per cent of the target for the second dose. The state also received 2 lakh doses of Covaxin from the Centre on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
09-04-2021||Jharkhand||Arsenic filters developed by Birla Institute of Technology researchers||A team of researchers from Birla Institute of Technology (BIT), Mesra (Ranchi), has developed a filtration system for eliminating arsenic from groundwater for using it for drinking purpose. “It’s an affordable filtration system developed by using naturally available materials to combat the growing problem of arsenic contamination of groundwater,” informed Sanjay Kumar Swain, the leader of the team. “The project was funded by the Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences of the Bhaba Atomic Research Centre (BARC), Mumbai,” he further informed,  adding their team comprised of Usha Jha and Amulya Ranjan Panda from BIT and Sanjukta A. Kumar, a BARC scientist, besides him. “It’s a low cost system made of locally available materials and can be made by the local people,” Swain further informed when pointed out such filtration systems were already developed by others also and added it needed no electricity or an overhead tank and the cylindrical filters can be easily installed. About 200 to 240 litres of safe drinking water can be obtained from this filter every day, with outflow of about 10 to 12 litres per hour, he informed, adding the cost would be just 3 paise per litre. “We have worked on it for the past four years and tested its efficiency both in the laboratory and also in under different groundwater conditions in affected areas,” Swain said, adding they had already applied for an Indian patent. Earlier, educational institutions like IITs (Kharagpur, Madras and Bombay) and Tezpur University in Assam had developed some such filtration systems. “But most of those removed pentavalent arsenate while ours is capable of removing both trivalent arsenite and pentavalent arsenate,” Swain claimed when asked, adding their filters could also remove iron, phosphate and manganese from groundwater to bring it down to the permissible level prescribed by the World Health Organisation. Arsenic is found in parts of Assam, Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh in more than prescribed limit, causing health hazards for the local residents. “While the limit is 0.01 milligram per litre, arsenic is found up to 1 mg/litre (100 times more) at certain parts of these states,” Swain further said, adding some areas in Sahebganj district of Jharkhand were also badly affected. They made four filters and successfully tested in those affected parts of Sahebganj over the past two years, he further said. “We will disclose the details about the materials used in our filters once our patent formalities were complete,” he replied when pointed out that other educational institutions that worked on it had reportedly used such materials as laterite soil, cooking soda, potassium permanganate and ferric chloride. The cost of an arsenic filter developed by them would cost within Rs 4,000 and would last for at least five years, he said. “We shall be glad if any organisation comes forward with an offer of funding a project for providing these filters to affected families,” Swain replied when asked about their future plan, adding that it could also be used for commercial production of filters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
