10-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Ramgarh police arrest wife of murdered lawyer||Hazaribagh: Ramgarh police on Saturday arrested the wife lawyer Ajay Kumar Mahto in his murder case. On April 3, Ajay's body was found with his throat slit. The murder had sparked widespread anger in the district with lawyers demanding the arrest of the culprits. Superintendent of police Prabhat Kumar said Ajay's wife Virajo Kumari and cousin, Hemant Kumar were allegedly involved in an affair. On April.2, he strangulated Ajay and slit his throat. He informed Kumari and escaped. Ajay’s wife and cousin admitted to their crime following police interrogation. Both have been reprimanded in judicial custody. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Chouparan BDO Premchand Sinha on Saturday confirmed testing positive for Covid despite taking both the shots of the vaccine. Sinha said he took the first dose of the jab on February.5 and second on March.5. On March.7, he went to the office of the rural development department in Ranchi for official work. Soon after, he noticed symptoms and tested positive on Saturday. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: Four members of a family died and one seriously injured after their car overturned at Grand Trunk Road near 20 Mile area of Giridih. The injured victim has been referred to the RIMS, Ranchi. The bodies of the deceased have been sent to Sadar Hospital for post-mortem. All were residents of Kudar village of Bagodar police station area. Preliminary investigation indicates that the car the family was travelling in, lost control after its front tyre burst and it overturned on the roadside. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
10-04-2021||Jharkhand||Police bust notorious gang in Jamshedpur||In a major breakthrough, the city police busted a criminal racket and arrested 14 people from different police station areas on Saturday. While making the arrests, the police seized as many as 22 firearms, 76 live cartridges, one car, two scooters and 11 cell phones. The arrested criminals are members of the notorious Amarnaath Singh gang. The gang is synonymous with murder, dacoity, extortion and other crimes in and around the steel city. Those arrested were identified as Ranjit Singh, Amarjeet Prashad, Ganesh Sahu, Budhu Saini, Pradeep Singh, Sarabjeet Singh, Kunal Goswami, Amar Thakur, Akash Mahto, Saurabh Sharma, Monu Mishra, Arjun Karmkar and Biplab Bose. "On April 5, some criminals had shot at and injured a scrap-iron dealer Moti Chand at Ulidih thana area of Mango. Ever since that incident, the police were trying to detect the case. Incidentally, the police got a tip off that a gang of criminals was hatching a conspiracy to commit some crime by assembling at a place in Gadra under Parsudih thana on Friday night. Acting on the tip off, a police party raided the place and arrested eight criminals. It was after these arrests were made that the police interrogated those arrested and made further arrests in Govindpur and Mango during which a total 14 criminals were arrested, " said Senior SP, M.Tamil Vanan. Vanan said the arrested criminals did not only shoot at the scrap-iron dealer for extortion, but also murdered a 30-year-old youth, Anil Jena in Jadugora on March 20, 2021 and Bablu Sharma at Sidhgora market on March 26, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
10-04-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI students test Covid positive, quarantined on campus||Forty-six students of XLRI's Jamshedpur campus have tested positive for Covid-19. The students who tested positive have been isolated and quarantined within the campus and kept under observation by the resident doctor. "We have been strictly adhering to all the Covid-19 directives and guidelines of the state government and complying with all the necessary precautionary steps and protective measures. To contain the infection, contact tracing has been initiated, and all contact staff members and students will undergo a mandatory RT-PCR test. All the campus facilities, including the library, the computer lab, will remain closed until further notice, "said a spokesperson of XLRI. The B-school spokesperson said the administration has undertaken all required precautionary measures, and all hostels, offices are being sanitized to contain the spread. However, the online classes will continue without any disruption. Vaccines arrive amid rising cases and deaths A consignment of 85,800 doses of Covishield reached Jamshedpur from Ranchi on Friday giving a boost to the staggering vaccination drive in the steel city. There has been a sudden spike in the Covid-19 cases in East Singhbhum district, especially in the steel city in the past 24 hours. Nine people died in two city-based hospitals. Around 256 new cases were detected in Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) of 3,110 samples carried out by the health department, taking the total number to 20,164 in the district. While news of three Covid deaths till Friday late night was officially confirmed, but the six deaths that have taken place on Saturday are yet to be confirmed. "Six Covid patients have died at Tata Main Hospital since the wee hours on Saturday. As there a process is followed before declaring a death officially, the health department is expected to declare about the six deaths late in the night only," said a senior official posted at Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee, to The Telegraph Online. The official on condition of anonymity pointed out that as the JNAC does carry out the work of disposal of Covid-infected bodies they get the information about a Covid death soon after it takes place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
10-04-2021||Jharkhand||State appoints officers to monitor and curb rising Covid cases||The state disaster management authority under the home department has appointed 12 senior IAS officers as nodal officers of 24 districts for daily coordination and monitoring of the Covid-19 situation. The move, according to officials in the disaster management department, is aimed for better surveillance, monitoring and helping local district administrations to work in tandem to curb the unprecedented rise of Covid cases in the state. On Friday, Jharkhand witnessed its biggest single day spike and casualties since the outbreak of the virus with 1925 new infections and 17 fatalities. Chief secretary Sukhdev Singh on Friday night formally issued the notification naming the bureaucrats as nodal officers for the assigned districts. According to the notification, state urban development department secretary Vinay Kumar Choubey has been made the nodal officer of Ranchi district, while his counterpart in food and civil supplies department, Himani Pande is tasked with taking care of East Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan. Secretary of department of planning and finance Ajoy Kumar Singh is in-charge of Dhanbad and Deoghar, secretary of commercial taxes, Vandana Dadel will take care of Koderma and Ramgarh districts. Rural development secretary Aradhana Patnaik is tasked for Latehar and Lohardaga whereas Rahul Sharma, finance secretary will be handling Khunti and West Singhbhum. Road construction department secretary Sunil Kumar is nodal officer for Bokaro and Giridih, Puja Singhal (industries department) will handle Hazaribagh and Chatra, Rajesh Sharma (school education) Pakur and Sahebganj, AB Siddique (agriculture) Palamau and Garhwa, Praveen Toppo (labour department) Gumla and Simdega and Prashant Kumar (water resources) is the nodal officer for Jamtara, Dumka and Godda. “All the nodal officers are mandated to act as observers for their assigned districts to ensure proper testing, tracking, treatment, vaccination and all other Covid tackling workers in coordination with respective deputy commissioners to control the emerging situation. All nodal officers are also required to give appropriate directions to the district administrations to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour is followed and implemented properly besides working out plans to curb the transmission,” read the order signed by the chief secretary, adding that nodal officers are also entrusted with powers to take decisions/actions as required from time to time for implementation of central and state government orders and advisories for tackling Covid-19. Since mid-March, the state has been witnessing a steady rise in infections with daily caseload breaking previous year records. Since the start of April, the spikes have skyrocketed with the state reporting over 1000 cases on an average for the last few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
10-04-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi accounts for half of Jharkhand's Covid deaths in 2nd wave||Ranchi has reported exactly half of the 82 Covid deaths that occurred in Jharkhand since March 10, indicating that the state capital was accounting for more casualties during the second wave of Covid-19 in comparison with East Singhbhum, which reported the highest number of fatalties during the first wave last year. As per figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), Ranchi accounts for 41 of the 82 Covid casualties reported in the state in the past one month. On the other hand, East Singhbhum, which continues to top among Jharkhand districts in terms of Covid casualties, has reported only seven Covid fatalities since March 10, reveals NHM data. While health experts attribute the higher count of casualties in Ranchi to the high number of cases here, government figures highlight that Ranchi reported the highest number of Covid cases last year as well, but fewer casualties as compared to East Singhbhum. Dr Ajay Kumar Singh, the state coordinator of Indian Medical Association (IMA), warned that the second wave of Covid-19 was more lethal than the first one as the virus was mutated and may behave in mysterious ways. The higher number of deaths in Ranchi, he said, could also be attributed to the fact that most of the severely-ill patients came to the state capital for treatment. “Firstly, the second wave of a mutated virus was more lethal than the first one. Secondly, Ranchi was more likely to get exposed to the mutated virus due to high inflow of severely-ill patients and connectivity with almost all cities in India,” said Singh. Not only has Ranchi reported the highest number of Covid deaths during the second wave, but also the highest count of cases. As per NHM data, Ranchi reported 7,017 of the 14,279 fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand since March 10. In totality, the district accounts for 40,407 of the 1,34,715 Covid cases reported in Jharkhand so far. The figures indicate that Ranchi has reported 49 per cent of cases in the past one month and only 29 per cent of the total cases reported in Jharkhand so far. As per government data, Ranchi accounts for 290 of the 1,175 Covid casualties, about 24 per cent, in Jharkhand so far. However, in the past one month, the state capital reported 50 per cent of the casualties. East Singhbhum, on the other hand, accounts for 363 Covid deaths, which is the highest among the 24 districts in the state, and is about 30 per cent of the total Covid casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
10-04-2021||Jharkhand||No Sarhul, Ram Navami processions in Jharkhand for the second consecutive year||The annual processions for Sarhul and Ram Navami will not be brought out in Jharkhand for the second consecutive year this time because of rising cases of Covid-19 infection. While the organisers of such processions in Jharkhand capital Ranchi have assured they would follow the guidelines issued by the state government and not bring out any such procession this year, those in other places in the state are also likely to follow it soon. Both Sarhul and Ram Navami processions were also not brought out last year because of the lockdown while the Jharkhand government has prohibited religious congregations this time. Every year, different sarna samitis bring out processions from their respective localities that converge at the main sarna sthal at Seromtoli near Ranchi railway station that attracts a huge gathering. Similarly, processions carrying Mahavir jhandas are brought out from various akhras from across the capital city that culminate at Tapovan Mandir at Nivaranpur in Doranda where a mela (fair) is also organised every year. After a meeting with Ranchi deputy commissioner on Thursday, both Kendriya Sarna Samiti president Phoolchand Tirkey and Adivasi Sanjukt Morcha convener Antu Tirkey announced that no Sarhul procession would be brought out on April 14. The administration, however, allowed that five members from each of the Sarna samitis could go to the main Sarna sthal at Seromtoli and perform pujas by turn. A section of the local Mahavir Mandal led by Jai Singh Yadav has also declared no Ram Navami procession would be brought out on April 21 while another section led by Rajiv Ranjan Mishra demanded some concessions. The administration may allow performing rituals both at the akhras and also at Tapovan Mandir by small groups that day but any other concession is unlikely to be given under the present Covid situation, most believe. Meanwhile, Covid infection has considerably gone up in the state, particularly in Ranchi, during the past fortnight. On March 24,Jharkhand had 969 Covid positive cases with 194 new cases detected that day. Ranchi alone had 451 cases that comprised of 46.54 per cent of the total cases in the state. With 1,882 new cases detected on Thursday, the number of total positive cases in the state went up to 9,249, over 9.5 times after a fortnight. Ranchi alone had 858 new positive cases that day and the total number of such cases rose to 4,721 that accounted for 51.04 per cent of the state’s total cases. As the number of positive cases increased, the recovery rate that was 98.39 per cent in the state on March 25 also slipped to 92.16 per cent on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
