11-04-2021||Jharkhand||Ineffective monitoring of asymptomatic patients adding on to Covid count||Ineffective monitoring of Covid patients in home isolation has been contributing towards the rise of cases in steel city. Inadequate man-power and non-payment of Rs 3 crore by the district administration has led to the present situation in the healthcare system. Every day on an average, 2,500 people have been tested for Covid since March this year. Asymptomatic patients are being asked to remain confined in their respective homes until the test report comes. Unfortunately, most of them are not adhering to the prescribed norm. With no system in place to monitor those in home isolation is thereby making it easier for the infection to spread. Additional district magistrate (ADM), East Singhbhum, Nand Kishore Lal claimed the administration is monitoring the asymptomatic patients over the phone this time. “Physical monitoring of asymptomatic patients is not possible now as we do not have the required man-power like last year. The district administration spent over Rs 3 crore for the pandemic last year, but did not get even a single rupee as of now. Then how can we engage extra man-power for the monitoring the asymptomatic patients,” quipped Lal while talking to The Telegraph Online. The ADM added that the district administration spent money in providing food, bringing the migrant labourers back home, buying testing machines and hiring additional man-power for managing the containment zones last year. In the last 24 hours, 303 more Covid cases have been detected, thereby, taking the total count to 20,467 in the district. The total number of deaths reported during this period stands at six.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
11-04-2021||Jharkhand||Woman dies after giving birth, medical team flees hospital||A 27-year-old woman died after giving birth to a boy at a private hospital here early on Sunday amid allegations of medical negligence after which doctors and staff of the facility fled. An FIR was lodged at Dhanbad police station against the operator of Raj Clinic, Dr Savita Shukla Das, her husband, Dr U. S. Prasad, and other staff members of the hospital. DSP Sarita Murmu, accompanied by a posse of policemen, sent the body of the woman, Kritika Tiwary, for post-mortem at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College. Murmu pacified Kritika's family and angry relatives and assured them of action against the guilty after conducting a thorough probe. An FIR has been lodged in Dhanbad police station against the hospital operator, Dr Savita Shukla Das, her Pediatrics husband, Dr US Prasad and other staff members of the clinic. “At around 2am I was informed by Dr Savita Shukla Das and other staff of the hospital that my wife developed some medical complications due to rupture of one vein during delivery and asked me to arrange for one unit of blood,” said Bhola Tiwari. “I immediately brought the blood from the blood bank and but soon after returning I was informed by the hospital staff that one more unit of blood is required and I again went outside the hospital to bring the blood from the blood bank,” explained Tiwari. While procuring the second unit of blood, he was informed by his sister-in-law that his wife had passed and the medical team was missing. “I will be compelled to immolate myself in hospital if I don’t get justice and want immediate action on the guilty,” said Tiwari. DSP Sarita Mumu said due course of action will be taken after the arrival of the post mortem report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
11-04-2021||Jharkhand||Third Nor'wester brings light showers and strong winds||The season's third Nor'wester hit several parts of Jharkhand on Sunday afternoon. Originating from the Chhotanagpur Plateau region, the Nor'wester covered several districts including Ranchi, Khunti, Ramgarh, Seraikela- Kharsawan, East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Simdega. IMD'S Ranchi Met Centre had issued a nowcast (short-term forecast) of bad weather in central and southern Jharkhand. In Jamshedpur, the Nor'wester swept across with a wind speed of 45 kmph while Ranchi ,Khunti and other places recorded a wind speed of 40 kmph. "The Nor'wester was accompanied by lightning and thunder. Some places in Khunti, Simdega and Seraikela - Kharsawan witnessed light showers while other places including Jamshedpur and Ranchi experienced strong winds, "said a duty officer at the Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He said a prevailing trough and a cyclonic circulation over southwest Madhya Pradesh extending upto 1.5km above mean sea level helped in triggering the Nor'wester. Met data revealed that dry weather prevailed over Jharkhand in the last 24 hours with Daltonganj recording the highest maximum temperature of 39.4°C . The Met office forecasts suggest a partly cloudy sky with possibility of light rain and thunderstorm at isolated places over central and southern Jharkhand in the next two days. There won't be any change in maximum temperature during the next two days and thereafter a rise of 2-3°C is expected .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
11-04-2021||Jharkhand||Agri varsity herbal cocktail for cough and cold gets patent ||A herbal medicine formulation named BAU Birsin developed by Kaushal Kumar, Birsa Agriculture University’s scientist of the forestry department, has been granted patent rights by the Indian Patent Office in Calcutta earlier this week. The patent will now enable it for commercial production, the varsity’s officials have informed in a statement. Hailing the developments amid the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, BAU’s vice chancellor Omkar Nath Singh said that the success is a result of persistent work done by Kumar for the last 10 years to get the patent. “The medicine once developed could be highly useful for treatment of cough, cold, body aches and fever,” read the statement from BAU. Kaushal informed that they are in the process of signing a formal agreement with National Biodiversity Authority in Chennai for commercial production of the medicine. About the herbal formulation, he said, “The formulation has been developed using the the leaves and bark of Vitex peduncularis plant, popularly known as Charigorwa that is abundantly found in the forested regions of Jharkhand, specially in the Chhotanagpur and Santhal Pargana regions that are tribal dominated. In 1921, a research paper was also published in the British Medical Journal in this regard by the then Civil Surgeon of Ranchi. Using inferences from the available researches and based on my field visits, I began working on the herbal medicinal formulation using Charigorwa elements.” Kaushal was earlier the head of herbal wing of Yoga exponent Baba Ramdev led Patanjali Yogpeeth headquartered in Haridwar. “Experiences and knowledge of identifying and dealing with forestry products having medicinal values came handy while developing this formulation,” he said, adding that once commercially developed, this medicine can be of great use for common people as the herbal medicine market for treating all kinds of ailments is still not fully explored. “We have maintained high standards of scientific parameters while developing this formulation and the product can have an effective life span up to two years if kept under the prescribed conditions,” he said, adding that the commercial production would also lead to increasing income of the farmers in the state as they can take up growing this plant for commercial sale in coming years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
11-04-2021||Jharkhand||Educational aids for underprivileged children in Dhanbad||Around 105 underprivileged children, majority of whose parents work as coal pickers, received NCERT books, stationery and school uniforms at Bhaga Basti based Pathshala on Sunday. BCCL officer, Dev Kumar Verma, has been running the school for six years after renovating a single-storey house of his own. The educational aids were handed over to the beneficiaries by chief guest Madan Mohan Mishra, principal of Saraswati Vidya Mandir, Sinidih in the presence of Verma and others during a programme held at the school campus. “We are running three schools at different parts of Katras including, Bhaga Basti (established December 2018), Prem Nagar (August 2018) and Katras Bazar (March 2015) having a cumulative strength of around 400 students and today provided the educational help to 105 students of Bhaga Basti school and will gradually provide the same to students of other two schools,” said Verma to The Telegraph Online. “All the educational materials worth around Rs 1 lakh were provided with the financial help of around 70 person including my friends and well wishers,” he said. “During the pandemic as the economic condition of everyone including my own deteriorated, I started finding it difficult to manage the expense of three schools where free of charge education is imparted to these children belonging to families lying on the fringe of society and thus made an appeal to my friends and well wishers over social media platforms and 70 people came forward with the help,” said Verma, an area manager of BCCL in Barora area. Ram Pravesh Verma, father of a class VII student of Bhaga Basti based school, who received the educational material said, “With the meager income of around Rs 4000 per month, earned through book binding work, it was not possible for us to bear the fee of my son nor can I purchase the books and stationery and today our tension for managing books and stationeries have been relieved.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
11-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid reports delayed as Ranchi labs flooded with swab samples||In the wake of the sudden rise in demand for Covid tests, private labs in Ranchi are flooded with swab samples causing a delay of 48 hours or more in the final report. RT PCR test reports were earlier handed to people within four hours. “We usually collected about 200 samples every day in mid-March. However, in April, the count of samples collected on a daily basis has gone up to 1000,” said a swab collection staff at city-based J. Sharan Laboratory. “We have so many swab samples for testing that delivering the test report on the same day has become almost impossible,” he added. The health department has directed private labs to prioritise those with comorbid conditions and symptoms while conducting tests. Health secretary K.K. Soan, at a meeting with private laboratories, asked the labs to provide test results to people with comorbid conditions and Covid symptoms as early as possible. According to government records, around 7000 swab samples are collected for Covid test in Ranchi every day. In the wake of the growing cases of infection in the state capital, the government has set up new testing centres in urban as well as rural areas of the district. From Monday onward, Covid testing booths will be set up at Marwari Bhavan, Kokar Industrial Area, Morhabadi OP, Doranda, Station Road, Health Centre Dhurwa, Risaldar, CMPDI and Hatia, a press communique from the health department stated. So far, free Covid tests were conducted at Sadar Hospital, Ranchi Railway Station, Hatia Railway Station, ITI Bus Stand, Khadgada Bus Stand, Zila School and Sainik Market on MG Road. Besides increasing the number of Covid testing booths in the city, the health department has also directed the Ranchi district administration to send Covid testing teams to areas with a high-positivity rate and set up free Covid testing camps there. Ranchi accounts for almost half of the over 12,000 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand according to government data. The district, as per data with NHM, has 5,927 active cases of infection, the highest among the 24 districts in the state. The district has also reported 46 of the 99 Covid deaths in Jharkhand during the past one month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
11-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: 2,373 cases take active caseload above 12,000||At least 2,373 cases of Covid-19 infection took the active caseload above 12,000 in Jharkhand on Saturday, while the Covid toll jumped to 1,192 as the state reported 17 casualties in 24 hours, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. Ranchi and East Singhbhum – the districts with high urban population – reported the bulk of the cases and fatalities on the day. While Ranchi reported 904 cases and five deaths, East Singhbhum reported 303 cases and four deaths on Saturday, stated a bulletin released by the NHM. As per government data, Dhanbad and Hazaribagh also reported a triple digit spike for the first time in 2021 on Saturday. As many as 148 people were found infected in Dhanbad, while 167 Hazaribag residents tested positive for Covid-19 on the day. The state reported 667 Covid recoveries on the day, including 201 in East Singhbhum and 194 in Ranchi. With only 194 recoveries against the over 900 cases, the active caseload in Ranchi reached 5,927 on Saturday, the highest among the 24 Jharkhand districts. As per NHM data, the active caseload in East Singhbhum was 1344, while that in Dhanbad was 487 by the end of Saturday. As many as 435 people were battling the viral infection in Hazaribagh. Bokaro in Dhanbad reported two Covid casualties each on the day, while Dumka, Giridih, Pakur and West Singhbhum reported one casualty each. So far, East Singhbhum has reported 367 Covid deaths, while Ranchi accounts for 295 of the 1,192 Covid fatalities in the state so far. The growth rate of infection reached 1.07 per cent on Saturday against the national average of 0.69 per cent, while the doubling rate dropped down to 65.12 days against the national average of 101.42 days. The figures indicate that it would take only 65-odd days for the Covid cases to double in Jharkhand. As per government data, as many as 1,37,088 people have been infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand so far and 90.16 per cent of them have recovered. The recovery rate has dropped from close to 99 per cent in mid-March, while the doubling rate in the state has dropped drastically from over 2,500 days in mid-March to less than 100 days in April. Meanwhile, the state on Saturday administered the first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 to 90,243 people, thereby achieving 75 per cent of the target for the day. The second dose was administered to only 6,613 people, hardly 3 per cent of the beneficiaries registered for the jab on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
11-04-2021||Jharkhand||Virtual convocation ceremony at XLRI on April 24||XLRI will hold its 65th annual convocation on a virtual mode on April 24. The convocation ceremony will be held for the 2019-21 batch. During the convocation function, 509 students of the B-school will receive their graduating diploma including 178 and 181 students of postgraduate programmes - Business Management and Human Resource Management (HRM); 101 students of 15-months Post Graduate Diploma in  Management  ; six students of Fellow Program in Management (FPM) and  43 students of the 2018 - 2021 batch of  Post Graduate Diploma in Management (Evening). Fr. P Christie, director of XLRI, said, "Convocation is a significant milestone event in the academic journey of every student, faculty and staff as it is the culmination of all the efforts put in by an individual during their time at the XLRI campus. The event will take place online because of the pandemic." T. V. Narendran, chairman, Board of Governors at XLRI and managing director of Tata Steel  said, "For over seven decades, XLRI has steadfastly held on to its mission of proffering world-class education across various management-centric programs. XLRI diligently strives to create a value-based and ethics-driven teaching and learning environment while underscoring the need for all-round development. This emphasis on inculcating important core- values is what sets XLRI apart from other B-schools in the country." This year XLRI would confer the prestigious Sir Jehangir Ghandy Medal for Industrial and Social Peace to Sandeep Kataria, global CEO of Bata. He will also deliver the convocation address to the graduating students at the event. Kataria is the first Indian to hold the position in the company's 126-year history.  He had 24 years of experience at Unilever, Yum Brands, and Vodafone in India and Europe before joining Bata India as CEO in 2017. Sir Jehangir Ghandy Medal for Industrial and Social Peace, instituted by XLRI in 1966, in honor of the Late Jehangir Ghandy, former chairman of the Board of Governors- XLRI is awarded to those who have contributed towards the growth of their respective organisations and the nation in a significant way. Some of the recipients of the medal includes eminent business leaders like N.R. Narayana Murthy, chairman emeritus and chief mentor, Infosys Technologies Ltd,  Shiv Nadar, founder and chairman, HCL and Shiv Nadar Foundation and Sunil Kant Munjal, joint managing director of Hero MotoCorp and chairman, Hero Corporate Services Pvt. Ltd and Adi Godrej, chairman, The Godrej Group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
11-04-2021||Jharkhand||Private hospitals in Bokaro provide vaccine, refuse treatment||The district health department and residents are disappointed with the self-serving role of private hospitals at a time when the Covid-19 active caseload crossed the 350-mark in the district. Covid positive patients have to depend only on BSL’s run Bokaro General Hospital for treatment. BGH is a dedicated Covid hospital of the district. The health workers and staff are struggling for the past year with no alternative arrangements to share its load. Private hospitals and nursing homes which are participating in the vaccination drive are not admitting or treating Covid patients. About two dozen private hospitals are providing Covid-19 vaccination to the residents in the district. Around 250 positive patients are in home isolation. Executive director, BGH, Dr A.K. Singh said that there are 70 Covid patients admitted at present but seeing the situation, they were forced to come up with 70 more beds to accommodate patients. There are more than 50 private hospitals and nursing homes in the district. Most of them are functional in Bokaro Township. The doctors at private hospitals who see patients with severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) symptoms send them to Sadar Hospital. At present, BGH will only admit those non-BSL corona patients who are serious and referred by Sadar Hospital. Civil surgeon Dr A.K. Pathak said, “Last week we had conducted a meeting with the owners and representatives of the private hospitals asking them to come forward providing treatment to Covid-19 patients, but none of them has turned up yet.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
