12-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: 321 Bokaro schools declared tobacco-free||Bokaro: Around 321 schools in the district have been declared as tobacco-free educational institutions in 2020-21. “Bokaro was given a target to make 300 schools as tobacco-free educational institutions last year, but we so far declared 321 schools as tobacco-free institutions. Initiative is on to make more schools tobacco-free in coming days,” said Mohammad Aslam, district consultant officer. Counselling facilities are available at the Tobacco Drug Addiction Centre, Sadar Hospital Bokaro and B.G.H. Deputy Development Commissioner Jaikishor Prasad said a meeting will be held at the block level this month, where a task force will be formed to alert people on tobacco consumption. The DDC said that tobacco sellers, selling near a school will be arrested. (Our correspondent) Ramgarh: Two people were killed and one seriously injured in a road accident near Kushtegada village in Gola police station area on Monday night. The injured victim was sent to RIMS after first aid at the Gola Community Health Center. Police said that Tek Lal Yadav, Krishna Yadav and Bahadur Karmali, residents of Murpa village in the area, were returning home after work on a bike when a tractor coming from the opposite direction collided with their bike. Krishna Yadav and Teklal Yadav died on the spot. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
12-04-2021||Jharkhand||Three members of family found killed at home in Jamshedpur||Two minor girls, their mother and a teacher were found murdered at their house on Tista Road under Kadma thana area on Monday evening. The father of the minors is the primary suspect in all four murders. The victims have been identified as Vina Kumari (35), Rinku Ghosh (22), Diya Kumari (15) and Sanvi Kumari (11). Deepak Kumar, 42, is suspected to have carried out the murder in the afternoon before fleeing his residence. Rinku Ghosh, a resident of Ramjanam Nagar in Kadma had come to teach the two girls at about 11am on Monday. Her family members had become anxious and went about looking for her after she did not return home till 1pm. Her scooter was still parked at Deepak’s residence. The doors of the house were locked. Rinku’s family members broke open the house door and found four mutilated bodies including that of Rinku lying on the floor near the kitchen. City SP, Subhash Chandra Jat arrived at the crime scene after Kadma thana OC, Manoj Kumar Thakur had started the probe. From the initial probe it was found that all four were killed with an iron dumbbell. Manoj Kumar Thakur said, "From the condition of the bodies, it appears that the killings must have taken place between noon and 2 pm." Thakur said Deepak Kumar who works in Tata Steel's Fire Brigade seemed to have absconded after the murders, adding that the reason behind the murders is yet to be established.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
12-04-2021||Jharkhand||Traders frown at state tie-up with Flipkart||The small time traders and retailers reeling under the impact of Covid induced recession fear the state government’s pact with Flipkart will further affect trade prospects. The JMM government has signed an MoU in March with the online shopping site and FICCI for infrastructure and industrial development. Rajesh Gupta, Patron of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said: “At a time when the trade is already declining due to the impact of Covid such a step would pose a strict competition to the small time traders, although the MOU is avowedly meant for infrastructure development.” “The small traders having lesser capital and resources can’t survive amidst the onslaught of these marketing giants having huge capitals as in order to attract the customers they purchase the article from us then supply the same at lesser price,” said Gupta. “The trade towns like Dhanbad still depend on the muhalla shops and thus the government should concentrate on strengthening these shops instead of posing competition to them through big online marketing giants,” he said. Echoing Gupta’s sentiments, Prabhat Surolia, president of Bank More Chamber of Commerce and Industry said, “Though the MoU can prove good for industries in procuring raw materials and supply of finished products but it may prove fatal for the small traders and retailers.” Surolia suggested a change in the marketing strategy for the small traders in view of bigger challenges posed by marketing giants and said that the small shopkeepers should also ensure usage of internet technology to take orders etc and ensure home delivery of products. “We are also planning to develop a mobile app for our shop in order to take orders from the customers and ensure home delivery of products etc,” said Surolia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
12-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand asks private hospitals to reserve 50% beds for Covid patients||The state health department has mandated that all private hospitals in Jharkhand must reserve 50 per cent beds exclusively for Covid care in the wake of rising cases, according to an order issued by health secretary K. K. Soan on Monday overriding the state government's earlier directive to reserve 25 pr cent hospital beds for Covid patients. State health minister Banna Gupta also chaired an emergent meeting at Nepal House in the afternoon to take stock of the Covid-19 situation. In a statement issued after  the meeting, he said, the government was working out plans to sort out issues of hopital bed availability to ensure timely treatment of Covid patients. “Earlier, we had asked private hospitals to reserve 25 per cent beds for Covid patients. But considering the surge in our state, we have now directed them to double the reservation,” Gupta said in his  statement, adding that all private hospitals must adhere to the directives of the government in the fight against Covid-19. As per the health department data, Ranchi currently has about 2,383 beds while active Covid cases are over 6,700 in the district. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said he had already ordered all incident commanders in districts to ensure compliance of the government's directive on reserving beds in private hospitals. “All incident commanders have been asked to immediately hold meetings with all private hospitals in their jurisdiction to ensure 50 per cent reservation of beds are followed from now. We are taking all necessary steps to increase the coverage of beds so that critical patients don’t suffer,” he said. Jharkhand received 1,500 doses of Remdesivir injections from the Centre on Monday after facing a  crisis for days while treating critical patients, according to a separate communiqué isued by the health minister's office. “All the freshly received doses have been dispatched directly to about 15 hospitals that were in need of Remdesivir injections,” Gupta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
12-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid cases rising in Dhanbad, 910 hospital beds set aside||Covid is spreading fast in Dhanbad with the number of active cases in the district touching 485 on Monday in spite of the district administration's efforts to step up testing people at the railway station and bus stands, in addition to adhering to the test, isolate and treat regimen. In all, 446 Covid cases were detected in the last week _40  on April 11, 148 on April 10, 94 on April 9, 91 on April 8, 68 on April 7, 72 on April 6 and 24 on April 5.  As many as 182 Covid patients were released from varoius treatment centres during this time. But Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh claimed the distict administration was fully prepared to meet with any eventuality. He said in all,  910 beds had been set aside at various private (75) and government hospitals(835) for Covid patients. Government hospitals and health centres where Covid patients will be treated are Central Hospital, Dhanbad; SNMMCH, Cath lab; SNMMCH PG Block; Nirsa Polytechnic; Zonal Railway Training Centre, Bhuli; and Tata Central Hospital, Jamadoba. Five private hospitals are treating Covid patients. They are Asian Dwarkadas Jalan Hospital, Asharfi Hospital, Pragati Nursing Home, JIMS Hospital and Yashlok Hospital. “We have made sufficient arrangements of oxygen concentrators, ventilators and medicines in all treatment centres including non-ICU treatment centres. There is no need to panic,” said Singh. The deputy commssioner said officials were conducting regular reviews of treatment centres. "Officials are unertaking inspections of each of centre as a result of which quality treatment is being ensured. As many as 128 patients have been cured and released from treatment centres in the last one week,” Singh said. He said two senior doctors deputed at the telemedicine centre, Dr P.P. Pandey and Dr M. Narayan, are attending to patients using teleconferencing facilities twice a day, offering treatment advice and counselling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
12-04-2021||Jharkhand||Seraikela-Kharsawan police arrest three rebels||The Seraikela-Kharsawan police arrested three activists of outlawed outfit CPI-Maoist from Chandil thana area of the district about 25 kms away from here on Monday. The three rebels are active members of Maharaj Pramanik's group in the Chandil-Chowka-Ichagarh stretch in the Chandil sub-division and Kuchai as well as in Kharsawan region of the district. They were identified as Malindranath Majhi, 32, Sujit Munda, 24, and Chamburam Munda, 20. The three are residents of Seraikela-Kharsawan and were caught soon after extorting money from a businessman. Maharaj Pramanik’s capture carries a reward of Rs 15 lakh. Seraikela-Kharsawan district SP, Mohammed Arshi said that the police had information about rebels likely to visit a place at Urmal locality in Chandil thana area on Monday morning. "Having got the intelligence input, we set up a taskforce of OCs Chandil, Ichagarh and Kharsawan police stations and sub-divisional police officer, Chandil. A company of CRPF's 193 batata was also engaged in an operation at Urmal. Eventually, the taskforce succeeded in nabbing the insurgents," said Arshi at a press conference at Seraikela on Monday afternoon. "On being searched, the police recovered Rs 5,000, naxal literature and four cellphones from the trio’s possession. On being interrogated, the rebels confessed that they are active members in Maharaj Pramanik squad and had come to Urmal to collect extortion money from a businessman, "said the SP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
12-04-2021||Jharkhand||Eco-friendly crematorium to debut in April-end||An eco-friendly crematorium at Parvati ghat in Bistupur is set to be commissioned later this month. The project, executed by a Calcutta-based agency, is almost ready with all necessary equipment in place. “Only the flooring needs to be completed. Initial work related to flooring is underway. It would not take much time,” said Dipendra Bhatt, general secretary of the Parvati ghat management committee. Two furnaces are used at Parvati Ghat, located near Kharkai bridge. Apart from the furnaces, bodies are cremated by adopting traditional methods of using wooden logs on two separate platforms under a tin shed. On an average, 8 to 10 bodies come for cremation at the ghat. On the functioning of the burning unit, Bhatt said logs of wood inside the burning chamber would be compressed and a blower would assist in quick burning of the pyre. The remains will pass through the channel inside the chamber and only smoke will come out of the chimney. “The remains will settle down after passing through the water channel. There will be no scope for particles to get released in the air. The new unit will consume less quantity of wood and take less time to fully burn the bodies,” he added. Ghat committee members and well-wishers have contributed funds for the Rs 20 lakh unit. The cost of cremation at the eco-friendly unit has not been decided yet but the general secretary has assured it won’t be high. Plans are also afoot to add greenery to the crematorium once the new unit is functional.  For security purposes, the boundary walls will be made fully concrete with no gaping spaces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
12-04-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi health facilities stretched as Covid positivity rate shoots up||Facilities to battle Covid-19 crisis in Ranchi have started to crumble with several bodies of Covid victims awaiting cremation for over 24 hours and a shortage of life-saving drugs haunting patients and their relatives even if they manage to find berths in hospitals amid the acute shortage of beds. In the past 48 hours, Ranchi’s Covid positivity rate has been higher than 18 per cent, which is almost as bad as Mumbai and Delhi.  On Saturday, as many as 5,442 swab samples were tested in Ranchi and 904 of them, around 16.6 per cent, were found positive. On Sunday, the positivity rate further increased to over 20 per cent in the district as 1,076 of the 5,174 samples tested were found to be Covid positive. As per figures with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the positivity rate in Delhi during the past 48 hours has been around 10 per cent, while the positivity rate in Mumbai was around 20 per cent during the same period. The positivity rate in Ranchi was higher than that in Delhi and a shade lower than what Mumbai reported. Even though the population and Covid tally in Ranchi is much lower than that in Mumbai and Delhi, two of the worst-affected cities in India, the high positivity rate here has brought to light the lack of readiness to tackle a possible Covid explosion in the near future, say experts. Many Covid patients, including some with comorbid conditions, had to struggle to get a bed in a hospital during the past two days. As per government data, there are 2,383 dedicated Covid beds in Ranchi for 6,701 patients, as reported on Sunday night. Nripendra Kumar, himself a Covid patient, could not find a bed in a private hospital for his Covid-positive father despite contacting all the renowned healthcare facilities in the city on Sunday. “There are no beds available in hospitals. Doctors have prescribed some life-saving injections, but those are also not available anywhere in Ranchi,” Kumar, five of whose family members are battling the viral infection, said referring to the unavailability of remdesivir,  an anti-viral injection administered to Covid patients with serious symptoms. Jharkhand received 1,500 doses of Remdesivir injections from the Centre on Monday, thanks to the efforts of state health minister Banna Gupta. “All the freshly received doses have been dispatched directly to about 15 hospitals that were in need of Remdesivir injections,” Gupta said after his office issued a special  communiqué. In fact, Gupta had recently spoken to Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan over video conferencing and sought more remdesivir injections citing the acute crisis in Jharkhand. The second wave of Covid-19 has not only hit testing labs and hospitals in the city, but also affected cremation of Covid victims. The electric incinerator at Mukti Dham in Harmu, used only for cremation of Covid-infected bodies, broke down aparently  due to over-use on Sunday. Around a dozen Covid-positive bodies were in ambulances outside the crematorium for the entire day and were eventually moved to some other location. Dr Ajay Kumar Singh, the state coordinator of Indian Medical Association (IMA), warned that the virus was spreading more rapidly during the second wave in Jharkhand cities, and a lack of caution may prove to be disastrous.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
12-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs over 2000 fresh Covid cases, active caseload close to 7,000||Over a dozen Covid casualties reported in Ranchi on Sunday took the Covid toll in the district above 300, while over 1000 fresh cases of infection took the active caseload here close to 7000, figures released by the health department on Sunday night revealed. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 2,296 people, including 1076 from Ranchi alone, were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Sunday. At least 635 Covid patients also recovered on the day, but the active caseload still jumped to 13,933, the NHM stated in the bulletin. The state reported 21 Covid casualties on the day, and at least 14 of these victims were residents of Ranchi. Sunday’s findings took the Covid toll in Ranchi to 309 and that in Jharkhand to 1213, NHM data highlighted. East SInghbhum, which has reported the highest number of Covid casualties among the districts in Jharkhand, also reported four Covid deaths on the day, which took the toll there to 371. The active caseload in East Singhbhum crossed the 1500 mark on the day as the district reported 362 cases against 131 Covid recoveries in 24 hours. As per NHM data, as many as 1,571 East Singhbhum were battling a Covid-19 infection by the end of Sunday. The count of active patients in Ranchi, however, was much higher at 6,701, which is almost half of the total active cases in Jharkhand. As per government data, over 1.39 lakh people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand so far and 89,13 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of infection has increased to 1.19 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.74 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state has dropped to 58.73 days against the national doubling rate of 93.89 days. The state also sent 5901 swab samples to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in Bhubaneshwar for RT PCR tests. These samples were collected from Khunti, Ranchi and Hazaribag. Meanwhile, the state on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 80,515 people on the day, while the second dose was administered to 6453 beneficiaries. Jharkhand achieved 58 per cent of its target for the first dose and only 3 per cent for the second dose on the day. So far, over 20 lakh Jharkhand residents have received the first jab of the vaccine and 3 lakh of them have got the second dose as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
12-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Bihar police seizes truck supplying illegal liquor||Bokaro: Bihar police have found a liquor manufacturing unit in Balidih Industrial Area of Bokaro, allegedly involved in supplying liquor bottles of various whiskey brands illegally to several districts of Bihar. The liquor manufacturing unit is said to be of a prominent businessman, Anil Singh. Bihar has imposed complete ban on sale of liquors. A joint team of Jamui police and excise department led by DSP, Aditya Kumar with support of Bokaro administration and police team conducted a raid in Shree Om Bottlers and Blenders Private Limited on Saturday night. The team recovered more than 700 boxes of liquors bottles in a warehouse situated adjacent to the manufacturing unit. SP, Jamui, Pramod Kumar Mandal said, “The raid has been conducted in Bokaro liquor manufacturing unit, following the recovery of a huge stock of liquor bottles from a truck parked near a Dhaba at Panaut Moad in Malaypur area of Jamui.” “There were six persons arrested by the police and the truck has been seized. When interrogated, the driver of the truck revealed that he had loaded the liquor stock from the liquor factory in Bokaro,” added the SP. SDO said that the local administration will also investigate whether the permits and license of the manufacturing unit and brand being produced in it is valid or not. The local excise department is also investigating to verify the status and ownership of the warehouse situated adjacent to the factory where the liquor stocks were recovered. Dhanbad: The district administration sent around 35 people to a sensitisation camp for violating Covid protocols on Sunday. The camp has been developed at JAP-III center in Govindpur. The violators were caught for offences like not wearing masks at public places and not maintaining social distance. They underwent a Covid test at the camp and were later released after collecting a fine and submission of bond pledging they will not violate the norms in the future. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: Residents of Katras More locality on Sunday have complained about an LPG supply distributor cheating on quantity per cylinder. Akhalaque Ahmad a local resident said, "We were noticing the lesser quanity of gas supply since a few months and caught the vehicle today and informed Jharia Police whose team came and took details from the gas distributor staff." Manohar Kuamr, an ASI of Jharia police who carried out the probe said, "We are looking into the complaint and will carry out a probe before initiating action." (Praduman Choubey) Bokaro: A 31-year-old woman hung herself on Sunday morning in Sector 6 / C area of the town. The deceased, Punita Devi, was the wife of a railway employee posted at Bokaro Railway. They have two-and-a-half-year-old twins. The police officer said that the incident took place between 5:30 am and 6:30 am. Punita Devi’s husband discovered her hanging from the fan. Police have sent the body for post-mortem. A police officer said, the investigation is being done from every angle, but till now the reason which prompted Devi to hang herself is yet to be ascertained. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: Koderma police caught a youth on the Howrah-New Delhi Kalka Express who stole a fellow passenger’s bag. Umesh Kumar Das, a resident of Gohal under Jainagar police station, was caught after scanning CCTV cameras installed at Koderma station. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
12-04-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI professor’s book on Covid impact on workers’ rights||A new book by K.R. Shyam Sunder, labour economist and professor of human resources management at XLRI, Jamshedpur, which attempts to provide a critical and comprehensive analysis of policies, laws and rights concerning workers during the pandemic, was released virtually at the institute on Thursday. The book, Impact of Covid-19, Reforms, Poor Governance on Labour Rights in India, also discusses the responses and strategies followed by the trade unions during the most challenging period witnessed in the history of humanity. The book published by Synergy Books India not only critically analyses the contemporary developments but also provides valuable recommendations based on the people-centric approach of the International Labour Organisation (ILO). “The Covid-19 pandemic has wrought the worst possible havoc both on lives and livelihoods of people in all the countries. However, the adverse impact has landed far more severely on the vulnerably placed informal and unorganised workers, people below the poverty line and thereby exacerbating existing inequalities in the economic system. The ILO strongly  recommended a four-pillar approach which is a comprehensive and balanced approach arguing for designing policies and measures based on social dialogue to ensure employment generation, income and social protection and workers’ rights. But the tale of policy-making in India during the pandemic does not conform much to the healthy perspective of the ILO,” said Shyam Sunder during the book release. “My book is based on the fundamental premise that labour institutions and social dialogue are indispensable for promoting a sound labour market and industrial relation policies that would at once protect both employers’ and workers’ rights and concerns, especially during the crisis-ridden crucial time such as the one we are facing now,” he added. He has so far published over 75 articles and book reviews in research outlets and authored 12 books and edited  five in the field of industrial relations and labour economics. He further said: “Had the government consulted the social partners in not only designing a comprehensive policy architecture to provide relief and life-saving measures especially to the small enterprises and informal workers but also in their delivery, had the government and other agencies implemented even a fraction of the even conceptually defective labour laws concerning the unorganised and migrant workers, had the government consulted global organisations like the ILO, the UN and academics in tackling the workers’ woes, the play of pandemic in the lives of these millions of distraught workers would have been better.” He said the whole tragic story of workers’ rights is the shoddy or non-implementation of even the meagrely legislated rights. A comprehensive database of work and employment is essential for devising universal social protection which would help better implementation of the four new labour codes, he added. “Around 68.4 per cent of workers in the non-agricultural sector work in the informal sector, about 70 per cent lack written contracts and more than half of them don’t have paid leave or any social security (according to the Periodic Labour Force Survey 2018-19). Given the extreme precarity of workforce in the non-agricultural sector which is unlikely to have reduced (in fact uncertainty would have been intensified thanks to Covid-19), the resurgence of Covid poses serious and grave concerns for the workers in particular and the society and economy in general,” the author said. The book was released by D. Narasimha Reddy, retired professor of economics, University of Hyderabad in the presence of Babu Mathew, professor, National Law School of India University, Praveen Jha, professor, Centre for Economic Studies and Planning, School of Social Sciences, JNU, New Delhi, Ramapriya Gopalakrishnan ILO consultant and leading labour advocate, Chennai, and Radhika Kapoor, senior fellow, Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations. Forty-six students of XLRI have tested positive for Covid-19. The students have been isolated and quarantined within the campus and have been kept under observation by the in-house doctor. “XLRI has been strictly adhering to all the Covid-19 directives and guidelines of the state government and complying with all the necessary precautionary steps and protective measures. To contain the infection, contact tracing has been initiated, and all contact staff members and students will undergo a mandatory RT-PCR test. All the campus facilities, including the library, the computer lab, will remain closed until further notice,” said a communiqué issued by the B-school on Saturday. The XLRI administration has undertaken all required precautionary measures and all hostels and offices are being sanitised to contain the spread of infection. However, online classes will continue without any disruption.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
12-04-2021||Jharkhand||Special train from Mumbai to Ranchi with few workers||A special train from Mumbai reached Ranchi on Sunday that may be described as the first migrant special train. The Ranchi division of the South Eastern Railway, however, mentioned in a release that it was just a “single-trip, superfast special train” run “to tackle the excessive rush of passengers”. Leaving Lokmanya Tilak Terminus of Mumbai around midnight of Friday, the 21-coach train that had 12 general compartments reached Ranchi on Sunday afternoon via Itarsi, Mughalsarai and Gaya. “There is no plan to run any such special train right now,” informed Neeraj Kumar, the chief public relations officer of Ranchi division, when asked if the railways would run more such trains from distant cities for facilitating movement of workers willing to return home from their places of work. A special train between Surat and Ranchi was likely to be introduced by next week that would run at regular intervals for over a month, he added. Not many workers, however, travelled to Ranchi by this special train from Mumbai. “There were only about 25-odd passengers who travelled up to the destination station, Ranchi, by this train,” Kumar informed, adding others must have got down at other stoppages earlier.  Besides those who travelled by this train, many other workers also reached Ranchi from other places by travelling up to either Dhanbad or Gomoh by some other trains and taking a connecting train for Ranchi. “Mumbai ka sthiti bigad raha tha, fir lockdown hone se fas jate (the condition of Mumbai was worsening and we would get stranded if another lockdown was declared),” said one such worker, Sanghnu Bhagat of Basia (Gumla) who travelled by this train along with his sister Shanti. They were too scared to stay back and to face the ordeals of another lockdown, said Saghnu who was working as a labourer in Mumbai while his sister also worked as a domestic help there. The authorities also took precautions so that those who returned home did not spread Covid-19 infection further if they were infected themselves. The workers who alighted from trains were subjected to a rapid antigen test at the station on Sunday and were allowed to go out only after they tested negative, Kumar informed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
