13-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Mirchiya falls in Palamau goes totally dry||Daltonganj: The Mirchiya Falls at the Palamau Tiger Reserve has not been able to attract tourists this year, as it has dried up totally. Located in the Garu east range of the tiger reserve, the waterfall that used to attract hundreds of tourists now depends on the onset of rains to gain its glory back, Deputy Director (south) of Palamau Tiger Reserve Mukesh Kumar said. He blamed forest fire and subsequent loss of ground vegetation for the situation. “Forest fires denude the land making it lose all retentive power to arrest and detain the rush of the rain waters. As a result it runs off and does not percolate down to the earth,” he said. He added that the eco development committee of the Mirchaiya village has proposed for soil moisture conservation, whereby the water is arrested by raising small earthen check dams down the stream. (Our Correspondent) Bokaro: Operations at several Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) units came to a halt as hundreds of protesting employees went on a strike for a few hours, demanding minimum wages pending for the last four years. The employees under the banner of Krantikari Ispat Majdoor Sangh even when vital work remained stalled, and returned to their jobs only after top officials of BSL negotiated with them and assured to fulfill their demands. “All major departments inside BSL plant faced shutdown for a few hours. We have demanded wage revision from the management by providing 15 per cent minimum guarantee benefit, 35 per cent perks, 9 per cent pension and clearing the due arrears,” a protester said. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, “During the A-Shift on Tuesday, certain sections of agitating employees disrupted work for two to three hours in some of the shops. Later, senior officials appealed to withdraw their agitation and stop disruption of work, after which normalcy returned.” (Our Correspondent) Daltonganj: Two inmates of a children’s home in the town fled on Monday night, confirmed a member of Palamau child welfare committee, Dhirender Kishore. The two kids, vagabonds from Sahebgar and Garhwa districts, climbed on the roof of the centre to escape, said sources. The former came to the centre on April 5, while the latter was an inmate for a year or so, they added. A hunt is on to trace the two. Kishore said that it was not known why the two ran away. “Let them be found first. After that we can ascertain the reason,” he added. Officials are scanning CCTV footage in this regard. Palamau police inspector A.K.Mahatha said, “We will try to trace them but till 1pm on Tuesday, the children’s home officials have lodged no written complaint in this regard.” (Our Correspondent) Hazaribagh: A team of anti-corruption bureau led by Deputy Superintendent of Police Madan Paswan nabbed an assistant sub-inspector Upendra Singh while he was taking a bribe of Rs 50,000 from a villager. Triloki Prasad, a resident of Dharhara village in Barkatha block, was facing criminal charges and the case was being handled by Singh, who demanded Rs 1 lakh to remove his name. “I did not know about this FIR but the officer (Singh) was not ready to spare me without a bribe. I then contacted the bureau officials, who laid a trap to catch him while taking the bribe this afternoon,” Prasad said. The sub-inspector was caught near Indrapuri cinema hall in the town. Officials said processes initiated to send Singh to the prison. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: The district administration on Tuesday ordered private hospitals to declare the number of beds within 24 hours, so that half of them can be reserved for Covid-19 patients. In a meeting with about 12 hospitals, DC Bokaro Rajesh Singh along with civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak and SDO, Shashi Prakash Singh appealed to disclose the correct number of beds and warned of action if incorrect information was provided and Covid-19 treatment protocols were flouted. Nearly two dozen out of 70 private hospitals in Bokaro are not providing treatment to Covid-19 patients but are vaccinating beneficiaries. The district has over 400 active patients and 300 of them are in home isolation. In this scenario, state-run hospital BGH has been facing tremendous pressure while treating the patients. As a result, the hospital can only admit those who are in a serious condition. (Our Correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
13-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad ramps up Covid-19 testing at hotspots||Intended at ensuring prevention of spread of Covid-19, the Dhanbad district administration on Tuesday launched a drive for intensive testing at all the hotspots in the districts, starting off with Surya Realcon colony, Shraddha Apartment, Saraidhela, Pathak Colony Manaitand and ward Number 27 of the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said that authorities have identified several hotspots for the drive, and testing will be carried out in different colonies of Matkuria, Wasseypur, Vanasthali Colony and Telipara on Wednesday. The district meanwhile has also decided to conduct the covid test of employees of different hospitals. “Based on the data of Covid patients available with Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme it has been observed that a large number of patients admitted in Asian Dwarkadas Jalan Super Speciality Hospital are Covid-positive. So, the district administration has decided to conduct covid tests of all medical staff to ensure better management. Appointments of medical teams and magistrates have been made and kits have already been sent in this regard,” he said. “In case of any report of lack of cooperation appropriate action would be taken against residents  under suitable sections of the district Disaster Management Act,” Singh added. The DC also instructed all government officials of the district not to leave the headquarters without prior permission. “Rising number of infections in the districts means more testing is required, for which we need manpower,” he reasoned. The district administration has also taken the absence of employees from work seriously, Singh informed. “We have also instructed the departmental heads to take permission from me even while processing the application with regard to emergency leave,” the DC said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
13-04-2021||Jharkhand||Sindri girl secures 10th rank in Indian Engineering Service exam||Sindri girl Lakheshwari Kumari Jaiswal has secured 10th All India Rank in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering category of the Indian Engineering Service examination conducted by Union Public Service Commission, the results of which were declared on Tuesday. Daughter of a grocery shop owner, the 27-year-old pursued her B.Tech from Guru Nanak Institute of Technology, Calcutta. She is currently posted in Guwahati, where she is employed at the Indian Railway. Lakeshwari said she had started preparing for the examination in 2018, and cracked the prelims in 2019. “But I could not clear the interview. This was my second attempt,” she told The Telegraph Online. When asked about the secret behind her success, Lakeshwari said that the credit goes to her parents, who advised her to follow the path of hardwork to gain success. “They are my real motivators,” she said. Lakheshwari said that she takes positivity from everywhere in life and learns from each failure. “There are motivators everywhere in your life and I have learned a lot from them,” she said. Her father Shiv Narayan Jaiswal said, “She had the fighting instinct from her early childhood and always had the habit of improving after learning from failures.” Meanwhile, Anurag Kumar, a graduate from IIT-ISM, who currently works at Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited as an assistant engineer, has also secured the 16th rank in the electrical engineering branch of the same examination. He had served at Tata Consulting Engineering Limited until 2018 for four year, after his graduation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
13-04-2021||Jharkhand||Elderly man on stretcher kept waiting at sadar hospital, dies||An elderly man from Hazaribagh, who was on oxygen support, died at the entrance of Ranchi Sadar Hospital on Tuesday morning while waiting for hours on a stretcher to get admission around the time state health minister Banna Gupta was conducting a surprise inspection of the government facility. Attendants of the patient claimed that they begged the staff to allow him to be admitted, but that they refused citing a host of procedures and non-availability of beds, once again exposing shortcomings of the health system of the state capital amid a raging pandemic. Despite the state government’s tall claims of reserving beds at hospitals, those fighting ailments are faced with a horrific reality. The deceased was identified as Lav Kumar Gupta. He was suffering from respiratory issues, but is not known wheteher he was a Covid patient. His daughter blamed the health minister and the entire health system of Jharkhand as she broke down at the hospital. “Sadar hospital in Hazaribagh referred us to Ranchi on Monday. We reached here early on Tuesday.  After failing to get a bed in private hospitals, we came to sadar hospital around 8am. But there was no one to help us for hours. Repeated pleas to at the admission section went unheard. While some some cited space issues, others kept talking about paper work, leading to the death of my father,” she rued. During the inspection, minister Gupta walked around the hospital in a PPE kit. Speaking to reporters later he said, “Any death is an unfortunate incident. The government is trying its best to address the crisis. I appeal to the media to support us in this hour of crisis.” Gupta sad he was trying to streamline the system, which was why he had begun inspections. "At sadar hospital, we have realised that there are many patients who are occupying beds without much need. They can be easily sent to home isolation. In ICU, too, we are soon going to empty the oxygen support beds. I will also going to make surprise inspections of private hospitals.” Opposition BJP on the other hand accused the state government of mismanagement and demanded that chief minister Hemant Soren declare a "health emergency in Jharkhand." In a statement, BJP state president Deepak Prakash said, “The government is in total chaos. It is unaware how to tackle the crisis while people keep dying every day. Even after death, the deceased aren’t getting a respectable cremation. It’s high time the government declares a health emergency in Jharkhand.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
13-04-2021||Jharkhand||Meet N. Sai Krishna, a sports coach who ‘challenged’ the norm||From leading a pack of special athletes and helping them cross busy roads to coordinating daily sports drills, N. Sai Krishna is a guide and sports coach despite being intellectually challenged. The 21-year-old’s efficiency has improved by leaps and bounds, thanks to Jeevika, a special school in Sonari locality of the steel city, where Krishna is enrolled in. He not only handles the daily chores of his school, but also works at a departmental store in Sonari, a testimony to his mental health. “We feel very happy  with the progress Krishna has made. He understands things and also respects visitors at our school. He handles our school’s daily affairs brilliantly,” said Avtar Singh, the founder of Jeevika. Be it opening the locks of school or guiding special students to daily sports drills, Krishna does his job well without any complaints whatsoever. “Krishna’s  IQ  may not have increased  but his efficiency has certainly improved,” Singh, a former international cyclist said. The special guide, who lives in Sonari with his widowed mother Padmavati, has claimed two medals (silver and bronze) at the Special Olympics World Summer Games in Abu Dhabi in 2019 as well as two gold medals at the Special Olympics National Roller Skating Championship held in Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) in 2014. He was almost mute when he joined Jeevika, which is active in trying to bring special students to the social mainstream. Sukhdeep Kaur, secretary of the school said, “There is scope for more improvements in his (Krishna) efficiency in future,” she added. The special athlete said he enjoys doing his work.  “I love coming to the school and guiding the students. I am enjoying my job,” Krishna said. Singh said they were operating the school on every alternate day in view of the pandemic. “We are concerned with the health of our students, who have already been taught to follow Covid protocols like maintaining social distancing and use of masks. Krishna and another Jeevika student Ryan Francis  won medals at the 19th National Para Athletics Championship held under the aegis of the Paralympic Committee of India in Bangalore held from March 24 to 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
13-04-2021||Jharkhand||Districts told to ensure timely, respectful cremation of Covid victims||The state government has directed deputy commissioners of all 24 districts of Jharkhand to appoint nodal officers to ensure respectful and timely cremation of Covid patients, the order coming days after the Mukti Dham imbroglio in Ranchi where over a dozen bodies of Covid patients had to lay unattended in ambulances outside the crematorium for over 24 hours owing to a technical snag in the incinerator. State health secretary K.K. Soan, in a letter addressed to all deputy commissioners, said that all districts must be prepared for cremation of coronavirus- infected bodies in advance to ensure that there are no roadblocks in the process of cremation even if the count of bodies is high. “There has been a sudden rise in the number of Covid casualties reported every day. In such a situation, all the districts are advised to be prepared for timely and respectful cremation of such bodies well in advance,” the health secretary’s letter stated. As per government data, at least 40 Covid patients have died in Jharkhand during the past 48 hours. At least 22 of them were residents of Ranchi. The electric incinerator at Ranchi Mukti Dham, used only for cremation of Covid victims, remained defunct for more than 48 hours, forcing authorities to look for alternative places where  bodies of Covid victims could be cremated. Eventually, many of these bodies were cremated at Swarnarekha Ghat in suburban Ranchi’s Bada Ghaghra. Officials from the district administration, who inspected the Swarnarekha Ghat on Sunday, said that even though the bodies would be cremated in the traditional way, all necessary protocols for cremation of Covid bodies would be followed. The health secretary, in his letter to deputy commissioners, also directed all officials in districts to provide Moksha Vahan, a hearse provided by the government, for Covid victims. The nodal officers for cremation of Covid bodies, Soan said, could be directly contacted in case any family faces hurdles in cremation. As per latest data with the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 1,232 people have died of Covid in the state so far. Jharkhand has reported 118 Covid deaths in April and at least 50 of these victims were residents of Ranchi, highlights data compiled by the NHM. The incinerator at Mukti Dham in Ranchi’s Harmu has been used for cremation of Covid bodies since the advent of the virus in March 2020. Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) officials said the incinerator broke down on Sunday due to overuse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
13-04-2021||Jharkhand||State asks for more ventilators as Covid cases continue to rise||Jharkhand reported 19 Covid casualties and 2366 fresh cases from Sunday 10pm to Monday 10pm, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. Monday’s findings took the active caseload in the state to 15,343 and the Covid toll up at 1232, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. Ranchi alone accounted for eight Covid casualties and 787 cases of infection on the day, revealed NHM data. The active caseload in the district reached 6981 on Monday, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The Covid toll here reached 317 by Monday night. Dhanbad also reported eight Covid casualties on Monday, which took the toll in the district to 135. The district, however, did not report a major spike in cases. At least 64 cases against 42 recoveries took the active caseload there to 513. The active caseload in East Singhbhum, the second worst-hit district, reached 1,805 on Monday as the district reported 370 fresh cases of infection. With two more deaths reported on Monday, the Covid toll in East Singhbhum also jumped to 373, government data highlighted. Meanwhile, the state health secretary KK Soan wrote to the Additional Secretary in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare requesting her to provide at least 1500 ventilators to Jharkhand for treating patients suffering from severe symptoms of Covid-19. In his letter, Span said that Jharkhand had around 500 functional ventilators and may require more ventilators if cases continue to rise at the same pace. The state also received 1,500 vials of remdesivir injections for treatment of Covid patients. Jharkhand has run out of the anti-viral injection, which affected treatment of Covid patients across the state. Health Minister Banna Gupta had on Sunday requested Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Harsh Vardhan to provide additional Remdesivir injections and other medicines to Jharkhand for treatment of Covid patients. The state on Monday administered the first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 to over 53,000 people, while the second dose was administered to 5,701 beneficiaries, stated an NHM report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
13-04-2021||Jharkhand||National Lok Adalat bench in Ranchi welcomes first trans member||In a first for Jharkhand, a transgender person became a member of a National Lok Adalat bench, organised by the District Legal Services Authority at the Ranchi civil court on Saturday. Amruta Alpesh Soni, 38, from Sholapur district in Maharashtra, was part of the National Lok Adalat’s bench number 19, which also comprised judicial magistrate, Ranchi, Manish Kumar Singh, and Nityanand Singh, panel lawyer (DLSA Ranchi). Lok Adalat is a forum where the disputes/cases pending in the court of law or at pre-litigation stage are settled/compromised amicably. The Lok Adalat has been given statutory status under the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987. Soni completed graduation from Jamia Millia Islamia University in 2007 and did an MBA in marketing from Symbiosis Institute in Pune. Soni has been associated with work among transgenders and sex workers and is currently director (health), Jharkhand, with TRY, an NGO. “It was a very good experience. I am hopeful that DLSAs in other districts would also follow suit and include not only educated transgender but also sex workers in the panel as this is one of the best way to bring them in the mainstream of society,” said Soni, a former sex worker who was diagnosed as HIV-positive. Soni was associated with project Vihaan which provided help to HIV-infected persons in Chhattisgarh before coming in Ranchi in May 2020 after joining TRY, which runs hospitals with the help of the Jharkhand tribal welfare department and also works for female sex workers. Soni, who was the chief guest of the inaugural function, said she has been working for transgenders and sex workers who are looked down upon in society and such steps would go a long way in making people look up to them with respect. “I would also like that other district legal services authorities not only select transgender and sex workers in the (Lok Adalat) panel but also set up a separate bench to try cases pertaining to their problems,” said Soni. DLSA Ranchi secretary Abhishek Kumar said that the decision to include a transgender in the National Lok Adalat bench in the state was based on the directive given by the Jharkhand Legal Services Authority executive chairman Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh. “A direction was given to take up measures to bring transgenders and sex workers into the social mainstream and Soni was selected based on her experience and work. This is the first instance in Jharkhand. The decision is also aimed at ensuring that transgenders, sex workers and those staying in urban slums come forward with their problems to the DLSA. We are happy at her work at the National Lok Adalat,” said Kumar. During the daylong Lok Adalat held in virtual mode, a total of 47 benches, including 29 for judicial officers and 18 for administrative officials, were conducted. A total of 2,471 cases were disposed of and an amount of Rs 118,33,100 awarded by the Lok Adalat bench in Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
