14-04-2021||Jharkhand||RIIMS adds machinery to speed up Covid testing ||State Health Minister Banna Gupta on Wednesday approved the procurement of three additional RT PCR machines at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences to speed up the process of Covid testing in Ranchi, the worst affected district in terms of caseload in Jharkhand. Chairing a virtual meeting of the governing board of the State-run hospital, Gupta, the chairman of the board said that in the wake of the growing cases of Covid-19 infection in the state, the government has decided to add more teeth to RIMS’ machinery. “The additional RT PCR machines will help RIMS test more samples on a given day and also clear the backlogs,” said Gupta, adding that timely testing played a crucial role in identifying cases and limiting the spread of the virus during the second wave. Gupta also approved the procurement of 256 CT Scan machines for the Radiology wing and Trauma Centre at RIMS, besides opening vacancies for four scientists and eight lab technicians in the Mircobiology wing of the largest State-run hospital in Jharkhand. The new recruitments, he said, will help in research related to viruses and other micro-organisms. The sudden rise in demand for Covid tests flooded Ranchi labs with swab samples in the past couple of weeks, which eventually led to a delay of over 48 hours by private labs in providing RT PCR test reports to residents. As per NHM data, about 25,000 swab samples were still pending for tests. Even on Wednesday, some private labs admitted that it was taking more than two days to get RT PCR test results. Amid an unprecedented rise in cases and casualties, the state is also facing a crisis of beds and medicines used for treating Covid patients, health officials said. As per records with the National Health Mission (NHM), the state has been reporting more than 2000 fresh cases of infection and over a dozen Covid deaths every day on an average in the past one week. The meeting on Wednesday was virtually attended by Health Secretary KK Soan, Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth and Kanke MLA Samri Lal. RIMS Director Dr. Kameshwar Prasad and other senior doctors of the hospital were also present, sources said. Besides decisions related to strengthening the infrastructure for the fight against Covid-19 virus, Gupta on Wednesday also approved procurement of various equipment for the cardiology wing of RIMS. The equipment will help in cardiac surgeries and placing pacemakers in patients in need of such surgical interventions. The state, however, is yet to get a genome sequencer to detect new and mutated strains of virus without having to send samples to Bhubaneshwar. Covid samples recently sent for genome sequencing confirmed the presence of double mutant and UK mutant strains of Covid-19 in Ranchi and Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
14-04-2021||Jharkhand||Parents, teachers across Jharkhand welcome cancellation of board exams ||The Jharkhand Parents Association on Wednesday welcomed the Centre’s decision to cancel the Class 10 and postpone the class 12 board exams in the wake of the growing cases of Covid-19 in the country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, at a meeting with Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and other education department officials, took this decision . Ajay Rai, the president of JPA, said cancelling the board exams was a smart move given the rise in Covid cases and the risk of infection in students if they visit examination centres. “Risking the well being and health of students would not have been wise in the current circumstances. We also need to consider the fact that students are already under stress during their board exams, and the additional stress of Covid-19 would have made it even more challenging for them,” said Rai. Manohar Lal, the Ranchi coordinator for CBSE said that around 10,000 class 10 students and 9000 class 12 students were set to appear for the board exams scheduled to begin on May 4 and conclude on June 10 in Jharkhand. Unlike ICSE, there was no concept of home centre in CBSE, which meant that the students had to appear for the exams in centres away from their homes amid the growing cases of Covid-19 infection if the exams were not cancelled, said members of the JPA. Utpal Bhowmick, a Ranchi-based lawyer whose son had to appear for the class 10 exams this year, said that his son was under a lot of stress because of his exams and the Covid-19 situation and could not focus on his studies. Jamshedpur A section of students in the steel city said that the delay in exams will affect their studies. Rajiv Kumar, a student who was supposed to appear for the Class XII examination said,"Exams could have been conducted by maintaining social distancing and following other Covid-19 protocols." From Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas, around 4,000 students were about to appear for the Class XII examinations from as many as 12 CBSE schools. All schools affiliated to the board have welcomed the Centre’s decision. "In the wake of the growing number of Covid positive cases across the country, CBSE has taken the right decision to postpone the class 12 board exams. Although the board had increased the number of centres and strict guidelines had been issued to all the centers, the movement of a large number of students to answer their examinations would only make the Covid situation worse. I think the decision has brought relief to all parents whose wards were supposed to answer board examinations this year, " said Namita Agarwal, principal of Jamshedpur Public School. Dhanbad Students, parents and teachers of Dhanbad have welcomed the Central Board of Secondary Education’s decision. “We welcome the decision taken by the CBSE as the safety of students is of paramount importance,” said Dr K.C. Srivastava, Regional Officer of DAV School Group, to The Telegraph Online. “The decision to prepare the results of class X based on an objective criterion to be developed by the Board is also welcome as it is most likely to be based on the internal examination performance,” said Srivatava and added that those not satisfied with the results will get an opportunity to sit for an exam , as and when the situation improves. Srivastava has advised students to not stop preparations as they will be faced with more difficulties when they are in Class XI. He said students should simultaneously use the time being spent at home for preparation of professional courses. Prashant Singh, parent of a class X student of a Dhanbad school, affiliated to CISCE said, “after CBSE we  are very anxious about the CISCE examination and expect a similar decision.” Abhishek Acharya, a class XII student of the Delhi Public School, Dhanbad said, “though from safety point of view  the decision is ok but in a country like India where virtual classroom has not been very successful and we have already suffered with respect to practical learning  due to cancellation of offline classes the decision has negative aspects  also.” “Due to postponement of class XII exam by June, our career progress will be delayed,” said Acharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
14-04-2021||Jharkhand||UK, double mutant strains of Coronavirus found in Jharkhand patients||A UK mutant and a double mutant strain of the Coronavirus have been found among Covid patients in Jharkhand’s Ranchi and East Singhbhum districts, the Regional Genome Sequencing Laboratory (RGSL) at Bhubaneshwar-based Institute of Life Sciences (ILS) has confirmed. The Jharkhand government had sent at least 52 Covid positive samples to Bhubaneshwar last week for genome sequencing, and the test reports confirmed that at least nine of these samples were of the UK mutant while four were the double mutant strain, the government stated in a press communique released on Wednesday afternoon. As per data shared by the state government, at least eight of the nine UK mutant samples were from Ranchi and the remaining one was from East Singhbhum. Among the four double mutant strains, three were from Ranchi and one from East Singhbhum. At a time when the state is already battling the worst wave of Covid-19 cases, the presence of mutant strains of the virus has rung the alarm bell for the health department. The mutant strains of the virus are said to have higher transmissibility and are also likely to evade the immune response of the body developed after exposure to the unmutated Covid-19 virus or vaccination. While the UK strain of the virus was first found in European countries, the double mutant variant of the Covid-19 virus first emerged in India and has spread to other countries like the USA, Germany and UK. The presence of mutated virus strains in Ranchi and East Singhbhum could be one of the reasons for the sudden spike in Covid cases and fatalities, say experts. “The new mutated strains of the virus have a higher transmissibility, which could be one of the reasons for the spike in cases lately in Jharkhand,” said Dr Ajay Kumar Singh, the state co-ordinator of Indian Medical Association (IMA). Ranchi and East Singhbhum have reported more than 50 per cent of the fresh Covid cases that surfaced in Jharkhand in April – a trend that could be attributed to mutation in the virus. As per government data, Ranchi alone has reported 8,384 of the 19,703 Covid cases that surfaced in Jharkhand since April 1. East Singhbhum has reported 2,798 of the fresh cases this month. Health officials said that the Covid samples sent for genome sequencing to Bhubaneshwar were stored at – 80 degree Celsius and had CT value of less than 25. Of the 52 samples from Jharkhand, 39 were selected for whole genome sequencing. Genomic sequencing is a testing process to map the entire genetic code of an organism. which in this case, is the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
14-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant apologises for Covid spike, says govt doing its best ||Chief minister Hemant Soren said on Wednesday that the state government was doing its best to manage the spike in Covid-19 cases and apologised to those who faced problems in the last few days while campaigning in Madhupur for the April 17 byelection. Facing severe criticism, primarily for inadequacies in dedicated Covid treatment facilities, he assured people that he was keeping a strict watch on the situation and that systems were being streamlined. Hemant, who has been camping in Madhupur since April 9, is expected to return to Ranchi on Wednesday night. In the recent weeks, Jharkhand has witnessed an exponential rise in Covid-19 cases and shortage of hospital beds for critical patients. In statement, the chief minister said," Please don’t believe in any kind of rumors that are doing rounds. I am regularly in touch with authorities in the state to keep a strict vigil over Covid-19 situation in the state and issuing necessary directives from time to time. We are faced with an unprecedented situation and despite resource crunch and other challenges, the government is working its best to provide solace to its people and fight the virus. I am sorry if anyone faced any problems in recent days, but I once again assure you that this is your government and it will go to all extent to safeguard its people in war against covid-19.” Hemant appealed to people to help the government in fighting the pandemic by following the protocols. “Don’t venture out of your homes without the mask in any situation and follow all the protocols advised by the government to stay safe,” he said. Criticising Opposition parties, mainly the BJP for its double standards, Hemant said, “I also request Opposition parties to stop creating panic in the state for their political mileage. Like they (BJP) are spending all energies in Bengal election, Madhupur too is part of the country and Jharkhand where polling is happening on the directions of the Election Commission of India and union government.” On Tuesday, the state reported 29 casualties and 2,844 new infections in a single day. As per the records, Tuesday’s 24-hour death toll was almost equivalent to that of total fatalities recorded in February and March this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
14-04-2021||Jharkhand||Mental health fallout during Covid: Study||A study conducted by Jeevan, a Jamshedpur-based suicide prevention centre, has revealed that mental health of individuals has taken a turn for the worse, with the situation likely to aggravate in the days to come. The study is linked to the rise in number of suicide cases in the steel city. Experts at Jeevan fear that the stress level of people will increase in the second wave of Covid. A total of 38 individuals committed  suicide in March and 34 in February, 18 in January 10 in April so far. Of the total of 100 deaths in over three months, 65 were men below 45 years of age, 25 were both men and women aged above 45 and rest were teenagers. “Mental health of people in the 25-45 age group is not in good shape. This age group is feeling depressed and the feeling of non-performers is sinking in this age group. Unemployment and family problems have also effected them, which consequently lead to suicidal tendencies in them,” said Jeevan director Jeoraj Jain. Speaking  to The Telehgraph Online, Jain informed their study was based on interaction with people suffering from depression and suicide notes. “People approach our volunteers with complaints of feeling depressed for not being able to perform. Pressure of unemployment and family problems also form part of interaction. Suicide notes also point to similar issues,” he added. According to Jain, they think people will continue to become victim of depression in the second wave of Covid. “The second wave of pandemic  does not paint a very positive picture to say the least. We fear more  people would become victims of depression,” the Jeevan director said. He advised people to develop a positive attitude in life and always think about the best. “Spreading awareness among people who have suicidal tendencies is the best way to help them out. I have requested the East Singhbhum deputy commissioner to help us advertise Jeevan’s telephone numbers on hoardings at different parts of the city,” Jain said. People who need counselling are not able to contact Jeevan volunteers as its phone numbers are not available to most. ”The posters and hoardings, which were put up at some localities, including Kadma and Sonari, are either damaged or some other advertisement has come on top of them,” said Jain. He said it was a good sign that the number of students dying by suicide was not very high. “We are organising  a programme `Pariksha ka bhoot ko bhaga do’ via zoom on April 17. “Our experts, school principals and parents would be part of the programme. Around 25 schools of Jamshedpur are expected to be part of the event,” Jain said. According him, reaching out physically to people for counselling was not possible in Covid times. “We plan to conduct awareness sessions at 12 community centres run by Urban Services wing of Tata Steel will now take place via zoom,” Jain added, People can reach Jeevan volunteers on: 9297777499/9297777500 (only call), 9955377500,9955435500 (Call or Whatsapp).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
14-04-2021||Jharkhand||IMD warns of rain and thunderstorm for three days||IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre on Wednesday issued a rain and thunderstorm alert in various pockets of Jharkhand for the next three days. Dry weather prevailed in the state during the last 24 hours. Statistics revealed that the automatic weather station at Pakur recorded the highest maximum temperature of 41.2°C in the past 24 hours. Jamshedpur, Daltonganj, Bokaro, Dhanbad, Deoghar and several other places recorded around 41°C for the last two days while the day's reading at Ranchi was hovering around 38°C for the last two days. Wednesday's satellite pictures revealed formation of  a low pressure trough in mid and upper tropospheric level which will help thunderstorm and rainfall activity over Jharkhand. The Patna Meteorological Centre also issued a forecast of partly cloudy sky with possibility of light rain or thunderstorm at isolated places over north, south-east and central Jharkhand between April15 and 17. Jharkhand has so far experienced three Nor'westers, two of them took place earlier in April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
14-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Palamau cop, his wife and son die in road accident||Daltonganj: Three people of a family, including one child, died on Wednesday as their car collided with a truck at Pokhraha National Highway 75, while one was critically injured. The three have been identified as Akhilesh Prasad Yadav,  his wife Parmilla Devi and their eight-year-old son Gulshan. Akhilesh was a police officer posted in Dhanbad. Manish Yadav, his brother, was sent to RIMS in Ranchi and was in a critical condition,sources said. The family was on their way from Daltonganj to Ranchi when the accident happened at 4:45 am on Wednesday. Police said that the driver had escaped but his truck had been seized. The bodies have been sent to Chhaterpur in Palamau, from where the family hailed, after the postmortem. (Our correspondent) A renowned dentist of Chinese origin in Katras area and prominent lawyer of Saraidhela died in the last 24 hours from Covid-19 taking the total number deaths in the district to 179 since March 2020. Dr K.S. Chang, 71, was undergoing treatment in RIIMS. Jaiprakash Dasaundhi, the lawyer, was undergoing treatment in Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College  and hospital. District Secretary of Indian Medical Association, Dr Sushil Kumar said, “Doctors being the front line covid workers are more prone to Covid infection.” “We deeply sympathise with the family members of Dr KS Chang, who served the residents of Dhanbad for more than 40 years and appeal one and all to take maximum precaution  for themselves and their family members,” said Kumar. “We are afraid of lack of facilities for us as despite announcement of insurance for such doctors working in the government sector, none of doctors who lost their life are yet to get the insurance claim,” said Kumar. Chatra: Extremists of maoist group Tritiya Prastuti Committee set ablaze two trucks on the Raham bypass road in Tandwa sparking fear among transporters and contractors to coal companies working in the area, sources said on Wednesday. A pamphlet from the outfit  recovered from the spot asked transporters and contractors not to engage in commercial activities without its permission and warned of dire consequences if done otherwise. Sources said that the two trucks carrying coal to Fulbasia railway siding were stopped by armed extremists near Sarnapatti village on the Raham bypass on Tuesday midnight. The drivers were then asked to come down from their vehicles, after which the miscreants set the trucks on fire. Tandwa police reached the spot on getting the news and tried to bring the blaze under control along with firefighters, but the vehicles were completely gutted nonetheless. Officer-in-charge of the police station said raids were on to nab the accused. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar Chatra: Five out of 11 ventilators of Chatra Sadar Hospital were sent to RIMS in Ranchi on Monday after the extremist-affected district was instructed to do so, amid surging cases of coronavirus in the state. Chatra, which already lacks good healthcare facilities, was compelled to send the ventilators upon receiving an instruction from Deputy Commissioner Divyanshu Jha. The state capital has been trying to upgrade its facilities amid the surging cases. None of the 11 ventilators installed in the burn ward of the Sadar Hospital has been used for even once, and the technicians have forgotten how to use the life saving machines, sources said. Due to this, the state health department took some of them back to send them to Ranchi. Civil surgeon Ranjan Sinha while confirming the development said he was told that it would be better that the ventilators were sent to Ranchi. Meanwhile, Chatra on Wednesday recorded 84 new cases of Covid-19. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Daltonganj: As many as 41 traffic police officials were provided with sunglasses and towels to beat the heat while they are at work, managing the town. Palamau Superintendent of Police Sanjeev Kumar on Wednesday said that the mercury was on the rise with each passing day and the traffic police were the ones to bear the brunt of it, standing on the roads doing their work of controlling vehicles. People in Daltonganj, across all classes, tie a towel or a ‘gamcha’ around their heads to dodge the extreme heat in the region. Kumar said all the officials have been asked to wash their towels daily in view of the pandemic. Traffic in-charge R Saras said sunglasses and towels have been given to six traffic police officers, 34 associate cops and one traffic police driver. A cop said the move has been helpful for her. (Our Correspondent) Hazaribagh: An NDRF team on Wednesday dug out the body of a 24-year-old who was reported missing on Sunday from Daru village under Sadar block. On Tuesday, villagers blocked roads after finding clothes and slippers near a closed Irga stone mine, fearing that the missing man, Uma Rajak had been murdered. This prompted Daru police to call in the NDRF team, which after a four-hour effort, found the body. Rajak’s relatives blamed two of his friends, saying that they had murdered him as he was last seen with them. They charged that all the men had consumed alcohol and got into a fight, after which Rajak was killed. Daru police station officer-in-charge Vijay Kumar Singh said they had started their investigation but were waiting for the postmortem report to know whether he was murdered or it happened accidentally. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)  Koderma: Two women admitted to the dedicated Covid ward at the Mahila Degree College in the district died onWednesday of the virus. One of them was 60 years old and a resident of Bishnupur, while the other was 47 years old and a resident of Vidyapuri. Both of them were brought to the hospital after having complained of breathing troubles, said sources. Doctors said that the women were put on ventilator support but all efforts to save them failed. Meanwhile, DC Koderma Ramesh Gholap visited an engineering college in Bagitand area where a new 200-bed Covid centre is coming up and inspected the ongoing work. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
14-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Dhanbad restaurants record sharp decline in business amid second wave||Restrictions imposed by the state government have taken its toll on around 500 restaurants in Dhanbad, already reeling under the impact of Covid-19. The state has ordered markets to be closed at 8 pm amid rising Covid-19 cases affecting not only table services at restaurants, but also delivery services as many people are avoiding food from outside to avoid the infection. A rough assessment has indicated that there has been a 50 per cent dip in the selling of food at restaurants during the first wave of the pandemic. However, right during the beginning of the second wave, sales have dipped to 30 per cent, and is expected to go down further. Talking to the Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Sonu Alag, owner of Swadist restaurant said that they have been suffering losses since March last year and are barely able to pay salary to the staff. “Though the situation was slightly better from November till March, since last month we have been back at square one. The government’s April 6 notification has further increased our problems. Home delivery is affected due to shortage of staff,” he said. “We have not received any bulk orders for birthdays and anniversaries since last March. Those were our main source of income and our staff could earn some extra money as well,” Alag added. Echoing his sentiments, La Piaza owner Satnam Singh said nobody ventures out in the heat during summers and people like to come to restaurants only during the evening and night. “As the new norms say that markets have to be closed by 8 pm, very few customers come to restaurants in the evening to avoid police action. We are facing one of our worst times in this business,” Singh said. Mihir Mandal, Manager of Monalisa restaurant at Luby Circular Road, said “Even the regular customers are  not visiting our restaurants. The overall position of this business is in a pathetic condition in Dhanbad.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
14-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 2,884 Covid-19 cases, highest one-day spike this year||Jharkhand reported its highest single-day-spike in Covid cases and casualties this year on Tuesday as at least 2,844 state residents were found infected by the deadly virus and 29 Covid patients died in 24 hours, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the NHM on Tuesday night, the active caseload in Jharkhand reached 17,155 on the day, while the count of Covid patients in Ranchi jumped to 7,587 as the district alone accounted for 1,049 of the close to 3,000 fresh cases. As many as 1,003 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection in the state on Tuesday, while Ranchi reported 429 Covid recoveries, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Ranchi and East Singhbhum, two of the districts with highest fatality rate in the state, reported six Covid deaths each on Tuesday, while four patients died in Hazaribagh. Three patients died in Simdega, while Dhanbad and West Singhbhum reported one casualty each. Two Covid patients also breathed their last in Bokaro in the past 24 hours. Tuesday’s developments took the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 1,261. As per government data, at least 379 East Singhbhum residents and 323 Ranchi residents have died of Covid-19 infection in the state so far. The state has reported 48 Covid casualties in the past 48 hours. East Singhbhum and Hazaribagh reported a triple digit spike in cases on Tuesday. With 434 cases and 158 recoveries, the active caseload in East Singhbhum reached 2,079. The active caseload in Hazaribag reached 788 as the district reported 209 cases against only four Covid recoveries on the day. The doubling rate of Covid cases also dropped below the 50-day-mark on Tuesday. As per government data, it would take 48.80 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand against the doubling rate of 84.84 across India. The growth rate of infection in the state was also a growing concern. As per NHM data, Jharkhand Covid-19 growth rate was 1.43 per cent against the national average of 0.82 per cent. The government on Tuesday tested swab samples of as many as 34,155 people and more than 7 per cent of them were found infected. As per figures with the NHM, over 1.44 lakh people have tested positive in Jharkhand so far and 87.62 per cent of them have recovered. Meanwhile, the state on Tuesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 71,916 people, about 57 per cent of the over 1.26 lakh residents registered for the dose. The second jab was administered to only 6,636 beneficiaries, hardly 3 per cent of the more than 2.35 lakh people registered for the dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
14-04-2021||Jharkhand||Police recover 20 cartridges and magazine of Insas rifles||Police in Jharkhand’s Palamau district have recovered 20 cartridges and a magazine of the Insas rifles, manufactured by Ordnance Factory Board strictly for defence and security personnel, at Daltonganj, around 180 km from Ranchi. Acting on a tip-off, the Palamau district police at district headquarters in Daltonganj arrested two youths — Hassan Ansari, a resident Bedma-Babhandi area under Ramgarh police station and Jilani Ansari, a resident of Teliabandh under Sadar police station on Monday evening. “We had got a tip-off that two youths were trying to sell off cartridges of self loading rifles (SLRs) at Daltonganj Station Road and that they were contacting buyers through WhatsApp groups. We spread our network and caught hold of the two youths. They were remanded to judicial custody at Palamau Central Jail on Tuesday morning. However, the main kingpin of the racket identified as Guddu Ansari, a resident of Leslieganj is still absconding and his arrest would unravel on the supply channel of the cartridges to the youths,” said Medininagar city police station OC Arun Kumar Mahatha. According to police officials, Guddu Ansari fled from his house on Monday evening soon after getting information about the arrest of his accomplices. “The two arrested youths are not able to disclose much about the supply route and simply said that they were handed the 5.56 bore 20 cartridges by Guddu Ansari and were directed by him to sell it to prospective buyers whom he had contacted through WhatsApp groups. Everything would be cleared after arrest of Guddu Ansari,” said a police official. Police also recovered a high-end bike from the arrested duo. They are not ruling out the hands of Maoists in the sale of the Insas rifle cartridges. “It is very difficult to find Insas rifles in common market and is available only with defence and state police special forced to counter Maoists. We cannot rule out hands of Maoists as Palamau is a rebel hot bed,” said a senior police official. Police officials are trying to nab those who had expressed interest to buy the cartridges. “We would nab those who had expressed interest to purchase the cartridges as they might be having the prohibited SLR or trying to sell it to Maoists,” said the police official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
14-04-2021||Jharkhand||BJP, JMM trade charges on management of the pandemic situation in Jharkhand||Allegations and counter-allegations flew between the Opposition BJP and the ruling JMM on the management of the pandemic situation in Jharkhand on Tuesday in the run-up to the by-election to the Madhupur Assembly seat on April 17. JMM cabinet minister Hafizul Hassan is locked in a direct fight with the BJP’s Ganga Narayan Singh for the bypoll, campaigning for which would end on Thursday. BJP legislative party leader and Dhanwar MLA Babulal Marandi on Tuesday accused chief minister Hemant Soren and his government of misguiding people on vacant beds in hospitals for Covid patients and suggested declaring a health emergency in the state. State health minister Banna Gupta countered the BJP allegation by stating that the state has enough beds in the government and private hospitals to treat Covid patients. He reminded the BJP leaders to ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi to do the same thing as suggested to Soren. Gupta claimed that Modi was busy in election campaigning amid a surge in Covid cases across the country and vaccine shortage in several states. Senior BJP leader Marandi told the media at Madhupur: “The state government has failed completely in controlling the spread of Covid-19. The people are crying for medical attention while the chief minister is busy in campaigning for the Madhupur bypoll. The government should immediately declare a health emergency in Jharkhand. “The government is making false claims on vacant beds for Covid patients in the state while in reality people are standing in queues waiting for treatment at RIMS and other hospitals in Ranchi. The central government is willing to help but the state government is only interested in doing politics over issues.” Jamshedpur West MLA Gupta on Tuesday inspected the Covid ward, vaccine centre, ICU and critical care units at the Sadar Hospital in Ranchi wearing a PPE kit and interacted with Covid patients and tasted the food being served to them. “The visit is aimed at sending a message that I can visit any Covid hospital any time. There should not be any slackness in treatment of any patient. “At the moment the government has drawn up an action plan with the private and government hospitals across the state so that there are enough beds to treat Covid patients,” said Gupta. On the BJP’s allegation that the chief minister was engrossed in campaigning, Gupta retorted: “The BJP leaders should first ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi on what he is doing at the moment when the entire country is witnessing an unprecedented surge in Covid cases and there are crises of injections and vaccines.” The state registered 2,366 fresh cases and 19 deaths due to Covid-19 on Tuesday. In capital Ranchi on Monday, there were a total of 984 oxygen-supported beds, out of which 875 were occupied, while 58 out of 91 ICU beds and 87 out of 159 ventilator beds were occupied. The growth rate (seven days) of the virus in Jharkhand on Tuesday stood at a worrying 1.29 per cent, more than the national average of 0.79 per cent, while the recovery rate was 88.30 per cent, lower than the national average of 89.90 per cent. The mortality rate stood at 0.86 per cent while the national average was 1.30 per cent. Meanwhile, Bihar leader of the Opposition and RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav campaigned for Hafizul in Madhupur on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
