15-04-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro containment zones ineffective ||The residents of the district are concerned with the lack of sanitisation and Covid-19 tests after 45 micro-containment zones were declared by the administration. Bokaro has witnessed a spike in coronavirus cases in the last 12 days. At present, there are more than 600 active cases in the district. An administrative officer said, “micro-containment zones have been declared in 25 places in various sectors of Bokaro Steel Township, 15 places at Chas Municipal Corporation, apart from Swang of Gomia block, Petarwar block and Kurpaniya areas of Bermo block.” “The virus in the second wave is said to be more contagious in comparison with last year, but still no sincere steps are being taken to control spread of virus in declared micro-containment zones of the town,” said Manoj Kumar, a resident of the township. Deputy Commissioner Rajesh Singh declared the Containment Zone in exercise of the powers conferred under sub-section 34 (B & C) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The DC said sanitisation of the houses and surrounding areas of infected individuals is being carried out and asked for co-operation from citizens. According to the directives issued by the government, the border of the infected person is declared as the center point, with the place of residence of the infected person as the focal point. Residents claim the guidelines are not being followed by the administration. A citizen residing in a containment zone in Sector 3 said the administration is not following the protocols set by the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
15-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad launches sanitisation drive across district as Covid cases surge||The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation has launched intensive sanitisation drive across 55 wards of the district, spread over five circles, including Jharia, Dhanbad, Sindri, Katras and Chhatatand, using an array of machines and vehicles., The civic body used two recently procured water sprinkler vehicles, eight tankers and around 308 hand spray machines to carry out the drive on Thursday. The water sprinkler machines loaded with sodium hypochlorite solution sanitised the Randhir Verma Chowk, Sadar Hospital Road, Sadar Hospital, SDM court and Civil Court areas as well as other prominent roads of coal town. On the other hand, eight tankers fitted with pressure machines were used on the main roads of the other four circles. Hand spray machines were used at narrow streets and congested areas, where heavy machinery cannot enter. Dhanbad Municipal Corporation City Manager (sanitation) told The Telegraph Online that they have been sanitising the buffer and the containment zones of the district ever since the second wave of Covid-19 kicked in. “However, now we have extended the drive to all the 55 wards irrespective of the fact whether they are containment zones or not,” he added. “PPE kits and other protective gears have been provided to our staff engaged in sanitisation works,” the official said. Raj informed that the two water sprinkler vehicles were originally being used for coal dust suppression, but have now found a new role. The corporation has also purchased the sodium hypochlorite solution from a supplier this year, unlike the previous year where they used to make it on their own. “This drive will continue everyday in different parts until the situation normalises in the district. We will focus on such places which witness greater footfall,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
15-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Steel city imposes curfew-like curbs at night ||The steel city administration has imposed restriction on movement of people after 8 pm from Thursday as Covid-19 cases continue to rise. Shops and other business establishments will remain closed after 8pm. "If anyone is found loitering on the street or at any public place, then he or she should be ready to face prosecution. There will be police and administrative officials on the street across the city for implementation of the new order,” said Nand Kishore Lal, Additional District Magistrate, East Singhbhum, to The Telegraph Online. He pointed out such restrictions will remain in effect from 8 pm to 5 am every day to prevent the spread of Coronavirus infection. In the last 24 hours, nine persons died of Covid at the steel city. Eight of them died in Tata Main Hospital and MGM Medical College Hospital, the ninth victim, a 60-year-old man succumbed to his illness in an ambulance. The victim, a resident of Golmuri, was unable to get a bed at all hospitals in the city. During this period, 368 Covid cases were detected thus taking the total number of cases to 22,001.  The number of Covid deaths has reached 407. The city is also facing a shortage of plasma donors. East Singhbhum district civil surgeon, A.K. Lal said,"Stock of plasma is nil. Hardly any donor is turning up for donating blood for the plasma." Lal said the number of deaths would have been fewer in number if there were enough donors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
15-04-2021||Jharkhand||JFC on talent hunt for next ISL season||Jamshedpur FC have begun preparations for next edition’s Indian Super League (ISL) in the right earnest by tapping players for the upcoming season of the cash-rich tournament. The Tata Steel-owned club does not want to lag behind when it comes to signing top players for the franchise and the club is negotiating with former India defender Anas Edathodika and young winger Komal Thatal. "Both Anas and Thatal are on our radar. Negotiations are on at the moment but we are keen to sign these two players,” a JFC team management member said on the condition of anonymity. Anas, who is from Kerala, was part of Jamshedpur side during the club’s ISL debut in the 2017-18 season while Sikkim’s Thatal was with ATK Mohun Bagan in the last season. He was in the Indian team for the under-17 World Cup in 2017. Sources said JFC’s head coach Owen Coyle and CEO Mukul Choudhari are busy negotiating with probable players, including foreigners. Choudhari could not be reached for comments. Jamshedpur, who stitched out a crack unit in the last ISL by signing top players, including goal-machine Nerijus Valskis, managed an ordinary show by finishing sixth in the tournament held in Goa. The club is keen to put the past in the backburner and start afresh. Lithuanian forward Valskis has been signed on a two year contract while other foreigners like Peter Hartley (United Kingdom), Stefen Eze (Nigeria) and Alex Lima (Brazil) had been roped in for a year. It remains to be seen if JFC again goes for them in the upcoming season. Valskis, on the other hand, is free to play for other clubs who will have to only pay the transfer fee. But that situation is unlikely since Coyle had brought in Valskis from Chennaiyin FC the last season. Both have great understanding between them. Scotland-born Coyle also has great faith in the leadership qualities of English defender Hartley who captained the side the last season. Hartley may very well turn out in JFC colours once again. Meanwhile, forward Aniket Jadhav has left Jamshedpur FC. The under-17 World Cupper has moved to Hyderabad FC for the forthcoming ISL season. Jamshedpur have not been able to reach the play-offs after making ISL debut in 2017-18 season. The club has experimented with four coaches Steve Coppell, Cesar ,Antonio Iriondo and Owen Coyle in a bid to change the fortunes of the team.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
15-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren at Prakriti Parva Sarhul Festival ||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
15-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand board likely to cancel Class X and Class XII exams||A day after the Centre cancelled CBSE class 10 exams and postponed class 12 exams, the Jharkhand Academic Council is likely to make changes in their exam schedule for board exams in the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases in the state. Around 7 lakh students are set to appear for the board exams to be conducted by JAC from May 4. The exams, as per the existing schedule, will be held at over 2000 centres across 24 districts in Jharkhand. “Given the current situation, it would be difficult to hold the exams. However, the state government will take a final call on whether we need to postpone the exams or cancel them,” said JAC chairperson Arvind Prasad Singh. Meanwhile, the Jharkhand Abhibhavak Manch (JAM), the largest parents’ association in the state, shot letters to JAC and ICSE on Thursday seeking necessary changes in the exam schedule in the wake of the Covid-19 situation in the state. In the letter addressed to the JAC Chairperson, JAM has demanded cancellation of all board exams for the time being. “Parents are concerned about the wellbeing of their children as they would have to travel to exam centres and appear for the papers amid growing cases of Covid infection. The JAC exams, set to begin on May 4, should be cancelled for the time being,” the letter stated. Ajay Rai, the president of the parents’ body, said that it would be unfair on ICSE and JAC students if they are asked to appear for their board exams at a time when the CBSE has cancelled its class 10 exams and postponed class 12 exams. “The rules should be the same for all students irrespective of their board. We cannot ask ICSE and JAC students to appear for exams at a time when CBSE has made changes to their exam schedule,” said Rai, adding that safety of students should be paramount for any board and the parents’ association in Jharkhand will press for postponement of exams. The developments come at a time when the Covid-19 situation in the state is turning bad to worse. In the past 48 hours, Jharkhand has reported around 6000 Covid cases and 60 Covid deaths, reveals government data. The state is also battling a crisis of drugs and hospital beds after the sudden spike in the active caseload. The JAC already started the practical exams for class 10 and 12 on April 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
15-04-2021||Jharkhand||State logs over 3,000 fresh Covid cases, 31 casualties in a day||Jharkhand on Wednesday reported more than 3000 cases of Covid-19 infection and over 30 casualties, which took the active caseload closer to the 20,000 mark and the Covid toll up at 1292, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, Ranchi accounted for 1273 of the 3198 cases and seven of the 31 fatalities on the day. On the other hand, East Singhbhum, the districts with highest reported cases of Covid deaths, accounted for nine casualties and 368 fresh cases, the NHM bulletin further stated. Government records reveal that the fresh cases and casualties reported on Wednesday were the highest reported in a day this year. While Ranchi was the only district to report more than 1000 cases on Wednesday, at least seven districts – Bokaro, Deoghar, Dhanbad, Koderma, Hazaribag, Ramgarh and Sahebganj – reported more than 100 fresh cases of Covid infection. As per NHM data, Dhanbad reported five Covid fatalities on the day, while Dumka, Bokaro and Koderma reported two deaths each. Chatra, Simdega and Sahebganj reported one death each. Wednesday’s findings take the Covid toll in Ranchi to 330 and that in East Singhbhum to 388. A recent genome sequencing confirmed that both these districts have presence of the UK mutant and double mutant strains of the virus. While the fresh cases broke all past records of 2021, the state also recorded its highest Covid recoveries in a day on Wednesday. As many as 1798 Covid patients, including 1212 in Ranchi alone, recovered from the viral infection in the day. However, the active caseload in Ranchi was still 7648 – the highest in Jharkhand – despite the recoveries on Wednesday. The active caseload in East SInghbhum was up at 2,285 as the district reported 368 cases against 156 recoveries in the past 24 hours. As per government data, the state tested swab samples of 31,797 people on Wednesday, and more than 10 per cent of them were found infected. So far, as many as 1,47,792 people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand and around 86.59 per cent of them have recovered. The doubling rate of infection in Jharkhand further dropped to 45.33 days against the national average of 80.05 days on Wednesday. As per government data, the growth rate of infection in the state was 1.54 per cent against the national average of 0.87 per cent. Meanwhile, Jharkhand administered the first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 to 76,431 people and the second dose to 7,215 beneficiaries on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
15-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand private schools want exams put off ||On a day when the CBSE Class X exams were cancelled and Class XII exams deferred because of the nationwide surge in Covid cases, an association of private schools in Jharkhand made the demand for postponement of the matriculation and intermediate examinations of the state board which are scheduled to commence from May 4. A delegation of the Jharkhand Gair Sarkari Vidyalaya Sangh, led by its state president Mohammed Tahir Hussain, on Wednesday met the Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) secretary Mahip Singh and submitted memorandum requesting the deferment of the exams considering the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases in the state. “We have come to know that hospital beds are almost full and the number of Covid-19 cases are rising rapidly every day. If the CBSE can take a decision to cancel its Class X exam and defer the Class XII exam so can our state board considering the poor healthcare scenario and the difficulties of poor students in coming to exam centres amid the Covid threat. We have asked for deferment of both the matriculation and intermediate exams,” said Hussain. He further said that due to Covid restrictions they have sent their memorandum to chief minister Hemant Soren, principal secretary, education and literacy, Rajesh Sharma and Arvind Prasad Singh, chairman of the Jharkhand Academic Council, on their official email accounts. “We have sent copies of the memorandum with our demands to the official emails of the chief minister, principal secretary and the JAC chairman. However, we would also try to meet the chief minister in a couple of days and speak to him about the situation and implore him to postpone the exams,” said Hussain. Nearly 5 lakh students from 6,000 high schools and 3 lakh students from 1,700 intermediate colleges in the state will be appearing for their board exams scheduled from May 4. The JAC has set up around 100 centres for the conduct of the exam. The evaluation of answer papers is likely to begin by June 15 while the result can be out by the end of July or the first week of August. Sharma told The Telegraph they will be taking a decision on the exams soon. “We are keeping a close watch on the Covid scenario. We would be taking a decision on the examinations soon keeping in mind the interest of the students,” he said. On Tuesday, the state registered 2,844 new positive cases and 29 deaths due to Covid-19. The total number of positive cases stands at 1,44,594, of whom 1,26,178 patients have recovered, while 1,261 have died. The mortality rate of Jharkhand is 0.87 per cent, lower than the national average of 1.20 per cent. However, the recovery rate of the state stands at 87.62 per cent, which is less than the national average of 89.50 per cent. The virus growth rate of 1.43 per cent is worrying as it is more than the national average of 0.82 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
