16-04-2021||Jharkhand||Power cuts disrupt water supply to over 5 lakh coal town residents||Irregular power supply has affected the water supply from the Jamadoba based plant of Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority  and Bhelatand based water treatment plant of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. Water supply remained suspended for three days in different localities of Jharia including Sabzi Mandi, Hetli Bandh, Poddar Para, Koiri Bandh, Fatehpur lane, Jharia Main road, Ghanudih, affecting more than five lakh residents. In Dhanbad’s Putki area, water supply from the treatment plant of JMADA at Jamadoba was affected in the first week of April. Md Aslam, in-charge of the Putki based water supply network of Dhanbad said,“despite our best effort to ensure regular water supply we often fail to do so due to erratic power supply.” “For filling up of the intake well of Jamadoba based water treatment situated on the bank of river Damodar continuous power supply for at least eight hours is required but due to frequent power cuts, filling of intake well is affected and thereby the water supply is also affected,” said Aslam. The situation is similar at the Maithon Lake water supply carried out by the Drinking Water and Sanitation Department on behalf of Dhanbad Municipal Corpoation. Manish Kumar, executive engineer of Damodar Valley Corporation, which is looking after the water supply of Maithon lake on behalf of DMC said, “We have tried for uninterrupted water supply arrangement for Bhelatand based Water Treatment plant but the process did not reach any conclusion.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
16-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant convenes all-party meet on Covid on Saturday||Chief minister Hemant Soren has convened an all-party meeting on Saturday to discuss plans to curb the spread of Covid-19 in Jharkhand, his decision coming after the state reported on Thursday close to 3,500 cases, the highest single-day spike of cases since the outbreak of the virus in March last year. Fatalities are also increasing by the day with the state's health infrastructure coming under stress, battling both resource and manpower crunch. Hemant will hold a virtual meeting at 6.30pm and has appealed to all political parties to attend. In a statement, he said, “An all-party meeting has been fixed through online mode at 6.30pm tomorrow (Saturday) to discuss the ways to combat Covid-19 in the state. I also appeal to everyone in the state to stay safe and practice Covid appropriate behavior.” Soon after returning to Ranchi on Thursday after his marathon election campaigning for Madhupur bypoll on April 17, Hemant held a meeting with the state disaster management authorities at his residence. In attendance were state health minister Banna Gupta, chief secretary Sukhdev Singh and other top officials. Speaking to reporters after the deliberations at Thursday's meeting, Hemant said it was time to take tough decisions to control the worsening situation. The government will in all likelihood postpone or cancel state board exams scheduled from May 4 as  Jharkhand Academic Council terminated ongoing practical examinations with immediate effect on Friday. Hemant said that since CBSE and other state boards announced postponement of exams, Jharkhand  would also take a call soon. On restrictions being planned, Hemant said that they were evaluating the situation and considering all options. “I anticipate more cases in coming weeks as The Union  government is running special trains from Covid hotspot to states like Jharkhand, Bihar, Odisha and Chhattisgarh. Also, there is an issues of pending test reports. We are setting up six more RT PCR labs and buying high-end machines to reduce pendency of reports. We are also working out places to double bed capacity, especially in the  ICU at RIMS in Ranchi,” he had said. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon told the media in Lohardaga on Friday after a meeting with the district administration that while a total lockdown wasn't required in Jharkhand, there was a need for more curbs to break the transmission chain. “We have to see how we can balance lives and livelihood,” he commented. Jharkhand State Bar Council (JSBC) instructed all its affiliated bodies on Friday to ensure that advocates appear in person before any court for any judicial work till further orders. JSBC secretary Rajesh Pandey sent letters to all district bar units in this regard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
16-04-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city installs new Covid checkpoint||A new checkpoint for conducting Covid-19 tests will be functional on the Marine Drive in Sonari from Saturday. Health department officials said the new checkpoint was set-up amid a rise in Covid-19 cases. East Singhbhum district registered a record number of 492 positive cases in the past 24 hours and four deaths. Nand Kishore Lal, ADM (Law & Order), inspected the checkpoint close to the new Domuhani bridge on Friday. "All those coming to our district from neighbouring Seraikela-Kharsawan through the Domuhani bridge will have to undergo the mandatory Covid test. They will be allowed if they are found negative. Apart from this, those commuting on the Marine Drive would also have to undergo RT-PCR test," said Lal. The health department staff with officials of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee and district police will be manning the checkpoint round the clock. According to health department sources, another checkpoint will be established soon on the Tata-Kandra Road that connects Jamshedpur with Seraikela-Kharsawan district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
16-04-2021||Jharkhand||Headmaster introduces art and technology for tribal students||The headmaster of a government-run primary school in Tilaiya Panchayat of Govindpur block is implementing technology and adding an aesthetic ambience to educate children of farmers and daily wage earners of Pargho village. Niraj Mishra, 40, of Prathmik Vidyalaya is using  technical gadgets like projectors and a public address system at the school. He has also installed a fountain, wall paintings, depicting poetry scenes, charts of body parts, wild life all across the campus of the single-storey building. “Through the public address system, I run audio of rhymes for one class and simultaneously instruct students of other classes to complete their homework,” said Mishra. Mishra joined the school in 1999 and served the school single handedly till 2006 before the appointment of  para teachers. “Serving the school single handedly for seven years  sometimes I found it difficult to manage the students of standard I to V seating in different classrooms  and thus developed the public address system on my own for different classrooms investing around Rs 8000 from my salary,” said Mishra to The Telegraph Online. “As majority of students are Santhali speaking so initially after joining I faced a lot of difficulty interacting  with them  as they do not understand even a single Hindi word,” said Mishra. “I made two different interventions to interact with them including one by making stamps of various animal, birds, trees and things lying in their surroundings by printing the figures made on the stamps and later I bought a projector on my own which is used to play the video of lessons taught in class room,” he said. During the lockdown, he used to teach the children of his school by uploading his lessons on his Youtube channel, digital e gyan. Asha Devi, a para teacher and former student of the school, said “inspired with the self less work of Niraj Mishra sir we also launched  some innovative work and have grown several vegetables in the school’s kitchen garden to meet the vegetable requirement of the school for mid day meals etc.” Praveen Kumari, Head Mistress of Kanya Prathmik Vidyalaya, Kharni said, “When i first visited the school of Niraj Mishra sir I could not believe that it is a government school as the facilities were better than any private school and stands tall as an example of dedication towards his mission to educate common children” Santosh Mahto, a former student of the school, presently posted in Ranchi as civil engineer said, “the strong foundation received under the guidance of Niraj Mishra sir helped me to excel in life.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
16-04-2021||Jharkhand||Tata climber gearing up for Mount Everest challenge||Climbing mountains, running and stretching exercises at a height of 4,500 ft above sea level is a daily routine for Asmita Dorjee as she prepares for a Herculean task. The 37-year-old Jamshedpur-based climber has been selected by Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) for next year’s Mount Everest expedition. She is training hard at Kaflo, the base camp of the premier adventure outfit, near Uttar Kashi in Uttarakhand. Asmita is aware that the Everest expedition would be a tough task and she will come across challenges. But training and confidence boosting talks from legendary mountaineer Bachendri Pal is helping her to keep her moral high. “I am training alone at the base camp.  Climbing nearby mountains with a load of 20 kg, running and a bit of stretching exercises make up my day’s routine.  The training starts at 7 am and concludes by 9 am. I will gradually start taking extra load while climbing mountains,” Asmita said over phone from Kaflo. Asmita is the daughter of Sherpa Ang Dorjee who was part of Bachendri Pal’s Everest expedition in 1984. Asmita is working as a senior instructor at the TSAF in Jamshedpur. “I would shortly start training under the guidance of my mentor madam (Bachendri Pal). Her (Pal) guidance is necessary when you prepare for a challenging task,” the Everest-bound climber said, adding though taking on the 29,029 ft was tough but she was confident of reaching the peak. “I will have to deal with heavy snowfall and wind during the Everest expedition.  And, of course, I will also need luck to achieve success. Climbing is in my blood and I am aware about technique involved in it. This makes me confident,” she explained. Asmita, however, said the second wave of pandemic has forced her to keep fingers crossed.  The Everest expedition is scheduled next year and she has ample time to prepare herself. TSAF, her employers, will also be organising expeditions once the Covid-related situation improves. “I think the pandemic should be a thing of the past before I proceed for the Everest expedition. I will continue with my training and hope for the best. I need to be physically and mentally fit to take on the challenge. In fact, I am excited and looking forward to climbing the world’s tallest peak,” Asmita said. Asmita has been part of  summer and winter outdoor expeditions organised by TSAF in the Garhwal Himalayas. She was also one of the members of all women team comprising employees of Tata Steel and Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) which went for an expedition to Kedarkantha (12,500 ft) in Gahwal Himalayan range of Uttarakhand in early March last year. She was also a part of an expedition to Leh-Ladakh organised by TSAF in 2018. So far, 11 TSAF candidates have climbed Mount Everest. They include Bachendri Pal, Premlata Agarwal, Rajender Singh Pal, Binita Soren, Meghlal Mahto, Susen Mahto, amputee Arunima Sinha, Hemant Gupta, Sandeep Tolia, Swarnalata Dalai and Poonam Rana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
16-04-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi MP plans free food service for Covid patients||Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth of the BJP has announced a free food delivery service to Covid patients from Sunday, taking the lead among elected lawmakers of the state capital to help residents at a time when coronavirus cases and fatalities are rising across Jharkhand that is part of the national battle against a brutal second wave of the virus. Seth unveiled three Whatsapp numbers, 09431352397/06203009003/09835718119, on Friday, asking Covid patients, especially the elderly, pregnant women or those living alone, to send their Covid tes report, residential address and contact number and register themsleves for the  service from Sunday. “Considering the exponential rise of Covid cases, I am coming across instances where the entire family is infected and unable to take care of each other. Also, poor people, or many working professionals living alone, are down with the virus with no one to take care of their food requirements.  I have decided to mobilise resources on my own and use volunteers to help them get hygienic food free of cost,” said Seth. He said he would try and continue the service till each registered beneficiary gets well and tests negative. “Based on the number of registred beneficiaries, my volunteers will deliver food or other edibles that are required at the doorstep everyday,” Seth said, adding that this service would be restricted to city limits. Several residents have alo come together to help people amid the deepening crisis. For instance, Jharkhand Open Coffee Club (JOCC), a group of entrepreneurs and activists, formed a digital platform (https://localsay.in/beds) on Wednesday to reach out to people via various social media platforms to find out about requirements like hospital beds and coordinate with local authorities to ensure admission. A club member said that about a dozen people were admitted in hospitals using this network. “Every hour, we are tabulating data and sending to the district administration to help them with hospital admissions. All of us are doing it on voluntary basis but ironically, we aren’t getting much help from the local administration,” he rued. Of the 24 districts of Jharkhand, Ranchi remains the worst affected, both in terms of new infections and fatalities. While the entire health system is under immense stress, the district administration’s Covid management seems to have run out of steam. Despite the government’s claim of reserving 50 per cent beds in hospitals for Covid care, admission to hospitals continues to remain the biggest concern. Also, those in home isolation but requiring other services like ambulance, doctors or hearse vans, are being charged random, escalated rates. Such is the furore among the public that all political leaders, including the chief minister Hemant Soren,are facing a daily backlash on social media for failing to stand by the people at the time of the pandemic. Of the 20,000 active Covid cases in the state, Ranchi accounts for close to 9,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
16-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Homicide charges against Palamau doctor for road accident||Daltonganj: Palamau police have registered a criminal case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder against a renowned doctor for the death of a Jharkhand Armed Police force jawan and his wife. Gaurav Agrawal was allegedly driving in an inebriated state when his car hit the bike of the jawan. His wife was riding pillion. Assistant superintendent of police, Vijay Shankar, said police have lodged the case under section 304 of the IPC, a non-bailable offence. On Thursday evening, the JAP 5 battalion jawan Gopal Singh, 45, and his wife Poonam Devi, 43, were travelling to Kechki under Barwadih police station in Latehar district when the doctor's vehicle from the opposite direction hit the bike resulting in the death of the jawan on the spot while his critically injured wife succumbed to her injuries after some hours. Sources said the accident occurred near the Chiyanki air strip on the National Highway 75. Vijay Shankar said the doctor, Gaurav Agrawal, tried to make his driver confess to the crime. However, police managed to unearth the truth and booked the doctor for the accident. Agarwal has been missing since the time of the accident. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: Around 28 people were discharged from a Covid ward in Koderma district on Friday. Subdivisional officer Manish Kumar and civil surgeon A.B. Prasad handed roses to each one of them. Kumar chaired a meeting with bank officials asking them not to entertain people and encourage them for cashless transactions. He asked officials to conduct a Covid test of every bank employee and administer vaccine shots. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Barhi police seized duplicate Patanjali Ayured products from a house in Barsot area 46kms away from Hazaribagh district headquarter. A representative of the Baba Ramdev owned company, Abhishek Pathak, had received complaints from wholesalers about fake products flooding the local market. Police seized duplicates of many other companies other than Patanjali from the abandoned house. No arrests have been made in the case. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A new air-conditioned 70 bed Covid-19 ward with supported oxygen facility will be operational on the campus of Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Hazaribagh sadar MLA Manish Jaiswal's media incharge Ranjan Choudhary reached here to inspect the facility. “I want to request district administration to make it ready as soon as possible seeing the surge in cases here,” Choudhary said. Contractors said only few works left right from power connection to other facilities. Installation of a  transformer going on, added they. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A joint team of police and Jaguar jawans engaged in a gunbattle with Tritiya Sammelan Prastuti Committee members since Friday morning recovered 132 live bullets, bags and party propaganda books in Padampur village of Tandwa block. Superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha rushed with a team to Padampur forest situated on the border of Chatra and Latehar after receiving information about the presence of TSPC members. The rebels opened fire on the police team before escaping into the forest. Jha urged rebels residing in the area to surrender or face consequences. He said police will find them from their hideouts. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Chatra: District Superintendent of Education Jitendra Kumar has been summoned by Deputy Collector Chatra Santosh Kumar Sinha for a probe in connection with corruption charges levelled against him by a teacher. Kumar, who has been asked to join the probe on April 22, was accused of demanding money for the verification of educational and other documents of newly recruited teachers. According to the complaint, the DSE had also demanded money from a team that came to the district to check the quality of mid-day meals in government schools and had forcefully made teachers attend schools on a holiday.. In view of the complaint, Deputy Commissioner Divyanshu Jha asked Sinha to start an investigation, the Deputy collector said. The report of this investigation will be forwarded to Jha if Kumar is found guilty. Kumar has rubbished all these charges and said it was an effort to tarnish his image, adding that there was no teacher amed Viremdra Kumar Singh in the district. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
16-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs almost 3,500 fresh Covid cases, 28 casualties in a day||The Covid tally in Jharkhand crossed the 1.5 lakh mark, while the active caseload jumped above 20,000 on Thursday as the state reported close to 3,500 Covid cases and 28 casualties in 24 hours, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The 28 deaths reported on Thursday took the Covid toll in the state to 1320. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, at least nine of the 28 Covid victims were Dhanbad residents, while five deceased were from Ranchi. East Singhbhum reported four casualties on the day and Koderma reported two. At least five districts – Simdega, West Singhbhum, Ramgarh, Godda and Deoghar – reported one Covid death each. Ranchi continued to report the highest share of Covid cases among the 24 districts on Thursday. As per NHM data, as many as 1393 cases in the districts took the active caseload here to 8,666. Ranchi accounts for around 40 per cent of the 20,651 active cases in the state. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum also reported 492 cases against 264 recoveries on the day. The active caseload there reached 2,504 on the day. At least five other districts – Hazaribag, Koderma, Dhanbad, Deoghar and Bokaro – reported a triple-digit-spike in cases on the day. Ranchi and Dhanbad, however, continued to lead in terms of Covid casualties in the state. Thursday’s findings took the Covid toll in Ranchi to 335 and that in East Singhbhum to 392. The government on Thursday tested swab samples of 36,349 Jharkhand residents and around 10 per cent of them were found infected. So far, as many as 1,51,272 people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand and 85.47 per cent of them have recovered, reveals government data. In the past couple of weeks, the growth rate of infection has seen a spike while the doubling rate has dropped in Jharkhand. On Thursday, the growth rate of infection in Jharkhand was 1.67 per cent against the national average of 0.91 per cent. The doubling rate in the state was 41.85 days against the national doubling rate of 76.16 days. Meanwhile, the state on Thursday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to as many as 30,054 people, about 41 per cent of those registered. The second dose was administered to as many as 7439 people, only 3 per cent of the over 2.7 lakh registered for the jab on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
16-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Tree hurdle for commuters||Hazaribagh: A mahua tree on the Hazaribagh-Chatra road via Gidhore has been an impediment to commuters specially bikers. The road was widened but the tree not removed while the construction work was in progress. Villagers in Salimpur have asked the deputy commissioner Divyanshu Jha to take down the tree. Jha said he has instructed forest department officials to take necessary steps. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: The dead naked body of a 55-year-old man was found from the backseat of a car parked on Baba Path in Hurhuru mohalla on Thursday. The owner of the car had left it on the main road after it developed a technical snag. Officer-in-charge of Bara Bazar outpost, Yogesh Mishra said investigation has been started but will wait for the postmortem report to know the actual reason behind his death. The body was sent to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Mishra said he had gathered information that the man was seen loitering around a government bus stand in town and looked mentally unstable. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Koderma superintendent of police Ehtesham Waquarib on Thursday confirmed he had Covid-19 despite taking the vaccine. Waquarib said he has isolated himself and urged those who met him in the last four days to undergo a Covid test. He said he took the second jab dose on March.8 and was following all guidelines. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
16-04-2021||Jharkhand||Rights activists detect MGNREGS fund scam in Jharkhand||A survey by rights activists in Jharkhand has detected the presence of mule accounts allegedly used by middlemen to siphon off Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme funds in Latehar district. Mule accounts are either set up through false paperwork by using a stolen or manipulated identity or belong to a legitimate customer who has allowed criminals to use the account. The survey carried out under the aegis of NREGA Sahayata Kendra, Latehar, revealed that bank accounts of beneficiaries who have not done any work under the rural job scheme are being used by middlemen in the district to siphon off MGNREGS funds. “We noticed the scam during a detailed verification of MGNREGS works in the Manika block (nine blocks in Latehar district). We inspected 14 MGNREGS scheme sites between April 12 and 13 this year and measured the amount of work done. “Comparing these measurements with the official records (in cases where the worksites could be identified in the information management system of the scheme), we found that the muster rolls had been inflated with abandon,” said Jean Dreze, a Belgian-born economist and rights activist based in Jharkhand and one of the survey team members. The other team members included James Herenj, convener of NREGA Watch Jharkhand, Amardayal Singh, Pachathi Singh and Sabhil Nath Pakira. The team found as many as 13 mule accounts in Manika block which had been allegedly used to siphon off MGNREGS funds. “Direct inspection and verification of the ‘muster rolls’ revealed that they included names of many people who had done no work at these worksites. Many of them openly admitted before us that they had withdrawn MGNREGS money from their accounts on behalf of a middleman in exchange for a commission — typically around 10 per cent of the amount withdrawn,” added Dreeze. Herenj cited the example of one beneficiary called Birender Prasad. “Birender explained how a middleman named Vinod Yadav had told him that MGNREGS wages would be credited to his account at the standard rate of Rs 1,164 per week (wages for 6 days of work at the rate of Rs 194 per day). Birender said Vinod gave him Rs 100 each week and kept the rest for himself. According to Birender, many people in the same neighbourhood have a similar arrangement with Vinod,” said Herenj. The team members later found that the charges made by Birender were true. Many other beneficiaries had also withdrawn MGNREGS money credited to their account on behalf of Vinod in exchange for a commission. “The investigation also revealed that the scam had been facilitated by rampant violations of scheme guidelines. For instance, none of the MGNREGS worksites inspected by the team had a proper information board. Similarly, none of them had a mate (supervisor), muster rolls are never kept and junior engineers rarely visited the worksites,” alleged Herenj. The survey further threw light on the fact that scams of this sort are difficult to expose. “The names of middlemen like Vinod do not appear anywhere in the records. The holders of mule accounts are also reluctant to testify against them since that would be an admission of their own role in the scam. Exposing this sort of scam requires careful investigation by a reliable team,” said Dreze. He said they have already met Latehar deputy commissioner Abu Imran and apprised him about their findings. “The Latehar deputy commissioner has promised to set up a joint inquiry team. We will also be meeting chief minister Hemant Soren, principal secretary, rural development, Aradhana Patnaik and MGNREGS commissioner Aditya Ranjan as a similar scam could be taking place in other districts as well,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
