17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Bike accident kills one in Hazaribagh||Hazaribagh: Two brothers returning from Hazaribagh town to their home in Natrajnagar in Barkagaon block met with an accident on Saturday with one of them dying on the spot. The accident took place 13km away from Hazaribagh district headquarter near Phatha Chowk on Hazaribagh-Barkagaon road. A tractor hit the bike killing the elder brother Sanjay Kumar Soni. The younger brother Pappu Kumar Soni sustained minor injuries and was admitted to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Eyewitnesses said the tractor was travelling at a high speed and hit the bike at a sharp turn. Relatives of the brothers had blocked Phatha chowk demanding compensation but withdrew their protest after officials intervened. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Daltonganj: Around 217 individuals in Palamau with mild Covid symptoms have been asked to be in home isolation by officials. Epidemiologist Dr Anup Kumar said the individuals are gradually recovering and only two of them required hospitalisation. The epidemiologist has asked people to wear masks and maintain social distancing. DC Palamau Shashi Ranjan said, “We have given strict instructions to the officials to keep a watch that people undergoing home isolation be kept indoors and not step out and mingle with others.” SP Palamau Sanjeev Kumar on the other hand said police have been given strict instructions to ensure no one steps out during home isolation. Kumar said the violators will be punished under disaster management act and the IPC. SP said we know there are some hard souls who just don't understand the delicacy of the home isolation and for such souls there are other measures like lodging of the case under disaster management act and IPC as well. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: Officials of Thriveni Sainik Private Limited, an outsourcing company of NTPC in Barkagaon on Saturday provided 30 high flow nasal cannula to deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand. Thriveni officials said HFNC is useful in Covid-related acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) in patients. Doctors are using HFNC oxygen therapy extensively as it has emerged as an alternative to ventilator support. HFNC therapy is an oxygen supply system capable of delivering up to 100% humidified and heated oxygen at a flow rate of up to 60 litres per minute. Anand said the company has promised to give 70 more from its CSR fund. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Pandemic no deterrent for Madhupur voters||Voting for the bypoll for Madhupur constituency in Jharkhand’s Deoghar district on Saturday registered 71.60 percentage, which was about two notches lesser than the 73.77 percent polling registered during the 2019 assembly elections. However, the district administration hailed the turnout considering the brutal second wave of Covid-19 pandemic that has hit the country. Of the 3.22 lakh electorates, female voters bypassed their male counterparts in terms of turnout at the polling booths. Female and male voter turnout remained at 73.71 and 70.07 percentage respectively, stated the district election officer and deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri, during a press conference, which was organised after the conclusion of polling at 6 pm. Since morning, there was immense enthusiasm across all the voting booths despite the pandemic, he said, adding that entire election process remained hassle free and no untoward incident was reported at any place. Voting began at 7 am and ended at 6pm. “No untoward incident was reported at any of the 487 polling booths, and everything went as per the plan,” said the official adding that they had put in elaborate arrangements and had deputed enough officials at every polling booth to ensure necessary precaution was taken by the voters and polling agents. The bypoll was poised as a bipolar fight between UPA and NDA. While the ruling UPA comprising JMM, Congress and RJD put up incumbent minister Hafizul Hassan as joint candidate on this seat, BJP has put up Ganga Narayan Singh, an AJSU-P turncoat as the NDA candidate. The seat fell vacant following the demise of Hafizul’s father, a former minister in Soren cabinet in October last year. Madhupur is the third by-election for the incumbent regime since Soren government came to power in 2019. The results will be announced on May 2. JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee thanked people for greater turnout. “JMM is more than confident of winning the seat back,” he reiterated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand governor tests positive for Covid||Jharkhand Governor Draupadi Murmu was among the near 4,000 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Saturday. The sexagenarian was admitted to Bagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi and is undergoing treatment under Dr. Vijay Mishra, who also treated Education Minister Jagarnath Mahto in Ranchi before he was shifted to Chennai. Doctors from the hospital said that Murmu was stable. However, she was kept under observation and administered the antibiotics and multivitamins prescribed to Covid patients. Meanwhile, as many as 30 Covid patients died during treatment on Saturday, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 1,406, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. At least 3,838 cases against 1,234 recoveries took the active caseload to 25,619 on the day, the NHM bulletin highlighted. Ranchi alone reported as many as 1,410 fresh cases of infection on the day – the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The district also reported five Covid casualties in 24 hours. On the other hand, East Singhbhum reported 521 cases and six casualties on the day, the NHM stated in its bulletin. While at least four Covid patients died in Bokaro, Sahebganj, Ramgarh and West Singhbhum reported two deaths each on Saturday. Dhanbad, Godda, Dumka, Khunti, Koderma and Pakur reported one Covid casualty each on the day. The active caseload on Saturday crossed the 10,000 mark in Ranchi, which is at least 7000 more than East Singhbhum, the second worst-affected district in terms of caseload. As many as 10,510 Ranchi residents were battling the viral infection by the end of Saturday, while the count of patients in East Singhbhum was 3,373. As per government data, the state on Saturday tested swab samples of at least 37,152 people and more than 10 per cent of them were found infected. So far, more than 1.58 lakh Jharkhand residents have been infected by Covid-19 and around 82.99 per cent of them have recovered. The second wave of Covid-19 has also triggered an unprecedented rise in the growth rate of infection in Jharkhand, reveals government data. On Saturday, the growth rate of cases in Jharkhand was 1.89 per cent against the national average of 1.03 per cent. The doubling rate of cases in the state was down to 36.93 days against the national average of 67.94 days. On Saturday, the state administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 37,243 people, hardly 37 per cent of those registered for the jab. The second jab was administered to 8,819 beneficiaries, only 3 per cent of the nearly 3 lakh registered for the dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur gets charging hub for electric vehicles ||An electric car charging station has been set up by Tata Steel- owned Jusco in Bistupur. At present, the steel city has around 40 electric cars primarily being charged at the owners’ residence. Tata Motors is the producer of such cars. "Once the car-charging facility is launched, those who own electric cars will be able to get their vehicles charged in a very short period. The car-charging facility is plugged with 440 Volt power and a car can be charged in just one hour time," said Sukanya Das, spokesperson of Jusco, to The Telegraph Online. Manish Kumar, who looks after the electric car division at ASL Motors, said: "There is an in-built facility in such cars to get them charged at home also. At home, a car can be charged with 220 Volt, the power supplied for domestic consumption, but it will take seven hours for getting a 440 Volt power, the same vehicle can be charged in just one hour." "Though we have a charging station at our service center in Adityapur, setting up a charging station at the heart of the city in Bistupur will prove to be a boon for the electric car owners, "said the ASL Motors official. "It takes five units for the car to get fully charged. The cost of five units is about Rs 45. By getting the vehicle fully charged, I can travel up to 100 km with the air conditioning of the car on. Without AC, the car will cover another 20 km, "said Pawan, a resident of Bhuiyandih, adding that the only demerit of such a car is that one can not go for a long drive at a stretch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand state board defers Class X and Class XII exams||Jharkhand Academic Council on Saturday announced the postponement of class X and class XII board exams till June in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. JAC exams were scheduled to take place from May 4 where over seven lakh students were expected to appear at around 2200 centres. The state board joined the league of national boards which adopted similar measures to prevent the spread of the virus amid the raging second wave of the pandemic. JAC in a statement said that they will take a call on fresh dates after reviewing the situation on June 1. JAC secretary, Mahip Singh said, “Students will be provided at least two weeks advance time to prepare before rescheduling fresh dates.” The examination board had halted the practical examinations, which were on since April 6 on an immediate basis till further notice. Congress MLA from Mahagama Dipika Pandey had written a letter to chief minister Hemant Soren to defer the examinations. Parents’ bodies had also urged Hemant to cancel or postpone the exams for their children’s safety. “Cancelling the exams for now was the best option before us to prevent children from getting infected,” Hemant said during an all party online meeting held earlier on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||At all-party meet, JMM favours lockdown, but Congress disagrees ||The JMM demanded a complete lockdown for a few days to break the Covid-19 transmission chain at an all-party meeting chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren online on Saturday evening. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “It is high time we go for a complete lockdown to break the virus chain. And reopening should be in a phased manner. Rest, whatever decision the government takes, the party will wholeheartedly support.” State NCP president Kamlesh Kumar supported the JMM. “Lockdown seems to be the need of the hour. If not a long lockdown, we must go for at least three days full lockdown in a week,” he said. Representatives of all parties in the state attended the meeting. The Congress, part of the ruling alliance in the state, however, didn’t back the government on a lockdown. State party chief and finance minister  Rameshwar Oraon said, “We are not in favour of an economic lockdown as it will affect the poor. But, yes, there is a need for social and religious lockdown.” He asked state BJP president Deepak Prakash to push the BJP government at the Centre to open up vaccination for all in hotspots of Jharkhand to prevent severity of infections. While Prakash did not air his views on a lockdown, he assured Hemant that his party would  upport the state government in its fight against Covid-19. “We certainly agree that there is a need for strict regulations to control the spread of Covid. Whatever decisions the government takes, we will back,” said Prakash, and went on to suggest a few measures. Prakash asked the state government to immediately set up 24x7 helplines in all districts for information on availability of hospital beds, timely testing and furnishing of reports. He also called for strict monitoring of patinets in home isolation. BJP’s ally, AJSU-P’s chief Sudesh Mahto asked the state government to immediately curb blackmarketing of medicines and beds in hospitals. He also wondered why Covid testing wasn't being ramped up. “Just yesterday, many people who returned from Maharashtra were tested at Ranchi station. The government has to step up monitoring and implementation on the ground,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: BJP MLA to be airlifted to Hyderabad ||BJP’s Sindri legislator Indrajit Mahto, undergoing treatment at Dhanbad for Covid-19, was rushed to Ranchi after his condition deteriorated on Saturday. He was scheduled to be airlifted to a Hyderabad hospital from the capital. Mahto was admitted to Jalan Hospital on April 12. He tested negative during the course of the treatment but developed a lung infection that required a more intensive treatment. Health minister Banna Gupta helped in arranging for Mahto’s treatment in Hyderabad. “The MLA accompanied by his wife, son and daughter, besides the district general secretary of BJP Nitai Rajwar; Rajar’s nephew and Principal of private B Ed College, Smriti Negi will be airlifted to Hyderabad for better treatment of lung infection,” said Sanjay Jha to The Telegraph Online. “We waited at Bokaro for around two hours but due to bad weather conditions the air ambulance could not arrive at Bokaro and instead went to Raipur,” said Jha. “The air ambulance will return to Ranchi from Raipur and the MLA will then be shifted to Hyderabad from Ranchi,” said Jha. BJP State President Deepak Prakash had made arrangements for Mahto at Medica Super speciality Hospital in Ranchi but his family insisted on him being treated at Chennai or Hyderabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Students, principals say CISCE adding to stress, want clarity||Principals and students of ICSE schools of Jharkhand have sought more clarity from the council after it decided to postpone board examinations for classes 10 and 12, saying that future dates would be announced after a review of the Covid scenario in June. This uncertainty has added to the stress of Class 10 students, many of whom were hoping for a decision on the lines of CBSE that has allowed Class 10 students the option of a re-test if they were not satisfied with the results declared on the basis of a pre-determined assessment formula. “My friends from CBSE know that they will not have to appear for the exams. But I cannot relax as there is no clarity whether I have to appear for the exams or not. And even if I opt for internal assessment, there is no clarity on the process of internal assessment, which is making the situation even more confusing and frustrating,” said a Class 10 student of Sacred Heart School, Hulhundu, Ranchi. Many principals are in agreement with students that the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) decision could have been less ambiguous. "The council could have taken a clear stand without creating confusion for students. It could have followed CBSE whose students are mentally prepared that there will be no exams. We understand that Class 12 exams are important to seek admission in colleges but Class 10 results hardly play a role," said principal of Kerala Samajam Model School, Jamshedpur, Nandini Shukla. Parents are upset too, saying that the lack of a clear stand by the council was putting mental health of students in jeopardy, pointing out that this was a batch of students that attended a year of online classes. Also, it seemed CISCE was setting different standards, they added. “When the Prime Minister himself has decided to cancel CBSE exams after chairing a meeting with the education minister and education secretary, the CISCE’s stand of making students wait till June to get a clearer picture of the situation is not something parents or students would appreciate,” said Ajay Rai, president of Jharkhand Parents’ Association. CISCE, in a letter addressed to principals of all ICSE and ISC schools, said on Friday that it was deferring board exams scheduled to begin on May 4 in the wake of the surge in Covid-19 cases. “The Covid situation will be closely monitored and the deferment of the ICSE and ISC 2021 examinations will be reviewed and a final decision on the conduct of the board examinations will be taken by the first week of June 2021,” the letter stated. As per the letter, Class 10 candidates will have the option to either appear for the board exam along with Class 12 students or opt for a “fair and unbiased criterion” through which the board will evaluate their performance. The criterion, however, wasn’t announced. Then again not everyone among teachers and students were that critical of the council. Father Sibu Abrahim Mathews, the principal of St Thomas School in Ranchi, defended the council’s decision, calling it fair and in the best interest of students. “Students have the option to not appear for the offline exams. Where is the disparity here? If students are asked to stay prepared for exams, then it is only for their benefit,” said Mathews. Students who are keen on sitting for an offline examination are willing to wait. But they agree the council could have been more specific about the options open to students. "Firstly, I would like to answer my exams whenever it is conducted. But the council shouldn't have given two options because it is somewhat confusing. I would want to wait and watch and appear for the exams along with Class XII," said Abir Roy, a student of De Nobili, CMRI in Dhanbad. Manali Sengupta, a student of Kerala Samajam Model School in Jamshedpur, also said that she would prefer to sit for the board examination. “But the council should have come out with a clear guideline without leaving room for confusion,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad's coking coal industry upbeat after Australia import ||The scarcity of coal and a dwindling market affected more than 120 coking coal factories of Dhanbad, Giridih and Ramgarh in the last few years. Recently, with the revival of the steel industry and import of cheaper coal from Australia, the industry has made an upturn including generating over 50 thousand jobs for local labourers. Australian coal besides being good quality is also available at comparatively cheaper rates compared with the locally available coal provided by different Coal India subsidiaries like Bharat Coking Coal Limited  (BCCL); Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) and Central Coalfields Limited (CCL). Around 50 of the 120 factories have completely shifted to Australian coal being provided to them by the pig iron industry and blast furnace industry. The remaining are using a combination of both. The trade war between China and Australia led to increased import of coal to India at cheaper rates. The coal is imported by ships through Haldia and Paradip ports. B.N. Singh, president of Industries and Commerce Association, said: “The increased import of coal from Australia during January And February this year led to revival of hard coke industries and several industries which were lying closed due to lack of coal.” “The Australian coal availability has decreased our dependence on local coal suppliers as despite our repeated demands to Coal India management the supply of quality coal has not improved for us,” said Singh. Small coking coal factories require around 3 thousand tonne of coal a month while the large factories require around 10 to 17 thousand tonne per month. Amitesh Sahay, owner of a Govindpur based Hard Coke Factory, said: “the wrong policy of Coal India Limited has led to the decreased dependence of hard coke factories of Jharkhand on it’s coal it has failed to provide the required quality of ccoal to local industries, who in turn have shifted to imported coal to China.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma sanctuary says no to tourists due to Covid spike ||Dalma wildlife sanctuary has declared no-entry for tourists, thanks to the second wave of Coronavirus. Though the state government has not given any directive to shut the elephant bode, but forest  authorities are against taking unnecessary risk at a time when the pandemic is spreading fast in Jharkhand and across the country. Dalma divisional forest officer (DFO) Abhishek Kumar said the sanctuary has been shut as a precautionary measure. “It will be wise to keep the sanctuary shut for tourists. We have not received any guidelines in this regard but we took the decision as a precautionary step,” he added. According to him, entry of tourists in good numbers would pose risk at a difficult time. “The virus is spreading fast. Allowing outstation tourists would pose a risk. The virus may be transmitted in animals. There is no need to take any unnecessary risk at this stage,” Kumar added. The state government is expected to issue guidelines, which includes closure of sanctuaries and nature parks. The Dalma sanctuary, 30km from Jamshedpur, was also closed for tourists due to the pandemic in March last year. It re-opened early last month when the Covid cases came down. Foresters said tourists, including some from Bengal, who had booked resorts and were enjoying their time, have left the sanctuary. “The decision to shut the sanctuary was taken on Thursday evening. The tourists were asked to vacate the accommodations by Saturday. However, most went back home by Friday afternoon,” one of the foresters said requesting anonymity. The resorts at the 192 sq km sanctuary, including the recently commissioned bamboo cottage at Makulakocha, were booked till April end. Requests for bookings were pouring in almost every day. However, no further bookings was being entertained. “Nobody except forest officials  would be allowed entry to the sanctuary. All the resorts will remain shut till further orders,” the forester said. It is peak season for tourists. The state forest department will have to suffer a revenue loss. Tourists will miss watching elephants who are presently scattered across the sanctuary. All the elephants have ambled back to the sanctuary after their annual sojourn to the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura in neighbouring Bengal. Now is definitely the best time to visit the sanctuary, known for Asiatic elephants. Sunil Prasad, a resident of  Sakchi in Jamshedpur, said he had booked  two rooms at the plush AC cottages at Makulakocha for a family getaway next month. “Now  we have to wait till the sanctuary re-opens,” he rued.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand HC grants bail to Lalu Prasad Yadav in Dumka treasury case||The Jharkhand High Court on Saturday granted bail to RJD president Lalu Prasad in the Dumka treasury case of the multi-crore rupees fodder scam on completion of half the sentence period, paving way for his release from jail. The bail order was given by Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh. But, his release will take time for want of completion of formalities. Prasad's lawyer Devarshi Mandal told PTI that they will move Special CBI court in Ranchi after it opens on Monday to seek his release following High Court order. The RJD chief is in judicial custody in AIIMS New Delhi since January. Explaining the release procedure, Mandal said, they have send an application to Prasad for his signature which will be submitted to the CBI court here Monday along with the HC order. Since his signed application will be there so Prasad need not appear in person before the CBI court, he said. The CBI court will then send the order to Birsa Munda Jail in Ranchi, in whose custody Prasad was originally sent by the court. The Birsa Munda jail authorities will send the relevant papers to Tihar jail in the national capital, in whose custody Prasad is at present, which will enact the release process of Prasad, Mandal said. Mandal said all the formalities are expected to be completed expeditiously and the release in all probability will happen on Monday. Prasad will be freed after 39 months and 25 daysof incarceration. While allowing bail prayer to Prasad, the court directed him to submit his passport and not leave the country without permission. It also instructed him not to change his address and mobile number during the bail period. The court also ordered him to deposit Rs 5 lakh penalty amount each in two cases-one under IPC sections and another Corruption Act- and two sureties of Rs one lakh each. While sentencing Prasad in the Dumka case on March 24, 2018 to 14 years in jail, a special CBI court of Ranchi had also imposed a fine of Rs 60 lakh, Rs 30 lakh each under IPC sections and corruption Act. The instant case is related to fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 3.13 crore from the Dumka treasury in the early 1990s. Prasad had acquired bail in three other cases of the fodder scam-Deogarh, Chaibasa and Ranchi's Doranda trasury cases- and was waiting for judgement in the Dumka case. During hearing in virtual mode, CBI counsel Rajiv Sinha opposed Prasad's bail plea. The RJD leader's lawyer Kapil Sibal appearing through video-conferencing said his client has completed half the sentence period and should be given bail. The 73-year-old RJD supremo was airlifted to AIIMS New Delhi on January 24 last in view of his bad health. The Rs 950 cror fodder scam took place in the Animal Husbandry department in Bihar when Prasad was the chief minister. Lalu is in Ranchi jail after his sentence in Rs 89 lakh Deogarh trerasury case on December 23, 2017. Meanwhile, a report from Patna, said that Prasad's family and RJD leaders and workers expressed happiness over grant of bail to him. But, in view of the raging coronavirus situation, RJD state president Jagdanand Singh urged all partymen not to throng the 10 Circular road residence of Rabri Devi to celebrate the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand records highest ever single day fatalities ||It was Black Friday for Jharkhand since the Covid-19 outbreak last year with the state recording a staggering 59 fatalities and 3,843 fresh infections over 24 hours. As per the covid bulletin issued by the health department, the total active cases in the state have now risen to 23,045 and going by the speed of infections, the state government is fearing a further spike of at least 12,000 by end of this month. Besides the exponential growth of infection,  mounting death toll has also emerged as the greatest concern for the state amid the second wave of the pandemic that has already unleashed mayhem nationally with over two lakh new cases being reported daily. The state’s single day fatalities on Friday were almost equivalent to the total deaths for January and February this year. The cumulative death count during the first two months in 2021 stood at 57 whereas 22 deaths were reported in March. In the last seven days, 180 deaths were reported in the state, which means that 25 deaths took place per day. Friday’s deaths were across 11 districts with Ranchi and East Singhbhum leading the with 16 and 13 casualties respectively. Bokaro and Dhanbad each had four deaths and three each occurred in Godda and Lohardaga. Two deaths each were reported from Giridih, Koderma, Latehar and Sahibganj and one death each from  Dumka, Garhwa, Palamu, Ramgarh and Simdega. Ranchi clocked the highest number of infections with 1,372 new cases. It was followed by East Singhbhum (709), Hazaribagh (182), Deoghar (173), Koderma (159), Bokaro (140), Ramgarh (126), Gumla (112), West Singhbhum (107) and Dhanbad (93). “Unlike the first wave, the virus has penetrated deep in Jharkhand’s rural areas as well, which should be the gravest concern for the state government that is clearly struggling to get a grip on the situation. If the virus strikes  rural areas, it would mean an exodus of patients to big cities like Ranchi, and Jamshedpur for treatment. "Hospitals are already under immense stress, leading to delays in  admissions resulting in deaths. The writing is already on the wall,” warned a senior doctor of the state government, revealing that five officials in the chief minister’s residence too tested positive on Friday. Overall, 1,55,115 people have been infected with the virus since March last year. Of them, 1,30,694 recovered and 1,376 lost lives. State’s seven-day growth rate now is 1.78 per cent, higher than the national average of 0.87 per cent. The doubling rate in the state is 39.27 days vis-à-vis the national average of 72.17. The state’s recovery rate has fallen to 84.25 per cent against country’s average of 88.30 per cent whereas mortality rate is now at 87 per cent in regard to the national average of 1.20 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Railways introduce four Ranchi-bound superfast special trains||The railways have introduced four Ranchi-bound superfast special trains from Mumbai and Surat to “reduce the excessive rush of passengers” from those Covid affected places. When the first of those trains reached Hatia station of Ranchi on Thursday morning, some of the passengers were found to be Covid positive, raising apprehension that they may be spreading the diseases further. While each of the two trains from Lokmanya Tilak Terminus of Mumbai will run twice every week till April-end and will make 11 trips to Ranchi, another train that left Panvel near Mumbai around midnight on Thursday will make a single trip only. Besides, another special train from Surat also started its journey towards Hatia in Ranchi on Thursday and will make 7 trips during the rest of the current month. “As of now, we are aware about these special trains only and have no idea if any more would be run from those places,” Neeraj Kumar, the chief public relations officer of Ranchi railway division, informed when asked. The first of these trains from Mumbai reached Hatia station with about 1,450 passengers on Thursday morning and 1,312 of them were subjected to rapid antigen test that found 54 of them to be positive. The rest perhaps boarded another train that left the same station for Patna after some time and proceeded towards their respective destinations, it is believed. “The possibility of their speeding the disease can’t be ruled out as they travelled with fellow passengers for over a day and also went home using public transport,” said a railway employee, adding he doubted if those tested positive would strictly confine themselves in home isolation. If this is an indication, more such Covid positive patients are likely to reach Ranchi by the remaining trains and add to the problem, he apprehended. Meanwhile, reports of relatives moving around in search of availability of beds in hospitals continued to appear in local media. As per data released by the state government, the number of active cases in Jharkhand rose to 20,651 at 9 pm on Thursday as 3,480 new positive cases were detected on that day and 28 died. Among the districts,  Ranchi continued to be worst affected. With 1,393 positive were detected on Thursday that accounted for 40 per cent of the state’s total new cases, Ranchi had an active caseload of 8,661 that comprised of 42 per cent of the state’s total. In view of the situation, the government decided on Friday to run the state secretariat with only 50 per cent of the staff attending office while the rest were allowed to work from home. Some localities of Ranchi have been particularly affected and there are families having multiple positive cases. “We have decided to help such families with elderly persons and students that do not have anyone to help,” said Ranchi’s BJP MP Sanjay Seth, adding his team would deliver nutritious food, milk and fruits included, to such families for 15 days, beginning Sunday, free of cost. Issuing three WhatsApp numbers, Seth requested such affected families to send him copies of Covid positive report, detailed residential addresses and contact numbers so that they could deliver food to such families smoothly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Probe into mule accounts fraud in Jharkhand||A three-member probe team constitutedby the Latehar district administration in Jharkhand visited worksites of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme in Manika block on Friday after a survey byrights activists found that mule accounts are being allegedly used by middlemen to siphon off MGNREGS funds. Acting on the directive of Latehar deputy commissioner Abu Imran, the probe teamled by Pankaj Kumar, district rural development agency (DRDA) director, and comprising Latehar Sadar subdivisional magistrate Shekhar Kumar and junior engineer Roushan Kumar inspectedthe doba (small ponds) construction sites in Bhadaibathan panchayat of Manika block. “The team inspected the doba construction sites of Santu Yadav, Sunil Paswan, Krishna Paswan and Bishunti Kunwar in Bhadaibathan panchayat. They also examined the documents, muster rolls, MIS (information management system) reports, etc, to find out about the payments and the work done by different villagers as well as their documents. “The team would be submitting its report to the deputy commissioner in a day or two. We found several anomalies indicating the presence of mule accounts,” said a senior official associated with the team. Imran told The Telegraph that the team was constituted as soon as the allegation of siphoning off scheme funds was made to the district administration. “We had constituted the team soon after receiving the complaint about siphoning off funds through mule accounts from the rights activists. The team will be submitting its report. We will certainly take action on those involved based on the report,” he said. State rural development secretary Aradhana Patnaik admitted that she had received similar complaints earlier as well. “We had received complaints of such mule accounts being used to siphon off MGREGS funds during the construction of PMAY (Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana) houses. We verified the complaints in our social audit and took steps to rectify it. We will be asking all deputy commissioners to be alert about such fraudulent practices,” said Patnaik. A survey conducted under the aegis of NREGA Sahayata Kendra, Latehar, by a team comprising Belgian-born economist and Jharkhand-based activist Jean Dreze, James Herenj (NREGA Watch) and other rights activists found that the bank accounts of beneficiaries who have not done any work under the rural job scheme are being allegedly used by middlemen in Latehar district to siphon off MGNREGS funds. The Telegraph had reported about the survey findings on Friday. The survey was conducted between April 12 and 13 and the team members met the deputy commissioner on April 15. “We believe that similar practices of siphoning off funds are being carried out in other districts of Jharkhand as well. We would submit our recommendation on checking such malpractices to the rural development department and the chief minister soon,” said Dreze. Sources in the rural development department claimed that funds to the tune of over Rs 270 crore had been siphoned off using mule accounts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
