18-04-2021||Jharkhand||Veteran trade union leader dies at 84||Veteran trade union leader Sanjeev Kanti Bakshi, popularly known as S.K. Bakshi, died on Sunday at the age of 84 while returning to Jharia from The Mission Hospital in Durgapur. Bakshi was the former national vice president of Central Industrial Trade Union. On April 9, Bakshi was admitted to the central hospital of BCCL. He was rushed to Durgapur on Saturday night after developing breathing complications. A funeral procession was taken out on Sunday from his home at Amla Para in Jharia  to Mohalbani ghat on the bank of river Damodar in Bhowra where his cremation took place. In 1964, Bakshi became the Dhanbad district committee convenor of CPI (M).  He joined Central Industrial trade union as an executive committee member in 1970 and gradually climbed the political ladder to become its national secretary and vice president. Bakshi was a member of Coal India Relief Fund Trust and a member of Joint consultative committee of BCCL. S.N. Tiwari, director (P&IR/M), of Coal India Limited, in a condolence letter said, “Coal Industry has lost today an important and dedicated trade union member who always raised the issue of welfare of workers of coal industry at various levels.”  A.K. Jha, National Vice President of Indian National Trade Union Congress,  said, ”He was the last trade union leader of his rank and file and his demise has left a void in trade union politics which is going to be difficult to fill up.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
18-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad adds 14 private hospitals as Covid centres||The district administration, in its effort to increase the number of beds for Covid patients, has added 14 private hospitals for treatment of patients from Sunday evening. “We have been carrying out treatment at six private hospitals earlier and following the launching of treatment in 14 private hospitals this evening the number of private hospitals offering Covid treatment has increased to 20,” said Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh. The deputy commissioner said all the private hospitals are offering Covid treatment at government approved rates. The total number of beds rose to 1144 in the district from the existing 910. The ICU beds for Covid patients have also doubled from 90 to around 180 following the addition of the 14 hospitals. Singh said that out of the available 1144 beds, around 180 are ICU beds and rest other are non ICU beds. Further elaborating about the bed availability figures he said that out of these 1144 beds, 367 are oxygen supported bed while 777 are non-oxygen supported beds. Singh said that out of the 367 beds with oxygen support, 131 are occupied and rest are lying vacant. Among the 180 ICU beds, around 100 are occupied while 80 are still unoccupied. “We are simultaneously trying to increase the number of oxygen supported beds for which we are in touch with the state government and simultaneously local availability is being ensured through BCCL,Railway, ECL etc,” said Singh. At present, Covid treatment is being carried out in 27 hospitals out of which 7 are government-run and 20 are private. Singh said, “As per the state government’s instruction to reserve 50% seats in all private hospitals for covid treatment, we carried out physical verification of around 180 hospitals and clinic out of which the infrastructure and facilities of some were found appropriate for launching of Covid treatment while infrastructure of others was not found appropriate.” “We have extended the treatment in 14 new private hospitals today and similar Covid treatment facilities will be extended in more private hospitals in phase wise manner,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
18-04-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS to shut down OPD services from Monday||Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), the state’s largest government  hospital which is currently overwhelmed by Covid patients, has decided to shut OPD services from Monday amid the rising number of Covid cases. The hospital has announced that it will  strengthen its E-OPD services to offer online consultations for non-covid patients and continue its critical emergency unit to address serious cases. “Considering the situation of the Covid-19 pandemic in Ranchi, it has been decided to shut down OPD services at RIMS from Monday till further notice. Those engaged in full-time OPDs will be diverted to serve at Covid care units at the hospital. To compensate closure of offline OPD, RIMS will try to run online services in a better way to help people,” said the notification issued by the management on Sunday evening. The hospital has stated that offline OPD was proving detrimental since it was becoming increasingly difficult to follow R physical distancing norms due to the daily surge of patients. “This is also resulting in Covid cases among not just people but also staff and doctors of RIMS,” said the management. An IMA functionary hoped that closing down OPD wouldn't end up posing unforeseen problems for non-Covid patients. “These are very tough times for everyone. Governments and administrations must also not ignore non-Covid patients, which could further aggravate the pandemic. The underprivileged, and the financially challenged are the ones who mostly turn up at OPDs outside RIMS.  They are also the ones who aren’t very technologically sound to use online applications,” he said. For Covid combat, RIMS has 223 beds for asymptomatic patients and 253 with oxygen support for people requiring critical treatment, as per district administration’s figures. The hospital’s Covid section is fully occupied at the moment as cases continue to pile up in Ranchi with more than 10,000 active cases, the highest ever since the outbreak of the pandemic. Of about 2,000 doctors and other medical frontline workers at RIMS, at least 10 per cent are reported to be down with Covid since the last  month, sources claimed. The government is also working out plans to further increase beds for Covid care at RIMS.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
18-04-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city to add more Covid beds amid rising cases||The district health department has initiated the process of increasing beds at Covid wards on a war-footing as the positive cases continue to rise in the steel city. At present, there are 650 beds in Covid wards at all hospitals, the highest being 450 at Tata Main Hospital. The authorities are trying to set up 500 more beds at both the government as well as private hospitals. "We are going to increase the number of beds in all the hospitals with support of the management of the hospitals concerned. Beside ensuring an increase in the beds at the hospitals having Covid wards, we are also trying to get Covid wards introduced in the few more hospitals, "said A.K. Lal, district civil surgeon, to The Telegraph Online. In the past 24 hours, 692 positive cases were detected out of 4,567 samples tested both under RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test. During this period, six persons, including two women died, taking the total number of deaths in the city to 430. The health department on Sunday launched a massive Covid test drive in the public places, especially focusing on Kadma and Sonari areas of the city from where the highest number of cases are being reported. Covid tests were conducted at vegetable markets and streets besides the health hubs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
18-04-2021||Jharkhand||Poor turnout for second dose hits govt plan of arresting virus spread ||Only about 14 per cent of the nearly 24 lakh Jharkhand residents who received the first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 have come forward for the second dose as well, a trend that could be a stumbling block in the government’s aim of creating herd immunity through vaccination, health experts said on Sunday. As per data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 23,94,947 state residents have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand, and only 3,42,686 of them have received the second jab so far. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare recently reiterated the importance of the second dose, stating that both the doses were necessary for producing enough antibodies to resist the viral infection. In a video released by the Centre on Friday, Dr Randeep Guleria, the Director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, explained why both doses of the vaccine are important for building an immune system strong enough to counter the Covid-19 virus. “The first dose, known as the prime dose, prepares the human immune system to build antibodies. However, these antibodies generated with the first dose won't last for a long time and will gradually wane with time,” the AIIMS chief said in the video. “After the second dose, called the "booster dose”, the immune system receives the boost to produce a large number of antibodies that gives good cell-mediated immunity, another defence mechanism against the coronavirus infection,” he added. However, at a time when the health machinery in Jharkhand is busy battling the worst and most lethal wave of Covid-19, the vaccination campaign, especially the second dose, has been neglected to an extent. Some beneficiaries, who received their first dose and were waiting for a call from the government for the second dose, said that they did not receive any intimation over phone or email. “We went to a hospital and got the second dose on our own after the stipulated gap of six weeks. There was no intimation from the government via SMS or phone call,” said Lalit Choudhary, a Ranchi resident who got the second jab at a private hospital on Saturday. State Immunization Officer Dr Ajit Prasad, who is suffering from Covid-19, was not in a position to comment as he was in isolation and undergoing treatment. As per government data, only 29 per cent of 2,34,518 beneficiaries, above the age of 45 years and registered for the second dose, have got the jab. The achievement was above 70 per cent for healthcare workers and frontline workers. Figures indicate that mostly commoners were giving the second dose of the vaccine a miss. State health secretary K.K. Soan and Health Director Ravi Shankar Shukla did not respond to calls from The Telegraph Online on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
18-04-2021||Jharkhand||Rain, thunderstorm lash parts of Jharkhand||Several parts of Jharkhand, including Jamshedpur and Ranchi, witnessed thunderstorm, lightning and rain due to the impact of a cyclonic circulation and a low-pressure trough on Sunday. Satellite pictures indicated a cyclonic circulation over eastern Uttar Pradesh and a trough over neighbouring Bihar extending upto 0.9 km above mean sea level. Based on satellite pictures and radar inputs, Ranchi Meteorological Centre had issued frequent nowcasts (short-term forecast) through Sunday indicating moderate thunderstorm and showers in central and southern Jharkhand. Chaibasa in West Singhbhum, Gumla, Simdega and Khunti were among the places that experienced thunderstorms and lightning. Elsewhere, say, in Bokaro and Ramgarh, the sky was partly cloudy and there were light showers accompanied by gusty winds. Ghatshila in East Singhbhum experienced 2mm rain while the local weather office in Jamshedpur recorded 1mm rain. The steel city, along with several other places in southern and central Jharkhand, witnessed sudden strong winds on Sunday afternoon which blew at a speed of 30kmph. Met data revealed Ranchi recorded 2mm rain in past 24 hours, while Chas in Bokaro district recorded around 9mm rain. Chandil in Seraikela- Kharsawan district  and Khunti experienced around 4mm rain. According to Ranchi Met office deputy director Abhishek Anand, light rain or thunderstorms are expected in isolated pockets, especially in  central, north-east and southern Jharkhand, in another 24 hours due to the impact of the cyclonic circulation. He also hinted at gradual rise in maximum readings after the next 24 hours. A senior weather analyst at Patna Met Centre said the cyclonic circulation  over  Uttar Pradesh  was resulting in heavy moisture incursion into the atmosphere from Bay of Bengal which resulted in rise in humidity level in most parts of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
18-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad train stop withdrawn after breach of Covid protocols ||The Dhanbad Rail division has temporarily suspended the Katrasgarh station stoppage of the Dhanbad Alappuzha express because of repeated complaints of passengers skipping mandatory Covid-19 test. Akhilesh Kumar Pandey, senior divisional commercial manager of Dhanbad, confirmed the decision on Sunday. The district administration has made Covid test mandatory for all railway passengers reaching Dhanbad Railway station especially those coming from Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh etc Initially, a large number of people returning from Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana etc were undergoing Covid test at Dhanbad Railway station before returning to their respective places. Recently, passengers started disembarking at Katrasgarh and skipped the test. Katras based social activist Ankit Rajgarhia raised this issue and sent a tweet to Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad, Ashish Bansal. Bansal promised immediate action and suspended the railway stoppage. “I was tweeting the photographs of migrant workers returning to their homes without getting tested for over five days continuously to DRM and today I am happy as the Railway has withdrawn the stoppage for the train at Katrasgarh,” said Rajgarhia. “As the pandemic situation aggravated recently, more than 400-500 people, majority of them being migrant workers started getting down at Katrasgarh railway station ahead of Dhanbad on daily basis since over week  and later returning to their respective places, at Chirkunda, Mugma, Maithon, by hiring auto rickshaw,” he said. District president of Janta Dal (United) Pintu Kumar Singh who is also member of Zonal railway users consultative committee (ZRUCC) said, “instead of withdrawing the railway stoppage for temporary basis at Katrasgarh the administration should have made arrangement for Covid testing at Katras Railway station also so that the large number who genuinely want to disembark at Katrasgarh may not have to face difficulty.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
18-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand puts off civil services, all other exams on account of Covid spread||The Jharkhand government on Sunday announced postponement of the May 2 state civil services examinations and all other exams in schools, colleges and ITIs with immediate in the wake of mounting Covid-19 cases in the state. As of now, all educational institutions and anganwadis will remain closed, while social gatherings like weddings would be allowed with only 50 people as opposed to the earlier announced 200. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who  made these  announcements after holding a meeting with coalition partners Congress and RJD at his residence on Sunday,  said that the government would review the situation after a month and take a call on examinations. On Saturday, Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) had announced postponement of state board exams. “After deliberations today (Sunday), the state government has decided to immediately cancel all kinds of exams, be  that of JPSC or at schools, colleges or other centres of higher learning, till further notice. We will take a call on them after reviewing the situation of Covid-19 after a month again. Similarly, all sorts of centres for learning will be closed and gatherings at marriages shouldn’t exceed 50 people,” Hemant announced, adding that the state government was deliberating on ways to cut the rapid transmission of the coronavirus that  has so far infected over 1.5 lakh people in Jharkhand. Currently, the state’s active caseload stands at  over 23,000 with capital Ranchi emerging as the worst affected district leading to undue pressure on the state's already strained health infrastructure. Hemant appealed to people to refrain from venturing out unless it was absolutely necessary, stating that the second wave of the  virus had become more virulent. “Consider that whoever you meet, may have been infected with the virus, given the kind of spread we are facing now. So, venture out only if it is highly necessary and take all the prescribed precautions. Don't take it lightly,” Hemant said, appealing to youths to be more cautious as the virus was now impacting  younger age groups. "If the situations keep worsening, we will take more stringent steps in the interest of the state," he said. State finance minister and Congress president Rameshwar Oraon, health and disaster management minister Banna Gupta and state labour development minister from RJD Satyanand Bhokta were among those who took part in the  meeting. The state government is yet  to decide on a lockdown amid a growing call for it from various parties, including the JMM, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Jharkhand, and  certain sections of trade organisations. From Sunday, traders iat Ranchi's Shastri Market have announced self-imposed lockdown for a week when they will keep their shops closed. At an all-party meeting held on Saturday, the JMM and the NCP  strongly demanded a complete lockdown, while the Congress and Left were opposed to a total shutdown  citing  livelihood issues in the state. The Opposition BJP on the other hand had assured the government of its support in whatever decision it takes to combat the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
18-04-2021||Jharkhand||Passing out parade of Punjab Regimental Centre||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
18-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: BJP leader rushed to hospital after getting stung by bees||Hazaribagh: BJP leader Bijul Devi and three others were stung by a swarm of bees on Sunday morning, following which all of them had to be rushed to the hospital. The saffron party leader was on the terrace of her residence in Bahimar Chowk in Katkamsandi block with her 10-year-old grandson Anik when, all of a sudden, the swarm stung them. Her sons, who rushed upstairs on hearing the screams of the leader and her grandson, were also bitten by the bees. However, they managed to rescue both. Following this incident, all the four persons were rushed to the Hazaribagh Medical College and Hospital, from where Bijul Devi called Sadar MLA Manish Jaiswal. He sent his media-in-charge Ranjan Choudhary to the hospital to ensure better treatment was provided to the injured. The BJP leader and her grandson are still undergoing treatment at the trauma centre of the hospital, while doctors discharged her two sons. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A herd of wild elephants killed a 60-year-old woman named Mosomat
Bandhani in Lamka Tari forest in Chepakala under Dadikala police station. Bandhani went to collect mahua flowers from the forest on Saturday afternoon. When she didn’t return till night, her son went looking for her and found her dead body lying in the forest. Villagers have complained about a herd of 20-elephants damaging their crops. They have urged forest department to make necessary arrangements to drive the herd away. Bandhani’s kin will be given compensation according to government provisions. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Chatra: A CRPF team of the 190 battalion along with personnel from Jaguar recovered four cane bombs while conducting a massive search operation at the Khapia Madarpur forest, under Kunda Police Station, in Chatra on Sunday. Talking about the incident, ASP (operations) Nigam Prasad said Superintendent of Police Rishav Kumar Jha formed a team to undertake the operation after he got a tipoff. This team was successful in finding the cane bombs, which were planted beside some uniforms. Thereafter, the police called upon the anti-bomb disposal squad which diffused the bombs. “The extremists were planning to target security forces but they failed,” Prasad said. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A truck and car collision in Chopadaru ghati in Gola block killed two people on the spot on Saturday. Eyewitnesses said at a sharp turn, the truck hit the car, damaging the vehicle completely. Police said the two victims were Ranchi residents returning home after a visit to Bokaro. Both have been identified as Shiv Kumar Rai(35) and Bhaskar Kumar Jha(45). The bodies have been handed to the families after post-mortem. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Daltonganj: Anti viral tablets and injections prescribed by doctors for Covid-19 infection are scarcely available in Daltonganj. Ivermectin tablets and Sevipiravir injections are in short supply while doctors continue to prescribe them to patients said sources. Drug inspector Abrar Alam said, “These drugs come from Patna and we expect it to be here in a couple of days.” Dharmender Upadhaya, secretary of the Palamau District Chemist and Druggist Association said, “We are keeping eyes on the availability of the medicines and we will see to it that the medicines do not go out of stock.” (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
18-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant writes to PM, seeks help of central forces to tackle Covid surge||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday held a virtual meeting with the state heads of all political parties in Ranchi to discuss strategies to contain the spread of Covid-19. “We would like to take views of all political parties in the state and have invited all their state heads for a virtual meeting on the Covid scenario, what is being done by the government and what is being planned. We would also take opinions of each of the party representatives before announcing our decision in the wake of the unprecedented rise in the number of Covid cases in the state,” said a senior official in the chief minister’s office in Ranchi before the virtual meeting. Earlier, the chief minister held discussions with senior bureaucrats, including chief secretary Sukhdeo Singh, health secretary Kamal Kishore Soan and others, at his residence on the Covid scenario in the state. After the meeting with senior officials, Soren said the government would provide medical kits to all Covid patients undergoing home isolation. The kits would contain medicines, oximeter, masks and other required materials. Apart from this, all anganwadis (Integrated Child Development Scheme centres) would be supplied with pulse oximeter to record the oxygen concentration of infants and mothers. The health secretary was directed to employ on contract educated youths who have done paramedical courses to bridge the trained manpower shortage in health centres. On Saturday evening, Soren wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow the use of doctors and paramedics associated with the central paramilitary forces stationed in Jharkhand and military hospitals to help the state in the fight against the pandemic. “I wrote today to Prime Minister @narendramodiji to allow the use of doctors and paramedical associated with high number of Central paramilitary forces stationed in the state to support us in this battle,” Soren tweeted at 7.30pm. The letter to the Prime Minister states that Jharkhand is an extremism affected-state and a large number of paramilitary forces like the CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force) and the SSB (Sashastra Seema Bal) have been deployed in the state to fight this extremism. “During the review meeting it came to my notice that each such company of CPMFs (central para-military forces) deployed in Jharkhand is manned by a certain number of doctors and paramedics. Similarly there are two military hospitals (at Ranchi and Ramgarh). I feel the contingent of doctors and paramedics available with the aforesaid establishments can be of immense help in case they are deployed for the treatment and management of Covid-19 patients,” Soren said. He requested the Prime Minister to direct the Union home and defence ministries to issue necessary instruction for permitting the state government to deploy doctors and paramedics of CPMFs and military hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 cases. Soren had already directed officials for increasing the number of RT-PCR machines to enhance testing of Covid suspects and improving facilities at the hospitals for treatment of patients. “The government is keeping a watch on the scenario closely and will announce some more stricter rules in the days to come to contain Covid-19 in the state,” the official said. Jharkhand has imposed a sort of night curfew with all shops and commercial establishments, barring emergency services, being closed after 8pm till morning and prohibited gathering of more than four persons at a place. The government has also closed educational institutions, gyms and other public places and prohibited congregation of any kind, apart from strict enforcement of Covid protocols. National Students’ Union of India (student wing of the Congress) state vice-president Indrajit Singh on Saturday wrote to the chief minister requesting for the deferment of competitive examinations in view of the sharp rise in Covid cases and high number of deaths in the state. “We have seen that the CBSE, ICSE and even universities have cancelled or postponed their examinations. We have requested the state government to cancel or defer the Jharkhand Public Service Commission combined civil preliminary exams on May 2, the primary teacher training exam to be conducted by the Jharkhand Academic Council on April 23, matric and intermediate board exam to be conducted by the JAC from May 4 and the diploma in pharmacy exam to be conducted by the Jharkhand State Pharmacy Council on April 19 in view of threat to the examines due to the rise in Covid cases,” said Indrajit. On Friday, the state registered an all-time high of 3,843 fresh Covid-19 cases and 56 deaths. The total number of positive cases stand at 155,115 of which 1,30,694 patients have been discharged. Jharkhand governor Draupadi Murmu tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday and was admitted to the Medica Superspeciality Hospital in Ranchi. Koderma BJP MP Annapurna Devi and BJP Sindri MLA Indrajit Mahato also tested positive for the virus. While Ananpurna is in home isolation, Mahato, who was suffering breathing difficulties, was airlifted to Hyderabad for treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
