19-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Chinnamastika temple in Ramgarh decorated for Ram Navami ||Hazaribagh: The ancient temple of Ma Chinnamastika in Gola of Ramgarh was decorated by 20-artists from Calcutta on the occassion of Ram Navami. The number of devotees visiting the temple this year is less compared with other years due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Priests said the temple is decorated every year during Ram Navami. The Chinnamastika temple is popular for its tantrik style of architectural design. Apart from the main temple, there are ten temples of various gods and goddesses. It is situated 28km away from Ramgarh district headquarter in Gola block on the confluence of Damodar and Bhairavi. It is 80km away from state capital Ranchi. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A fire accident at a field in Dwari village in Giddhore block on Monday gutted stack of hay worth Rs.10,000 on Monday. Villagers reached the spot and doused the fire preventing a bigger disaster. Police said the reason behind the fire not known yet but investigations are on. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: Dhanbad’s BJP legislator Raj Sinha tested positive for Covid on Monday. Sinha disclosed the information through his twitter handle. He appealed to all the those who came in contact with him to take a Covid test. Tundi MLA of JMM, Mathura Prasad Mahto, was the first politician from Dhanbad to test positive for Covid on July 7, 2020. He was admitted to the central hospital in Dhanbad after which he was shifted to Tata Main Hospital on July 15 after his condition deteriorated. Mahto was released from the hospital following a prolonged treatment of more than 50 days.. BJP MLA of Sindri, Indrajit Mahto who was also admitted to Asian Dwarkada Jalan Superspecicality Hospital on April 12 for Coronavirus infection, was shifted to Hyderabad’s Yasoda Multispecialty Hospital on April 17 after his condition deteriorated. Raj Sinha confirmed his home isolation to The Telegraph Online. He said he is stable after taking medicines prescribed by the doctor. Dhanbad MP, P.N. Singh on Monday wrote a letter to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan requesting him to ensure availability of Remdesivir in sufficient quantity to Jharkhand to ensure proper treatment to all patients as its shortage is also flooding the black market of the vaccine. Hazaribagh: Criminals shot at two youths on a bike, killing one at the spot, on the Kunda-Lawalong main road on Sunday night. The second victim sustained severe injuries from the firing. The one killed was 25-year-old Jitendra Ganjhu of Tikaitbandh village. The injured was Pratap Ganjhu, brother-in-law of Jitendra. Officer-in-charge of Kunda police, Bunty Yadav, said they are investigating the case. No arrests have been made since there were no eye witnesses at the spot. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Chatra subdivisional officer Mumtaz Ansari on Monday sealed a garment shop on the main road of the town for violating Covid-19 guidelines. Ansari saw the shop crowded with customers and many not wearing masks. He said punishment for violations will ensure that everyone will follow the guidelines. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
19-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Dhanbad appoints officers to tackle hospital bed crisis||The district administration on Monday appointed magistrates for private hospitals and nodal officers for government run facilities to ensure the availability of beds for Covid-19 patients. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh held a meeting with all magistrates of private hospitals instructing them to ensure normal bed provision for asymptomatic patients, beds with oxygen support for symptomatic patients or patients with mild symptoms and ICU beds for critical patients. “If the beds are available in the hospital then the patient reaching the centre has to be admitted at any cost but even if beds are not available, the concerned magistrate of the respective hospital will have to coordinate with the magistrate of a nearby private hospital to ensure the patient is admitted,” said Singh during the meeting. The state nodal officer for Hospital Bed Management for Covid-19 has been instructed to provide all necessary information with regard to availability of beds at government and private Covid treatment centres from all the districts to ensure real time monitoring of Covid beds. The administration on Sunday launched Covid treatment in 14 more private hospitals other than the six existing centres bringing the total number of private covid treatment centers to 20 and increasing the total number of beds to 1144. With the addition of 14 new private hospitals the number of ICU beds in the district for Covid patients has also increased to 180 from 90.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
19-04-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city traders' body calls for one-day lockdown||Traders of the steel city have decided to keep their shops and business establishments shut on Tuesday amid rising Covid-19 cases and shortage of beds at hospitals in response to an appeal issued by the Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industries. "As it is an extraordinary situation of medical emergency, the traders' community also has a crucial role to play in the war against Covid. If the shops are kept closed completely on, then the chain of the deadly virus can be broken to a great extent, "said Suresh Sonthalia, former president of the Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industries. In response to Sonthalia's appeal, office-bearers of the Retail Merchant Welfare Association of Sakchi convened an emergency meeting and declared that all the 600 members will keep their shops closed. "Despite repeated drives being carried out by the administration to follow protective measures against Covid, people tend to evade them like not wearing masks properly and evading social distancing, thus contributing to the spread of Covid. But if we all keep our shops closed at least for a day, then it will impact positively," said Somenath Tiwari, president of RMWA. In the last 24 hours, 676 cases were reported, thus taking the total number of positive cases to 24,399. During this period, 17 persons died at various hospitals in the city, taking the death toll to 447. Test results arriving late due to a huge backlog at centres has added to the gravity of the situation. "The report of the RT-PCR test is getting late because a huge backlog has piled up. The situation has been thus a large number of people turning up for the test having noticed some health-related complications, "said civil surgeon Dr A.K. Lal to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
19-04-2021||Jharkhand||Crematorium staff missing, ambulances with bodies wait for hours in Ranchi||There was chaos around Bada Ghagra Road on the outskirts of he state capital for hours on Monday as over 40 ambulances blocked the lane from noon till evening to protest against poor arrangements and the lack of a comprehensive plan by the district administration to ensure respectable last rites for those who had died of Covid-19. Around noon, over 40 ambulances carrying dead bodies stood in queue since morning hoping for resumption of cremation. But sources said that due to unavailability of wood and staff, funeral pyres could not be lit. Frustrated at the situation, ambulance drivers then blocked the entire road from both ends till 5pm until officials arrived and promised to make arrangements. Last week, the district administration had earmarked Bada Ghagra as alternative cremation site for Covid patients after the electric crematorium at Harmu Muktidham stopped functioning owing to a technical snag. Since then, around 25 bodies are cremated at Bada Ghagra using funeral pyres set up with wood. However, since Monday morning, cremation got stopped owing to lack of wood and other paraphernalia, inconveniencing not just those who had lost their loved ones, but also ambulance drivers who were forced to keep bodies in vehicles. “Cremation activities have begun now. Staff was missing and hence there was no one to issue challans and complete paper work. Also, there was a shortage of wood, oil and other items. We are trying our best to sort out the issues,” said an official of Namkum police station, who was there at the site. Ambulance driver Md Salim accused the district administration and Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) of having completely failed in their job. “Even the dead aren’t getting proper treatment in this state, forget about medical treatment of the sick. Every day, we have to wait for hours with bodies. Considering the rate of fatalities, why can’t the administration make proper arrangements,” he asked. Another driver, Kalimuddin, said there was body in his vehicle since midnight. “The electric crematorium at Hamu Muktidham went defunct on Sunday after working fine for two days after repairs. Here, people have to wait for 7-8 hours to get to the cremation ground. I couldn’t sit in my ambulance s it began stinking,” he said. Neither Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan nor SDO Utkarsh Gupta responded to calls from The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
19-04-2021||Jharkhand||Green crusader starts animal awareness campaign ahead of hunting festival||Environmentalist and Padma Shri awardee Jamuna Tudu has launched an awareness campaign against the futility of killing animals. With Bishu Shikar or Sendra, the annual hunting festival of tribals, scheduled next month, Jamuna is keen to reach as many people as possible with a message to not kill animals in the name of tradition. The 35-year-old called a meeting of Van Suraksha Samity (VSS) at Laubera village under Bardikanpur Kalapathar panchayat under Chakulia block of East Singhbhum on Friday to discuss the campaign which will be held at local villages. Villagers go hunting in the jungles of Chakulia block almost every day. Besides collecting wood for fuel, they also kill small animals like rabbits and squirrels. Van Suraksha Samity, formed in 1998, has been actively protecting the forests from timber mafia. “We have toured some villages in Chakulia block to spread awareness. We requested people with folded hands to not kill animals. We intend to tour entire East Singhbhum once the Covid-related situation improves,” Jamuna said on phone from Chakulia. According to her, animals are killed in jungles during Sendra. “I appeal to my tribal brethrens to not kill animals in the name of tradition. Keep the festival symbolic. Just perform puja to celebrate the occasion,” she added. “If need be, we will also support the forest range office in their bid to keep tribals at bay during Sendra. We will also tour the jungles and try and stop the tribals from hunting animals,” said Jamuna, also known as Lady Tarzan. Jamuna and her team have planned to meet Jamshedpur-based Dolma Buru Sendra Samity (DBSS), the organisers of Sendra at Dalma wildlife sanctuary. “Sendra will be celebrated on May 24. We have plans to meet DBSS members and tell them to not kill animals at the sanctuary. There is no need to kill innocent animals in the name of tradition. I hope the tribals understand and pay heed to our request,” the green crusader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
19-04-2021||Jharkhand||CBI arrests deputy director of mining regulator for Dhanbad job racket ||The CBI arrested Arvind Kumar, Deputy Director (central zone) of Directorate General of Mines Safety, on Sunday for allegeldy manipulating selection of candidates in senior roles of the mining regulator in exchange for bribes to the tune of Rs 72 lakh. A CBI team conducted raids at several places including, Lakhisarai in Bihar, Ranchi, Nagpur, Udaipur,  Sahdol, Hyderabad and Bilaspur to unravel the racket in which 48 candidates were qualified, on the reference of two persons, in oral examinations conducted between March 8 to March 20. The team seized Rs 35 lakh, allegedly paid as the first instalment of  a total pyment of Rs 72 lakh for selecting 48 candidates at a rate of Rs 1.5 per lakh per candidate. Four others including  Kailash Mahto, brother of  Arvind Kumar; Trilokinath Singh ,a middle man of professor colony of Dhanbad, Rangbahadur Singh and Praveen Kumar were also arrested from Lakhisarai. The first instalment amount was sent on Sunday through Trilokinath Singh and Rangbahadur Singh to Suryagarha area of Lakhisarai which was received by Kailash Mahto along with Pravin Kumar. The CBI team stationed at Lakhisarai, arrested all four as soon as the money was handed over. The team then searched the ancestral house of Arvind Kumar for more than four hours during which some cash and investment related documents were seized.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
19-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand targets 1.25 lakh Covid tests amid influx of migrants ||Amid an alarming rise in Covid cases and an influx of migrant labourers from most of the surge tates, the Jharkhand government has set a target of testing at least 1.25 lakh people, especially travelers, by April 22 in a special Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) drive, the health department said on Monday. In a letter to deputy commissioners of all 24 districts, health secretary K.K. Soan asked various district administrations to prioritise testing of elderly and vulnerable travelers who arrived in the state recently and ensure RT PCR tests for symptomatic travelers if they test negative in rapid tests. As a part of the drive, the health secretary also warned of a possible increase in the number of patients and asked district officials to arrange beds in hospitals and other isolation centres for those in need of medical attention. A document released by the health department highlighted that the state aims to conduct at least 15,000 tests in Ranchi and 11,000 tests in East Singhbhum – two of the worst-affected districts in terms of caseload and fatalities. Besides, the Dhanbad administration has been asked to conduct 6,500 tests while Bokaro has been asked to test at least 7,000 people during the drive. Jharkhand has reported an unprecedented rise in Covid cases and fatalities in the past couple of weeks. The second wave of the virus has not only taken the growth rate of infection in the state above the national average, but also reduced the doubling rate below the national average. Special trains carrying migrants from Maharashtra have started entering Jharkhand, increasing chances of a further spike in cases in the state, health officials said on Monday. Many workers have dodged mandatory Covid tests at railway stations, further increasing the fear of transmission in the villages they visit. As per government data, Jharkhand has been reporting close to 4,000 Covid cases and around 50 deaths every day on an average during the past one week. While the testing rate has been intensified in the state, many labs are still failing to provide Covid test reports within 48 hours – a trend that is causing delay in identification of cases and subsequent medical intervention. Jharkhand has also run out of life-saving drugs needed for treatment of Covid patients and is exploring the international market to import medicines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
19-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren's elder son tests positive for Covid||Chief minister Hemant Soren’s 12 years old son is learnt to have contracted Covid-19 and is currently under home isolation, indicating how the deadly virus is fast spreading its tentacles in the state as the second wave of the raging global pandemic throws everyone’s lives out of gear nationally. Unlike the first wave, the ongoing pandemic is also impacting those up to 45 years of age and children. Soren has two sons--one is 12 and other about six.  While Soren or the state government hasn’t officially announced about the status of CM’s son, sources in his office said that the kid’s sample, along with family members of the chief minister were collected two days back. Speaking to a private channel earlier in the day during a programme on Covid-19, Soren said, “My son too is positive now and I am seeing it at home too as the virus is starting to impact everyone across all age groups,” He said, adding that his government is keeping a strict vigil over the situation to take corrective steps. On oxygen cylinders, which are emerging as a major crisis in several states, Soren said that the state has sufficient quantity of production but there exists challenges in the logistics of its transportation, which they are looking into. “We have also formed teams to do raids to curb the black marketing of oxygen,” said Soren. Since last few days after his return from election campaigning in Madhupur on April 14, Soren has been holding marathon meetings daily to tackle the Covid situation. On Sunday, the state government announced fresh curbs to break the transmission chain by cancelling all kinds of exams, reducing gatherings at marriages to 50 from 200, and closing down all education and anganwadi centres in the wake of mounting cases of new infections and fatalities daily. While the state government is still to decide on total lockdown, as demanded by several quarters including Soren’s own party—Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), many entities have decided for self-imposed lockdown. After sections of trade bodies in Ranchi that went for a weeklong lockdown from today, judiciary will be in lockdown mode from Monday. After an emergent meeting on Sunday evening, Jharkhand State Bar Council in a statement said they will restrain from all kinds of judicial work—both online and offline for next seven days. Rajesh Pandey, state bar council secretary said, “Considering the growing cases of infection among advocates, their staffs and others and inadequate medical facilities in the state, it has been decided that all advocates will remain off-duty for one week from Monday across all the courts and all platforms.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
19-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant seeks Centre nod for procuring remdesivir from Bangladesh amid Covid surge||The Jharkhand government has sought permission from the Centre to procure 50,000 vials of remdesivir injections from Bangladesh citing an acute crisis of the anti-viral drug in the state amid an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases and the alleged failure of the Narendra Modi-led Centre in providing sufficient doses of the drug to Jharkhand. In a letter addressed to the Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers DV Sadananda Gowda on Sunday, Chief Minister Hemant Soren stated that the state received only 8,038 vials of Remdesivir injection from the Centre against its demand of 76,640 vials, leading to a shortage of the injection in the state and unavailability of the drug for symptomatic and needy patients of Covid-19. “Since we could not get the remdesivir as per our requirement from Indian manufacturers, we started exploring the international market for procuring Remdesivir. We have been able to get a quotation from BEXIMCO Pharmaceuticals Ltd., Bangladesh for 50,000 vials of Demsivir IV injection at a total cost of 1 million dollars, which the government of Jharkhand is willing to procure at the earliest in light of the pressing needs of this medicine,” the letter stated. Last week, the state had received around 1500 vials of the drug from the Centre after Health Minister Banna Gupta spoke to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan via video conferencing and apprising him about the acute shortage of the injection in Jharkhand. However, the available stock ran out quickly due to the unprecedented increase in the number of symptomatic patients needing hospitalization. The Covid situation in the state continued to worsen on Sunday as Jharkhand reported at least 3,992 fresh cases and 50 Covid fatalities in 24 hours, revealed data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM). The state reported only 1551 Covid recoveries on the day, leading to a jump in the active caseload from around 25,000 to 28010 in 24 hours. Ranchi alone reported 1073 cases of infection and 11 deaths on the day, while 676 people were found infected in East Singhbhum and 17 patients died there on Sunday. The Covid toll in the state jumped to 1456 on the day. The growth rate of infection also reached 2.01 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 1.11 per cent. As per government data, the doubling rate of infection in the tribal state was 34.81 days against the national average of 62.85 days. The government on Sunday tested swab samples of 41,900 people and close to 10 per cent of them were found infected. So far, over 1.62 lakh people have been infected by the lethal virus in Jharkhand and around 81.91 per cent of them have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
