20-04-2021||Jharkhand||Former player and football administrator passes away||Jharkhand’s veteran football administrator S Zubair Alam passed away at the Tata Main Hospital on Monday late evening. He was admitted to the hospital after experiencing breathing problems and later tested positive for Covid. Alam (65) was the joint secretary of Jharkhand Football Association (JFA) and was actively involved in the functioning  of popular Jamshedpur Sporting Association (JSA) football league. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. A pall of gloom descended on the steel city’s sports fraternity as the news spread. Alam was a national level footballer who also donned Mohammedan Sporting's jersey besides representing and mentoring Tata  Steel football team in the local JSA league. Alam also mentored football sides of Bihar and Jharkhand for the Santosh Trophy. A suave and every smiling Alam was a helpful man and was considered as one of the pillars for development of football in Jharkhand and Jamshedpur. He was also the chairman of JFA’s referees’ committee. “It is difficult to believe that he (Alam) has passed away. I still remember his smiling face. He always played an active role to ensure the local league was efficiently conducted. His demise leaves a vacuum in Jharkhand football which will be difficult to fill,” said Jamshedpur FC CEO Mukul Choundhari. “I am stunned to hear the news of Zubair bhai's demise. We always discussed development of football whenever we met. I am feeling alone with his passing away,” said former FIFA referee Binod Kumar Singh. Expressing grief, JFA secretary Ghulam Rabbani said they have lost a football warrior. “I feel very sad. Alam played a very active role in channelising the game in Jharkhand. We have lost a football warrior,” he added. “Jharkhand has suffered a huge loss with the demise of Alam,” said Ahmad Ansari, coach of state fooball team.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
20-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad traders welcome state’s decision to impose lockdown||Members of several Dhanbad trade associationFederation of Dhanbad ZiIla Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FDZCCI) and Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association (JITA) on Tuesday welcomed the state’s decision to impose a week-long lockdown from April 22. A section of businessmen dealing in electronics also imposed a self-lockdown of three days beginning Tuesday following a meeting of the Dhanbad Electric Traders Association. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Rajiv Sharma, the president of Dhanbad Electric Traders’ Association, said, “Though we are bound to follow the government decision, we also advocated that a self-lockdown by traders would have been a better option.” “Around 90 wholesalers and retailers of electrical products who convened an online meeting yesterday (Monday) decided to shut down their outlets for three days from April 20 to 22,” he added. Sharma noted that the traders wanted a similar self -lockdown initiative for other shops so that daily wage earners may be shielded against the impact of government initiated lockdown. “We welcome the government's decision  as it has given a day’s time to make preparations. However, we wanted the government to make some provisions for the daily wage earners for the period,” said Sharma. “Instead of imposing lockdown on it’s own, government should have encouraged the traders to go for self-lockdown as it would have led to more than 55-60 per cent shop closure, which would have been enough to break the chain of infection and simultaneously would have allowed the daily wage earners and traders to continue with their occupation,” he added. Rajesh Kumar Gupta, a patron of the Federation of Dhanbad Zila chamber of Commerce and Industry said, “We were advocating for self-lockdown since more than a fortnight as many of traders have tested Covid positive” Prabhat Surolia, President of Bank More Chamber of Commerce and Industry, did not agree fully with the others. He said, “Though we wanted the restrictions on the shop opening on our own, we waited for the government's decision to impose the lockdown due to practical difficulties.” Citing an example of problems in implementing self-lockdown, Surolia said ,“Though the traders the last year took an initiative to close the shops by 6 pm instead of the government allotted time for closure of 8 pm, within a fortnight some started saying that there is no advantage of closing shops earlier as it leads to rush.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
20-04-2021||Jharkhand||Coaching centre operators hit hard by Covid, plan PIL in court||Over a hundred coaching centre operators of Dhanbad, reeling under the economic crisis due to Covid-19, are planning to file a PIL at the Jharkhand High Court, seeking directions to the government to fix a provision of minimum wages for them to sustain. Operators under the banner of state unit of Coaching Federation of India have also demanded other concessions like rent waiver, fixed electricity charges exemptions for their institutes etc. Majority of the mid-level coaching centre operators are the worst sufferers due to this, as they have to pay teachers as well as the rent and electricity charges despite suffering loss of business. This is not the case with small operators as they have to pay lesser amounts for rent and electricity. Online classes for these operators have also failed to turn as a feasible option due to technical glitches and poor network connectivity. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Manoj Singh, a coaching centre operator of Luby Circular Road in Dhanbad said, “We charge Rs 40,00 per subject for classes 11 and 12 and as per admissions taken ahead of the lockdown during March 2020 we were to get Rs 1.2 lakh. However,  despite completing the course online, around Rs 87,000 is still pending.” “Many students and their parents have blocked our numbers after we asked them to pay, while others have removed us from WhatsApp groups of students and teachers. A few parents have misbehaved with us for demanding the coaching fee,” said Singh. Sanjay Anand, operator of Goal Coaching Institute in Dhanbad, said, “After the year-long closure, coaching centers were given permission to resume operation from March 7. However, we were again ordered to shut down from April 17, leaving us with no scope to clear our debts.” “Only a few students took admission in the new batch this year and very few among  them  have paid the fee for the month of March as they were also sceptical about the operation of centres,” added Anand. The operator also said that they could not pay the fee for many of the teachers during the last year and had promised them to clear the dues as soon as the situation normalises but failed to pay them again due to closure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
20-04-2021||Jharkhand||Railways to station  Covid care coaches in Ranchi, Jamshedpur ||South Eastern Railway will come up with Covid care coaches which will be stationed at various railway stations under its jurisdiction for treatment of  patients. Between March and June last year, several old railway coaches were converted into Covid care coaches by the Indian Railways. Railway officials at Garden Reach, headquarters of South Eastern Railway, said that Covid care coaches would be available at Rourkela, Tatanagar in Jamshedpur  and Ranchi railway stations. Both Ranchi and Jamshedpur have witnessed a sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases and deaths. For the last few days Ranchi has been witnessing over 1,400 positive cases while Jamshedpur around 700. This has led to a serious crisis of beds  in various hospitals in Ranchi and Jamshedpur. Chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway Sanjay Ghosh said , " Covid care coaches are the result of  hard work and prompt action taken by officials of Indian Railways, health experts, and doctors . They held numerous  consultations to design the coaches, identify minute details such as a place  to keep medicines in the coaches, etc." He went on to say that  the Jharkhand government can use the Covid care coaches in case other medical facilities are exhausted. According to ministry of health and family welfare guidelines, the Covid care coaches can be used by the state governments when they  exhaust their own medical facilities. In addition to the overall transformation, the  process of conversion of such coaches entail removal of the middle berth and refurbishing  toilets into shower rooms etc. Currently, 4,002 converted railway coaches are available with Indian Railways in 16 zones and will be made available for  state governments on request. "Railways is helping the country recover from the second Covid-19 wave. With the Centre and state governments taking all possible steps to ensure that the interest and welfare of the citizens is prioritised, the contribution of railways at such a crucial juncture will be, once again, of immense value, " said Arun Tiwari, general secretary of Chhotanagpur Passenger Association, a leading passengers' outfit of Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
20-04-2021||Jharkhand||Villagers, on a mission to save a 100-year-old pond, to move court against NHAI||Villagers of Jhumri Charadih in the Koderma district on Tuesday said they will move Jharkhand High Court to save an old pond after the National Highways Authority of India  (NHAI) announced it will occupy a part of the reservoir for an ongoing project. A team of village residents, led by AJSU’s Shalini Gupta, also met deputy commissioner of Koderma Ramesh Gholap and requested him to take action. Gholap assured them that he would talk to officials of the NHAI and those of the land acquisition department to solve the problem. NHAI is working on a project to extend the Ranchi-Patna Highway (NH-31) and villagers complained that the authority suddenly started dumping waste bitumen in huge quantities in the pond which has been a lifeline for more than a dozen villages for the last 100 years by providing water for irrigation. The villagers said that widening the highway is essential and they have been supportive of the project but protested when officials at the NHAI said that the pond was coming in their way and they will acquire a huge chunk of it to carry forward their work. “When the NHAI have already acquired land on the other side, why are they after a pond which is a lifeline for humans and animals,” the villagers questioned. On Gholap’s intervention, the authorities took out some of the waste on Tuesday, after which villagers performed a puja at the reservoir in order to ‘purify’ it. “We will go to any extent, right from agitation to jail bharo abhiyan (fill the jails), to save the pond.. We have also formed Jhumri Bachao Sangharsh Samiti and will intensify our agitation in coming days if NHAI fails to listen to us,” the protesters said, after announcing their decision to go to the high court. “We have informed the higher authorities about the issue,” an NHAI official told The Telegraph Online on condition of anonymity. The official said that the project head had also visited the site due to the reason and took stock of the land available at the other side of the road, and they were waiting for directions from higher authorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
20-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand declares week-long lockdown from April 22||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren announced a week-long lockdown in the state from Thursday, April 22, calling the measure "Swastha Suraksha Saptha" and appealed to everyone to cooperate to emerge victorious in the fight against Covid-19, a second wave of which is now wreaking havoc across the nation. The lockdown will come into force from 6 am on April 22 and will get over at 6am on April 29, he said. As per an official media release, essential services and actvities related to agriculture and mining are among the few sectors that have been kept out of  ambit of the lockdown. All religious places will remain opened, but there will be total bar on entry of devotees. In a video message, Hemant said, “We have deliberated extensively to balance lives and livelihood and finally decided on these dates. We assure you that all essential services will remain unaffected. As far as offices are concerned, only select entities run by the Union and state government will be allowed to function and rest all will be closed. All religious places will remain open but entry of devotees will be banned.” Gathering at public places has been prohibited. “Not more than five persons can assembly at any place at any point of time,” said Hemant, adding that details of the impending lockdown would be notified later in the day. He also appealed to the people to follow all prescribed protocols to fight the pandemic. Hemant said that essential services will remain unaffected while only select establishments of centre and state governments will be allowed to run, details of which will be notified later in the day. “Roughly, agriculture activities, mining, things that are essential for public will remain unaffected. All religious places Jharkhand has imposed a sort of night curfew with all shops and commercial establishments, barring emergency services, being closed after 8pm till morning and prohibited gathering of more than four persons at a place. The government has also closed educational institutions, gyms and other public places and prohibited congregation of any kind, apart from strict enforcement of Covid protocols. The Jharkhand government on Sunday announced postponement of the May 2 state civil services examinations and all other exams in schools, colleges and ITIs with immediate in the wake of mounting Covid-19 cases in the state. As of now, all educational institutions and anganwadis will remain closed, while social gatherings like weddings would be allowed with only 50 people as opposed to the earlier announced 200. The active caseload of Covid-19 in Jharkhand crossed the 30,000 mark while the Covid toll jumped above 1,500 on Monday as the state reported 4,290 cases and 46 casualties in the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
20-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid-19: mutated variants of virus may dodge RT PCR tests, warns Jharkhand govt ||The state health department has admitted that mutated variants of the coronavirus were capable of dodging RT PCR tests, thereby recommending that those with Covid-19 symptoms undergo High Resolution Computed Tomography (HRCT) even if they test negative in RT PCR test – the most preferred way of testing the infection so far. In a letter addressed to the Director of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), health secretary K.K. Soan said new variants of the virus, already traced in Ranchi and East Singhbhum, can “escape” RT PCR tests sometimes. HRCT, that can detect lung abnormality using a CT scan,  has the potential of a diagnosis under the current circumstances even in patients who have tested negative in RT PCR, Soan said. In the wake of the importance of HRCT test and the government’s responsibility of providing affordable medical attention to all residents of the state, the health department has decided to cap the cost of HRCT at Rs 3,000. “It is hereby decided to fix the rate of HRCT in state setups to Rs 2,500 in 16 slice machine. It can exceed up to maximum of Rs 2,750 in 16 to 64 slice machine and to a maximum of Rs 3,000 in 64 to 256 slice machine. The price shall include the cost of PPE kits and sanitisers required, if any,” the letter stated, directing all radiological, imaging and sonography centres in Jharkhand to adhere to the rate chart fixed by the government. Last week, the Regional Genome Sequencing Laboratory at Bhubaneshwar's Institute of Life Sciences (ILS) confirmed that the UK mutant strain and double mutant strain of the coronavirus were found among patient samples in Ranchi and East Singhbhum – two of the worst-affected districts in Jharkhand in terms of caseload and casualties. The mutant strains of the virus have higher transmissibility and are also likely to evade the immune response of the body developed after exposure to the unmutated virus or vaccination, claim scientists. HRCT, doctors say, is used to diagnose infection in lungs through a CT scan. It is used for imaging of lungs to identify any abnormality. However, health experts also say that HRCT is not necessary for all Covid-19 patients and should be used only for such patients who show severe symptoms of the infection. Ideally, people staying in home isolation do not need an HRCT test, doctors say. Jharkhand is facing the worst ever wave of Covid-19 since the beginning of April. As per government data, the state is reporting around 4,000 cases and 50 deaths every day on an average, leading to a shortage of beds in hospitals and long queues outside crematoriums for cremation of Covid-infected bodies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
20-04-2021||Jharkhand||State logs 4290 fresh Covid cases, 46 casualties in a day||The active caseload of Covid-19 in Jharkhand crossed the 30,000 mark while the Covid toll jumped above 1500 on Monday as the state reported 4290 cases and 46 casualties in the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. Ranchi, which already has an active caseload of over 10,000, reported 1404 fresh cases on the day – the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The state capital also reported 14 Covid fatalities, which took the toll in the district 381, the NHM stated in a bulletin released on Monday night. At least 11,737 Ranchi residents were battling the viral infection by the end of Monday. Barring Ranchi, no other district reported a spike of over 1000 cases on the day. However, at least 10 more Covid patients died in East Singhbhum on Monday, taking the toll there up at 438, which is highest among Jharkhand districts, NHM data highlighted. At least 639 cases against 178 recoveries took the active caseload in East Singhbhum to 4661. As per government data, the state tested swab samples of 36,290 people on Monday and more than 10 per cent of them were found infected. However, the state also reported 1777 Covid recoveries on the day, which contained the active caseload to 30,477. Government records highlight that as many as 1,67,235 Jharkhand residents have been infected by the Covid-19 virus so far, and around 80.87 per cent of them have recovered. The Covid recovery rate in the state has dropped from over 98 per cent to 80 per cent in the past one month. The growth rate of infection in the state has also jumped to 2.10 per cent from hardly 0.10 per cent in March. The growth rate in Jharkhand was higher than the national average of 1.18 per cent. With the unprecedented rise in cases, the doubling rate in Jharkhand has dropped to 33.35 days against the national average of 59.25 days. This indicates that it would take hardly 33 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand. While the second wave of Covid-19 has revealed lacunae in the health machinery in Jharkhand, the vaccination targets against Covid-19 have also been difficult to achieve. On Monday, the state administered the first dose of the vaccine to 18,758 people, hardly 27 per cent of those registered. The second jab was administered to 7,622 beneficiaries, only 3 per cent of the more than 2.68 lakh registered for the dose, stated a report released by the NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
