21-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Rajrappa temple darshan closed till April 29||Ramgarh: Rajrappa temple’s Nyas Samitee held a meeting on Wednesday to implement the Covid directives of the state government during Swasth Suraksha Saptah. The committee announced that darshan for devotees will be closed from April 22, 6am to April 29, 6am. Traditional worship at the main temple will be continued. "Pat of temple will open at 4 am and Mangal Arti will be held. At 12 pm, Bhog and arti will be organised. At 7pm, Shringaar and Aarti will be performed. The Pat will close in the evening after these daily rituals," said Shubhashish Panda secretary Nayas Samiti. On Ram Navami, there was less number of devotees at the temple. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: A 23-year-old youth was beaten by Korra police on Tuesday when he stepped out past the night curfew to buy medicines for his Covid infected brother and sister. Requesting anonymity, the youth said he was waiting near the Nilambar Pitambar chowk for a bus to drop off the medicines when officer-in-charge Prashant Mishra came and beat him despite his repeated pleas. Mishra refuted the charge and said the youth was trying to blame the police that too when he himself was wrong. Mishra said the police are trying to do their job to prevent the spread of the virus. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
21-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid fears in Dhanbad village after 5 die||The district administration of Kasitand village of Govindpur block has sealed the boundaries of the village to carry out a Rapid Antigen Test drive, after five people including 4 members of a family died in the last week. A team led by Block Development Officer, Santosh Kumar and Circle officer, Ramji Verma accompanied by officer in charge of Govindpur Police station, Ganga Sagar visited the village on Wednesday to take stock of the situation and persuade the local residents to cooperate in the testing drive. Rabbani Ansari, an ailing villager died six days ago, his cousin brother, Tale Ansari died two days after. Another member of the same family, Riyazul Ansari died on April 19. Rabbani’s distant relative died on Wednesday and an unidentified woman of the same village died three days ago. The five deaths created a sense of panic among villagers. “With four members of a family dying till April 19, we have taken the issue seriously and carried out intensive contract tracing of the family and identified 65 persons whose samples have been sent for RT PCR tests,” Santosh Kumar said. “Though the RT PCR results have yet not arrived so we can’t say whether the deaths have been caused due to Covid or not,” said Kumar. “We however have carried out a survey of the village today to identify the families where people are unwell and will carry out a RAT Test in the village tomorrow with the focus on such families,” elaborated Kumar and added that villagers have been asked not to panic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
21-04-2021||Jharkhand||Low-key Ram Navami celebrations in steel city||Ram Navami celebration was a low-key affair in the steel city on Wednesday for the second consecutive year due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. All the 170-odd akharas performed a simple puja with a low turnout of devotees. The city's biggest and oldest Jumbo Akhara in Bhalubasa kept the rituals simple, limiting the number of devotees inside the temple after a thermal screening. The Jumbo Akhara witnessed a footfall of around 1,000 devotees. All those who went to the Jumbo Akhara were asked to strictly follow social-distancing norms apart from the use of face masks. The volunteers present offered hand sanitisers to the devotees before starting the puja. Health department officials were also deployed at the venue for sanitising the temple complex in regular intervals so as to check the spread of the virus. Functionaries of Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samity (JDPKS), the apex body which ensures peaceful conduct of the festival, hailed the Akhara committee for maintaining hygiene and social distance. "The Jumbo Akhara at Bhalubasa attracts the maximum number of devotees on Ram Navami. This year the turnout was much less due to the pandemic. The Akhara committee members did a good job for ensuring mandatory Covid protocols," said Rambabu Singh, general secretary of JDPKS. According to the senior functionary of the apex body no immersion processions will be taken out on Thursday due to the Covid restrictions imposed by the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
21-04-2021||Jharkhand||Free Covid-protective vaccines for state athletes ||Following union government’s announcement to allow vaccination for all above 18 years of age from May 1, Jharkhand Athletics Association (JAA) has decided to fund the vaccination of member sportspersons, the decision to safeguard its talent pool from Covid-19 coming days after the Centre opened up the immunisation drive to those above 18 from May 1. JAA president and treasurer of Athletics Federation of India Madhukant Pathak said he has written to all district affiliates to prepare a list of eligible beneficiaries within a week so that the associaton can coordinate with the authorities and make necessary arrangements for the special vaccination drive. “Being the state outfit, we believe it is our responsibility to ensure that our players are safe. They are our talent pool and future of the state. Hence, after a meeting with state office- bearers of JAA, we have decided to fund the vaccination of all those who are deserving and needy so that they are able to beat Covid-19,” said Pathak. The official added that they have broadly worked out a few eligibility criteria for funding the vaccination of an athlete. “Players who are above 18 and have won medals for their district or state at national, senior national or east zone meets, among others, will be getting free jabs. This apart, players, whose performance have been improving over the last three years even if they have not won medals will be eligible. Most important, he/she should be holding a  government job.” Pathak hoped the association's move will help many medal winning athletes who hail from poor backgrounds. “In Jharkhand, players are mostly from poor families and remote areas. Despite battling odds, they pursue the game and win medals for the state. So, in the time of a pandemic, we want to stand by them in whatever possible way we can,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
21-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Weddings cancelled, band operators lose chance to recoup ||The government’s restrictions on participants at a wedding, has affected the band operators at these functions, already reeling under losses from last year’s lockdown. Around 90 per cent of the 20 thousand marriages scheduled during the wedding season of April, May, June and July have been cancelled while the remaining 10 per cent are not opting for a band. Manjit Kumar Soni, operator of one of the oldest band party based at Purana Bazar locality of Dhanbad said, “We had 200 bookings for the entire marriage season beginning from April 19 to July 15 but with new restriction limiting participants to 50 persons, around 90% of these bookings have been cancelled.” “Majority of the instrument players come from Darbhanga, Samastipur, and some from Asansol and we have to pay them in advance. Due to cancelations we are going to suffer huge losses,” he said. “My simple question to the government and administration is that if the virus has not spread during the political rallies and meetings, how can it spread during the marriages,” Soni added. Pradeep Singh, president of Dhanbad Decorators association, said, “As large majority of marriages were cancelled during the last year and there was a long lagan season from April 19 to mid July during which there were huge booking for the decorators and we were expecting to compensate for the losses from last year but with increased restriction, all our expectation have been dashed.” “We are also facing a dilemma due to lack of clarity with regard to transportation facilities for work at marriage sites as we need to transport materials and labour to the site for which any restriction will add to our difficulties, ”said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
21-04-2021||Jharkhand||Some Ranchi residents down with Covid even after 2nd dose of vaccine ||Amid an alarming rise in cases of Covid-19 infection, many Ranchi residents have tested positive for the viral infection even after taking the second jab of the vaccine, but most displayed mild symptoms. But some, like Seema Choudhury, did complain of severe symptoms. “I took the second jab on April 11. I had mild fever and weakness for a few days, which I thought were side effects of the vaccine,” she said, adding that her symptoms gradually aggravated . A resident of Ratu Road, Choudhury tested positive for Covid-19 hardly 10 days after receiving the second jab of Covishield vaccine at a private hospital in Ranchi. She said she was battling weakness and fever, and was also suffering from shortness of breath and heaviness in the chest due to formation of patches in her lungs. Seema is currently in home isolation. The FAQ shared by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare claims it would take two to three weeks for an individual to develop sufficient antibodies  after completing the vaccination course. However, it is unclear whether infection during this period could lead to severe symptoms or not, say doctors. Doctors spearheading the vaccination programme, however, claim that vaccinated individuals are unlikely to show severe symptoms of the virus even if they get infected. “You can still get infected by Covid-19 even after taking both the vaccine jabs. However, the symptoms would be less severe and the infection will not be life-threatening,” said Dr Ajit Prasad, the state immunisation officer, who is qurantined at home after testing positive for the virus. As per government data, more than 24 lakh Jharkhand residents have received the first dose of the vaccine so far. Of them, over 3.74 lakh have received the second jab. A city-based doctor associated with the Union government also tested positive for Covid-19 a week after taking the first jab of the vaccine. “I knew that I could get infected even after vaccination. I regularly took all the medicines for Covid-19 and tested negative after 15 days. The symptoms were minor,” he said, requesting anonymity. So far, the response to the vaccination drive has not been enthusisastic among those above 45 years, reveals government data. As per NHM, only about 24 per cent of the over 83 lakh such residents registered for the  jabs have received their first dose. Around 40 per cent of the over 2.34 lakh people above the age of 45 years, who were registered for the vaccination, have got their second jab as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
21-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs almost 5,000 fresh Covid cases, 45 casualties in a day||Close to 5000 Jharkhand residents, including Health Secretary KK Soan, were found to be infected by the Covid-19 virus on Tuesday, taking the active caseload in the state above 33,000, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. Soan, who had received the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 on April 13, isolated himself at home after testing positive for the viral infection. Development Commissioner Arun Singh will take charge as the Health Secretary in Soan’s absence, a government notification stated. Meanwhile, Jharkhand also reported 45 Covid casualties, which took the Covid toll to 1547. Ranchi, the worst-affected district in terms of the active caseload, not only reported the highest number of cases but also the highest count of fatalities on the day. As per NHM data, the district alone accounted for 1703 of the 4969 fresh cases of infection and 15 of the 45 deaths reported in the past 24 hours. While the active caseload in Ranchi jumped to 12,394 on the day, the number of patients in East Singhbhum drew close to the 5000 mark. As per NHM data, East Singhbhum reported 692 cases and 10 casualties on Tuesday, which took the active caseload there to 4,744 and the Covid toll to 448 – the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. Government records indicate that Ranchi and East Singhbhum jointly account for more than 50 per cent of the active cases in the state, and more than half of the casualties reported on Tuesday. Among other districts, Dhanbad reported six casualties, while four Covid patients died in Koderma. However, barring East Singhbhum and Ranchi, no other district reported a higher spike than 500. The Covid recovery rate in the state also dropped below 80 per cent on Tuesday, while the growth rate reached 2.22 per cent against the national average of 1.21 per cent. The national recovery rate of 85.60 per cent was also better than Jharkhand’s 79.84 per cent, highlights government data. The government on Tuesday tested swab samples of 33839 people and nearly 15 per cent of them were found infected. The state also reported 2334 Covid recoveries on the day, but the fresh cases outnumbered the recoveries by a huge margin. Meanwhile, Jharkhand administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 22,391 people, achieving only 33 per cent of the day’s target. The second dose of the vaccine was administered to 12,656 beneficiaries, around 5 per cent of the over 2.68 lakh registered for the jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
