22-04-2021||Jharkhand||Marriage applicants crowd Dhanbad on Day One of lockdown||A huge rush of over 500 people seeking marriage permission applications was witnessed on Thursday at the office of the sub-divisional officer of Dhanbad on the first day of the weeklong state lockdown. The applicants were crowding the office of Surendra Prasad since early morning, violating Covid protocols . Santosh Kumar, a resident of Putki who arrived at the SDO office seeking an NOC for the marriage of her niece, said, “I had applied for the permission on April 16 itself and today arrived for getting permission and I never imagined that there would be such a huge rush at the office.” Nirajan Kumar, former councilor of Ward Number of 35 of Jharia who also arrived at the SDO office along with a few residents of the locality said, “Being connected to common people we can’t deny the request for help and came here along with a milkman of our locality and one of my cousin brothers.” “Owing to the huge rush of permission seekers, the counter at SDO office has been closed and a notice was stuck asking all permission seekers to rush to their respective circle offices to obtain permission,” said Kumar and added that as the post of Jharia circle officer is lying vacant, he is not sure whether he will be able to obtain permission at the right time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
22-04-2021||Jharkhand||Cyclonic circulation triggers occasional showers across state ||A cyclonic circulation prevailing over Jharkhand triggered light to moderate rain at several places in the last 24 hours. The highest amount of rainfall of 40.4 mm was recorded at Deoghar while Godda recorded 29 mm. According to Met statistics, the IMD observatory at Pakur recorded 9.2 mm of rain while Dumka recorded 8.4 mm. Hazaribagh recorded 5 mm rain, while Latehar recorded 2.4 mm. Garhwa, Ramgarh and several other places in Santhal Pargana region experienced over 2 mm of rain. Several places including Jamshedpur, Ranchi and its adjoining places on Thursday woke up to overcast conditions coupled with intermittent showers due to the impact of the cyclonic circulation. The IMD 's Ranchi Met Centre said the impact of the cyclonic circulation is gradually becoming weak. "The cyclonic circulation will further become weak in another 24 hours, " said a duty officer at Ranchi Meteorological Centre adding that maximum temperature is expected to witness a rise by two to three degree Celsius from tomorrow. IMD's Patna Met Centre also hinted at a gradual rise in day's reading from Friday. "The cyclonic circulation is gradually becoming weak. Satellite pictures indicated light showers in various districts of Jharkhand on Thursday. But, from tomorrow onwards the maximum reading would witness a rise resulting in dry weather conditions, " said a climate analyst at Patna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
22-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Dhanbad hospitals face antiviral drugs crisis ||Over 20 Dhanbad hospitals are facing an acute shortage of antiviral drugs like Remdesivir and Fluguard required for treatment of Covid patients. Black marketing and hoarding of these drugs are some of the reasons for the crisis. Rajiv Sharma, secretary of Jivan Rekha Trust, which operates at the Asian Dwarkardas Jalan Hospital, said, “We have been facing short supply of these medicines creating difficulties in treatment of patients.” “These medicines should be supplied in sufficient quantity in all 20 private hospitals of Dhanbad engaged in Covid treatment,” said Sharma who is also the general secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association. “As Dhanbad hospitals also cater to the medical requirements of large of number of people in the adjoining districts like Giridih, Jamtara, Godda, Sahebaganj, Pakur, Dumka and even Deoghar, so sufficient quantity of medicines should be provided to hospitals here also and all medicines should not concentrated in Ranchi only,” said Sharma. Sharma appealed to the state government and local administration to increase the number of hospitals for Covid treatment to reduce the pressure on the 20 centres that are already overcrowded. Chief executive officer of Pragati Nursing Home, Jai Prakash Khaitan said, “Not only Remdesivir and Fluguard (Flavipir) but we are facing shortage of almost all antiviral drugs.” Secretary of district unit of Indian Medical Association, Dr Sushil Kumar, said, “Sufficient medicine supply is the primary requirement for treatment of Covid patients and the government must ensure all steps to provide the required medicines to health hubs of Dhanbad also.” He at the same time said that the unnecessary hype for Remesivir is also leading to its black marketing and illegal hoarding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
22-04-2021||Jharkhand||Faced with public anger, Congress, BJP set up Covid helplines ||The ruling Congress and the Opposition BJP have set up separate helplines and control rooms to help Covid patients, the parties adopting damage control measures after facing severe criticism for inaction during the ongoing second wave of the pandemic. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said the party had rolled out two numbers —9798563777 & 7667357882_ to function as Covid helplines. “Depending on the cases and requests, we shall connect patients with our panel of doctors for assistance. On Day One, we received over a dozen cases,” he said, adding that they were also working out modalities to extend services like helping the needy get hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, medicines etc. “In this hour of crisis, the party will do all that is possible to reduce problems faced by the public. Our volunteers will work in coordination with the district administrations to help as much as possible,” he said. BJP set up a 24X7 helpline (8102925807) in Ranchi and issued numbers of four doctors—Dr Tushar Arya (9334152192), Dr Mahesh (9431628295), Dr Ramji Prasad (9576127347) and Dr Sunil Agarwal (9937460669) for free consultations. State party president Deepak Prakash said, “Through the helpline, we will try to provide details of availability of beds, oxygen and medicines. If anyone is in need of medicines or and other essentials, our volunteers will send them.” Accusing the state government of failing to effectively manage the Covid pandemic, Prakash alleged the entire system had collapsed. “People are dying because the entire government machinery and system has collapsed in Jharkhand. Forget timely hospitalisation, people aren’t even getting emergency medicines due to black marketing. The dead are being denied respectable last rites due to mismanagement at cremation sites,” he claimed. Both the Congress and BJP said they would set up similar helplines and control rooms in districts. The recent surge of cases coupled with high mortality rate has led to public uproar in Ranchi and other hotspot districts like East Singbhum,Hazaribagh and Dhanbad. The state government as well as political parties have been facing a severe backlash on social media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
22-04-2021||Jharkhand||Former archer and mentor D.K Sarkar passes away||Former archery coach D.K Sarkar (Habul Da) passed away  at his residence in Aam Bagan, Sakchi on Thursday. The 70-year-old Sarkar, affectionately called 'Habul da' in steel city's archery fraternity, was sick for some months and was undergoing treatment at Tata Main Hospital. He returned home around 10 days ago and breathed his last this morning. He is survived by his wife and a daughter. A former secretary of Bihar Archery Association (BAA), Sarkar played a pivatol role in producing several national level archers. He was instrumental in setting up an archery training centre at Burmanines locality of the city. Most of the archers from the steel city learnt the nuances of archery under the tutelage of Sarkar who was a hard working and soft-spoken person. The likes of archery coaches and Dronacharya awardees Purnima Mahto and Dharmendra Tiwary also learnt the initial lessons of archery under Sarkar A pall of gloom descended on the city’s archery circle as soon as news of Sarkar’s death poured in. “He (Sarkar) was our guru. We  took baby steps in archery under his guidance. I will really miss him. May the almighty give peace to the departed soul,” said Harendra Singh, coach and a member of Talent Identification Zonal Committee of East Zone for the Khelo India identification programme. Former footballer no more In another sad news for the sports fraternity, former state level footballer and referee Nirmal Sahu passed away on Wednesday evening. He was sick for some days and died at Tata Motors Hospital. Sahu (45), who worked for the Railways in Jamshedpur , played the local Jamshedpur Sporting Association (JSA) football league for Mohammedan Sporting, South Eastern Railways Sports Association (SERSA) and also officiated as a referee. He was a dedicated footballer. JSA secretary Avinash Kumar, former FIFA referee Binod Kumar Singh and ex-secretary of SERSA PS Chatterjee condoled the sudden demise of Sahu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
22-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand industries come to the rescue of states fighting oxygen crisis ||Industries in Jharkhand have come to the rescue of several thousand Covid patients in states across the country amid an acute crisis of medical oxygen by sending much-needed supplies and ensuring foolproof logistics to meet future demand on time. Jamshedpur-based Tata Steel and the Bokaro Steel Limited in Bokaro – two steel giants of Jharkhand – have supplied close to 5,500 metric tonne of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) to Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh to combat the crisis, officials from the two companies said on Thursday. A statement issued by Tata Steel in response to a query said that around 4,000 tonne of LMG was supplied from the oxygen plant in Jamshedpur to different states from April 1 to April 21. “Apart from supplying oxygen to hospitals in Jamshedpur and other Jharkhand cities, we are supplying oxygen to states like Odisha, West Bengal, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, MP and AP through our manufacturing units in Jamshedpur, Kalinganagar and Angul,” the statement read. Public sector unit Bokaro Steel has supplied more than 1,200 metric tonne of oxygen to different states in April. BSL chief of communication Mani Kant Dhan said they have been supplying oxygen every day to hospitals and independent oxygen supplying agencies in different states since the beginning of April. Besides, BSL is also providing oxygen to a 900-bed hospital in Bokaro itself, added Dhan. As per details shared by Dhan, from April 1 to April 21, BSL supplied 232 metric tonne of LMO to Jharkhand, 324 metric tonne to Uttar Pradesh, 282 metric tonne to Bihar, 20 metric tonne to West Bengal and 19 metric tonne to Maharashtra. Besides, the steel plant has also supplied liquid oxygen directly to government and private hospitals to various states. It has supplied 137 metric tonne oxygen directly to hospitals in Uttar Pradesh, 72 metric tonne to Bihar, nine metric tonne to West Bengal and 154 metric tonne to Madhya Pradesh. These developments come at a time when the country is faced with a major crisis of medical oxygen that has led to the death of several Covid patients acorss the country. Social media is abuzz with requests for medical oxygen for patients in different parts of the country as many hospitals have ran out of supply. The Tata Group was also lauded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union railways, commerce and industries minister Piyush Goyal for the company’s efforts during the ongoing Covid crisis. “Compassionate gesture by Tata Group. Together, the people of India will fight Covid-19,” the Prime Minister tweeted from his official Twitter account on Wednesday. Some media reports have highlighted that India could not provide oxygen to needy patients despite producing enough liquid oxygen owing to lapses in logistics. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday sought the support of other states in fighting the oxygen crisis in the country and said that states should help each other in meeting the demand for oxygen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
22-04-2021||Jharkhand||Subway ready at Dhanbad station south complex||The Dhanbad division of the East Central Railways has completed the construction of a low height subway for the South Side extension complex of the Dhanbad Railway Station. The two-lane subway, having an internal height of five meter and 4.65 meter width was developed at a cost of around Rs 11 crore. It will be operational once lighting and drainage amenities are completed. Public Relation Officer of Dhanbad division of East Central Railways, P.K. Mishra said, “The commissioning of the Low height Subway on Tuesday marks a historic day in the history as it will pave way for closing of level crossing gate number 19/B/T/.” “After completion of LHS, the passengers will conveniently reach the south side of Dhanbad Railway station using the new approach road decongesting the north side campus of Dhanbad Railway station,” said Mishra and added it will also ease the traffic congestion at Bank More over bridge . The south side extension complex with a waiting hall, UTS counter, food outlets and a large parking zone was developed in 2014 at the cost of Rs 4.5 crore with the aim to decongest the main station complex of the station situated North side which receives a daily footfall of around 20,000 persons. The complex remained non-functional since 2014 due to the lack of an approach road. An old approach road for the south side is present in the Purana Bazaar locality but being too narrow, it is inaccessible for four-wheelers. Hence, a new approach for the station was constructed last year.  However, a level-crossing prevented passengers from navigating the station. The subway will resolve these difficulties faced by passengers on a daily basis. Former president of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce, Md Sohrab said, “We, as part of the local community went to see the newly constructed LHS and we are very thankful to the railway administration for solving one of the biggest traffic issues of Dhanbad besides making the access to Dhanbad railway station easy.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
22-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand goes into lockdown for a week||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
22-04-2021||Jharkhand||Highest single-day spike of fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand||Jharkhand reported its highest single-day-spike of 2021 in Covid cases on Wednesday as over 5000 state residents, including over 1300 from Ranchi alone, tested positive for the viral infection on the day, government data highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), Ranchi accounted for 1361 of the 5041 fresh cases of infection on the day, while East Singhbhum accounted for 718 cases. As many as 62 Covid patients, including 22 from Ranchi and 11 from East Singhbhum, died during treatment on Wednesday, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 1609 and that in Ranchi alone to 418, the NHM bulletin stated. The Covid toll in East Singhbhum jumped to 459 on the day. Meanwhile, the Jharkhand government also arranged for over 1800 additional beds with oxygen support amid an acute crisis of beds for Covid-19 patients across the country, a press communique from the Information and Public Relation Department of the Government stated on Wednesday. The 1824 additional beds, as per the communique, will be used for treatment of Covid patients in districts other than Ranchi. Chairing a meeting with the concerned officials on April 15, the Chief Minister had directed the deputy commissioners of all the districts in Jharkhand to arrange for at least 50 oxygen-supported beds for Covid patients in their respective districts. The State on Wednesday tested swab samples of 43,239 residents and more than 10 per cent of them were found infected. Wednesday’s findings took the Covid tally in the state to 177356 and the active caseload to 35,826, highlighted government data. As per government data, the growth rate of cases in the state jumped to 2.30 per cent against the national average of 1.27 per cent on the day. The doubling rate of infection further dropped to 30.50 days in the state against the national doubling rate of 54.85 days. The figures indicate that it would take hardly 30 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand at the current pace of growth in infection. Only 2331 Covid patients recovered against the over 5000 fresh cases on the day, which brought the recovery rate below 80 per cent in Jharkhand. As per government data, the Covid recovery rate in the state was 78.89 per cent against the national average of 85.60 per cent. Meanwhile, the vaccination campaign also could not achieve the desired target on Wednesday. As many as 16,393 beneficiaries, hardly 18 per cent of those registered, got the first jab on the day. The second jab was administered to 8263 beneficiaries, around 3 per cent of the total number of people registered for the dose on Wednesday. As per government data, the state has so far administered the first dose of the vaccine to over 25 lakh Jharkhand residents, while the second dose has been administered to around 3.84 lakh beneficiaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
