23-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad primary school backyard caves in, no injuries ||A 40 feet deep and 10 feet wide crater developed on Friday morning in the backyard of a government primary school around 40 km from Dhanbad district headquarters, allegedly due to illegal mining. There were no injury reports as the school, Naya Prathmik Vidyalaya, is closed because of the statewide lockdown. Local residents, who rushed to the site, nabbed one person for his alleged involvement in illegal mining and handed him over to the Nirsa Police. Police barricaded the area and informed the Eastern Coal field Limited  management about the incident. Former Nirsa MLA, Arup Chatterjee, said, “The incident took place due to the illegal mining and had the school been open a major tragedy could have taken place.” “A nexus of illegal miners, some local leaders and local police are operating illegal mines leading to several people dying due to incidents like land subsidence or roof collapse,” said Chatterjee to The Telegraph Online. Chatterjee suggested filling the illegal mining sites with the fly ash abundantly found in Nirsa area to seal the site and said that at present the administration carries out the filling of the illegal mining sites with the soil and mud which is again dug up by illegal miners. Officer in Charge of Nirsa Police station, Umesh Singh confirmed the incident of  land subsidence in Kuhuka Basti but denied any illegal mining as the result of the incident. “We predict the blasting carried in the adjoining mines of ECL as the cause of the accident and have informed the ECL management which will carry out the filling up of the crater” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
23-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant scouts for space to set up Covid care facilities ||Chief minister Hemant Soren visited the TB Sanatorium at Itki on city outskirts on Friday to look into the possibility of setting up a oxygen-supported facility at the government centre in the wake of a crisis of beds amid a staggering increase in the mumber of Covid-19 cases daily. Accompanied by district officials, Hemant reached the facility in the afternoon and spent over an hour talking to the authorities there to fast track the process. Later Hemant told the media that in the last few days, the government had increased beds (oxygen supported) to 9,098 from about 2,500 across the state. “The government is constantly exploring options to increase beds, mainly oxygen support ones. Following hectic efforts over the last one week, we have now touched 9,098 oxygen beds in the state, which is way higher than what we had before. We are working out ways to install as many beds with oxygen support," he said. The chief minister said that so far, the trend in the state is that the city hospitals are overwhelmed with cases, while smaller districts like Pakur are barely stressed. “In Pakur, we have about 100 oxygen beds. But, I have learnt that barely four to five are currently occupied. In contrast, places like Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad are stressed. This is the area which needs to be addressed on priority. We are now planning to create a circuit of districts where we can divert or channelise patients so that rush at the hospitals in bigger cities is minimized. We are brainstorming ways to put underutilised resources in districts to good use,” he said. According to district officials, the plan is to set up a 300-bed oxygen supported centre at Itki within a fortnight. Itki hospital currently has a 100-bed general ward.  Another 50-bed cottage is under construction. Simultaneously, the state government is also working on plans to convert a portion of the Mega Sports Complex at Hotwar into a Covid care centre with oxygen support. "About 700 beds were laid out at the mega sports complex over two weeks for asymptomatic patients. But these haven't been usebeacuse of a lack of human resources. Deliberations are on to at least convert 200 beds to oxygen and ventilator supported ones at the earliest,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
23-04-2021||Jharkhand||Govt teachers on Covid duty demand protective gear, Rs 50 lakh insurance ||Government school teachers have accused the state government of playing with their lives by assigning them Covid-19 duty at critical areas without providing them enough protective gear at a time when the second wave of the pandemic is taking a heavy toll and demanded they be provided with special insurance cover. Airing their concerns, two teachers’ outfits wrote letters to chief minister Hemant Soren and chief secretary Sukhdev Singh on Friday demanding their immediate intervention at a time when at least a dozen government staffers had died in the last 10 days. The Akhil Bharatiya Prathamik Sikshak Sangh (ABPSB), a state level outfit of primary school teachers, told the chief secretary that several teachers had been assigned duty at ICUs, CCUs, and other departments in Covid care centres across the the state but without the necessary safeguards. Naseem Ahmed, spokesperson of the sangh said, “Like others, teachers too are equally vulnerable and are doing Covid duty assigned by the government at different hospitals, testing centres without any safety measures. We have not been given any PPE kits, masks or gloves. Who will take the onus if anyone dies?” Ahmed demanded that the government declare them as frontline workers and provide Rs 50 lakh insurance cover for them. Ekakrit Para Shikshak Sangharsh Morcha (EPSSM), a statewide outfit for para-teachers, issued a simialr demand. In its letter to the chief minister on Friday, the morcha said that lives of over 60,000 para-teachers were at stake as they were working without any safety net. “Para-teachers aren’t permanent staff of the state government, but still they are used for Covid duty. Many are working day and night to assist the government without any basic protective gear. In recent times, many para-teachers who are 50 years old have contacted the virus and even died but the government hasn’t provided them any assistance. We demand Rs 50 lakh insurance for every para-teacher engaged in Covid duty,” the letter said. Among government officials who have died due to Covid is Ramgarh district labour superintendent Digamber Mahto who breathed his last on Thursday morning. Mahto was one of the key officials who played a crucial role to bring back stranded residents after an avalanche struck Chamoli in Uttrakhand last year. State school education secretary Rajesh Kumar Sharma did not respond when this website called him for his comments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
23-04-2021||Jharkhand||14 passengers test positive for Covid at Tatanagar station||Tatanagar railway station director on Friday said 14 of the 205 passengers tested positive for Covid-19 after a thermal scan and a Rapid Antigen Test at the railway premises. This was the highest number of positive cases found at the A-1 category railway station so far. H.K. Balmuchu, station director, said the Covid positive passengers were found in three trains - Mumbai- Howrah Gitanjali Express, Ahmedabad - Howrah Express and Howrah-Barbil Janshatabdi Express. At present, all express trains are being run as special trains. "The maximum number of Covid positive passengers were found in Howrah bound Gitanjali Express. The health department team noted down all relevant information (name, address and contact numbers) of the affected passengers  and they were asked to stay in home quarantine, " said Balmuchu. According to the station director, a help desk was set-up on the station premises and passengers arriving at the station in trains from other states are continuously undergoing thermal screening for more than two weeks. A health department staff deployed at the station said, "This was the first time Covid positive passengers were found in double digits. On Monday, six passengers were found positive out of 235 passengers who underwent thermal screening while last week four passengers were found positive on a single day out of a total of 260 passengers." Soon after the detection, the railway authorities at Tatanagar sanitised the platforms and all the surrounding areas of the station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
23-04-2021||Jharkhand||Country's second 'Oxygen Express' leaves for UP from Bokaro||The second 'Oxygen Express' carrying about 50 tonnes of medical oxygen from Bokaro Steel Plant departed for Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh on Friday. The Ro-Ro (roll-on-roll-off) train with three tankers left from Bokaro at about 1 pm, and will reach Lucknow on Saturday morning. The first Oxygen Express train had left for Maharashtra from Visakhapatnam on Thursday. The transportation of liquid medical oxygen is being done with road tankers placed on flat railway wagons. An initiative by the Railways, Oxygen Express will transport oxygen across the country over the next few days. Empty tankers will be loaded with liquid medical oxygen from Bokaro and Jamshedpur in Jharkhand. “SAIL and Rail once again continue to serve the nation in difficult times by making life-saving fluid reach the state battling a crisis of medical oxygen amid Covid-19 surge,” said Amarendu Prakash, director in-charge of BSL, who was present at the spot. An Oxygen Express train with three empty oxygen tankers came from  Lucknow and arrived at Bokaro Steel City railway station early on Friday morning. The train was then moved to Diesel Loco Shed, Bokaro where the empty road tankers were unloaded and taken to Bokaro Steel Plant for filling up of liquid medical oxygen. After loading of a total of 46.34 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen at Bokaro Steel Plant, the three tankers were re-loaded in wagons of Oxygen Express train which later left Bokaro railway station in the afternoon on its way to Lucknow. Area Railway Manager, Bokaro Railway, Prabhat Prasad said that the wagons after being reloaded with oxygen filled tankers departed at about 12.45 pm. Railway Minister, Piyush Goyal, railway board, South Eastern Railway and Adra Railway Division are monitoring the activities. BSL curtailed the use of liquid oxygen in their steel plants to divert the supply to hospitals in Jharkhand and other states in this Covid crisis, said Prakash. In this month of April, BSL alone supplied 764 tonnes of liquid oxygen to Ranchi, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Maharastra and Madaya Pradesh by road transport. In the last 24 days, 230 tonnes of liquid oxygen was sent to Uttar Pradesh through the road route.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
23-04-2021||Jharkhand||Underground fire erupts for second time in a month in BCCL area||A fire at the underground seams, first seen on April 7, at North Tisra Colliery of Lodna Area of BCCL about 15 km from Dhanbad district headquarters aggravated on Friday leading to huge amounts of smoke and gas billowing out and hampering the production work. Residents of several surrounding localities like Golden Pahari, MOCP, Jag Dhaura, Bandh Dhaura, Tisra, Bangali Kothi and Gokuldham Park were panic stricken and informed the BCCL management about the development. A team of senior officials of the company led by Assistant General Manager of Lodna Area P.K. Mishra and others including, the project officer, Pankaj Kumar and Colliery Manager D.K. Maji inspected the site. An operation was launched to tackle the fire by dumping earth, soil and boulders on it. Enraged over the incident, the colliery workers gheraoed the BCCL officers team demanding fool proof measures to douse the fire. The team assured the local residents and workers that gas coming out at the site was not methane and rather Carbon Monoxide and Carbon Dioxide. Uma Shankar Singh, a worker at the colliery and the secretary of Jharkhand Colliery Mazdoor Union said, “The fire situation aggravated during the early morning today leading to huge amounts of smoke and gas creating difficulties in production work.” “Similar situation was witnessed in colliery on April 7 after which fire fighting measures were initiated by dumping mixture of soil, earth and boulders over the fire but the operation was discontinued after only three days and consequently the fire again erupted in the colliery affecting production and endangering the life of common people,” said Singh. Fagu Napit, a trade union leader and local resident said, “If effective steps are not taken to completely douse the fire the entire coal seam of around 52 feet will be burnt to ashes” AGM, P.K. Mishra said,“We are also concerned about the fire and will carry out borehole in the area to douse fire and simultaneously also excavate out the burning coal from the colliery as a long term solution of the fire problem.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
23-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: BCCL director personnel reviews Covid treatment centre||Dhanbad: The director personnel of Dhanbad based coal major Bharat Coking Coal Limited, P.V.K.R.M. Rao, on Thursday inspected the Covid designated ICU of Central Hospital to take stock of treatment of patients. Rao, accompanied by other senior officials of BCCL also reviewed the medicine availability and oxygen supply at the hospital. He instructed the Central Hospital authorities, which has been converted into a dedicated Covid hospital to ensure best treatment to the patients. The 60 bed ICU of Central Hospital is the first Covid designated ICU in the district with state of the art facilities. BCCL has been following all the Covid protocols including wearing masks at its headquarters at Koyla Bhavan and all other offices. (Praduman Choubey) Hazaribagh: An oxygen plant was given clearance and made operational in Demotand industrial area close to Hazaribagh town following the increased demand with rapid rise in Covid cases. Mahirisi air solution plant was constructed last year but did not get an NOC from the state government. Chief secretary, Sukhdev Singh, coordinated with different departments to get the clearance in 24 hours. Officials said the district needed 200 cylinders daily and the new plant has the capacity to supply 250 per day. The plant will supply to government and private hospitals. HZB Arogyam, a private hospital in the district, is installing a mini plant at its campus to produce oxygen. It will produce 50 cylinders of oxygen daily, meeting the requirement of the hospital, said director Harsh Ajmera. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Ramgarh: A partially burnt naked body of a nine-year-old girl was found on Thursday afternoon near Sayal 10 number mines in the Bhurkunda police station area of ​​the district. The girl was identified as Pratigya Kumari. Her father, Mohan Mahalani, is a resident of Chhattisgarh and works in a brick kiln here. The family had rented a house near the Patratu railway colony. On April 20, Pratigya had gone missing from the railway colony. Two days later, when her father was about to lodge a complaint at the Bhurkunda police station, he received information about a dead body in a forest. On reaching the forest, he confirmed it was his daughter. SP Ramgarh Prabhat Kumar said,”We are investigating the case from all possible angles. We have sent the body for post mortem." (Our correspondent) Daltonganj: A police personnel posted at the Lesliganj Police Station in Palamau died on the spot on Thursday as his patrol car hit a truck from behind and fell into a ditch on Panki Road at around 12:30 am, said sub-divisional police officer Anup Kumarr Baraik. Sub-inspector Yadav and four other cops were on patrol duty on Thursday night when the incident took place, damaging the car completely. One of the personnel was shifted to RIMS in Ranchi after sustaining critical injuries while three others remained admitted at the Medinirai Medical College Hospital in Daltonganj. In another incident, 45-year-old home guard personnel Suwans Kumar Singh died on the same day at Medinirai hospital after a heavy iron sliding entrance gate fell on him. Palamau Assistant Superintendent of Police K Vijay Shankar said the jawan was rushed to the hospital but he succumbed to his injuries enroute. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
23-04-2021||Jharkhand||State reports over 7,500 new Covid cases, record 106 casualties in a day ||More than 100 Jharkhand residents, including 53 from Ranchi alone, died of Covid-19 infection on Thursday, while the state reported a record spike of 7595 Covid cases on the day, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. Of the 106 Covid patients who died on Thursday, 14 were from East Singhbhum and 10 from Ramgarh, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. The 53 casualties in Ranchi took the Covid toll in the district to 471 and that in Jharkhand to 1715, the bulletin further stated. As per NHM data, the Covid toll in East Singhbhum reached 473 on Thursday. Ranchi also accounted for 1467 of the over 7500 Covid cases on the day, while East Singhbhum reported a spike of 729 cases. As per government data, the active caseload in Ranchi jumped to 13,518 on Thursday, while the number of patients in East Singhbhum reached 5546. These two districts account for nearly 50 per cent of the 40,942 active cases in the state. The bulletin released by the NHM on Thursday highlighted that the growth rate of infection in Jharkhand reached 2.55 per cent against the national average of 1.32 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state dropped to 27.58 days against the national average of 52.79 days. The state reported only 2373 recoveries on the day, which brought the Covid recovery rate further down to 76.93 per cent. Among other districts, Bokaro reported spike of 432 cases against 172 recoveries, while Deoghar reported 459 cases against 115 recoveries. As many as 451 people were found infected in Koderma and 407 in Palamu. Ramgarh reported a spike of 542 cases against only 71 recoveries on the day. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Thursday announced that the state government will provide vaccines free of cost to people above the age of 18 years once the vaccination is made open for them from May 1. Soren took to Twitter to make this announcement and stated that the government was working day and night to overcome the Covid crisis. The government on Thursday tested swab samples of 73,903 people and more than 10 per cent of them were found infected. As per government data, over 1.84 lakh people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand so far and around 1.42 lakh of them have recovered. The state also administered the first dose of the vaccine to 12,439 residents, around 23 per cent of those registered for the jab. As many as 8783 residents, around 3 per cent of those registered, were administered the second jab on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
23-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant promises free vaccine for all above 18 from May 1  ||Chief minister Hemant Soren has announced that his government will provide free vaccines to all above 18 years of age from May 1 assuring the people of Jharkhand battling a ruthless second wave of Covid-19 that the government was taking all necessary steps to combat the virus and save lives. Hemant's announcement came on Thursday night when Jharkhand reported its highest ever single-day spike as well as fatalities. As many as 7,595 new cases of Covid-19 were detected across the state and 106 mortalities were registered, the maximum from Ranchi (53) making it as the grimmest day for the entire state since the outbreak of the virus in March last year. Coincidentally, Jharkhand also moved to a seven-day lockdown, which the authorities have termed as "health safety week" to break the transmission chain. Hemant made the announcement about free vaccines through his official twitter handle. “State government will provide free vaccination to all its people aged above 18. In these tiring times, state government is working day and night to fight the pandemic. We are hopeful that with people’s support, Jharkhand will effectively fight and defeat the deadly pandemic," he wrote. Earlier in the day, Hemant also held meetings with representatives of private and public hospitals to take stock of the situation and collect feedback on efforts and shortcomings in dealing with the surging cases. Along with skyrocketing Covid cases in Jharkhand in the last few weeks, the health infrastructure, cutting across government and private hospitals, has come under immense pressure,  so much so that patients are struggling to get timely admission for treatment. Reports suggested that at many hospitals, admitted patients were  struggling to get proper treatment, battling shortage of oxygen and  crucial life-saving drugs. The situation turned so grim, mainly in the capital, that it forced Jharkhand High Court to comment recently that the state was reeling under a "medical emergency".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
23-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: National Service Scheme members fund oxygen in Jharkhand||Amid continuous surge in Covid cases and crisis for medical oxygen, a critical component in the treatment of Covid-affected patients, students of Sidhu Kanhu Murmu University (SKMU) in Dumka district of Jharkhand have shown a way forward. Nearly 20 students, all members of National Service Scheme (NSS is an Indian government sponsored flagship program for public service conducted by Union youth affairs ministry) unit of SKMU, have decided to contribute their pocket expenses to provide free of cost oxygen cylinders to the needy in Santhal Pargana region of Jharkhand. “We saw horrifying pictures of persons dying waiting for oxygen cylinders in Uttar Pradesh and also saw pictures of Covid patients waiting for oxygen cylinders. We cannot sit idle when the country is confronted by such a crisis and decided among ourselves to make a start with whatever we can contribute from our pocket expense for the needy. We will be providing oxygen cylinder along with valve regulator and masks free of cost without taking any security deposit. Only they would have to produce doctor’s prescription and a photocopy of the Aadhaar card of patient,” said Jatin Kumar, a recipient of the National NSS Award 2018-19 in September 2020 from President Ram Nath Kovind, who is leading in arranging logistics of the oxygen cylinders. They would be, however, charging refill charge of Rs 400 from those who can afford. “Oxygen cylinders are very scarce and is available in excess of Rs 1000 but we are providing it free for poor and needy. However, those who can afford and can express their desire to pay they can pay Rs 400 for refill of the cylinder,” said Jatin Kumar, 25, a PG student of the university who has been creating awareness on social issues in the past too which has fetched him the NSS award. As of now they have managed to arrange 10 oxygen cylinders. “The stockists did not have any oxygen cylinders and has brought two cylinders on Wednesday evening and will be bringing eight more. We will be bringing the cylinders from the stockist along with other medical accessories and handing it to the patients after collecting their identity details. They will have to return the cylinder, valve and regulator. Mask will be disposed by us,” added Jatin Kumar. Anybody willing to contribute to their cause or needing cylinders can contact on 8210132626. Meanwhile, Marwari Yuva Manch, Prerna wing has also arranged 18 oxygen cylinders free of cost to the needy along with immunity booster. “We will not be charging anything, if anybody is willing to pay on own they are welcome. We will also be giving immunity booster ayurvedic medicine free of cost,” said Rinku Modi, of the Marwari Yuva Manch. On Tuesday, Jharkhand registered 4969 positive cases and 45 deaths. The total number of active positive cases in the state is at 33178. Jharkhand will go for a weeklong lockdown from April 22 till April 29. However, vaccination drive will continue during lockdown and there will be a massive Rapid Antigen Test drive all over the state on April 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
23-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand gets 15,150 vials of Remdesivir, seeks army help||Jharkhand on Thursday got 15,150 vials of Remdesivir, a vital medicine in the treatment of Covid-19, from the Centre. According to sources in the state health department, the allocation from the Centre has been made to 19 states with a high burden of Covid-19 cases. “Jharkhand has got 10,000 vials from Zydus Cadilla, 1,650 vials from Hetero Pharmaceuticals, 500 vials from Mylan, 2,000 vials from Cipla and 1,000 vials from Jubilant. The allotment is for a period between April 21 and 30. The vials have been distributed to 71 hospitals of the state, which were having the maximum load of Covid cases,” said a senior health department official. Sources said Ranchi got the maximum allocation of Remdesivir with 43 hospitals being given the vials. Four hospitals each in Deoghar, Dhanbad and Ramgarh have also received the vials. This apart, three hospitals each in East Singhbhum (Jamshedpur) and Seraikela-Kharsawan, two each in Bokaro and Hazaribagh, one each in Giridih, Gumla, Godda, Koderma, Lohardaga and Palamau have also got Remdesivir. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren had on April 18 written to Union minister for chemicals and fertilisers D. V. Sadananda Gowda for permission to import and use Remdesivir from a pharmaceutical company in Bangladesh after the Centre failed to supply adequate quantity of the antiviral drug to the state. “The precariousness of the situation will be evident from the fact that against the total order of 76,640 vials to the Union government, Jharkhand has received only 8,038 vials of Remdesivir, leading to the medicine not being administered to many needy patients,” Soren had written to the Union minister. After a high level meeting with health officials and other senior bureaucrats on Wednesday evening, the chief minister had issued a directive to ramp up oxygen-attached bed facilities in all the 24 districts for proper treatment of Covid cases. “After the ramping up of oxygen- supported bed facilities, the state has now an additional 1824 oxygen supported beds. This apart, in capital Ranchi which is witnessing maximum load of Covid cases in the district, with people from even rural areas flocking to capital, we have made arrangement of additional 300 oxygen supported bed and planning is underway to enhance facility to add 300 more oxygen supported bed in Ranchi,” the chief minister had tweeted on Wednesday night. On Wednesday evening, Hemant had held a meeting with senior army officials deputed in Jharkhand to seek their help in the state’s fight against Covid. “I made an appeal to the army officials to help us cope with the situation emerging out of Covid-19 so that patients can be treated in the two army hospitals at Namkum (in Ranchi) and Ramgarh. The government will be providing all infrastructure to the army hospitals, including oxygen-supported beds, ventilators and other accessories if the doctors start treating Covid patients. We will benefit from the treatment of experienced doctors at the army hospital,” Soren said. The chief minister also sought the army’s help in monitoring and taking care of Covid patients in the new 1,000-bed isolation centre being set up in Ranchi. The army officials said the Union defence ministry was considering the chief minister’s letter seeking help of army hospital doctors and paramedics in the treatment of Covid cases. On April 17, Hemant had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to allow the use of doctors and paramedics associated with the Central Para Military Forces stationed in Jharkhand and military hospitals to help the state fight the pandemic. On Thursday evening, Hemant held a videoconference with the principals of six medical colleges and medical superintendents and representatives of private hospitals and advised them to coordinate with the government in developing a circuit so that patients did not flock to Ranchi and other big cities for the treatment of Covid. “We are seeing that RIMS in Ranchi is witnessing an unprecedented rush in Covid cases. We would like to seek help from the other medical colleges and private hospitals so that patients from nearby places are treated at their facility and do not have to come all the way to Ranchi. We need to develop a circuit so that patients go to the nearest hospitals,” Hemant said. On Wednesday, the state had registered 5,041 positive cases and 62 deaths, taking the total number of active cases to 35,826. Meanwhile, the state on Thursday saw the first day of the weeklong lockdown with district administration in all 24 districts ensuring that the public only came out on road for emergencies and purchasing essentials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
