24-04-2021||Jharkhand||Kadma locality a hotspot, market sealed ||The steel city’s Kadma locality has become a Covid hotspot with the district health department detecting over 80 positive cases in the last two days. Health department officials confirmed that Kadma locality has around 660 active cases making it the top Covid hotspot. The Kadma market was sealed completely on Saturday after detection of 15 fresh cases. On Friday, 30 positive cases were found in the market. With the surge in cases, as many as eight containment zones were declared in residential areas close to the Kadma market. Local civic body - Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) on Saturday put up barricades from all sides preventing entry of people to Kadma market. Barricades were also put up on the Kadma main road restricting movement of vehicles. Telco with 530 active cases is the second hotspot followed by Mango (410 active cases) , Sakchi ( 400 active cases) and Sonari which has 375 active cases. Ravi Bharti, a senior official of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee said that around 450 shops have been shut at the Kadma market and that the vegetable vendors and fruit sellers have been shifted to the adjoining Ganesh Puja  Maidan. District surveillance officer Sahir Pal blamed people for not adhering to Covid protocols. "People have not stopped moving around outside even as the state government has imposed a seven day lockdown to break the Covid chain, "said Pal apprehending a further spike in positive cases. As per the records of the health department out of 4,891 people who underwent Covid tests in East Singhbhum on Friday 810 were found positive. As many as 16 deaths, the highest so far also took place in the past 24 hours. Maximum number of Covid cases were found in Kadma, Telco, Sonari, Mango and Bistupur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
24-04-2021||Jharkhand||'Immunity booster' lemon prices shoot up in steel city||The price of lemons has almost doubled in the steel city with increased demand for the vitamin C rich fruit during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. At present, the retail price of lemon is Rs 20 for three. It was available for Rs 10 for 3, a week back. The immunity boosting component of vitamin C is driving the demand believe vegetable and fruit sellers. “Demand for lemon has shot up. People coming to the market are looking for lemons like never before,” said Balram Prajapati, who runs a vegetable shop at Sakchi. He added that the price of lemons would go up more in the days to come. “Some of the customers are buying lemons in good quantity. This was not the case earlier,” he said. “Kahte hain ki nimboo khane se rog pratirodhak shakti badti hain. Isliye log ise achhi matra mein kharid rahen hain (It is said lemons increase immunity. This is the reason people are buying lemons in good numbers),” said Sital Gupta, another vegetable seller in Bistupur. The price of lemon is the same in other vegetable markets of the city, including Kadma, Sonari and Telco. “I purchased lemons at Rs 10 (for 3) last week. The vegetable sellers increased the price since its demand has shot up in Covid times,” said Ashutosh Singh, a customer at Bistupur market. Prices of potato and onions, on the other hand, have not gone up in the retail market. While potato is selling at Rs 15 a kg, onion is available at Rs 25 a kilo. A functionary at Parsudih-based Krishi Utpadan Samity said they have not received any complaints over the increase in price of vegetables and fruits. “Strict action will be initiated against those who are hoarding and selling products in black,” he said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
24-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant launches 'Covid circuits' to pool in medical resources of a region  ||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren launched two dedicated "Covid circuits" aimed at pooling available medical resources and infrastructure from a cluster of neighbouring districts to ensure timely admission and treatment of critical patients free of cost. Unveiling the plan at an online function held at his residence in Kanke on Saturday, Hemant said that in the first phase, the two circuits had been set up in Ranchi and Jamshedpur (East Singbhum), the two districts that have been hit hardest by the pandemic. In the coming days, and depending on the requirement, the state government would roll out four to six similar circuits in other regions. “The idea of a covid circuit is simple—if beds aren’t available in Ranchi or Jamshedpur, patients will then be rushed to nearby districts that have been tagged with either of the cities for early hospitalisation. Considering the surge of cases in Ranchi and Jamshedpur, hospitals are full, leading to a crisis of beds and other resources. However, there are other places where available resources are under-utilised. Hence, we have identified places near these hotspots where patients can be rushed to in the least possible time,” Hemant said. Ranchi circuit comrpises six districts of Lohardaga, Ramgarh, Khunti, Gumla, Simdega and Latehar.  Jamshedpur circuit comprises the two adjoining districts of West Singbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan. Hemant said it would be the administration’s responsibility to accommodate patients from within respectivecircuits. Hemant provided instances of under-utilised resources. “In the Kolhan region comprising East Singbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan, out of 1,500 oxygen-supported beds, only 500 beds are empty currently. But East Singbhum (Jamshedpur) is reeling under an acute crisis of beds,” he said, adding that the tendency of patients to come to the city for better treatment was leading to a crisis. Hemant also announced helplines to provide information on availability of beds and ambulances. “Those in Ranchi can call 0561-2411144, while those in Jamshedpur can call 0657-2440111 to know about resources in a circuit. Simultaneously, one can dial 8987510050. If you have your own resources to reach the hospital, you can take the patient. Or else, we shall provide help in the least possible time after receiving calls on these numbers,” Hemant said, underlining that the government would providing all these services free of cost. Hemant reiterated that avaliability of  oxygen and other resources was sufficient in Jharkhand to fight the pandemic and appealed to people not to panic. “I understand it is natural to panic or feel frustrated with the system when you are in a crisis. But let me assure you all again that the government is fully committed to do its best. Many times, panic is leading to chaos. Now is the time when we all have to show restraint and work together to fight the virus,” he said. The chief minister said that for greater transparency,  the state government was upgrading surveillance at hospitals for strict monitoring. “At Sadar hospital in Ranchi, we have installed CCTVs at all key places on priority. Similarly, at oxygen refilling stations, I have ordered CCTVs so that the authorities van keep a tab on the situation and curb black marketing or other forms of harassment,” he said. The Military Hospital in Namkum, Ranchi, will also set up a  50-bed hospital to treat Covid patients from Tuesday, army officials announced on Saturday after a meeting with the chief minister. A few days ago, Hemant requested the Union government for military help in Covid combat. During the meeting on Saturday,  army officials  informed  the chief minister of their preparedness to open a hospital for the public with 50 dedicated beds and demanded oxygen connections for them. An official release from  the chief minister's office  said that the government was working on the oxygen requirements and that it hopes to start the facility from Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
24-04-2021||Jharkhand||Needy patients suffer as the affluent use 'connections' to hold on to Covid beds ||Many patients with moderate Covid symptoms are using political connections to keep ventilator-supported beds reserved in the new trauma centre at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), thereby denying necessary medical attention to more needy, doctors at the state-run hospital said on Saturday. “We have around 100 beds for Covid patients with severe symptoms and at least 20 such beds are occupied by affluent patients who do not need intensive care anymore,” said a RIMS doctor who also holds a senior administrative position in the hospital. “They (patients) refuse to move to normal beds with oxygen support even though they do not require ventilators. Such patients often use political connections to ensure that they are not moved out of the ICU,” he added, requesting anonymity. Amid the acute crisis of dedicated Covid beds and an unprecedented rise in the number of cases in Ranchi, this trend of reserving beds with ventilators is adding to the ordeals of patients who do not have influence, say doctors. Another RIMS doctor took to social media on Friday to give a subtle hint of how political connections were gradually becoming important in getting treated for Covid-19 symptoms in government hospitals. “If you want to survive this pandemic, then you should build political connections, not immunity,” he updated as his status on WhatsApp. Dr Ajit Kumar, who was on duty at the Covid ward in Sadar Hospital through Friday night till Saturday, said at least seven oxygen supported beds were occupied by patients who did not need oxygen support. “Their oxygen masks were kept aside and they were sleeping peacefully without any oxygen support. I had to force them to leave the beds as many patients in dire need of oxygen support were waiting in ambulances outside the hospital at that time,” said Dr Kumar, who is also  be the joint secretary of Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Ranchi chapter. Kumar said that panic hospitalization and panic hoarding of oxygen and remdesivir injections were making the situation worse in the state capital as many needy patients were unable to get treatment on time due to this practice. In an order issued on Thursday, the health department directed that all medical colleges (other than RIMS) in Jharkhand would directly function under the supervision of the concerned deputy commissioner until further notice. The decision was taken in the wake of the Covid-19 situation in Jharkhand. As per government data, there are around 3000 dedicated Covid beds available in Ranchi for the over 14,000 patients. Recently, the government asked all private hospitals to reserve 50 per cent of their beds for Covid patients. However, the shortage of beds still continues to haunt patients in the state capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
24-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jhakhand's active caseload closes in on 45,000 mark||Jharkhand inched closer to 45,000 active cases of coronavirus on Friday with 5741 new infections and 63 deaths reported in the last 24 hours.  The other fallout of daily skyrocketing spikes, coupled with the imposition of a seven-day lockdown in the state two days ago, has been on the immunisation drive, data compiled by the state chapter of National Health Mission has indicated. Friday came as a respite for the state in terms of new cases and fatalities compared to Thursday but the upward trajectory of the Covid case graph still remains a major concern. With over 5,000 fresh cases, the total active cases in the state has reached 43,415, marginally short of the 45,000 mark but has already surpassed state health department’s estimates of having about 35,000 active cases by end of April. With 1364 new cases, Ranchi continued to register four- digit spikes. It was followed by East Singbhum with 810 cases, Ramgarh (448), Hazaribag (320), Bokaro (298), Dhanbad (262), Palamau (250), Koderma (228), and Lohardaga (200). As many as six districts reported over 100 cases but less than 200 while seven got double digit hikes. Garhwa however remained the lone exception with no new cases in the last 24 hours. In terms of deaths, Ranchi and East Singhbhum witnessed 15 each, followed by seven in Koderma. As many as 10 districts reported one death each, five districts got two deaths each and two districts had three deaths each in their regions. The rest four districts remained free of any deaths. Of the total 1,90,692 positive cases since March last year, 1,45,499 got recovered and 1778 have died so far. State’s seven days growth rate now stands at 2.63 percent, higher than the national average of 1.36 percent. Similarly, seven days doubling rate is 26.65 days, almost half of the country’s current average of 51.22 days. Recovery rate in the state too has fell sharply at 76.30 percent vis-à-vis the national average of 83.90 percent whereas mortality rate of the state is 0.93 percent than that of 1.10 percent in the country. With experts laying stress on doubling the vaccination efforts in the country to tackle the deadly second wave, lockdown and uncontrolled spread of the virus coupled with the growing fatalities seem to have slowed the pace of vaccination in the state. For, since the imposition of seven-day lockdown in the state on Thursday, the rate of vaccination coverage has fallen drastically, as per the health department’s figures on daily inoculation drive. On Friday, the state achieved a meager 18 per cent coverage of first dose by inoculating 16,818 people against the target of 95,200. The rate of the second dose was just four percent during this period as only 11,891 were administered the vaccine against the target of 2,68,706. On day one of the lockdown yesterday, against the target of 53,430, the first dose could be given only to 12,439 people which was 23 percent. Similarly, against the target of 2,77,665 people for the second dose, only 8783 were given the jab, which was a mere 2 percent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
