25-04-2021||Jharkhand||Refugee Colony a hotspot, locality sealed||The densely populated Refugee Colony locality of Steel City was sealed on Sunday following the detection of 90 positive Covid cases in 24 hours. Entry to the locality, which falls under Golmuri police station area, was restricted from all sides. Refugee Colony became the second locality after Kadma which was declared a Covid hotspot. The Kadma market and its near-by residential areas were sealed on Saturday following the detection of over 80 positive cases on Thursday and Friday. Local civic body - Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) barricaded the colony from all sides on Sunday afternoon. At least five places within the Refugee Colony have been declared as a containment zone. Soon after sealing the colony, policemen were deployed to keep a tab on movement of people. JNAC official Ravi Bharti confirming the report said, "The entire colony has been sealed. The Covid affected persons in that colony include both men and women. Several elderly persons also tested Covid positive." Bharti added that only shops selling essential commodities will remain open. The East Singhbhum district reported 870 Covid positive cases (out of 5,200 tests) in the last 24 hours with 16 deaths. While 13 Covid patients died in Tata Main Hospital, three deaths took place in Telco-based Tata Motors Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
25-04-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS ropes in IRB jawans to counter staff crunch amid Covid surge||Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, the biggest state run government hospital in Ranchi, on Sunday roped in 100 jawans from the Indian Reserve Battalion as an auxiliary workforce to assist the medical frontline workers at the hospital as the first point contact for all Covid-19 patients and facilitate their treatment. Rims officials said that IRB jawans have been trained by them in basic medical care such as fixing oxygen cylinders, monitoring one’s pulse among others so that they could be of help in extending initial care to the patients till the time he/she is admitted in the hospital. Sources said that the jawans will work in tandem with doctors and nurses to assist them in the wake of growing manpower crunch at the hospital amid the ongoing second wave of covid-19, which is rapidly infecting people and taking a toll on many. Additional director at RIIMS, P.K.Waghmare said that the decision to rope in jawans was taken in view of manpower shortage at the hospital with many healthcare professionals getting infected. “We have trained first lot of IRB jawans in very basic medical care so that when the patient comes, they can be attended by them to reduce their stress levels till the time they are attended by any doctor or get hospitalised,” he said, adding that the jawans will largely be put to work at emergency and general wards. According to officials, not all Covid patients rushing to a hospital require immediate hospitalisation or oxygen support but need to be kept under observation. With all hospitals crowded with an inflow of daily patients, hospital staff fail to attend them on time leading to panic, restlessness and anger among their kin. Waghmare said the jawans will be able to fill that gap. Anjali Baraik, a female constable of IRB said that she felt proud to be on Covid duty at the hospital. “It’s time to prove that we can’t just wield lathis and guns to take on enemies but can do our bit in these times of medical calamity,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
25-04-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town industrial units engage in procuring oxygen cylinders for hospitals||A day after the Dhanbad district administration instructed industrial unit owners to provide oxygen cylinders to the district, altogether seven units on Sunday arranged for 65 cylinders. The initiative was undertaken by the Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association, (JITA), an association of industrial unit owners of Dhanbad and adjoining areas. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh, in a notice issued on Saturday directed industrial units engaged in fabrication work to provide B type and D type oxygen cylinders to district administration and specifically instructed the three industries - M/s Blue Flame Industries Pvt Ltd, Nirsa, M/s Anup Malleable Pvt Ltd, Govindpur and Hindustan Malleable and Forging Pvt Ltd, Jalan Nagar (Bhuli) - to provide all available cylinders to Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad. General Secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association, Rajiv Sharma, said, “We also suggest the district administration to ensure the return of the cylinder to the respective units after completion of its usage as the cumulative cost of the 65 cylinders is 7.80 lakh which has been provided to the industries as advance money.” “We, at the same time would also like the district administration to create a oxygen bank facility at the district for which we are ready to extend all support,” said Sharma and added that they would also like to draw the attention of the district administration to create a green corridor to ensure the hassle free transport of oxygen cylinders to different government and private hospitals. The deputy commissioner also held an online meeting with the top officials of industrial units like BCCL, Tata Steel, GAIL Gas Limited, Steel Authority of India Limited, ECL, Damodar Valley Corporation, Maithon Power Limited, Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited (HURL), Indian Medical Association, Builder Association, Chemist and Druggist Association, Rotary Club, Lions Club etc and sought for procuring more resources like ambulance facility for transporting patients to hospitals; kit for Covid test, beds in hospitals, ventilators, RAT kits, and establishment of oxygen plants. The district administration is planning to establish an oxygen plant at Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad. A 100 bed Covid ward has been set up at Sadar Hospital including a 60 bed ICU facility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
25-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad shops limit business hours on their own ||The coal town traders have initiated self regulatory measures for shops and business establishments across the district following the surge in Covid-19 cases across the country. In Jharia, the vegetable shops are closing by noon, while grocery shops have fixed their closing time to 3pm. The deadline for medicine shops is 10pm and the liquor shops are closing at 8pm. At Bank More, the commercial hub of the district, the market is open till 3pm while vegetable shops are open till 1pm. Amit Sahu, president of Jharia Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said, “Though the suggestion to restrict the shop opening  time has been given by the local administration but owing to the grim situation everywhere we have decided to abide by the suggestion and restrict the shop opening time further.” Jitu Kehsri, a shop owner of Jharia, while appreciating the self regulation drive said ,“Exposure to a crowd for a longer period of time is more dangerous compared to limited hours of exposure so our decision to restrict the shop opening is quite justified.” Spokesperson of Bank More chamber of commerce, Sandeep Mukherjee said, “different sections of traders began regulations even ahead of the state imposed restrictions. Over 100 producers, suppliers and retailers of electric products under the banner of Dhanbad Electric Traders Association had decided to close down their shops for three days from April 21 to 24 on their own before the state's decision.” Mukherjee said added that though the chamber has not taken any centralised decision to restrict the shop opening timings, if traders are themselves taking a decision to regulate the timings, they are supporting the decision.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
25-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant visits oxygen refill stations to understand capacities and availability||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren assured companies running oxygen plants and refilling stations in the state that his government would provide all kinds of assistance and fast track clearances required to upgrade their systems to cope with the rising demand for oxygen. During a visit to two plants on the outskirts of Ranchi on Sunday, Hemant appealed to their proprietors that theyshould be ready to meet hospital requirements round-the-clock in view of the spiralling Covid-19 cases. According to health department officials, Jharkhand has five oxygen produing plants and about 14 refilling plants. “But as far as cylinders are concerned, we barely have 10,000-12,000, which according to the current situation is inadequate," admitted an official. He said earlier in Ranchi, a big hospital would require 10-12 cylinders of oxygen. But now that had shot up to 80-100. "We have to be ready on a war footing. Last week, the state government granted licences to four new plants. Of these, one in Hazaribagh is functioning already,” he added.  On Sunday afternoon, Hemant  visited two oxygen refilling units at Ormanjhi and Vikas in Newri as a part of the government's efforts to ramp up the health infrastructure in the face of a public backlash over inadequate medical facilities amid a raging pandemic. At Ormanjhi, Hemant visited Chottanagpur Industrial Gas Plant, while in Vikas, he went to S.K. Industrial Gas Plant. Accompanied by officials, he spent hours there looking at every installation in detail to assess existing capacities of the plants. Speaking to the media at Ormanjhi, Hemant said that although Jharkhand wasn’t fearing a crisis of oxygen as in other parts in the country, he wanted the state government to take corrective steps in advance. “I have been saying all along that there is no problem about oxygen production in the state. It is in abundance here. But there are certain shortcomings on the logistics side, like cylinders, refilling units, etc,” Hemant said, adding that the government was asking existing oxygen plants to increase capacity on priority on the asurance that all clealrances would be fast tracked. On the Ormanjhi plant, Hemant said, “They told us that they could refill 30 jumbo cylinders in an hour. They are in the process of expanding their capacity soon.” The plant at Vikas is able to fill close to 1000 cylinders per day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
25-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand headed for season's second heat wave||The weather department has predicted a dry spell in Jharkhand till mid-week with the maximum temperature climbing up by four to five degrees above normal in many parts, including Jamshedpur and Daltongunj. IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre on Sunday issued an alert of extreme day temperature for the next 72-hours. "The mercury will witness a rising trend in the absence of any weather system. Most places across the state would experience dry weather with gradual rise in temperature by another two to three degree Celsius during the next 72 hours. There is no possibility of thunderstorm activity till mid-week," said a duty officer at the Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Sunday's satellite pictures indicated a weak trough at 1.5 km above mean sea level running from Jharkhand to Madhya Pradesh. Weathermen said the trough is very weak to trigger any thunderous activity. The maximum readings witnessed a rise in most places. The maximum temperature in Ranchi and its adjoining areas was hovering between 38-39 degree Celsius for the last two days while the day's reading touched an oppressive 43 degree Celsius at Daltonganj and several other districts in North West Jharkhand. Jamshedpur and several other places of Kolhan have been recording  maximum temperatures of around 42 degree Celsius for the last two days. Bokaro, Ramgarh and Pakur continued to record over 40 degree  Celsius for the second consecutive day. According to the forecast, the steel city was expected to witness a three degree rise in day temperatures in the next 48 hours or so. Monday's maximum reading was two notches above normal. Several other districts, including Hazaribagh, Koderma, Dhanbad, Deoghar and Dumka witnessed a rising trend in maximum readings. Weathermen said that the wind pattern over Jharkhand was fluctuating between north-westerly and westerly, which would push up the day temperature. Meanwhile, the weatherman at IMD's Patna Met Centre which too keeps a  tab on Jharkhand weather did not rule out the possibility of another spell of heat wave in Jharkhand next week. "Jharkhand has already witnessed a heat wave in the last week of March. We are expecting another spell of heat wave in the next couple of days due to the rising trend of maximum temperature," explained a weather analyst at Patna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
25-04-2021||Jharkhand||Biometric-authenticated ration delivery halted till May-end amid Covid surge||Jharkhand government has announced to stop biometric authentication enabled ration delivery from public distribution shops (PDS) with immediate effect till May 31 to thwart fears of possible spread of Covid-19, which in its second wave is taking increasing toll on human lives and infecting thousands. Issuing a letter in this regard to all the districts on Friday night, state Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department’s additional secretary Shantanu Agrahari has asked all to revert to offline mode of PDS delivery till the end of next month. “As a precautionary measure in view of growing cases of Covid-19 in the state, it has been decided to stop the online system of PDS delivery. In place of taking thumb impression and retina scan on ePoS machines, PDS dealers should issue ration through one time password (OTP) generated on the registered mobile numbers of the legitimate beneficiaries. In case the OTP fails to generate on time due to network congestion issues, then PDS dealers must provide ration to the bonafide beneficiary by noting their details and allocation on registers through manual mode,” read the letter. All district supply officers are mandated to ensure uploading of the status of ration delivery within three days on government portal for keeping better track of the PDS supply. Jharkhand has about 58 lakh PDS beneficiaries who are covered under the National Food Security Act. This apart, the state government has provided ration cards to about 13 lakh more beneficiaries who were left out of the Act. Amid the growing cases of covid-19, infection through ePoS machines is said to have caused deaths of two PDS dealers recently. Flagging the issue, JMM’s Jama MLA Sita Soren had on April 18 shot letters to chief minister Hemant Soren and state food and civil supplies minister Rameshwar Oraon informing them about deaths in Ranchi’s ward 29 and demanded to immediately withdraw biometric authentication system of ration. Following the government's notification to halt this system, Sita Soren, the CM’s sister-in-law, tweeted about her contentment. “I had raised this matter with CM and Rameshwar Oraonji recently. Taking my suggestion in right earnest, the state government has finally notified the same,” she tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
25-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs record 110 Covid casualties, 5,152 cases||Jharkhand reported 110 Covid casualties on Saturday, the highest in a day so far, which took the Covid toll in the state up to 1,888 as the active caseload crossed the 45,000 mark with 5,152 people found infected by the deadly virus in 24 hours, a bulletin released by the NHM said. Ranchi reported a record 60 Covid casualties in 24 hours, which took the toll in the district to 546, surpassing East Singhbhum, which had reported the highest Covid fatalities in the state. The NHM highlighted in its bulletin that as many as 16 Covid patients died in East Singhbhum on the day, taking the toll there to 514. Ranchi and East Singhbhum jointly account for more than 60 per cent of the Covid casualties in the state so far. Meanwhile, the active caseload in Ranchi jumped to 14,789 on the day as the district reported 1,609 fresh cases of infection against 824 recoveries. With 570 cases and 368 recoveries, the active caseload in East Singhbhum stood at 6,173. These two districts also account for more than 40 per cent of the active cases in Jharkhand. Among other districts, Bokaro reported a spike of 305 cases while Dhanbad and Koderma reported 174 and 212 cases respectively. Latehar reported 215 fresh cases and at least 262 people were found infected in Ramgarh on the day, government data highlighted. Saturday’s findings also took the Covid tally in the state close to the two-lakh mark. As many as 1,95,844 people were infected by Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far and around 75.75 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of infection in the state also shot up on the day while the doubling rate dropped below 30 days. As per figures shared by the NHM, the growth rate of infection in Jharkhand was 2.66 per cent against the national average of 1.48 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state dropped to 26.38 days against the national average of 47.28 days. Amid the unprecedented rise in cases, the vaccination programme against Covid-19 has also failed to achieve the targets set by the government. On Saturday, the state administered the first dose of the vaccine to 15,168 beneficiaries, hardly 20 per cent of those registered for the jab. The second jab was administered to 11,551 people, around 4 per cent of the over 2.68 lakh beneficiaries on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
25-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Muslim friends help Hindu youth cremate mother in Palamau ||Four Muslim friends helped a Hindu youth cremate his mother, who died of Covid in Jharkhand’s Palamau district, after his relatives refused to come fearing that they would contract the virus. Mohammed Saif Hussain, Jaffer Mohammed, Asif Rain and Mohammed Shamshad, residents of Muslim Nagar, rushed to the nearby Raja Harishchandra Ghat after one of them spotted Prince Gupta standing helplessly with his mother’s body in an ambulance as there was none to carry her to the cremation ghat. Meena Devi, 55, had passed away early on Friday morning. None of her relatives came forward to help Prince take the body for the last rites due to fear of contracting the virus. “One of our friends, Mohammed Saif Hussain, who studies with Prince in the same college, saw him near the crematorium and informed us. We were on Ramazan fast and were at home for Friday namaz,” Jaffer said. “However, when we were informed by our friend, we immediately decided to help. We rushed to the cremation ghat to help our friend conduct the last rites of his mother,” Jaffer, who also contributes to a vernacular daily, added. He said Prince had brought the body of his mother all alone in an ambulance. “We helped him carry the body 200 metres to the ghat. We also assisted him with the rituals. We gave him some money to help him to perform the rituals,” Jaffer said. Meena Devi had been admitted to the Palamau Medical College and Hospital in Daltonganj for five days after testing positive for the coronavirus. “After returning home, we sanitised our hands and also took bath. It was a spontaneous decision to help our friend who was in distress. We could not afford to think about the dangers of the coronavirus infection,” Jaffer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
