26-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad coal roof collapse at abandoned mine site injures 4 ||The coal roof of an abandoned mining patch of a BCCL outsourced company in Katras collapsed on Monday injuring four miners. The miners were rescued by their family members and admitted to different private hospitals. The incident took place three days after a crater developed in the backyard of a government primary school in Kuhunka village of Nirsa allegedly due to illegal mining. Rajkumar Das, a local resident, said, “Though more than 50 persons were working at the site when a coal heap suddenly collapsed, six were buried of which four were injured but were taken out from the rubbles by other co-workers and their family members.” Another local resident requesting anonymity said, “Illegal mining like other parts of the district are also prevalent at various abandoned mining sites of Katras and people risk their life to excavate coal in unscientific manner leading to frequent  leading to loss of life or injury to the persons.” The mining companies are being held responsible for not sealing their sites in a permanent manner leading to illegal mining activities. Baghmara DSP, Nisha Murmu, said, “We have not received any information with the regard to the incident but if any incident has taken place we will investigate the issue.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
26-04-2021||Jharkhand||Good Samaritans launch free kitchen to help Covid patients and families ||Rotary Club of Jamshedpur  has launched a free food campaign for people down with Covid and living in home isolation. Amid the rising Covid cases in Jamshedpur,  the "FoodforSoul" campaign was launched jointly on Sunday  by chief guest and former Bahragora MLA Kunal Sarangi, Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) special officer Krishna Kumar and former Rotary Club of Jamshedpur president Gyan Taneja. Under the programme, JNAC will facilitate delivery of cooked food in areas under its jurisdiction. Food packets will be delivered  by volunteers to families twice daily.  Rotary Club of Jamshedpur handed over 100 food packets to the JNAC special officer on Sunday. There are instances where an entire family has become infected. Many are  facing economic hardship too. Moreoever, there are families where there is nobody to cook. Taneja said 100 Covid-affected families will be provided cook food free daily. “We are there for the affected people in difficult times. The programme will continue till the situation improves,” he said. Sarangi said, "The number of people living in home isolation is increasing and we can tide over the crisis with such initiatives. Rotary Club of Jamshedpur has done a commendable job for people facing crisis in difficult times.” JNAC special officer Krishna Kumar also appreciated the initiative of Rotary Club . In another such initiative, social workers of Jugsalai locality have started a "Sneh Bhojan" programme for Covid patients in home isolation. They are delivering free food packets to affected families across the steel city. Those needing help can call or whatsapp 7250020460. “We thought we should join hands and help people in crisis. We have started a kitchen in Jugsalai where food is prepared. Food is being delivered across Jamshedpur,” said social worker Anil Modi who started the programme with a few friends.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
26-04-2021||Jharkhand||Maoists blow up rail tracks, Howrah-Mumbai service disrupted for hours||The movement of trains on the Howrah-Mumbai route was affected for several hours on Monday as CPI-Maoist rebels who had called a Bharat Bandh against the policies of the Centre triggered a blast on the railway tracks between Lotapahar and Sonua railway stations, about 80 Kms from here. The spot falls under Chakradharpur division of South Eastern Railways (SER) in West singhbhum district. Though no casualties took place, the powerful blast damaged the railway tracks for about two meters. A major incident was averted, said railway sources. Spokesperson of Chakradharpur railway division, Manish Pathak, said the blast took place at around 2.15 am and the information of the blast was received by the station manager of Sonua from the driver of a goods train. "On receiving  the information movement of trains on  Rourkela-Chakradharpur section was immediately stopped and as many as eight  mail / express trains and several goods trains were stopped at different stations - Sini, Chakradharpur, Sonua, Goelkera, Manoharpur , Rourkela and Tatanagar," said the spokesperson. Some of the affected trains included Howrah-Pune Azad Hind Express, Tata-  Alleppey Express, Howrah -Ahmedabad Express, Ahmedabad - Howrah Express and several other passenger and goods trains. Patrolling teams along with Government Railway Police and Railway Protection Force rushed to the spot and started an investigation. During the investigation it was found that the Up main line was damaged in the blast. Restoration work began after getting necessary security clearances. Movement of trains on the Down line and the new third line was restored after 8 am while movement of trains on the Up line resumed at around 10 am after clearance from all departments. Chief Public Relations Officer of South Eastern Railway, Sanjay Ghosh, said,'' Train movement in Chakrdharpur and Rourkela section has become normal. An enquiry in this regard has been ordered by the DRM of Chakradharpur division.``||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
26-04-2021||Jharkhand||Chaos at Dhanbad hospital after 3 Covid patients die||The coal town’s Pragati Nursing Home witnessed an upheaval caused by relatives of three deceased Covid patients alleging medical negligence in their treatment. The doctors and staff of the hospital have fled since the incident. This is the second time an incident like this is being reported from the same hospital. The hospital, having a 30 bed Covid treatment facility, is among the 20 private hospitals of the district which have been allowed private treatment besides the eight government run facilities. The son of one of the deceased patients, Arun Kumar Upadhayay, said his father was being treated in the general ward despite being Covid positive and was suffering from typhoid and a lung infection. After his death, the hospital claimed Arun Kumar tested negative for the virus. “My brother was admitted in the hospital three days ago due to Covid infection and his condition started deteriorating since the morning after he was administered four different injections,” said Arun Kumar’s brother. “We have serious doubt that my brother’s condition deteriorated due to injection and our doubt has also been based on the fact that his medical file is missing from the hospital along with the doctors and staff,” he said. Chanda Kar, a resident of Shalimar in Jharia, also charged the hospital management of negligence leading to the death of her husband. She accused the hospital of misplacing the medical file related to his treatment. The OC of Saraidhela police station, Kishor Tirkey, said, “The family members of the deceased patients are accusing the hospital of medical negligence but we can only reach any conclusion after interacting with the hospital authorities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
26-04-2021||Jharkhand||Patients suffer as nurses refuse to resume work at Sadar Hospital||Covid patients undergoing treatment at Ranchi Sadar Hospital had a harrowing time for the second consecutive day on Monday as barely 15 of the over 100 nurses resumed work after a day-long strike on Sunday. The nurses on Covid duty also refused to administer injections and medicines to some of the needy patients, citing lack of prescriptions and other reasons, patients complained. The nurses had agreed to resume work after Deputy Commissioner Chhavi Ranjan assured them payment of  arrears and other monetary perks on Sunday. “I was prescribed Remdesivir by the doctor who was treating me. The injection is available but no nurse is willing to administer the injection citing some or the other reason,” said Vinay Kumar, a Covid patient surviving on oxygen support in the hospital. Like Vinay, many other Covid patients are left with no option but to wait for nurses to resume work, so they can at least get medicines on time, said Rakesh Tiwari, an attendant at the hospital. Ranchi Civil Surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar issued an ultimatum to the nurses on Monday, saying that they either resume work within 24 hours or face departmental action, which may even lead to suspension or termination. “If they (nurses) do not rejoin duty in 24 hours, then we will be forced to write to the department seeking strict action against them,” said Dr Kumar, adding that the absence of sufficient nurses made it particularly difficult for the hospital administration to run the 60-bed ICU  for Covid patients. There are 200 general beds and 60 ICU beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients at Sadar Hospital. The government had roped in more than 100 nurses from Community Health Centres (CHCs) to attend to Covid patients in the hospital as the facility did not have sufficient nurses on rolls. However, the outsourced nurses from CHCs went on strike on Sunday, demanding payment of the additional Rs 15,000 per month promised to them and arrears pending for three months, among other financial benefits, doctors said. Covid patients undergoing treatment at the hospital had to suffer on Sunday as well, said doctors. A doctor on duty at the hospital said that medicines were not reaching patients on time despite being available in the hospital due to the strike by nurses. “Usually, nurses administer injections and medicines prescribed to patients. In their absence, it becomes impossible for the limited number of doctors to treat patients, write prescriptions and also administer medicines,” he said. Many doctors in the hospital have also contracted Covid-19 infection and have gone into isolation, further increasing the pressure on the caregivers still working in Covid wards of the hospital, sources said. Ranchi is facing its worst wave of Covid-19 since the beginning of April. The district has reported more than 5000 cases and over 50 casualties every day on an average in the past one week. Sadar Hospital, in the heart of the state capital, is one of the largest state-run Covid care facilities in the city, which has more than 15,000 Covid patients at present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
26-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant writes to Gujarat chief minister on pending oxygen equipment orders||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren wrote to his Gujarat counterpart, Vijay Rupani, on Monday, requesting him to work in tandem with other states and ensure timely delivery of medical essentials that had been ordered earlier but were held up in Gujarat. “My state of Jharkhand is a surplus manufacturer of oxygen, the most lifesaving element in Covid treatment. Unfortunately, we are struggling with bottlenecks in our supply chain due to paucity of oxygen cylinders and the capacity of refillers. I have been informed that many of our orders of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) tankers, vapourisers and cylinders are pending with manufacturers in Gujarat. “I seek your assistance in getting the concerned manufacturers to expedite the delivery of the aforementioned orders. This would allow us to make oxygen available to hospitals and subsequently to the people who are desperately in need of it,” he wrote, adding that in this hour of crisis, it woul dbe good if they could all work together. Hemant's letter was prompted by concerns shared by at least two of Ranchi's oxygen refilling plants which he had visited on Sunday. He told the media after his visit that the government had asked all oxygen plants to ramp up capacities and be ready to address the needs of hospitals 24x7. An official of the state task force for oxygen here said that Gujarat happens to be the manufacturing hub of all logistics and equipments related to oxygen. “Even during the recent review meeting, we had come across issues of tankers, vapourisers and other equipment not being supplied regularly or getting stuck in Gujarat. Hence, the state government decided to formally take up the matter with the Gujarat government as we are in the process of increasing oxygen supported beds daily in the wake of the rising Covid cases," the official  said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
26-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: From Bokaro, 3 Oxygen Express trains for UP in 4 days ||In a span of four days, three Oxygen Express trains left Bokaro for Lucknow, including one with five tankers of oxygen on Monday morning. A total of 171 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen has been supplied from Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) to Uttar Pradesh. At present, the Yogi Adityanath government is working to airdrop oxygen cylinders and tankers to fetch oxygen from Bokaro, said Manikant Dhan, chief of communication, BSL. Meanwhile, the Haryana government has also started the process of bringing liquid medical oxygen from the BSL. On Sunday, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced that his government has placed an order for 6,000 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen from the BSL. And soon, oxygen will be brought from Bokaro to Haryana by a special train. BSL, a unit of SAIL, is producing 150 tonnes of liquid oxygen per day. Inox Air Product Private Limited is engaged round the clock generating oxygen for BSL steel-making process, which the steel major is diverting for saving lives of Covid patients across the country. In the month of April, BSL alone supplied more than 800 tonnes of liquid oxygen to Ranchi, Bihar, UP, West Bengal, Maharashtra, and Madhya Pradesh by road transport. In the past 26 days, 401 tonnes of liquid oxygen was sent to UP including 230 tonnes through the road route, said Dhan. The first oxygen special train carried 50 tonnes of liquid oxygen in three tankers, the second which left on Sunday had 50 tonnes in four tankers and the third one with 77 tonnes of oxygen. In addition to BSL’s efforts, the Indian Air Force and the Indian Oil Corporation have jointly taken initiatives to meet the need for an empty medical oxygen tanker. The Air Force is trying to bring an empty tanker from Baroda and an empty tanker from Pune to Bokaro for filling liquid medical oxygen from the BSL. After filling the liquid medical oxygen, the tanker will be dispatched to its destination by road or rail, said BSL sources. Around 39,647 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen has been supplied so far from SAIL plants across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
26-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: State witnesses ‘22 degree Sun Halo’ ||Hazaribagh: Jharkhand residents witnessed a bright ring formed around the blazing sun on Monday, a rare optical phenomenon called 22 degree Sun Halo. Apart from Ranchi, it was seen in areas like Hazaribagh, Latehar, Gumla. The giant ring was seen in the afternoon for an hour. The ‘Sun Halo,’ a circle of light with 22 degree radius, is produced when sun light is refracted in hexagonal suspended ice crystals and super cool water droplets formed in the cirrus clouds. The halo is created when the Sun is aligned with these crystals at a particular angle. Two colours, red and blue, were visible to the naked eye. The phenomenon attracted onlookers, with people seen clicking pictures on their rooftops and some attaching superstitious beliefs to the sighting. (Inputs from The Hindu)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
26-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Covid deaths cross 100 for second consecutive day||Jharkhand reported more than 100 Covid deaths for the second consecutive day on Sunday with 103 patients, including 43 from Ranchi and 16 from East Singhbhum, dying during treatment during the last 24 hours, taking the Covid toll in the state closer to the 2,000 mark. As per figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), Jharkhand reported 110 Covid casualties on Saturday, 63 deaths on Friday and 106 fatalities on Thursday. Sunday’s casualties took the Covid toll in Ranchi up at 589 and that in East Singhbhum to 520. So far, as many as 1991 people have died of the viral infection in Jharkhand. The active caseload in the state also inched closer to the 50,000 mark as Jharkhand reported 5903 fresh cases against 3287 Covid recoveries on Sunday. As per data with the NHM, as many as 48,105 people, including 15,500 from Ranchi alone, were battling the viral infection in the state on Sunday. Ranchi reported as many as 1494 fresh cases against 723 recoveries on the day, while East Singhbhum reported 702 cases against 361 recoveries. The active caseload in East Singhbhum was 6,498. As per government records, Ranchi and East Singhbhum jointly accounted for over 40 per cent of the active cases of Covid-19 infection in the state. The Covid tally in the state also breached the 2 lakh mark on Sunday. On Sunday, Jharkhand tested swab samples of 30,299 residents and more than 15 per cent of them were found infected. As many as 2,01,747 people have been infected by the coronavirus in Jharkhand so far and around 75 per cent of them have recovered, the NHM bulletin stated. The Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand has dropped significantly from over 98 per cent in the month of March. The growth rate of the viral infection reached 2.72 per cent on the day against the national average of 1.46 per cent. The doubling rate of infection dropped to 25.86 days against the national average of 47.78 days. The doubling rate in Jharkhand was above 2500 days before the second wave of Covid-19 hit the state. The state on Sunday administered the first dose of the vaccine to 6365 people, only 19 per cent of those registered for the jab on the day. The second dose was administered to 4835 residents, hardly 2 per cent of the registered beneficiaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
26-04-2021||Jharkhand||Eleven state workers dead in Chamoli glacier burst ||Eleven workers from the state have died and seven others have been injured in the April 23 glacier burst in remote Sumna area in Uttrakhand’s Chamoli district. State disaster management department in Jharkhand was informed about the developments by authorities in Chamoli in a formal communiqué on Sunday. All workers were employed by the Border Roads Organisation. Chief minister Hemant Soren broke the bad news through his twitter handle sharing the details of the deceased and injured and said that the government was in touch with Uttrakhand government for further assistance, if any. “Jharkhand has lost 11 brave migrant workers who were working in tough situation along the national borders in April 23 glacier disaster. Our government firmly stands with their families and also those who are currently undergoing treatment in the hospitals. We are in touch with officials in Uttrakhand to take further steps,” Soren said. Chamoli district magistrate Swati S Bhadoria in her letter to the state disaster management department, Jharkhand said that of the seven injured five are under treatment in Joshimath and two are in Dehradun hospital. As per the details shared with the Jharkhand government, of the 11, four workers each belong to Dumka and Khunti district, two are from Ranchi and one is from West Singbhum. Four injured are natives of Khunti and three are from West Singbhum. In a similar incident on February 7 this year, 14 migrant workers from Jharkhand, who were employed in NTPC’s thermal power project in Chamoli lost their lives. They belonged to Lohardaga (9), Ramgarh (4), and Bokaro (1).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
26-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid-19: Second oxygen train leaves Bokaro||The second oxygen special train left Bokaro Steel City for Lucknow on Sunday afternoon, reports our correspondent. The train was carrying four tankers with 46.48 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen. and was being run on a priority basis, the railways informed, adding the empty tankers had reached Bokaro on Saturday night. While the first rake was run on Friday, a third one with five empty tankers also reached Bokaro. All necessary steps for smooth loading and unloading of tankers have been made at Bokaro station, the railways further informed. “The railways started running oxygen express trains to ensure quick transportation and smooth supply of oxygen,” it said. The railways have already delivered 150 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen at destination stations and many more such trains would also be run, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
