27-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: BCCL launches app for employees||Dhanbad: Director (Personnel) of Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL), P.V.K.R.M. Rao on Tuesday launched a mobile/web app for addressing complaints of the staff at the residential quarters as well as officers of the company. Rao said that the app, a joint initiative of the administration and systems departments will gradually be made applicable for all other departments of BCCL also. The employees can upload any complaint with their regard to their residential quarters using the app. The complaints would be addressed in a time bound manner, Rao said. (Praduman Choubey)   Chatra: A group of armed men, whom sources identified as extremists, set five trucks on fire late Monday night at the Mandar-Laranga Road in Tandwa. Reports confirmed that the miscreants were extremists of the Tritiya Sammelan Prastuti Committee(TSPC). Sources said a group of 25 to 30 extremists waited on the road for trucks to come and stopped five of them to pull their drivers and cleaners out, after which they set the vehicles on fire with diesel. Before leaving the scene, one of the gutted trucks was overturned. The trucks, all belonging to the Ma Ambey coal company, were carrying coal to Piparwar railway siding. On April 15, members of the same outfit had set ablaze two coal carrying trucks. The incidents are being perceived as attempts to pressurise businessmen to give money to the outfit. Police said a probe was launched into the incident. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: The District Legal Services Authority (DALSA) have come forward for Bokaro residents, arranging medicines and consultation for them amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the district, and circulated numbers among the public for calling when they need. The members have set up a war room with the help of district authorities at the District Civil Court premises which will act like a Quick Response Team, said the Principal District and Sessions Judge cum Chairman of the authority, Pradeep Srivastava. It will have officials designated by the Deputy Commissioner, doctors nominated by civil surgeons, paralegal volunteers, retainer advocates and paramedical staff with necessary medicines and oximeters. Secretary of the team Manoranjan Kumar informed that needy people can get information about medicines, medical oxygen cylinders and oximeters from the war rooms by giving a phone call to the numbers 9934323658, 8207535649, 8002514775, 6200753409, 9955448319, 9430379652 and 9939104090. (Our Correspondent) Dhanbad: Activists of the Dhanbad unit of Marwari Yuva Manch on Tuesday organised a blood donation camp at Ratanji Road in the Purana Bazar locality of Dhanbad, to resolve the blood crisis in the district. As many as 26 units of blood were donated during the campaign on the day. Srikant Agarwal, convener of the organisation said, “In the prevailing situation, when the blood banks of the district are facing a crisis as vaccinated people cannot donate, we organised the donation camp today to help the centres.” Notably, a person who has taken the Covid-19 jab, cannot donate his or her blood for up to 28 days. (Praduman Choubey Bokaro: Deputy Superintendent of Bokaro Sadar Hospital Dr. Renu Bharti was on Tuesday removed from her post by Deputy Commissioner of Bokaro Rajesh Singh, on grounds of negligence in treatment of Covid-19 patients. District tuberculosis officer Dr. N.P. Singh will take over the post in the hospital, confirmed Civil Surgeon Dr. A.K. Pathak. The order said Bharti can be deputed or posted somewhere else on Covid duty by the civil surgeon as per his wish. It is mentioned that Bharti was showcaused by the DC on Saturday and was asked to justify her stand within 24 hours. She was also asked why an FIR should not be launched against her under relevant sections of the Disaster Act 2005, and why her medical license should not be cancelled Singh said, “Bharti was found ignorant towards Covid-19 patients. She was not coming to duty on time. In a joint inspection of Civil Surgeon-cum-Chief  Medical Officer, A K Pathak and SDO it comes to light that Bharti was not seriously operating 30 bed Covid ward in the Sadar Hospital. Covid patients and their families have complained about negligence.” (Our Correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
27-04-2021||Jharkhand||Nurses resume work at Ranchi Sadar Hospital ||Nurses and other healthcare workers resumed work at the Sadar Hospital here on Tuesday following an FIR against a doctor and a community health centre (CHC) officer for not discharging their duties at one of the largest Covid care facilities in the state capital. As per details shared by officials from Sadar Hospital, an FIR was lodged by the district administration under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act against Dr Kirti Tripathi of Pithoria and Purnima Baik, a nurse at a CHC in Namkum, on Monday night after the absence of nurses and doctors left several Covid patients unattended in the hospital. “Most of the nurses have resumed work today (Tuesday). The situation is now under control in the hospital,” said Ranchi’s acting civil surgeon Dr. Vinod Kumar. An official from the Ranchi district administration said that legal action would be taken in future against such healthcare workers who refuse to discharge their duties during this time of crisis. However, he requested not to be named. There are 200 general beds and 60 ICU beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients in Sadar Hospital. The government had roped in more than 100 nurses from CHCs to attend to Covid patients in the hospital as the facility did not have sufficient nurses on its rolls. However, the outsourced nurses from CHCs went on a strike on Sunday demanding payment of an additional Rs 15,000 per month, promised to them and pending for three months among other financial benefits, doctors said. Some nurses refused to administer medicines and injections to patients on Monday citing different excuses. The Civil Surgeon had to intervene and get injections administered to many Covid patients till the wee hours of Tuesday with the help of medical staff other than the nurses. “I stayed in the hospital till late in the night to ensure that patients get the medicines and prescribed injections. We were in a helpless position, but the situation is under control now as nurses have started returning to work,” said Dr Kumar. Vinay Kumar, a Covid patient who told The Telegraph Online that nurses refused to administer Remdesivir injection to him, on Tuesday said that he was given  the injection by a nursing staff late on Monday after his family and friends contacted the Civil Surgeon and requested him to intervene. However, the shortage of beds continued to haunt patients on Tuesday as well. Almost all beds in Covid wards of Sadar Hospital were occupied  and only critically-ill patients, in need of oxygen support, were prioritised, doctors said. The active caseload in Ranchi has reached close to 17,000, mounting extra pressure on the limited number of Covid beds in the district. The government is also planning to come up with new Covid care centres in order to ensure availability of beds for patients in need.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
27-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand sends four tankers with oxygen to gasping Delhi||Chief minister Hemant Soren flagged off four tankers, each carrying 58 tonne liquid medical oxygen, to Delhi on Tuesday to help the national capital tide over a serious crisis that has led to a staggering number of deaths among critical Covid-19 patients in various hospitals. The tankers, flagged off from Ranchi in an online function, left for Delhi from the Linde India gas plant at Jamshedpur. Health minister Banna Gupta, local MLAs and officials of the district administration were present at the plant site as the tankers rolled out. “We received an SoS letter from Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal recently seeking oxygen support. Thereafter, we wrote to the Centre for formal permission and today (Tuesday) we are finally sending tankers to Delhi. In this time of crisis, we are glad that Jharkhand is doing its bit to help other states to tackle the growing pandemic in the country,” Hemant said. Jharkhand, he said, has always been at the forefront of the country’s economic development by virtue of the heavy presence of mines and minerals.  “Now, oxygen produced here will also help others battling Covid-19. Many Jharkhandis live in Delhi, and it is everyone’s collective responsibility to rise above geographical and political lines to fight this crisis,” he said. Hemant has clarified that Jharkhand produces surplus oxygen and the crisis in the state was due to issues of logistics and supply. Amid the growing number of  Covid-19 cases in the state, the JMM-Congress alliance government has already stepped up efforts to ensure seamless supply of oxygen to hospitals. Hemant revealed that the state government was also working out plans to set up oxygen plants or refilling stations in the districts on priority. Notably, Linde India has recently entered into a partnership with Tata Group for securing 24 cryogenic containers for carrying medical oxygen from international sources. Officials of Linde India, who were present on the occasion, explained that industries used oxygen for combustion, oxidation, cutting and chemical reactions. To make industrial oxygen suitable for administering to humans, it needs to be free from impurities. Among the others present at the function were deputy commissioner of East Singhbhum Suraj Kumar and local MLAs Sanjeev Sardar and Mangal Kalindi. The chief minister interacted with the deputy commissioner and the two MLAs, seeking their suggestions on tackling the Covid pandemic. Kalindi stressed on the need for more ventilators and beds for Covid patients in hospitals in Jugsalai, his constituency. "Several Covid patients are succumbing in the absence of ventilators," he said. Hemant appealed to people to stay vigilant and follow Covid safety norms. "Although the state government is trying hard to upgrade medical infrastructure to deal with the surging cases, everyone must continue taking extreme precautions so that it doesn't reach a stage when he/she needs to be put on ventilators.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
27-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad indoor stadium is now a Covid testing centre||The Dhanbad District Administration on Tuesday launched an additional Covid test centre at the district indoor stadium to ease the rush and difficulties faced by commoners at the Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital (SNMMCH). This facility is aimed at catering to the needs of prospective patients of the upcoming 100-bed Covid care centre of the Sadar Hospital and will conduct RT-PCR as well as TrueNat tests. Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said the huge rush at SNMMCH leads to the chances of a non-positive patient getting infected by the virus during the process. “The new covid testing facility at Dhanbad District Indoor Stadium will be of great help  for both the serious as well as asymptomatic patients, or those with mild symptoms admitted at the dedicated Covid care center of Sadar Hospital,” he added. The Deputy Commissioner meanwhile visited the catheterization lab at the SNMMCH, and also inspected the construction work of the 60-bed Covid ICU facility at the hospital. Thereafter, he carried out an inspection at the upcoming 100-bed general Covid facility at the hospital. In a related development the Dhanbad District administration allowed Park Clinic, a private hospital in Hirapur, to dedicate 14 of its beds for Covid-19 treatment. With  the permission for treatment of Covid patients in Park Clinic, the number of private hospitals offering Covid treatment in Dhanbad has increased to 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
27-04-2021||Jharkhand||All parties want lockdown extended in Jharkhand||Congress, a member of the ruling alliance, asked chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday to extend the ongoing seven-day lockdown by another week  in view of the steady rise in Covid-19 cases and fatalities in Jharkhand. Party spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “It is said that the virus has a 14-day life-cycle and it is important to break the chain by early detection and curbing its spread. The state government had already taken a judicious step by imposing a balanced lockdown on April 22 to break the chain, But, cases are still raising. The party demands that the lockdown be extended by another week.” The current phase of the lockdown, which the state government has christened as "health safety week", will end on Thursday, April 29. So far, the state government has allowed key sectors such as agriculture, essential items, mining, among others, to operate keep the economic cycle running. Leader of the ruling alliance JMM and Opposition BJP also conceded that there was need for further extension of the lockdown, but both felt the shutodwn this time must be total. BJP’s Pradeep Sinha said, “The way the state government has imposed a lockdown doesn’t seem to be working as it has virtually kept everything opened, including wine shops. All that it did was close down recreational areas and educational centres. There is a need for a stringent lockdown to break the chain,  and during this time, the government must ramp up vaccination and improve medical facilities.” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee agreed that a complete lockdown was the need of the hour. “We had demanded this during the all- party meet with the CM last time,” he said. Notably, between April 22 and now, Jharkhand recorded around 22,000 new Covid-19 cases and about 400 deaths, indicating the speed at which the virus is spreading among people. Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCC)’s general secretary Rahul Maroo said the situation in Ranchi and elsewhere in the state was far from normal. He said that while trade bodies had voluntarily decided to close down operations for a week even before the government ordered a lockdown, they would take a call again on April 29. “We will wait to see what state government decides first,” he said. Sources in the state government did not rule out the possibility of extending the lockdown. “Deliberations are on. It is every likely that we may go for another extension with some more additional curbs,” said a senior officer, adding that a few states, including Delhi, had done the same.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
27-04-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city suicide prevention centre plans to reach out to the vulnerable||Distress calls at Jeevan,  Jamshedpur's suicide prevention centre, have gone up even as the steel city is witnessing  a surge in Covid-19 cases. Over 10 people, who are suffering from depression, have been dialling the numbers of Jeevan daily for counselling. Amny among them reveal  suicidal tendencies. The number of daily callers was between 2-4 at the beginning of the month when the Covid cases hadn't escalated. Jeevan director Jeoraj Jain said the number of people seeking help would further go up as the situation was far from normal. “Over 10 people suffering from depression are contacting our volunteers for counselling. We are trying our best to calm them. More people will seek counselling if the situation deteriorates further,” he added. Unemployment, uncertainty and economic problems are among the issues driving people to depression. Fearing that the situation would worsen in the days to come, Jeevan has decided to reach out to people for counselling. It has written letters to East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar and Tata Steel vice-president (corporate services) Chanakya Chaudhary, requesting telephone numbers of people living in Covid hotspots of Jamshedpur. The district administration has turned Kadma and Refugee Colony into containment zones after both the areas became Covid hotspots.. Kadma market and nearby residential areas were sealed on Saturday following detection of over 80 positive cases on Thursday and Friday, The densely populated Refugee Colony locality was sealed on Sunday following detection of 90 Covid positive cases in 24 hours. Entry to the locality under Golumri police station has been restricted from all sides. According to Jain, they have requested the DC to put up banners and posters (with telephone numbers) of Jeevan in both Kadma and Refugee Colony as it would help people living in those localities contact them for counselling. “We have also requested Tata Steel vice-president (corporate services) to provide telephone numbers of people living in Kadma so that we can contact them from our side. Movement of people in these two localities is restricted and they must be in tension and under depression. We want to help them in these difficult times,”the Jeevan director  said. A Jeevan volunteer said positive thoughts, sharing problems, keeping busy with activities which keep you happy, staying away from people with negative thoughts, playing with children, spending time with elders and rearing pets are some of the ways which can help people tide over depression. Jeevan volunteers are available at: 9297777500, 9297777499 (only call), 9955377500, 9955435500 (call or WhatsApp).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
27-04-2021||Jharkhand||Bus services disrupted in Dhanbad amid Covid surge, lockdown||Bus services in Dhanbad, both interstate and intrastate, have been badly affected over the past few days due to the lockdown and aggravating number of Covid-19 cases, with just 20 per cent of the 250 vehicles operating at present. Ranchi-bound buses have become non-operational, with none out of the 40 vehicles running amid a sharp drop of passengers in the route. The state capital is among the worst affected districts in Jharkhand. Buses between Bokaro and Dhanbad have been drastically reduced as well, with only 10 of them functioning out of 70. The passenger capacity has also been reduced to 50 per cent. Among the 15 Hazaribagh buses, only three are presently operational. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Sumit Singh, owner of Bundela Travels, said, “The deteriorating Covid-19 situation, lockdown and the drive to carry out Covid-19 tests at various places are the main reasons for the lack of passengers. We have no choice but to reduce the number of vehicles.” Singh said operators feel that the situation was better during the complete lockdown last year, as overhead expenses were reduced. “Now, less than 40 per cent passengers are travelling in buses, while overhead charges remain high,” he complained. The operator said that they used to run extra vehicles during the last wedding season and also had bookings for the upcoming season. “But many weddings were called off due to the lockdown and bus bookings were cancelled,” Singh said. Sunil Singh, Joint secretary of Dhanbad Bus owners Association, who operates around 20 buses to Bengal, said that operators had already been facing difficulties due to the Assembly elections in the neighbouring state. “The lockdown has added to our woes,” he noted. However, the situation is slightly better for buses operating between Dhanbad and Bihar towns like Patna and Aurangabad, as more than 50 per cent of them are operational.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
27-04-2021||Jharkhand||State's Covid toll breaches 2000 mark as 124 patients succumb to the virus in 24 hours||Jharkhand reported as many as 124 Covid deaths on Monday, breaking all past records of casualties reported in a single day since the pandemic hit the tribal state back in March 2020, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. The Covid toll in the state also breached the 2000-mark on the day, NHM data further highlighted. Ranchi accounted for 52 of the 124 Covid fatalities on the day, which took the toll in the district to 641, stated a bulletin released by the NHM. At least 14 patients died in East Singhbhum, which has reported the second highest number of Covid casualties so far, taking the toll in the district to 534. As per government data, as many as 2115 people have died of Covid infection in the state so far, and more than half of them were residents of Ranchi and East Singhbhum. While the state reported more than 100 deaths for the third consecutive day on Monday, the active caseload also reached close to the 50,000 mark as at least 5541 people were found infected and 4018 patients recovered on the day. With 1686 fresh cases against 836 recoveries, the active caseload in Ranchi jumped to 16,307. On the other hand, the active caseload in East Singhbhum dropped to 5,952 as the district reported 934 recoveries against 604 fresh cases on Monday. Among other districts, Dhanbad reported at least 400 fresh cases, while 313 people were found infected in Bokaro. As many as 49,504 Jharkhand residents were battling the viral infection by the end of Monday, the bulletin released by the NHM highlighted. As per government data, more than 2.07 lakh people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand so far and 75.09 per cent of them have recovered. The government on Monday tested swab samples of 35,895 people and more than 15 per cent of them were found infected by Covid-19. Meanwhile, the growth rate of Covid infection further rose to 2.74 per cent against the national average of 1.48 per cent on Monday, while the doubling rate in the state dropped to 23.56 days against the national average of 46.71 days. The state’s Covid growth rate was 0.10 per cent, while the doubling rate was over 2500 days in the month of March. Jharkhand administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 15,155 residents on the day, achieving 18 per cent of the target. The second dose was administered to 10775 people, hardly 3 per cent of the registered beneficiaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
