28-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Man dies at gate of Sadar hospital, committee set up to probe matter||Bokaro: The district health department on Wednesday set up a high level inquiry committee in connection with the death of a 36-year-old man who died battling for life on the floor of the main entrance at Sadar Hospital on Monday night. Virendra Singh, the brother of the deceased, Surendra Singh, alleged that due to the negligence of the hospital and lack of timely treatment, his brother lost his life. Due to a shortage of beds in the hospital, oxygen was given to Singh while he lying on the floor outside the hospital. However, neither a doctor nor a nurse came forward to administer any treatment. Civil surgeon, Dr A K Pathak said, “We have set up a three-member inquiry committee, which will investigate the incident related to death of Singh lying on floor at Sadar Hospital premises, and will submit report within three days, following which necessary action will be taken.” Chief minister Hemant Soren has expressed concern over the incident. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: CPM district secretary Ganesh Citu on Wednesday carried an oxygen cylinder on his shoulders to the Hazaribagh medical college’s Covid ward as the hospital is facing a staff crunch during the second wave of the pandemic. The patient for whom Citu carried the cyclinder was admitted in the morning but received the cylinder in the afternoon. Barhi SDM Dr Tarachand urged residents to join the hospital as volunteers as doctors and frontline health workers are testing positive for the virus. “Be a part of our team at this toughest period,” he said. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: NTPC has allocated Rs.53 lakh to develop a 15 bed ICU facility at the community health centre in Tandwa besides the installation of a pipeline for supply of oxygen. NTPC's decision comes after deputy commissioner Divanshu Jha and its executive director Asim Kumar Goswami signed a MoU for this purpose. Goswami said this facility will be a milestone in fighting the virus and providing best healthcare facilities to people during this tough period. The district administration has decided to increase oxygen supported beds at the Covid ward of the polytechnic college. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: Director (Personnel) of BCCL, P.V.K.R.M. Rao on Wednesday carried out an inspection of BCCL Nursing institute at Central Hospital of Dhanbad and provided hand gloves, masks and sanitisers to around 100 nursing students of the institute. Rao informed  that the BCCL management has purchased a total of 50 jumbo size D type oxygen cylinders which were installed at the Covid treatment centre of the Central Hospital. The BCCL Health Department organised a Covid vaccination camp at Koyla Bhavan on Wednesday for company employees and their family members during which 76 individuals were vaccinated. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
28-04-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi residents complain against open cremations of Covid victims||Residents of Ghagra locality have asked district and civic authorities to limit the number of open cremations of Covid victims citing risk of infection  and asked them to set up at least  at least two electric crematoriums in Ranchi. Dheeraj Kumar, the treasurer of the Advocates’ Association of Jharkhand High Court, said in a letter to the deputy commissioner and municipal commissioner on Wednesday that at least 50,000 residents were living in the Ghagra locality of Namkum and were being impacted by the daily cremations. “Due to excessive burning of bodies of Covid patients in the Ghagra cremation site, the rate of infection has increased in the locality and a lot and people have started dying due to Covid,” he claimed in the letter, a copy of which has also been sent to chief minister Hemant Soren. In the letter, Kumar accused Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) staff and people attending the last rites of throwing medical waste in the open,thereby risking the wellbeing of local residents. The Ranchi district administration fixed  Ghagra site in Namkum for cremation of Covid victims after the electric crematorium at Harmu Mukti Dham broke down due to overuse. On an average, at least 60 bodies of Covid victims are cremated every day at Ghagra as the pandemic has wreaked havoc in Ranchi, leading to an unprecedented rise in cases and casualties. Kumar's letter addressed to senior officials on Wednesday is the first complaint against open cremation of bodies of Covid victims in Ranchi. Kumar  has asked the administration to look for a location away from human habitation to cremate bodies of Covid patients. “Shift the place of cremation, otherwise there is danger to the Namkum bridge due to continuous exposure to heat and fire,” the letter stated. “The burning of bodies during night should also be stopped, and there should be a proper mechanism in place to ensure that all the medical waste is disposed of safely and away from the human population,” it further stated. In the past one week, Ranchi has reported at least 306 Covid fatalities and almost all these bodies were cremated at the Ghagra site. Despite fewer casualties reported during the first wave of the pandemic last year, many Ranchi residents had protested against cremation of Covid  victims close to their localities, fearing transmission of virus. Earlier this month, the health department directed deputy commissioners of all the 24 districts of Jharkhand to ensure respectful and timely cremation of Covid victims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
28-04-2021||Jharkhand||Lockdown blow to civic projects as migrant labourers leave ||The rapid increase in Covid cases and statewide lockdown has impacted the ongoing development projects of Dhanbad as migrant labourers engaged in them have returned to their native places at Bokaro, Ranchi and Bihar. An eight lane road widening project worth Rs 411 crore and construction work of a park at Liloristhan in Katras have been impacted with lack of skilled labourers. The highway project, a brain child of former mayor Dhanbad Chandrashekhar Agarwal, is aimed at diverting the traffic on the By pass road and thereby decreasing the load on existing internal roads of Dhanbad. M.K. Verma, project in charge of the eight lane project being executed with the help of the State Highway Authority of Jharkhand, said,“Though around 23% of the project has already been completed but the work has been affected in one half of project from Kako Math to Binod Bihari Mahto Chowk since about a week as some skilled labourers working on the project  have left to their places since the imposition of lockdown.” ‘The work on another half of the project between Binod Bihari Mahto Chowk to Gol Building, however, is going on unaffected” said Verma. The work on the eight lane project, being carried out through two different contractors - Tribeni Construction Limited for one half from Kakto Math in Katras to Binod Bihari Mahto Chowk and another part of 8.30 km being executed through Shivalaya Construction Pvt Ltd – was suspended for more than five months between June to November last year due to a probe carried out by the state government. The second wave of the pandemic has also affected the Rs 316 crore water supply infrastructure development work of Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority. Executive engineer of Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority, Indresh Shukla said, “Though the project is going on at a moderate pace but we also could not accelerate the pace due to lack of labourers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
28-04-2021||Jharkhand||Rain and thunderstorm to kill heat wave in Jharkhand ||Most places across Jharkhand which has been experiencing extreme heat with day's reading hovering over an oppressive 40 degree Celsius for the last few days can hope for a respite. IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre issued an alert of rain and thunderstorm activity in northern, southern and central Jharkhand for three days from Thursday. "Jharkhand is under the influence of two weather systems. A north-south trough runs from east Bihar to south coastal Odisha at 1.5 km above mean sea level. Another cyclonic circulation lies over Bihar and adjoining eastern Uttar Pradesh extending upto 0.9 km above mean sea level. The twin systems would trigger widespread thundershowers across Jharkhand for three days from Thursday, "said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Dry weather was prevalent over Jharkhand for the last few days. Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas have been witnessing over 42°C, three notches above normal for the last two days. Weathermen said a moderate heat wave condition was prevailing in some pockets of southern Jharkhand. Palamau headquarters, Daltonganj, was also witnessing extreme temperatures of around 42°C for the past two days. Statistics revealed that most places across Jharkhand including Bokaro, Dhanbad, Ramgarh, Pakur, Dumka, Deoghar, Koderma, Simdega and Chaibasa in West Singhbhum have been registering 40 °C and above for the last two days. The maximum temperature in Ranchi and its adjoining areas was hovering around 38-39°C for the last 48 hours. IMD's Patna Met Centre and the regional office at Alipore in Calcutta also predicted thunderstorm and rainfall activity over Jharkhand for three to four days from Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
28-04-2021||Jharkhand||Tribal hunting festival 'Sendra' cancelled for second time ||The Dolma Buru Sendra Samity, a frontal outfit of tribals, on Wednesday cancelled Bishu Shikar or Sendra for the second consecutive year in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases. Sendra was scheduled to be held at Dalma wildlife sanctuary on May 24. However, in keeping with the tradition, tribals will only perform puja. DBSS chief priest, Rakesh Hembrom said it would not be a wise idea to go ahead with the hunting festival when Jharkhand and the entire country is in the grip of the virus. “We would only perform puja at Fadlugora village on the foothills of the Dalma hills. We are unanimous in our decision to cancel the festival,” he added. According to him, their tribal brethrens from Jharkhand, Bengal and Odisha will not be coming for Sendra in view of the pandemic. “Moreover, the Dalma wildlife sanctuary is also closed due to the surge in Covid cases. A few of us will just perform customary puja in the name of Sendra,” Hembrom added. Apart from Jharkhand, tribals from Bengal and Odisha assemble at the sanctuary to hunt animals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
28-04-2021||Jharkhand||Wedding cancellations wreak havoc on small traders ||Marriage cancellations due to rise in Covid cases and state wide regulations have impacted cosmetic and puja paraphernalia retailers’ business in Dhanbad. The marriage season scheduled between April 19 and July 15 was expected to bring the sales up for over 2000 shop owners, who were already reeling from losses from last year’s lockdown. The huge stock procured by them is lying unsold because of the cancellations. Cosmetic jewellery shop owners have expressed that their stocks will be rendered useless in a couple of months as trends and designs are always evolving. Rinku Kumar Goswami, a cosmetic retailer of Hirapur Hatia, said, “More than 20 thousand marriages were scheduled in Dhanbad during the four month long lagan season from April to July but 80% of these marriages have been cancelled owing to the aggravated Covid situation as well as imposition of lockdown.” “We had suffered worse days during the last year due to the imposition of lockdown as almost no marriages were held during the last year  and we were expecting to somehow compensate for losses of last year but it seems that this season may be worse,” said Goswami. “Since the situation was quite good in December 2020 and January 2021 and everything was limping back towards normalcy but nobody expected the situation to again deteriorate so fast and thus we have also made some brisk buying expecting some sale,” explained Goswami. Echoing Rinku’s sentiments, Manoj Goswami , a puja paraphernalia shop owner of Hirapur Hatia Market in Dhanbad said, “I have been operating my shop here since last 30 years but never witnessed such a dull season and the impact is more because it is preceded with another dull season of last year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
28-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand extends ongoing lockdown till May 6||The Jharkhand government has extend ed the ongoing lockdown by another week till May 6 along with more restrictions on the movement of people and operation of markets. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who made the announcement on Wednesday while inaugurating a 40- bed Covid hospital on Ratu Road, said, “Considering the Covid-19 situation, we have decided to extend the 'health safety week' by another week. So, the lockdown will now continue till May 6. A detailed order about the dos and donts will follow later in the day. But broadly it has been decided to cut down timings of markets.” Until now shops and other trade establishments that did not come under the purview of the lockdown were allowed to function till 8pm, except medical services and pharmacies. A few key sectors like agriculture, mining, construction etc were also allowed to function during Phase 1 of the health safety week. All religious places were allowed to stay open but entry of devotees was banned. “Now, everything except some basic essential services will be functional only till 2pm. We will provide a one-hour window till 3pm for movement of people to their homes,” he explained. Movement of people associated with essential services—mainly healtcare and medical — will be allowed provided people carry legitimate prescriptions or other documents, sources said. They clarified that all kinds of shops, selling grocery, vegetables and liquor, will also be closed after 2pm. Hemant convened a meeting of the state disaster management authority around noon on Wednesday after which it was decided to extend the ongoing health safety week scheduled to end on Thursday. Notably, all major parties and the Federation of Chamber of Commerce and Industries were in favour of extending the lockdown in the wake of spiralling Covid-19 cases and fatalities. On Tuesday, the Congress, a member of the ruling alliance government, had formally demanded the extension of the lockdown while the JMM, the leader of the coalition, and the Opposition BJP both supported a more stringent lockdown to tackle the crisis. The active Covid-19 caseload breached the 50,000-mark for the first time in Jharkhand on Tuesday, while the state reported at least 131 recoveries – the highest reported in a day since the pandemic hit Jharkhand in March last year. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 6020 fresh cases against 4247 recoveries took the active caseload in Jharkhand to 51,252 on Tuesday. The Covid toll also jumped to 2246 on the day, the bulletin revealed. Ranchi continued to report the highest number of fresh cases and casualties on Tuesday. As per the NHM bulletin, the district reported 61 of the 131 casualties and 1574 of the 6000-odd cases on the day, which took the toll here to 702 and the active caseload up at 17,060.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
28-04-2021||Jharkhand||State's active caseload breaches 50,000 mark as over 6,000 patients test positive for Covid||The active Covid-19 caseload breached the 50,000-mark for the first time in Jharkhand on Tuesday, while the state reported at least 131 recoveries – the highest reported in a day since the pandemic hit Jharkhand in March last year. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 6020 fresh cases against 4247 recoveries took the active caseload in Jharkhand to 51,252 on Tuesday. The Covid toll also jumped to 2246 on the day, the bulletin revealed. Ranchi continued to report the highest number of fresh cases and casualties on Tuesday. As per the NHM bulletin, the district reported 61 of the 131 casualties and 1574 of the 6000-odd cases on the day, which took the toll here to 702 and the active caseload up at 17,060. As per government data, East Singhbhum reported 992 cases against 706 recoveries and 14 casualties on the day. Tuesday’s developments took the active caseload in the district to 6,424 and the Covid toll to 548. Among other districts, Ramgarh reported a spike of 301 cases while at least 275 people were found infected in Bokaro. As many as 584 Hazaribag residents tested positive for the viral infection of the day and at least six Covid patients died there. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of 32,061 residents and around 20 per cent of them were found infected. As per government records, over 2.13 lakh people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far and 74.93 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of Covid infection reached 2.68 per cent on the day against the national average of 1.46 per cent, while the doubling rate rose to 26.21 days against the national average of 47.81 days, NHM stated in its bulletin. With more than 100 casualties reported daily for the past four day, the Covid mortality rate in the state also jumped closer to the national average on Tuesday. As per NHM data, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 1.05 per cent against the national average of 1.10 per cent. While cases soared and rise in daily casualties continued to haunt Jharkhand residents, the vaccination programme against Covid-19 also did not get a positive response on Tuesday. As per government data, as many as 12,921 people were administered the first dose of the vaccine on the day in Jharkhand, while at least 8980 beneficiaries got the second dose as well. The state achieved 21 per cent of its target for the first dose of vaccine and hardly 3 per cent for the second dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
28-04-2021||Jharkhand||Scooter ride from ICU for Covid test||At a time when hospitals across the country are gasping for oxygen cylinders, vaccines and antiviral, a video has come to light that apparently shows a medical centre in Jharkhand has run out of even stretchers. The video which was shared widely on social media on Monday evening purportedly shows two brothers wheeling out their father admitted in the ICU of Medinirai Medical College and Hospital in Palamau district of Jharkhand on a scooter for a Covid test in the absence of stretchers or trolleys to shift the patient into an ambulance. “The patient, Ram Prasad, 55, was admitted on Sunday in the ICU of the hospital. He was supposed to be taken for Covid test on Monday at the testing centre which is nearly 250 metres from the block housing the ICU. “The patient’s relatives had been waiting since morning to take him for the Covid test. But their patience ran out in the evening as they failed to get a stretcher or trolley. One of them brought their scooter inside the ward and made the patient sit between the two persons and then took him for Covid test on the vehicle,” said a hospital staff. Sources said the two brothers were anxious to get their father’s Covid test done as it was mandatory for starting the treatment. “They were anxious as without the Covid test report, necessary treatment of the patient could not be started. This made them rush their father to the testing centre after failing to get a stretcher or trolley man to shift him,” said the staff. The Medinirai Medical College and Hospital was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2019 with an intake capacity of 100 students. Hospital superintendent Dr N.K. Singh assured of a proper investigation into the incident. “We are crippled with manpower shortage as several grade IV staff have tested positive for Covid-19. We will examine the CCTV footage of the incident and also find out the trolleyman deputed during that period. Suitable action will be taken against guilty staff,” said Dr Singh. State health minister Banna Gupta, however, was furious after watching the video. “I saw the video on Tuesday afternoon. Let me tell you it is very shameful and unacceptable. Merely passing the buck to grade IV staff would not do. The higher-ups need to answer how this happened. I have asked for an inquiry into the entire thing,” said Gupta. Palamau deputy commissioner Shashi Ranjan, however, tried to downplay the incident. “We saw the video. After a preliminary probe, it was found that there were stretchers and ward boys present. But due to the absence of security guard, the persons managed to bring the scooter inside the hospital and took the patient for a Covid test. It is not a big issue as it is being made out to be,” said Ranjan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
