29-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant talks to panchayat leaders for feedback on Covid spread||Concerned over rising cases of Covid-19 in rural areas, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren held a virtual meeting with panchayat representatives on Thursday to evaluate the ground situation in villages in order to prepare an action plan. Since April, most rural districts have started to report a triple-digit spike of Covid cases on a daily basis in addition to a few deaths. Addressing over 4,000 panchayat representatives from various districts, Hemant said, “We are constantly taking feedback to know the ground situation so that we can prepare proper plans in our fight against Covid-19. Based on your inputs, we shall proceed further.” He also appealed to the panchayat representatives to become "brand ambassadors" of Covid appropriate behavior so others in the area could be motivated to abide by norms and help in curbing the transmission of the virus. He asked them to function as the eyes and ears of the local district administration for better coordination. One of the biggest issues raised by several panchayat representatives during the three-hour meeting was lack of testing facilities in remote areas. “Migrant workers are returning to their homes in villages from everywhere but there is no system of tracking and testing them. This is resulting into an outbreak of Covid in villages this time. Last year, government ensured proper testing and containment measures,” said a panchayat representative from Garhwa. His counterparts from Dumka agreed, saying most peple had no idea where to go for testing. “In many areas, people have to walk miles to get to the nearest testing lab as a result of which many don’t go. In most cases, people suffering from cough, cold, fever think that it is normal. This needs to be addressed instantly,” said a panchayat representative from Dumka. He also asked for quarantine centres to be set up at panchayat/block levels similar to last year to ensure better monitoring of suspected cases. Jharkhand Janadhikar Manch (JJM), a conglomeration of rights organisations, asked the state government to conduct a special testing drive across rural areas to identify patients and extend treatment. “We demand distribution of medical kits, quick testing and diagnosis, enforcement of home isolation norms and surveillance in a proper way on immediate basis,” the manch said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
29-04-2021||Jharkhand||Nor'wester triggers rain across state, provides much-needed respite ||A summer saviour Nor'wester triggered by a cyclonic circulation over neighbouring Madhya Pradesh led to sharp showers in several districts, prividing much-needed respite to a sweltering Jharkhand on Thursday evening. Apart from Jamshedpur, the Nor'wester, accompanied by rain and gusty winds blowing at a speed of over 40 Kmph, lashed several districts including Sahebganj, Dumka, Pakur, Dumka, Jamtara, Giridih, Bokaro, Ramgarh, Khunti, Gumla, Simdega, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan. The local IMD centre in Jamshedpur recorded 23mm rain while Ghatshila and adjoining Seraikela witnessed 20mm of rain. Jamshedpur and several other parts of Kolhan experienced hailstones. "The cyclonic circulation extending 1.5 km above mean sea level gave momentum to the Nor'wester which originated from the Chhotanagpur Plateau region. A trough was also hovering over Gangetic Bengal extending 1.5km above the mean sea level, " said Abhishek Anand, head of IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He went on to say that Jharkhand will continue to experience light to moderate rain, accompanied by thunderstorm and lightning, during the next four to five days. Ranchi Met Centre's forecast suggests partly cloudy sky with thundershowers and gusty winds in north-east,  central and southern Jharkhand till  May 3. Soon after the rain and thunderstorm activity, Thursday's maximum reading in Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas, which had risen to 41.4 degree Celsius, witnessed an abrupt fall, resulting in pleasant weather. "Thunderstorm and rain brought much-needed respite from the sweltering conditions," said Ananya Das, a Sakchi-resident and a teacher by profession. Thursday's storm resulted in blackouts at several places in Jamshedpur and adjoining areas due to snapping of overhead cables. Electricity poles also got damaged at a few places too. Power supply was disrupted in Chhota Govindpur and Ghorabandha, both on the outskirts of Telco, Mango and Jugsalai, all served by Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL). JBVNL authorities said normal power supply was expected to resume late in the night on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
29-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad lawyer files PIL seeking Covid vaccine price control||A Dhanbad based lawyer, Mumtaz Ansari, filed a PIL on Wednesday in Jharkhand High Court seeking its intervention to direct the union government to regulate the prices of Covid vaccine and other medical equipment necessary for the treatment of the virus. Ansari in his petition, addressed to the Chief Justice of Jharkhand High Court, Ravi Ranjan, claimed that the central government’s decision to let manufacturers fix the price of the vaccine has in turn led to the price being fixed in an arbitrary and unjustified manner which is affecting the common man. In his petition, Ansari demanded that the price of life saving medical devices including oxygen concentrator, pulse oximeter and ventilators should also be controlled under the price control act. Covid vaccines and other medical devices are essential commodities for saving lives during the pandemic, hence the section 3 of Essential Commodities Act, 1955 and Disaster Management Act, 2005 should be invoked to control the prices of vaccines and medical equipment. The petition states that the vaccine manufacturing companies have arbitrarily fixed different prices for central government, state government and private hospital which is unjust and unreasonable. The petitioner quoting a web report claimed the price of Covishield fixed by its producer Serum Institute of India for private hospitals is the highest in the world. The lockdown and the April 25 resolution of Jharkhand high court directing advocates and clerks to abstain from work till May 2, Ansari pleaded to the court to allow his petition. Ansari is also associated with a voluntary organisation, Fight4Right which runs an education centre, Disha, for underprivileged children. He has earlier filed a PIL on the condition of Dhanbad government schools which was dismissed by the division bench of the court headed by Justice D.N. Patel in 2018. In a related development, Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh on Thursday sent a letter to Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner asking him to look into the complaints of exorbitant fees being by private hospitals engaged in the treatment of Covid patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
29-04-2021||Jharkhand||Former state BJP president Laxman Gilua succumbs to Covid||Former state BJP state president Laxman Gilua lost his battle against Covid-19 on Thursday. After struggling for the last one week, the 56-year-old senior BJP leader and former Singhbhum MP died at Tata Motors Hospital in Jamshedpur at 2.10 am. An official of the hospital said that Gilua's health continued to deteriorate, even though he was administered remdesivir on April 23. The news of his death came as a shock to the party. Senior BJP leaders including state party spokesperson Kunal Sarangi rushed to the hospital soon after getting the news. Emotions ran high when his dead body was taken to his native village Janta at Chakradharpur block of West Singhbhum. His last rites were performed as per Covid protocols. Gilua’s family members participated in the rituals wearing PPE kits. Born on December 20, 1964, Gilua was the key leader of the BJP in Kolhan division. He became the BJP block president of Chakradharpur in 1990. He won the Assembly elections in undivided Bihar in 1995 from Chakradharpur and became a member of the Bihar Assembly. Thereafter, he was also elected to the Lok Sabha in 1999 from Singhbhum. In 2014, he was elected MP again from the same seat. State BJP president  Deepak Prakash expressed his condolences.“I deeply mourn the death of the former state president and former MP. His death has created a void in the party. My prayers to God that his soul may rest in peace. His contributions to the party would not be forgotten. Gilua  was instrumental in strengthening the party," he said. Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda expressed grief over the demise of the party's  former state president. "His death has caused irreparable loss to the party," said Munda in a condolence message.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
29-04-2021||Jharkhand||Centre biased against Jharkhand, says health minister Banna Gupta ||Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta on Thursday accused the Narendra Modi-led Centre of being prejudiced against the people of Jharkhand and politicising the distribution of vaccine among states for the mass immunisation programme set to begin from May 1. “The Centre has announced vaccination for all citizens in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years from May 1, but the distribution process of vaccine is marred by political vendetta,” Gupta said addressing media persons in Ranchi. “We will not get the required vaccine doses until May 15,” he added. The health minister claimed that the state demanded 25 lakh doses each of Covaxin and Covishield for the upcoming immunisation programme, but  vaccine manufacturers refused to provide the required doses on time citing an advance booking of 12 crore doses by the Centre. “How will a developing state like Jharkhand vaccinate the 1.57 crore beneficiaries in this category if the Centre does not allow us to procure the doses that we require?” Gupta asked. The state, he said, has already set up 2229 vaccination centres for the immunisation programme, but the process of vaccination may get affected due to unavailability of sufficient doses. While residents of the state could register for vaccination through the government website and Co-Win 2.0 app in Jharkhand on Thursday, the app showed that there were no vaccination centres in Ranchi open for scheduling jabs as of now. The website only displayed vaccination centres open for beneficiaries above the age of 44 years. A visibly infuriated Gupta also slammed the Centre for its alleged "step-brotherly approach" towards Jharkhand while providing life-saving drugs for treatment of Covid patients. The state, he said, has 2,500 doses of remdesivir at present and has sought 2,000 extra doses from Assam. “We need at least 4,000 doses of remdesivir injection every day, but the Centre has provided only 20,000 doses to us in the past 10 days. Does the Centre want people of Jharkhand to die without treatment?” Gupta asked. Gupta sought the support of other states in helping Jharkhand fight the worst-ever wave of Covid-19, which has claimed several hundred lives and infected almost 1 lakh people in hardly a month. Jharkhand, he said, was providing medical oxygen to all the states irrespective of the party in power there, but the Centre was not following the same approach towards non-BJP ruled states. During the annual Budget, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman had allocated Rs 35,000 crore for vaccination, but the Centre was still demanding money from states for vaccines, Gupta alleged, claiming that the Centre’s policies were mounting added pressure on the states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
29-04-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Hospital begins tele-consultations for Covid patients||The Tata Main Hospital on Wednesday introduced a phone consultation service for Covid-19 positive patients. The private hospital owned by Tata Steel provided two telephone numbers : 0657-6641015 and 0657- 6641226 for providing necessary consultation by the doctors. Officials said for consultation,  Covid-19 positive patients will have to register through TMH Vishwas app. Patients can get consultation during the allotted time slot only. Tata Steel on Wednesday informed through Twitter that it has increased supplies of liquid medical oxygen to 800 tonnes per day. "Our endeavour to fight against Covid-19 continues. We are closely working with the Government of India and the states to address the demand and save precious human lives, "the company stated. According to information available from the district health department, 13 Covid patients died including a 34-year-old youth of Sonari and two from Dhanbad district at the TMH till 5 pm on Wednesday. On Tuesday, 15 patients died in various hospitals including TMH, Sadar Hospital and MGM Medical College and Hospital. Out of 7,055 Covid tests 992 were found positive. District surveillance officer Sahir Pal said efforts were being made to increase the number of beds for Covid patients. Referring to medical oxygen he said, "There is no dearth of oxygen in hospitals." Pal iterated that people should follow the Covid protocols and stay home unless there is an emergency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
29-04-2021||Jharkhand||State logs over 8,000 fresh Covid cases, 149 casualties in 24 hours||Close to 150 Covid casualties and over 8000 fresh cases of infection on Wednesday took the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 2395 and the active caseload nearer to the 55,000 mark, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, the state on Wednesday reported 8075 fresh cases of infection against 4362 Covid recoveries. Ranchi accounted for 1771 of the fresh cases on the day, while East Singhbhum reported 852 cases. Ranchi and East Singhbhum not only accounted for the highest cases on the day, but also reported almost half of the 149 deaths that occurred in the state. As per NHM data, at least 46 Covid patients died in Ranchi and 23 died in East Singhbhum in the past 24 hours, taking the toll in Ranchi to 748 and that in East Singhbhum to 571. Among other districts, Latehar reported 11 casualties, while seven people died in Dhanbad and three each in Bokaro and Chatra. At least six Covid patients died in Khunti, while Deoghar reported five casualties on the day. The active caseload in Ranchi jumped to 18,022, while that in East Singhbhum dropped to 6380 as the district reported 882 Covid recoveries against the over 850 cases, the NHM bulletin highlighted. As per NHM data, Ranchi and East Singhbhum jointly account for almost 50 per cent of the 54,816 active cases of Covid-19 in Jharkhand. The State on Wednesday tested swab samples of 70,757 residents and more than 10 per cent of them were found infected. The day’s findings took the Covid tally in the state above 2.21 lakh. As per government data, only 74.16 per cent of the over 2.21 lakh people infected by the virus so far in Jharkhand have recovered, while 1.08 per cent of them have died. The growth rate of infection in Jharkhand was 2.61 per cent on Wednesday against the national average of 1.46 per cent. As per government data, it would take hardly 27 days for the Covid cases to double in Jharkhand at the current pace. The doubling rate across India was 47.94 days. While cases continued to soar, the vaccination programme did not see a warm response from citizens on Wednesday. As per government data, as many as 12160, hardly 26 per cent of registered beneficiaries, were administered the first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 on the day. On the other hand, the second jab was administered to 9722 people, around 3 per cent of the registered beneficiaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
