30-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Dhanbad research scholars protest hostel evacuation notice||Research scholars of IIT (ISM),Dhanbad are protesting against the mandatory hostel evacuation notice served to them on April 26. The protestors claimed that the other IITs including, IIT Kanpur and IIT Delhi have made it optional for research scholars to vacate the hostel. IIT (ISM), Dhanbad has given students a five-day notice to evacuate its campus. A research scholar of Uttar Pradesh requesting anonymity claimed that forcing the students to leave in trains and buses is akin to putting them in danger. “If infected during the journey than they will also serve as source of infection for their family members as, in many parts of the country the RTPCR test for passengers are not being conducted,” said the student. “The family members of the many of research scholars are in self isolation at home or in quarantine and have little space for them at home, so at such a time the campus is the safest place for them,” argued another student. “As entry of outsiders is completely prohibited inside the hostel there is little chance of spread of infection,” said the research scholar. “If the foreign research scholars can be allowed to stay at the campus why can’t we be allowed as staying away from the campus at the crucial stage of their career may prove detrimental for our career as we have already been away from the laboratories for around a year affecting our career,” said a protester. The majority of the 450 research scholars who have been allowed on campus have a six month deadline to complete their research. The dean of student of IIT (ISM), MK Singh, said, “Recently around 50 persons including some of administration, faculty member, staff members etc have been infected inside the campus and given present situation, when limited beds are available in the district it will be very difficult to address any cases among hostellers.” “We are receiving continuous calls from parents of research scholars who are very concerned about the safety of their wards and in fact majority of students have already left the campus around a fortnight ago itself when we have given them the option to leave the campus or stay back at the campus,” said Singh. “We have also given the option the students to stay back or leave the campus around a fortnight ago but as the situation has aggravated and the medical facilities of Dhanbad is at par with other bigger cities like Kanpur or Delhi we have served them the hostel vacation notice,” said Singh and added that charges of suddenly asking them to leave the campus is also not true as the institute was informally convincing the students to leave the campus. “Furthermore, we are also providing all kinds of support to research scholars in booking their tickets etc and extending help to reach their places,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
30-04-2021||Jharkhand||Pharmacy shops in Ranchi to display price chart in bid to curb malpractices ||Medical and pharmacy shops in the capital will have to mandatorily put up rate charts of medicines and medical equipment at prominent places inside their establishments, deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan ordered on Friday to curb black marketing and overcharging amid growing reports of such malpractices from different quarters. Ranchi SDO Utkarsh Gupta, sectoral magistrates appointed to keep tabs on different medical shops and officials from the district’s drug control department attended the meeting with Ranjan, held at the district collectorate. Following the meeting, Ranjan said, “I have directed all the officials concerned to ensure that medical shops under their jurisdiction must now put up rate charts of crucial drugs and medical equipment so that people are aware about its actual price. No shop must charge anyone above the prescribed MRP rate. Anyone found doing so will be dealt with strictly. Most importantly, shops must desist from providing anyone medicines without prescription.” The deputy commissioner added that different magistrates have been deployed area-wise to keep strict surveillance on medical shops and have been asked to conduct surprise inspections as well. “Recently, different teams have conducted surprise inspections of shops in different areas in the city. Such inspections will now be intensified further,” he promised. A drug inspector maintained that people must seek valid bills from the shops after any purchase. “The moment you ask for the bill that is charged from you, chances are that the shop may refrain from overpricing. Every customer must stress on taking the bill,” he advised. City police too are on alert specially to curb black marketing of Remdesivir. “We have floated four numbers—9431706136/9431706137/9431706139 and 0651-2215855 to seek inputs/complaints regarding black marketing of Remdesivir,” said a Ranchi police official, adding that two days ago, based on the tip-off, they had arrested one person from Ratu road with four vials of Remdesivir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
30-04-2021||Jharkhand||Fire accident at steel city market, shops gutted||A fire caused by a suspected electric short-circuit gutted around half-a-dozen shops at the steel city’s commercial hub Sakchi on Friday. It took around two hours for the fire tenders of the state fire department and Tata Steel to bring the blaze under control. Timely action by the fire department minimised damages to a great extent. District fire service officials said they were informed about the fire around 3.10 pm, and the fire tenders reached the spot within five minutes. The fire tenders had no problem in entering the spot of the mishap behind Shitla Mandir close to the Tank Road as because of the extended lockdown all shops were closed by 2 pm. The fire broke out at a vegetable shop and soon spread to a grocery store, an eatery and a few other shops. The loss caused by the fire could not be immediately estimated. But, sources in Sakchi market said the loss would be somewhere between Rs 10 to Rs 15 lakh . An affected shop-owner selling vegetables said, "The fire was caused by a suspected short-circuit. I had closed my shop at 2pm and went home.  As I was about to take my lunch I got a phone call about the fire mishap." A chaos prevailed at the market soon after the fire detection. Most of the shopkeepers had left for their homes after closing their shops at 2 pm. Officer-in-charge of Sakchi police station, Kunal Singh, along with other officers was present at the spot. This was the third fire that broke out at Sakchi in the past five months. On December 19, a similar fire caused by a bonfire gutted around a dozen shops at the Jalebi Line close to the fish market. Another fire broke out at the Sakchi market on January 18 which gutted several shops resulting in a huge loss.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
30-04-2021||Jharkhand||Twin storms trigger thunder showers across state||The season's sixth Nor'wester hit Jamshedpur, Ranchi and several other places on Friday resulting in widespread lightning and thundershowers. Two storms originated from the Chhotanagpur plateau region. The first storm was triggered at Latehar in north-west Jharkhand. It covered places like Koderma, Hazaribagh and Ramgarh before hitting the capital. The wind notched a speed of around 40 Kmph, the storm lasted for a few minutes followed by thunder showers. The second storm originated from Lohardaga and travelled through Simdega, Khunti and Seraikela-Kharsawan district before reaching Jamshedpur around 5 pm. The steel city and its adjoining areas encountered the Nor'wester around 5.15 pm. The wind speed was around 45 kmph. It lasted for about 45 minutes followed by moderate showers. The storm resulted in snapping of power supply in Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL) command areas. Chaibasa in West Singhbhum also experienced the summer saviour storm at the same time while Ramgarh and Khunti felt a two-minute snap squall. Jamshedpur recorded around 35 mm of rain while Chaibasa in West Singhbhum got 20 mm of rain. Ranchi and its ajoining areas received about  2 mm of rain while several other places recorded light showers. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre confirmed the tempest was a Nor'wester. "The Nor'wester was triggered by a cyclonic circulation over north-eastern Madhya Pradesh. A low pressure trough over Gangetic Bengal also helped in heavyoisture incursion into atmosphere,” said a duty officer at Ranchi Met Centre. A weather analyst at the Patna Meteorological Centre said, "Our reports show that the storm has hit different places in Jharkhand with wind speed between 40 to 50 kmph. Rain and storm is also likely to hit several pockets of central, northern and southern Jharkhand in next few days," he said. Trees fell at several places including Jamshedpur due to the impact of the high intensity storm. Darkness descended at Jamshedpur and several other parts of Kolhan around 5 pm. Cars and other vehicles had to switch on the head lights. Weathermen said reports of hailstones also came from several parts of the state including Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
30-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur crematoriums reach full capacity||The steel city’s burning ghats are witnessing a manifold increase in bodies arriving for cremations in the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Over 40 bodies are being cremated at Subarnarekha Ghat in Bhuiyandih and Parvati Ghat in Jugsalai respectively. In pre-Covid times, 10-12 bodies came for cremation daily at Subarnarekha ghat while the figure was 8-10 daily at Parvati ghat. The increased number of cremations at both the crematoriums has put pressure on the management committee of these facilities. Moreover, people coming for the last rites have to wait for long to complete the formalities. Subarnarekha Ghat has four electric furnaces. Besides Covid victims, normal cremation is also taking place. Apart from the furnaces, there are four platforms to cremate bodies on wood. With the load of cremations going up at the Subarnarekha ghat, bodies are being cremated at a vacant space inside the ghat premises. “Over 40 bodies, including ones who have died due to Covid, are coming for cremation. This has forced us to use the vacant space for cremating bodies. It’s a challenging task. The four electric furnaces are functioning round-the-clock,” a member of Subarnarekha Ghat management committee said. At Parvati Ghat, with two electric furnaces, bodies are also cremated on two platforms by using wood. “Over 40 bodies are cremated here. The load of cremating bodies has increased manifold. People have to wait for long hours for the last rites,” said Dipendra Bhatt, secretary of the ghat management committee. “We have never seen cremations in such numbers. Bodies are coming for cremations one after another,” said ghat manager Vinod Tiwary. “I came to Parvati ghat for the cremation of one of my relatives. We arrived at 9 am and waited till 8 pm to complete the formalities. Bodies are being waitlisted since the number of cremations has increased manifold,” said Rambalak Kumar, a resident of New Ranikudar. Priyansh Prajapati, who had gone for cremation of one of his neighbours at Subarnarekha Ghat on Wednesday, said it was an agonising wait. “Though extra space is available but we had to wait for over five hours for our turn to come,” the Sakchi resident recalled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
30-04-2021||Jharkhand||JMM blames PM for turning nation into a graveyard||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), which is leading the state's coalition government, attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday for mishandling the Covid-19 outbreak right from start and turning the country into a graveyard. The party also asked Modi to accept responsibility for the growing number of casualties since the outbreak of the brutal second wave of the pandemic. “If he (PM) can flaunt his picture on every vaccination certificate, why shouldn’t he own up for the deaths too? The  PM should now put his photo on every Covid death certificate," said JMM general secretary and party spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharjee, who also urged the Supreme Court to take control of the situation as a "policy paralysis" had rendered the Union health ministry ineffective. Addressing an impromptu press conference on the eve of May 1 when everyone above 18 years will be eligible for vaccination, the JMM general secretary said that the decision to open up the immunisation drive now had turned into a cruel joke. Jharkhand, like several other states, is unlikely to begin the latest phase of vaccinations from Saturday, owing to depleting vaccine stocks. “As we speak, the state government has not got vaccines to begin the drive from May 1 as announced by the Union government. We have about 5 lakh doses as on date, which is inadequate to cover those who took the first dose and those who are above 45. Chaos over the unavailability of vaccines is evident in many states as many who have got their first dose are not able to get the second dose. As the nation is reeling under medical crisis, vaccines for all from May 1 is yet another cruel joke by the Modi government,” he said. Blaming the Modi government for the Covid mess in the country, the JMM leader said that th Modi government’s handling of the pandemic was turning the country into a graveyard. "First, they centralised everything related to Covid in the first phase by taking arbitrary decisions. Then they virtually announced that the virus is in its endgame in the country. And when the virus hit again, they kept ignoring it by being busy with elections. Now, they have pushed everything on to the the states in the name of decentralisation,” he said. Bhattacharjee said that the JMM was now appealing to the Supreme Court to take over the affairs of the health ministry to streamline things under its watch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
30-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid death toll crosses 2,500 mark in Jharkhand with 145 casualties in 24 hours||The Covid toll in Jharkhand breached the 2500-mark on Thursday while the active caseload jumped past 55,000 as the state reported 145 Covid casualties and close to 6000 cases of Coronavirus infection in the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. A bulletin released by the NHM stated that as many as 5,961 state residents, including 1539 from Ranchi alone and 890 from East Singhbhum, were found infected by the mysterious virus on Thursday. The state also reported 4755 Covid recoveries on the day, the active caseload still reached 55,877, the bulletin further highlighted. The situation worsened further in Ranchi on Thursday as the district reported 59 casualties and the active caseload here reached 18,786 while the Covid toll jumped passed the 800-mark. As per government data, as many as 807 Ranchi residents have died of Covid-19 so far. On the other hand, the active caseload dropped further down to 6,345 as the district reported 902 Covid recoveries against 890 cases. However, with 12 fatalities, the Covid toll in the district increased to 583, the NHM stated in its bulletin on Thursday. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 320 cases against 203 recoveries, while Deoghar reported 251 cases against 138 recoveries. At least 413 people were found infected in Hazaribag while 480 Covid patients recovered there. Ramgarh also reported 222 cases against 142 recoveries on the day. As per government data, over 2.27 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in the state so far and 74.31 per cent of them have recovered. The recovery rate in Jharkhand has dropped from over 98 per cent in March to below 75 per cent at present, reveals government data. As per figures with the NHM, the doubling rate for Covid cases in the state was 27.52 days against the national average of 51.48 days. The doubling rate in Jharkhand was above 2500 days before the second wave of Covid-19 hit the state back in April first week. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand also surpassed the national average of 1.10 per cent on Thursday. As per government data, the mortality rate for Covid patients in the state was 1.11 per cent. So far, 2540 residents have died of Covid-19 in Jharkhand and more than 50 per cent of the deceased were residents of Ranchi and East Singhbhum. The state on Thursday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 14,764 residents, around 21 per cent of those registered. The second jab was administered to 13,632 residents, around 4 per cent of the total registered beneficiaries on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
