12-11-2021||New Delhi||Retail inflation rises marginally to 4.48 per cent in October||Retail inflation inched up to 4.48 per cent in October due to an uptick in food prices, government data showed on Friday.The Consumer Price Index (CPI) based inflation was at 4.35 per cent in September and 7.61 per cent in October 2020.According to the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO), inflation in food basket rose to 0.85 per cent in October, compared to 0.68 per cent in the preceding month.The Reserve Bank, which mainly factors in CPI-based inflation while arriving at its bi-monthly monetary policy, has been tasked by the government to keep it at 4 per cent, with a tolerance band of 2 per cent on either side.The RBI has projected the CPI inflation at 5.3 per cent for 2021-22: 5.1 per cent in second quarter, 4.5 per cent in third; 5.8 per cent in last quarter of the fiscal, with risks broadly balanced.The retail inflation during April-June period of 2022-23 is projected at 5.2 per cent. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/retail-inflation-rises-marginally-to-4-48-per-cent-in-october-337266
12-11-2021||New Delhi||Vodafone Idea’s loss narrows to Rs 7,145 cr in Sept quarter; revenue down to Rs 9,406 cr||Debt-ridden telecom operator Vodafone Idea Ltd (VIL) on Friday reported narrowing of consolidated loss to Rs 7,144.6 crore for the second quarter ended September 30, on account of an increase in mobile services tariff and cost optimisation.The company had posted a loss of Rs 7,218.2 crore in the corresponding period of the previous financial year 2020-21.During the September 2021 quarter, VIL increased the entry-level prepaid pricing plan from Rs 49 to Rs 79, in a phased manner, as well as increased the tariffs in some postpaid plans.Its consolidated revenue during July-September 2021 declined about 13 per cent to Rs 9,406.4 crore, compared with Rs 10,791.2 crore in the year-ago period.The impact of the government relief package was not visible in the books of VIL as it was announced towards the end of the quarter under review. VIL, however, appreciated the move as it provides immediate relief to the company reeling under the financial stress.“We welcome the government’s landmark reform package that addresses several industry concerns and provides immediate relief to the financial stress in the sector.“We also appreciate the government’s recognition of the telecom sector’s contribution in keeping the country connected during the pandemic,” VIL Managing Director and CEO Ravinder Takkar said in a statement.He added that during the last quarter, the company witnessed a recovery in its operating momentum as the economy has started to gradually open up, aided by the ongoing rapid vaccination drive.The company’s subscriber base declined to 25.3 crore during the reported quarter, from 27.18 crore a year ago.The subscriber base declined on a quarter-on-quarter basis as well.Despite the overall dip in the subscriber base, VIL said its 4G subscriber base grew 33 lakh to 11.62 crore on a quarter-on-quarter basis. The data consumption on the VIL network grew 27.1 per cent on a year-on-year basis.“Data usage per 4G subscriber is now at 14.5 GB per month, compared with 11.8 GB per month a year ago,” the statement said.The average revenue per user (ARPU) declined to Rs 109 during the reported quarter, from Rs 119 a year ago.The ARPU on a quarter-on-quarter basis, however, improved due to an increase in tariff.“This quarter, we had taken certain pricing initiatives to improve ARPU, in line with our stated strategy. We increased the entry-level prepaid pricing plan from Rs 49 to Rs 79, in a phased manner, as well as increased the tariffs in some postpaid plans,” the statement said.The company increased capital expenditure on a quarter-on-quarter basis to Rs 1,300 crore from Rs 940 crore in the previous quarter, to add more 4G sites.“We continue to invest in 4G to increase our coverage and capacity. During the quarter, we added around 10,800 4G FDD sites primarily through refarming of 2G/3G spectrum (shutdown around 9,600 3G sites) to expand our 4G coverage and capacity.“Our overall broadband site count stood at 4,50,481, compared with 4,47,114 in the first quarter of FY22,” the statement said. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/vodafone-ideas-loss-narrows-to-rs-7-145-cr-in-sept-quarter-revenue-down-to-rs-9-406-cr-337237
12-11-2021||---||RBI lifts curbs on Diners Club International||New Delhi, November 12The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has lifted the curbs on Diners Club International after it satisfactorily complied with the Central Bank’s directive to store its Payment System Data on an Indian server.The RBI had barred Diners Club from enrolling new Indian customers onto its card network from May 1 for non-compliance with the RBI circular on ‘Storage of Payment System Data’.The RBI had brought in the new norms after it observed that not all system providers were storing the payments data in India. This inhibited the RBI from unfettered supervisory access to data stored with these system providers. It, therefore, asked them to ensure that the entire data relating to their payment systems are stored in a system only in India. For the foreign leg of the transaction, if any, the data can also be stored in the foreign country, if required.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/rbi-lifts-curbs-on-diners-club-international-337214
12-11-2021||Sandeep Dikshit||RBI Retail Direct Scheme will provide a safe and easy medium for investors to access govt securities: Modi||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, November 12Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for channelising ordinary savings into government securities while virtually launching the ‘RBI Retail Direct Scheme’ on Friday to help retail investors access the government securities market through their savings accounts in banks.Terming banking and insurance as exclusive clubs till six years back, the Prime Minister said this scheme was an unprecedented investment opportunity for small investors. Till now, the middle class, small traders and senior citizens – all those with small savings – could invest in government securities only through the indirect route. Investment by a big section of the population will make it easy for the government to finance the development of the nation and take a major step towards attaining the goal of Atma Nirbhar Bharat, he said.The PM conceded that “finance talk” is usually technical. But the need of the hour is for the common man to understand such things. The common man should know, he said, that this scheme does not need fund managers. For the salaried and pensioners, there will be no need to go anywhere. A phone and Internet connection will be enough to open an eight-digit account and link it with the savings account to enable online purchase and sale of government securities.“You know that government securities have a guaranteed settlement provision. So, small investors will get assurance of safety and good returns. The government will get the necessary resources to develop a new India,” he explained.Turning to the second scheme -- the RBI Integrated Ombudsman Scheme – the PM said this initiative of having a unified banking grievance redressal platform is the other aspect of encouraging financial inclusion. “My clear view is that the greatest power of democracy is how strong, sensitive and proactive the grievance redressal system is. That is the biggest test of democracy.“I have also been told that in order to check online cyber fraud, the RBI has made extensive provisions for artificial intelligence in this scheme. Better coordination between banks and investigating agencies will make the recovery of money taken out by fraud faster,” he observed.The Prime Minister dwelt at length on his government’s initiatives in the banking sector and attacked the previous governments for trying to block financial inclusion. “All types of logic was given to stop banking and insurance from reaching the poor. It was shamelessly said that there is no branch or no staff or no Internet. There was no awareness either. Unproductive savings and informal lending was not helping in the development of the country. Pension and insurance was thought to be only for the prosperous. But now conditions are changing,’’ said the Prime Minister.Before 2014, the banking system had been badly damaged. “Today, we all know what kind of conditions were created. What all had not happened? But in the last seven years, NPAS were transparently recognised; attention was paid to resolution and recovery, public sector banks were capitalised, and wilful defaulters were sued and their access to the market blocked. Small banks were merged to create big banks and the National Asset Reconstruction Company was set up. Cooperative banks were brought within the purview of the RBI to improve governance. All these steps have created a new confidence, a new energy returning to the banking system. Lakhs of depositors are getting confidence in the system,” said the Prime Minister.In his opening remarks, RBI chief Shaktikanta Das said the RBI Retail Direct Scheme would enhance access to the government securities market for retail investors. Investors will be able to easily open and maintain their government securities account online with the RBI, free of cost.The Reserve Bank - Integrated Ombudsman Scheme - will further improve the grievance redress mechanism. Its central theme of the scheme is based on ‘One Nation-One Ombudsman’ -- a single point of reference for customers with grievances, he said.Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman drew attention to the coordination between the RBI and the Finance Ministry that ensured that time-sensitive decisions during the pandemic were not delayed. “Today the economy is reviving with gusto. The confidence in the Indian economy is growing across the globe,” she noted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/rbi-retail-direct-scheme%C2%A0will-provide-a-safe-and-easy-medium-for-investors-to-access-govt-securities-modi-337187
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Sensex, Nifty soar to 2-week highs on gains in Infy, RIL||Stock market benchmarks Sensex and Nifty rallied to a two-week high on Friday on heavy buying in index majors Infosys, HDFC Bank and Reliance Industries after three days of losses and a positive trend in global markets.The 30-share BSE Sensex spurted by 767 points or 1.28 per cent to close at 60,686.69 points with 25 of its stocks ending with gains.The broader Nifty of the National Stock Exchange jumped by 229.15 points or 1.28 per cent to settle at 18,102.75, the highest closing level since October 27. Gains in IT, realty and energy stocks helped indices break three-day losing run.Tech Mahindra was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by HDFC, Infosys, Bajaj Finserv, Asian Paints and Bajaj Finance.On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, Tata Steel and Axis Bank were among the laggards.“The momentum which was lost during the week was regained as inflation worries started fading with investors shifting their focus to good quarterly earnings, economic recovery and strong domestic macro data points,” said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services.All sectoral indices ended with gains. BSE teck, IT, telecom, realty, power rose up to 2.03 per cent.Broader midcap and smallcap indices rose up to 0.57 per cent.During the week, Sensex surged 619.07 points or 1.03 per cent, while Nifty advanced 185.95 points or 1.03 per cent.Ajit Mishra, VP - Research, Religare Broking, said, “Markets recovered sharply and posted gains of over a per cent, taking a breather after the recent dip. Positive global cues led to a gap up but profit taking trimmed the gains in the initial hours.”    In the next week, Mishra said, markets will first react to macro data in early trade on Monday. As the result season is almost behind us, the focus will shift back to global markets for cues. At the same time, traction in primary markets will keep investors busy.Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with gains.Major indices in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals.Asian share prices advanced on Friday after Wall Street benchmarks managed to close mostly higher on the previous day. European shares were largely muted on Friday continuing to search for direction as global investors assess recent high inflation prints and corporate earnings, but were on course to mark their sixth straight weekly gains, Deepak Jasani, Head of Retail Research, HDFC Securities, said.Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.07 per cent to USD 81.98 per barrel. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/sensex-nifty-soar-to-2-week-highs-on-gains-in-infy-ril-337182
12-11-2021||New Delhi||Auction of 5G spectrum likely in April-May, says Vaishnaw||The auction for the 5G spectrum is likely to take place around April-May next year, Communications Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said on Thursday.While relief measures announced in September this year for telecom operators marked the first set of reforms, the government will bring out a series of further reforms and “telecom regulatory structure should change in coming 2-3 years”, Vaishnaw said.Reaching out to THE unconnectedSpeaking at an event, the minister said India’s telecom sector regulation has to be benchmarked with the global best, and added that “so, we will come with a series of reforms in this, such that the global benchmark of regulations is achieved in India”.On the timeline for 5G auctions, Vaishnaw noted that the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI), which looks at the structure of auctions, is undergoing consultations on the matter.“I think they will submit their report by February-mid is what we are thinking, maybe February-end, maximum to maximum March. Immediately after that, we will have the auctions,” he said.The comment assumes significance as the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) was earlier hopeful of holding 5G auctions by the end of the current fiscal.Giving a specific timeline for the upcoming auction will be difficult at this stage since much depends on the time TRAI will take to finalise its views, the minister added.“But, today, our estimate is by April-May. I was earlier estimating March. But, I think it will take...because consultations are complex, diverse opinions are coming...,” he said.The government is keen to ensure that auctions are technology-neutral, and wants to give a spectrum that is consistent for many years to come.“So, 4G can be used in that, 5G can be used. So, that’s the thinking based on not just short term but more like thinking at least 5-10 years ahead,” he said.It may be recalled that the DoT had approached TRAI seeking its recommendations on pricing, quantum and other modalities pertaining to radiowaves in multiple bands, as it prepares the groundwork for holding 5G spectrum auction in the coming months. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/auction-of-5g-spectrum-likely-in-april-may-says-vaishnaw-337125
12-11-2021||New Delhi||Adani to invest $70 bn in renewable energy||Billionaire Gautam Adani on Thursday said his logistics-to-energy conglomerate will invest $70 billion over the next decade to become the world’s largest renewable energy company and produce the cheapest hydrogen on the Earth.Adani Green Energy Ltd (AGEL), the world’s largest solar power developer, is targeting 45 gigawatts of renewable energy capacity by 2030 and will invest $20 billion to develop a 2 GW per year solar manufacturing capacity by 2022-23.Speaking at the Bloomberg India Economic Forum, Adani Group’s founder-chairman said the group is working to make renewable a viable, affordable alternative to fossil fuels.“By 2030, we expect to be the world’s largest renewable energy company without any caveat - and we have committed $70 billion over the next decade to make this happen. There is no other company that has yet made so large a bet on developing its sustainability infrastructure,” he said.Adani Group already is the world’s largest solar power developer. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/adani-to-invest-70-bn-in-renewable-energy-337126
12-11-2021||---||PM to launch 2 RBI schemes today||New Delhi, November 11Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch two innovative customer-centric initiatives of the Reserve Bank of India via video-conferencing on Friday.These initiatives are the RBI Retail Direct Scheme and the Reserve Bank-Integrated Ombudsman Scheme, stated an official statement.NEW INITIATIVEsThe RBI Retail Direct Scheme is aimed at enhancing access to government securities market for retail investors. It offers them a new avenue for directly investing in securities issued by the Government of India and the state governments. Investors will be able to easily open and maintain their government securities account online with the RBI, free of cost.The Reserve Bank-Integrated Ombudsman Scheme aims to further improve the grievance redress mechanism for resolving customer complaints against entities regulated by the RBI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/pm-to-launch-2-rbi-schemes-today-337127
12-11-2021||New Delhi||Will expose Amazon’s misrepresentation: FRL||Independent directors of Future Retail Ltd are collating information and will expose the details of contradiction and misrepresentation made by Amazon before the Competition Commission of India (CCI), said FRL independent director Ravindra Dhariwal.Dhariwal said the independent directors are “collating” all the pieces of information together, going “deeper into each and every representation” which Amazon had made before the CCI and showing how its “intent was totally contradictory.” “We are going out to point exactly to CCI, this is what they have told you and this is what the internal documents are saying. We are going to expose the details of contradiction and details of misrepresentation, which they have made,” he said adding “We are going to show the true face of Amazon to the whole world”. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/will-expose-amazons-misrepresentation-frl-337128
12-11-2021||New York||McKinsey’s Indian-origin partner held||Puneet Dikshit, a 40-year-old Indian-origin partner at McKinsey & Company, has been arrested and charged with insider-trading and making illegal profits totalling over $450,000 in the US. He has been charged with “illegally trading in advance of a corporate buyout by one of the firm’s clients in September,” the Securities and Exchange Commission said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/mckinseys-indian-origin-partner-held-337129
