21-11-2021||New Delhi||Finance ministry notifies 12 pc GST rate on MMF, yarn, fabrics from Jan 1; corrects duty anomaly||The finance ministry has notified uniform 12 per cent GST rate on manmade fibre (MMF), yarn, fabrics and apparel, thereby addressing the inverted tax structure in the MMF textile value chain.Currently, tax rate on MMF, MMF yarn and MMF fabrics is 18 per cent, 12 per cent and 5 per cent, respectively. The taxation of inputs at higher rates than finished products created build up of credits and cascading costs. It further led to accumulation of taxes at various stages of the MMF value chain and blockage of crucial working capital for the industry.The GST Council, chaired by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and comprising state finance ministers, had in its previous meeting on September 17 decided that the inverted duty anomalies in the textile sector would be corrected from January 1, 2022. Giving effect to this decision, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) on November 18 notified 12 per cent GST rate for MMF, MMF yarn and MMF fabrics.Experts said though there is a provision in GST law to claim the unutilised Input Tax Credit (ITC) as a refund, there were other complications and resulted in more compliance burden. The inverted tax structure caused an effective increase in the rate of taxation of the sector. The world textiles trade has been moving towards MMF but India was not able to take advantage of the trend as its MMF segment was throttled by the inverted tax regime, they said, adding the correction in duty anomaly will help the segment grow and emerge as a big job provider.EY Tax Partner Bipin Sapra said the rate changes in the textile industry is the first of the changes promised by the GST Council with an aim to rectify inverted duty structure and bring an efficient tax structure for a given sector. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/finance-ministry-notifies-12-pc-gst-rate-on-mmf-yarn-fabrics-from-jan-1-corrects-duty-anomaly-341079
21-11-2021||New Delhi||Maruti to stay away from diesel segment; focus on making petrol cars more fuel efficient||Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) has ruled out getting back into the diesel segment as it believes sale of such vehicles would further come down with the onset of the next phase of emission norms in 2023, according to a senior company official.The country's largest carmaker believes the next phase of emission norms would jack up the cost of diesel vehicles, thus further impacting their sales in the market which for the last few years has seen a gradual shift towards petrol cars."We are not going to be in the diesel space. We had indicated earlier that we will study it and if there is customer demand we can make a comeback. But going forward, we will not be participating in the diesel space," MSI Chief Technical Officer C  Raman told PTI in an interaction.He cited the upcoming stricter emission norms as a primary reason to avoid diesel-powered cars."In 2023 the new phase of emission norms will come which is likely to drive up the cost. So we believe that diesel percentages may further come down. We do not know about the competition but as MSI we do not have any intention to participate in the diesel space," Raman noted.As per industry estimates, the share of diesel vehicles is currently less than 17 per cent of the overall passenger vehicle (PV) sales. It is a massive reduction from 2013-14 when diesel cars used to account for 60 per cent of the overall sales.Already many of the automakers in the country have junked diesel trims of their respective portfolios with the onset of the BS-VI emission regime from April 1, 2020.MSI had discontinued diesel models from its portfolio with the onset of the stricter BS-VI emission norms.The company's entire model range is currently powered by BS-VI compliant 1 litre, 1.2 litre and 1.5 litre gasoline engines. It also offers CNG trims across seven of its models. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/maruti-to-stay-away-from-diesel-segment-focus-on-making-petrol-cars-more-fuel-efficient-341025
21-11-2021||New Delhi||Sun Pharma recalls over 1.10 lakh bottles of generic drug in US market||Drug major Sun Pharmaceutical Industries is recalling over 1.10 lakh bottles of a generic medication used to treat erectile dysfunction in men in the US market due to a manufacturing error.The US arm of the domestic pharma major is recalling Tadalafil tablets in the American market, according to the latest enforcement report of the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA). The Mumbai-based drugmaker is recalling the product in 30-count bottles of 5mg and 20 mg strengths. The company is recalling 73,957 bottles of 5 mg strength and 36,786 bottles of 20 mg strength, the US health regulator stated. An affected lot of the medication was manufactured by the drug maker in India and distributed in the US by Princeton, New Jersey-based Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Inc, it said. Elaborating on the reasons for the Class II recall, the USFDA said: "An incorrect grade of Crospovidone was used to manufacture the product.”         As per the USFDA, a class II recall is initiated in a situation in which use of, or exposure to, a violative product may cause temporary or medically reversible adverse health consequences or where the probability of serious adverse health consequences is remote.The company initiated the nationwide recall on October 25, 2021.  Earlier this month, Sun Pharma had initiated a recall of 22,752 blister packs of Loratadine-D extended-release tablets, used for the treatment of allergic rhinitis and the common cold, in the US market. According to USFDA, the drugmaker is recalling the affected lot due to "failed moisture limits."                  The US generic drug market was estimated to be around USD 115.2 billion in 2019. It is the largest market for pharmaceutical products. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/sun-pharma-recalls-over-1-10-lakh-bottles-of-generic-drug-in-us-market-341020
