26-01-2021||Today's||The Allahabad High Court stands up for personal liberty||Indian laws — and the Indian State — have a long history of unwarranted interference in the private lives of individuals. One of the most egregious examples of this is the Special Marriage Act (SMA). It requires couples to notify marriage officers one month in advance of their marriage, and for marriage officers to publicise such a notification. SMA also allows for any person to “object” to the marriage on the basis that it (allegedly) violates provisions of the Act. It has been seen — repeatedly — that these provisions have allowed hostile families, as well as other groups, to interfere with the decision of individuals to marry, and pressure, browbeat, and coerce them to change their minds. This has been especially true of inter-faith marriages.The basic issue is straightforward. If two individuals have taken the deeply personal — and intimate — decision to marry each other, it is not for anyone else — and especially not for vigilante groups — to interfere with that choice. But it is precisely this kind of extra-legal interference that is facilitated, and indeed, encouraged, by laws with reporting requirements of this kind.However, in this context, a recent judgment of the Allahabad High Court, in Safiya Sultana v State of UP, assumes great significance. It was specifically contended in the case that because of ongoing issues surrounding the implementation of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversions Ordinance (popularly known as the “love jihad law”), the provisions of SMA required authoritative interpretation.Justice Vivek Chaudhary observed that as SMA had been passed in 1954, it was important for the court to examine whether the social and legal landscape had changed in the intervening years. Relying on a Law Commission Report that had observed that SMA’s notice requirement led to “high handed or unwarranted interference”, which often took the form of social boycotts and harassment, and on numerous Supreme Court judgments that had emphasised the importance of individual autonomy and privacy in questions of marriage, he held that it was clear that the Constitution mandated “personal liberty and privacy to be fundamental rights including within their sphere right to choose partner without interference from State, family or society”.In this context, given the social interference that was facilitated and sanctioned by the notice requirements of SMA, Justice Chaudhary held that those requirements would have to be read as voluntary, not mandatory. In other words, if a couple marrying under SMA did not want their details to be made public, they could not be compelled to do so.As a significant number of marriages under SMA are inter-faith, the impact of this judgment cannot be understated.The judgment of the Allahabad High Court represents an important judicial pushback against the dominant ideology of State interference in questions of marriage, including by empowering social and vigilante groups.SMA’s notice requirements, of course, are not new. As the court observed, they were present at the very beginning, when the original SMA was introduced in 1872. However, arguably, it is these notice requirements that have formed the baseline of further intrusions (the infamous “love jihad” ordinance also has a similar notice requirement, and indeed, goes further by empowering the police to investigate into the “genuineness” of a religious conversion).What is most important is what they signify — notice and reporting requirements convey a message to the world that decisions of the most intimate character are not for the individual to make, but must be ratified by society (which, in practical terms, means the dominant members of society). In practice, they leave individuals and couples with a stark choice — face the possibility of social persecution and violence, or give up your freedoms. These are not choices that a constitutional democracy should be asking its citizens to make.Gautam Bhatia is a Delhi-based advocate The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-allahabad-high-court-stands-up-for-personal-liberty-101611584175250.html
26-01-2021||Today's||Free speech and the death of a book||Last week, we at Juggernaut Books were served a cease and desist notice. The notice came from a school in Gurugram for one of our books about a murder of a student. The case became sensational, popularly known as “The ‘X’ (x, standing for the name of the school) School Murder”.The school hadn’t read the book, it was yet to be published. It was dismayed at the title — “The ‘X’ School Murder” — which it felt was defamatory. Moreover, a district court had ruled that the school’s name couldn’t be used while discussing the case in order to protect the identity of the juvenile who had been accused of the crime.We received a court summon that very week where, among other things, we argued that the phrase “The ‘X’ School Murder” had been used widely across every media outlet from 2017 to even a week ago. Even the father of the accused had used the school’s name in a court case.We had used the title because it was how the case was known, and that, irrespective of this book, the name of the school was now associated with the crime, and unless they sued every media house (which they haven’t), this association was not going to vanish.That very day, the court granted a temporary injunction till the matter was decided. As we know in India, a temporary injunction, in practice, tends to be almost permanent — stretching for months and often years.Temporary injunctions only work if they are temporary. In the United States, for example, the courts paused the distribution of Mary Trump’s book on her uncle, former President Donald Trump, for a single day, till the matter was heard. It then heard the case and ruled in Mary Trump and her publisher’s favour.In contrast, our book on Ramdev remains locked up since 2017 because the main defamation case hasn’t been resolved and there is an injunction on the book till then. Our case opposing the injunction is also in limbo. This may be the fate of this book too.Now, you can agree that the school had an argument. It’s only reasonable for it to want to erase this unpleasant history. Or you could see it the other way. The school has used an order that was passed to protect the juvenile accused, to protect itself and its reputation.Both arguments are fair. And I am not going to push you to take sides. But what you should worry about is the process.We had a strong argument and yet the injunction was granted in the first hearing, i.e. without the proper trial where substantial arguments, and proof are presented by lawyers on both sides. It was granted in a system where the resolution will take a long time.In theory, every lawyer will tell you that the courts tend to be extremely careful when passing pre-emptive injunctions because of this. What might be regarded as a temporary measure to maintain status quo, until a more informed decision can be made, can easily become the new status quo. The result? In the name of fairness, a book is gagged.Indeed, the law in India is very protective of free speech and temporary injunctions are meant to be allowed only in very rare cases. We have a number of landmark cases — Khushwant Singh v Menaka Gandhi, Greenpeace v Tata — that lay the ground for this. In injunctions, the Indian courts follow the common law where you aren’t supposed to issue injunctions against defamation. A judge is only supposed to grant an injunction if the defendant has almost a zero chance of winning a case. Yet, as in all things, theory doesn’t marry practice in the Indian courts.Indian courts have continued to deal interim/temporary injunctions fairly frequently in my years as a publisher. In fact, in my 15-odd years as a publisher in India, I have never won an injunction case in the first instance. It’s only in an appeal that I have seen some wins. In the last four years alone, I have dealt with two such cases, and I have a small list of books.The temporary injunction on paper may seem a reasonable response. In practice, it has become a gagging tool for plaintiffs to shut down a book that portrays them in harsh light. It is all too easily granted and, in my experience at least, Indian judges lean towards granting them.A legal tool that is to be used as an exceptional case, is turning into a weapon wielded with far less care, far less thought. The outcome? The death of a book.Chiki Sarkar is the founder-publisher of Juggernaut BooksThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/free-speech-and-the-death-of-a-book-101611583635428.html
26-01-2021||Today's||A roadmap to reform democracy||The new American President, Joe Biden, has announced his intention to host a summit of democracies in the first year of office. The growing democracy deficit in the world is bothering the world’s oldest democracy — the United States (US).Joseph Story, a renowned American jurist, warned long ago that the “Constitution has been reared for immortality, if the work of man may justly aspire to such a title. It may, nevertheless, perish in an hour by the folly, or corruption, or negligence of its only keepers, the people”. Happenings in America in the last couple of years indicate that there are no “American people” anymore. It is a deeply divided society today.The Democrats want to pass on the blame to Donald Trump’s presidency. It cannot be denied that Trump’s tenure saw schisms exacerbate in American society. They culminated in the violent incursions at the Capitol Hill by Trump’s supporters on January 6, when the Congress was in session to ratify votes for the presidential election. Trump cannot completely shrug off responsibility for the happenings on that day as his tweet a few days before — “Big protest in DC on January 6th. Be there, will be wild!” — turned out to be a major catalyst for mass mobilisation and violence on the fateful day.Critics argue that Democrats too carry some blame for the violent incidents across several cities during the Black Lives Matter movement last year. Antifa, which played a role in the movement, is seen to have turned a just cause into a polarising prejudice through violence. Biden did condemn Antifa and violence. Yet, the Democrats cannot escape part of the responsibility for the deep divisions in the American society today. In fact, the unusually high support that Trump got in the election — over 70 million votes — was partly due to people’s anger against the double standards of the Democrats too. Biden may first have to fix his own democracy before embarking on addressing the global democratic deficit.That does not mean the concerns flagged by Biden are misplaced. A new wave of populist movements is challenging the very foundations of democracies, from the oldest democracy in America to the largest democracy in India. The agitation by the farmers against the three agri-reform laws of the Narendra Modi government is a case in question. Dissent is an integral part of democracy. But as Ambedkar warned in his last address to the Constituent Assembly on November 25, 1949, the methods of dissent must be constitutional. “If you wish to maintain democracy not merely in form, but also in fact, .... the first thing in my judgement we must do is to hold fast to constitutional methods of achieving our social and economic objectives. It means that we must abandon the bloody methods of revolution. It means that we must abandon the method of civil disobedience, non-cooperation and satyagraha. These methods are nothing but the grammar of anarchy”, Ambedkar had warned.The revolts witnessed in America and India by small groups have the potential to lead to two consequences. One, democratic systems will weaken further.Two, out of that anarchy will rise authoritarians and despots. Either way, the loser will be the democratic world. The time has come for us to revisit the functioning of democratic institutions and effect important reforms to defeat these forces.By their very nature, democracies are majoritarian. The Greek states, where the concept of democracy was born, had practised a brutish version of majoritarianism. The great philosopher, Socrates, was awarded death sentence in an open court through popular assent, forcing Plato to denounce Greek democracies as kleptocracies.From there, we have travelled quite a distance. Democracies developed checks and balances in the form of the elected parliaments on the one side and unelected institutions on the other. While elected bodies are meant to be the voice of the majorities, non-elected bodies such as the judiciary, media and other public institutions are expected to be the refuge for the non-majorities.Not that the majorities are always wrong — the three farm bills of the Modi government are an absolute necessity today. But parliamentary majorities are facing a non-majority backlash. It is here that non-elected institutions such as the judiciary and media have to play a balancing role. The danger is when they also come to be perceived as the voices of the majority and against non-majorities. People will then resort to methods that Ambedkar rejected as unconstitutional.The reform that democracies need today is two-fold. First, elected institutions need to become less majoritarian and more consensual. Second, there is a need to build a stronger non-elected institutional framework for greater balancing.Gandhi feared that for a country such as India, democracies could end up as mobocracies. That was why he used to insist upon the concept of Ram Rajya. Gandhi’s Ram Rajya was a non-majoritarian democracy, where the minutest minority too has its voice heard. Ambedkar used to insist that without social democracy, political democracy is bound to fail. By social democracy, what he meant was not just participation but a sense of stakeholdership of different sections of society in the decision-making process. Ram Rajya and social democracy are concepts worth revisiting at this juncture to avert the challenges and enhance the efficacy of our democratic institutions.Ram Madhav is a senior leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party and director, India FoundationThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-roadmap-to-reform-democracy-101611583336608.html
