27-01-2021||Today's||In a post-pandemic world, a green budget as a vaccine for nature||Our relationship with nature has seldom taken centre-stage in the cold harsh world of Gross Domestic Product, balance sheets and the temperamental stock exchange. But even hard-nosed economists will accept now that a stable economy must have a resilient ecological system as its bedrock. As the finance minister gets ready to present the budget, it may be appropriate to ask whether we are investing in our natural green capital so that it continues to give us the benefits of clean air, water and other ecosystem services. Take a look at the funds allocated to the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) — a statutory authority of Project Tiger for ensuring better management of tiger reserves across India. The funds allocated may have increased marginally from year to year, but the fact is that the number of tiger reserves, too, has gone up — starting from just nine in 1973 to more than 50 in 2020. And so have the problems in their management. For instance, they need more boots on the ground to patrol and protect them.Rajesh Gopal, who has served as the member secretary of the NTCA, argues that an investment in tigers is also an investment in ecosystem services such as clean air or water, and tourism is not the only revenue the animal generates. For instance, in 2016, nearly 2.5 million man-days worth of daily wages were dispensed to local people who are employed to patrol the forest. The nearly 350 rivers that originate from tiger reserves and tiger habitats play a major role in carbon sequestration.Forest officers complain that while budgets are announced with great fanfare, how much reaches the states and when is crucial. Due to the delay in disbursement of funds, salaries to frontline staff and daily wage workers also get delayed.Still, wildlife experts hope that the budgetary allocations will move beyond tigers and elephants to many species in need of attention. The ministry of environment, forest and climate change has identified more than 20 critically endangered species that need support. Wildlife conservationist MK Ranjitsinh, who was one of the key architects of India’s Wildlife Protection Act, hopes that funds are allocated for each of these species such as the Great Indian Bustard or the Gangetic dolphin.Another aspect of a green budget is how much money is being spent on providing clean air to cities suffering from high levels of pollution. The National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) was launched in 2019, aimed at reducing key air pollutants across 102 cities in India. A detailed analysis was conducted by Legal Initiative on Forest and Environment of the funds dispersed by the environment ministry to state pollution control boards to tackle air pollution. The study found that funds were allocated on an ad hoc basis to the states and the amounts allocated were not enough. For instance, ₹1 crore has been allocated to Varanasi for one mechanical sweeper, whereas Patna has got a budget allocation for three mechanical sweepers. Just one mechanical sweeper is not sufficient to cover the entire city of Varanasi. Additionally, just this one intervention, in lieu of other technology, is questionable as mechanical sweepers have been unable to remove smaller dust particles, ie, particulate matter.The same analysis found that cities such as Agra, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Kanpur and Lucknow have specific budgets for construction and demolition waste (C&D) management facilities, whereas other cities do not. It’s not like the other cities don’t have the problem of construction and demolition waste. Therefore, budgetary allocations for clean air have to be guided by sound science if any of the targets are to be metAs Ranjitsinh points out, the question is not just of finding the money, but finding the political will to protect nature. And perhaps, if the finance minister is listening, a green budget may be just the vaccine that nature needs in a post-pandemic world.Bahar Dutt is an award-winning environmental journalist teaching at the Shiv Nadar UniversityThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-a-post-pandemic-world-a-green-budget-as-a-vaccine-for-nature-101611668964809.html
27-01-2021||Today's||Reshape spending, at the Centre and in states||Modern monetary theory, which has garnered some support among United States (US) politicians, brings a new perspective on the relation between money and the government. Its principal proposition is that governments that issue their own money can’t go broke, for they have the power to issue more. Its adherents go on to argue that the role of taxation is not to enhance the spending power of governments, for they can always issue money, but to enforce acceptance of the government’s paper as legal tender. This is because taxes must be paid in legal tender, and not in any other medium. While this is an interesting perspective, it does not have a view on why governments spend at all. Public spending is very large in the most successful economies of the world, namely in Europe and the US.It may be justified on the grounds that we need public goods to make us more productive and to have a better life. Roads and bridges would fall in the first category and parks and sanitation in the second. These goods are termed “public” for they are accessible to all. Now, precisely because access to them cannot be denied, they are unlikely to be provided by the private sector.In addition to public goods, there are some private goods which attract public expenditure as they give rise to positive externalities, or favourable spillovers for the social good. Health and education are examples of such goods. Think of educated individuals enhancing the productivity of those with less education or healthier individuals reducing the possibility of transmission of communicable diseases. For these reasons, governments tend to provide health and education, even though they are not strictly public goods. I shall refer to health and education as the social sector of the economy. With this understanding of public expenditure, turn to the situation in India. Studying the expenditure pattern of the Government of India, we find that for close to a decade now, its combined spend on capital goods and the social sector has hovered around 20%. It is remarkable that this has been a practice common to both the United Progressive Alliance and National Democratic Alliance governments, suggesting that, in an important area of economic policy, there has been little difference between these two ostensibly rival political formations.Now, it should be a matter of concern to us that only about a fifth of public expenditure goes towards capital spending and the social sector. This needs reconfiguration, with the allocation tilted towards these sectors, away from subsidies and public administration among other items.Since 2003, the fiscal, nay economic, policy of the central government has been guided by the Fiscal Responsibility and Budgetary Management Act. This has involved focusing on the volume of spending, with the requirement that the fiscal deficit be taken towards the figure of 3% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP). It is not just that this figure is arbitrary, perhaps borrowed from the figure adopted by the European Union for its member countries, the trouble is that with our eyes riveted on the fiscal deficit, we lose sight of where public expenditure is going.Indeed, we had not given enough thought to the question of expenditure on health till the Covid-19 pandemic erupted, exposing our total unpreparedness, particularly in terms of health infrastructure.When on the question of public expenditure on health, our focus shifts to the states of India, for health is a state subject and there are startling results. While the composition of public expenditure of the states has received little attention at the national level, it is perhaps more crucial than the Centre’s public expenditure as it has greater impact on our everyday life.The average share of health expenditure in the total budgetary spending of the states was barely 5% in 2018-19. This was a slightly higher share than that of the Centre in that year but not much more, and nowhere near what it should be given both the importance of health and that it is a state subject. While there is no clear definition of what the right level of expenditure on health should be, we have good reason to believe that the states have neglected it in their budgetary allocation for decades.How do we know this? There is a substantial variation in the mortality from Covid-19 across the states of India. Sreenath Namboodhiry and I have shown that mortality is inversely related to public expenditure on health as a share of the State Domestic Product. In addition, we found to our surprise that there is an inverse relation between this measure and state per capita income. That is, the richer states of India have chosen to spend less in relation to their capacity than the poorer states, with deadly consequences.In the season of budget presentations, with the economy reeling under the impact of Covid-19, we will, of course, expect the Centre to step up its expenditure. However, states must play a significant role too. They could start by reconfiguring public expenditure to strengthen their social sectors.Pulapre Balakrishnan is a professor of economics at Ashoka University, SonipatThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/reshape-spending-at-the-centre-and-in-states-101611668484799.html
27-01-2021||Today's||The roots of the BJP’s unilateralism||With farm unions refusing to engage with the committee set up by the Supreme Court to examine farm laws, rejecting the government’s offer to suspend laws for 18 months and engage in talks, and holding a parallel tractor rally which turned violent on Republic Day, the standoff between the Centre and farm groups has intensified. Notwithstanding the merits and demerits of the farm laws, there is an emerging consensus that the Centre did not engage in enough consultation with states and farm groups, underestimated the mobilisational capacity of these unions, and adopted a unilateral approach. It was this unilateral approach and the accompanying communication gap that has resulted in the prevailing precarious situation, in which both sides believe that blinking first is a costly strategy.This is part of a recurring pattern, in which the Narendra Modi government finds itself on a collision course with various interest groups. For instance, trading classes were alienated by demonetisation and the Goods and Services Tax; students protested in many parts of the country after Rohith Vemula died by suicide; Dalit groups mobilised against the dilution of the legislative framework against atrocities; labour unions began a movement against changes in labour laws; and religious minorities stood up against the proposed Citizenship (Amendment) Act and National Register of Citizens. While the government backtracked on some occasions after vehement opposition, it doubled down on its stand at other moments.What explains the increasing number of standoffs of various interest groups with the Centre in recent years? The government’s unilateral approach is the primary reason for growing disquiet. And this unilateralism is a result of the hard-nosed political approach and cold-minded electoral calculations of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) since 2014. The party under the leadership of Modi and Amit Shah has acquired a distinct style of dealing with friends and foes alike — what some would describe as the Modi-Shah doctrine — to negotiate from a position of strength.One part of this unilateralism comes from the political socialisation of the BJP’s new leadership. The key difference between the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-LK Advani era and the Modi-Shah moment in Indian politics is that the top BJP leaders in the past were creatures of the Central Hall of the Parliament. They could reach out across the aisle. The new BJP leadership is not deeply embedded in the Central Hall culture, and there is an acute trust deficit between the government and the Opposition.The BJP in the Modi-Shah era is also missing interlocutors. After the demise of Arun Jaitley and Sushma Swaraj, there are hardly any leaders, except Rajnath Singh and Nitin Gadkari, who can play the role of conciliators. There are a handful of Opposition leaders who could warm up to Modi and Shah. All of this has compounded the BJP’s inability to hear the other side.But the root cause of its unilateralism is more likely shaped by political events and experiences of the BJP leadership in power. My conversations with several BJP leaders and sympathisers suggest that the Modi-Shah doctrine, for right or wrong reasons, is rooted in the belief that opposition to their regime is not based on principled positions.The vehement opposition the party faced inside the Parliament and on the streets between 2014 and 2016 — remember the protests against the amendment to the land acquisition legislation, the award wapsi marches, electoral losses in Delhi and Bihar, the suit-bootki sarkar jibe, among others — led them to conclude that despite the party’s historic win, there is an obstructionist cabal that thinks that the BJP has no right to govern India.The BJP believes that there is a network of academics, activists, journalists and few Opposition leaders (the Khan Market gang in its lingo) that keeps scheming to delegitimise the Modi government in the public eye. It is because of this intractable nature of the Opposition, the party suspects, that the protests against government policies are not restricted to a specific clause or point, but often seek a complete reversal of the government’s position or a reversion to the status quo.And, therefore, in order to neutralise this cabal, the BJP is also pushed to assume a maximalist position to mirror and counter the maximalist position of the Opposition. In its calculation, this ensures that even a mid-point reached through negotiations changes the equilibrium in the BJP’s favour.Many have argued that given the weakness of Opposition parties, especially the Congress, the BJP does not have to fear any political backlash. The BJP, however, will do well to realise that it is increasingly becoming a prisoner of its own propaganda. Once the die is cast, even the most sophisticated players cannot control all the pieces in the game. Similarly, electoral dominance leads to hubris, and it is easy to lose sight of the plot.This unilateralism has already marred the BJP’s relations with its allies, including long-standing partners such as the Shiv Sena and the Akali Dal, to the point that there now remains only one non-BJP minister at the Centre. The BJP doesn’t invest enough in wooing them because it considers these allies as electoral deadweight riding the coattails of Modi’s popularity.While this uncompromising approach may not lead to an outright defeat at the polls, there is an electoral cost associated with bypassing major social forces in any political set up. It erodes the political legitimacy of the governing regime, which can then begin to have electoral implications. The BJP must start building bridges across the political divide and minimise the backlash if it wishes to sustain its dominance over Indian politics for a long period.Rahul Verma is a fellow, Centre for Policy Research (CPR), New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-roots-of-the-bjp-s-unilateralism-101611668065118.html
