02-06-2020||Editorials||Donald Trump presides over an anarchic turn||With his country experiencing its worst race riots since the 1960s, the standing of United States (US) President Donald Trump continues to shrink both at home and abroad. Over 40 cities are locked down in the original sense — under curfew for law and order reasons. And all this even as the country struggles with the coronavirus pandemic that has claimed over 100,000 lives. Both crises have shown up Mr Trump’s minimal leadership capacities. After the horrific manner of George Floyd’s death, the US president’s first tweets seemed to encourage police to shoot demonstrators. Though he has occasionally sought to rise above the occasion, Mr Trump continues to be a president with minimal presidential qualities. Mr Trump’s political success is partly attributable to deliberate polarisation. He has repeatedly sought confrontation with the supposed enemies of his white working-class base. The present riots, many of which have inevitably devolved into wanton destruction, may yet help his flagging poll figures. But even Republican strategists fear independent and suburban women, two key swing votes, will see things differently. Overseas, the riots have been gleefully highlighted by China. Beijing has been in the news for the wrong reasons recently, whether due to the pandemic or the crackdown on Hong Kong. Watching its geopolitical rival fumble the ball repeatedly will come as a relief. More worrying, it may encourage an already heightened sense that the Middle Kingdom faces no real check or balance in the international system. The US can do better and, for reasons well beyond its borders, it needs to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/donald-trump-presides-over-an-anarchic-turn/story-nYjDHBEoSZdZmnfFzDnvBJ.html
02-06-2020||Editorials||Convene Parliament, now||With the coronavirus pandemic spreading in India, the budget session of Parliament ended abruptly on March 23, 12 days ahead of the schedule. This was the right call at the time. Social distancing norms were not being enforced; there was speculation about the possible spread of the disease among Members of Parliament (MPs); and the nation soon went into a lockdown. But a lot has happened since then. India is facing the most serious public health, economic, and humanitarian challenge in its independent history. This has led to a range of both immediate and far-reaching decisions by the government. Migrant workers across the country are heading back home and are largely subject to what can only be termed as rather arbitrary orders of the central government. India is now opening up — but this is expected to increase the number of cases. Through this process, while the government has addressed regular press briefings, and the prime minister has spoken to the nation, there has been no institutional accountability. It is time to convene Parliament and perhaps even call a special session. In this backdrop, the presiding officers of both houses met on Monday and came up with a set of options, including the possibility of a virtual Parliament using technology. This initiative is positive. But in the more immediate context, the big question is of logistics. A column in this newspaper had suggested the possibility of using the Central Hall for Lok Sabha sittings, and holding Rajya Sabha sittings in the Lok Sabha chambers. The Lok Sabha speaker and the Rajya Sabha chairperson have asked their officials to explore this option, as a way to enforce social distancing norms. With air travel and limited passenger trains operational, it is also possible for MPs to come to Delhi. The fact that the parliamentary standing committee on home affairs is scheduled to meet on June 3 in Parliament House itself is also a sign that other committees can be activated soon, through either direct meetings or on secure digital mediums. There are, of course, risks and precautions need to be taken. But democracy is too precious and Parliament is too valuable an institution to sit out a national crisis. India’s battle against the pandemic and its economic revival needs national buy-in; it also requires the executive to be accountable. And this can only happen in Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/convene-parliament-now/story-7ggA82RIgCUj5FDp32iRsK.html
