03-06-2020||Editorials||The importance of the MGNREGS||The nationwide lockdown, which was imposed to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), sparked an exodus of migrant labourers from their host states to home states. Many of them do not have any safety net such as agricultural land or savings to see them through this difficult patch. This has led to a huge spike in the demand for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). According to The Indian Express, close to 22 million households utilised the demand-driven scheme in May, the highest for the month in the last eight years. At least 19 states and Union territories have reported an increase in the number of households provided employment in May. Unsurprisingly, the leading migrant-sending states saw the highest increase in demand in the month, with Uttar Pradesh at the top, followed by West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha.The Centre did well in hiking the allocation of the programme by Rs 40,000 crore, taking the total allocation under the scheme to Rs 1,01,500 crore. The return of migrant labourers and popularity of the scheme is probably an opportune moment for the government to tweak MGNREGS, as a column in this newspaper suggested. What if the government decided to allow employment of MGNREGS workers in private agricultural activities? This will lead to a significant reduction in cost of cultivation by easing or even eradicating the cost of hired labour, and also enhance its capacity to employ more people, in addition to the present goal of using it as a mechanism to prevent economic distress and build rural assets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-importance-of-the-mgnregs/story-9npYzKgyDshMQM4QlcHErL.html
03-06-2020||Editorials||The Delhi-DC-Beijing triangle||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and United States (US) President Donald Trump took the opportunity of the latter inviting India to the planned Group of Seven plus summit to discuss the situation at the India-China border on Tuesday. The conversation raises a question of how New Delhi should use geopolitical cards when playing yet another round of shotgun poker with Beijing. Of their own volition, US officials have been vocal in calling out China during this crisis, conflating Beijing’s border intrusions with its strangulation of the South China Sea and Hong Kong. This may please Indians, but an overt US role in a bilateral dispute may not necessarily make things easier for India. New Delhi should not define strategic autonomy to be the external relations of a hermit. Statecraft is about increasing options, not reducing them. Dealing with China, a country cognizant of its much greater heft, means all possible diplomatic, economic and military means need to be brought to bear. One measure of a nation’s strength is how many friends it has, and being able to say one of them is the US still counts for a lot. Beijing sees Washington as its only peer; so, bringing the US into a dispute can be useful. In a number of past cases, whether border negotiations in the 1980s or forcing China to stop stapling visas for Indian Kashmiris, India has used its proximity to the US to its advantage. In the instance of the Doklam stand-off, it worked better to keep the US at a distance. At the same time, an India which handles such crises on its own builds capacity within its institutions and polity. Resilience based on domestic strengths, independent of the international environment, is the best means to deter troublesome neighbours. Also, disputes over a dozen kilometres of barren land are small enough; entangling them in superpower rivalry will not make resolution easier. India’s interests now range from the local to the global, and, so, a part of its skillset must be to judge when to use a scalpel and when, a broadsword. An emerging power must recognise which external crises can be handled at what level. At present, Galwan Valley is best handled at the bilateral level with the US’ support being used only as background noise. There are other long-term issues regarding China, in areas such as technology standards and maritime security, which can be taken up at venues like the supersized G-7 summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-delhi-dc-beijing-triangle/story-HOoJIOMkEn1kwyBqx3wQBM.html
03-06-2020||Editorials||After Amphan, Nisarga sounds a warning bell||The developing severe tropical cyclonic storm in the Arabian Sea — Cyclone Nisarga — is expected to make landfall in Raigad district, south of Mumbai, by Wednesday afternoon, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The IMD has sounded a red alert for June 3 and 4 in Mumbai and Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts. Like Amphan, which battered West Bengal and Odisha last month, Nisarga is expected to submerge low-lying areas, uproot trees, destroy uncemented houses and critical infrastructure, and worse, kill people and animals. The aftermath of the storm will be challenging too. Nisarga comes at a time when Maharashtra is already in the grip of the coronavirus pandemic, and there is severe strain on the health care system and personnel. Both Amphan and Nisarga are trailers of what the future is going to look like for India’s eastern and western coastlines, thanks to the climate crisis. The climate crisis is making these cyclones stronger and more destructive by increasing the sea surface temperature and rainfall during the storm; raising sea levels, which increases the distance that a storm surge can reach; and allowing storms to gain strength quickly. Indian cities need to adapt quickly to this new reality. A top-down climate adaptation and resilience policy will not suffice; the climate crisis will need micro-level planning and adaptation and resilience plans. To do this, city governments must be politically and financially empowered; and have adequate personnel who understand the climate crisis. On their part, government departments must stop working in silos; to develop a long-term resilience strategy, they need to work together because the climate crisis affects all sectors. For centuries, cities have been centres of commerce, culture and innovation. They must now develop the ability, the capacity, and the will to take on the climate crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/after-amphan-nisarga-sounds-a-warning-bell/story-Bhbctpo3Jsmiye3CJZo7IN.html
03-06-2020||Editorials||Covid-19: Crossing 200,000 cases||India now has over 200,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). It is now the seventh most affected country in the world. The only silver lining is that India’s fatality rate at less than 3% is among the lowest of the severely affected countries, which means that while the infection is spreading, it is not leading to as many deaths as elsewhere. While this is a health advantage India must sustain and build on, the situation is worrying.India crossed 100,000 cases on May 18 and the doubling rate is about 15 days. If this persists, it means that by the middle of June, India may be close to 400,000 cases; by the first week of July, it could cross a million cases. This also means that if the current fatality rate stays static, India may witness close to 30,000 deaths from the disease by early July. While this may be low in relation to other countries, it still represents a staggeringly high loss of precious Indian lives within a period of four months since the disease started spreading in India. Now, take into account the fact that through May, the lockdown was still in force, albeit with greater relaxations in the last fortnight of the month. The country has now substantially opened up, which, all experts agree, could lead to a sharp increase in cases.This also means that India is clearly in the stage of community transmission, notwithstanding the government’s inexplicable denial of it. The surge in cases will make the process of contact tracing — integral to the treatment protocol and in ensuring that the rate of transmission is limited — far more difficult. It will also strain the health infrastructure. There is no easy solution. But both governments and citizens need to be better prepared. Authorities, both at the central and state levels, will have to ramp up testing, be rigorous with tracing, find more hospitals and beds, and continue to focus on keeping fatalities low. Citizens will have to exercise great care when they step out, maintain social distancing norms, wear masks, and avoid all unnecessary activities. Remember that Unlock 1.0 is not freedom from the disease. Prepare for a difficult month ahead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/crossing-200-000-cases/story-jIGdqprUUMCqjg1UwjNkbI.html
