22-06-2020||Editorials||On China, put India first | HT Editorial||India should react to China’s act of aggression in eastern Ladakh through all means at its disposal — economic, military, and diplomatic. That is a given and there can be no argument about it. None. That said, India should also ensure that everything it does is driven by self-interest above all else, particularly in the economic domain. There is a clamour for cancelling contracts given to some Chinese companies across areas such as engineering and construction. So, how should New Delhi go about this? It is easy to see why Chinese companies should be barred from all strategic areas — not just defence but also domains such as information technology and communications. There is a very opaque relationship between the private sector and the government in China and most Chinese private companies and entrepreneurs ensure their objectives are in sync with Beijing’s larger vision. In return, the Chinese government has supported these private companies, helping them grow and spread their network across the globe. In these areas, India’s answer, when it comes to participation by Chinese firms, should be a straightforward and unambiguous No. But the line can’t be as hard when it comes to other areas. As this newspaper has reported, India depends on China for several raw materials and intermediary products (or components). Chinese companies are good at heavy engineering. India would do well to tap this expertise and continue to keep these supply chains going in its own interest. Sure, it is always good to manufacture locally, but it won’t be possible to do so overnight. Even when it does become possible, it may not make economic sense in the case of some products. Nor, for that matter, does it make sense to say no to Chinese capital, as long as investments aren’t allowed in strategic areas and there continues to be a clear line between ownership (or beneficial ownership) and management. Over the past few days, some state governments have cancelled contracts issued to Chinese companies for largely non-strategic work. This is not a good idea for two reasons. One, doing so may result in protracted and expensive arbitration. Two, more important, most of these contracts were given out to the lowest bidder. Re-tendering those contracts may cause delays that India can ill-afford as it seeks to rebuild its economy. We must get back at the Chinese, but always driven by the principle of self-interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/on-china-put-india-first-ht-editorial/story-Zwmg305ch8ADVWpD75RZdP.html
22-06-2020||Editorials||Redesign the model village scheme | HT Editorial||A study commissioned by the Union ministry of rural development on the Saansad Adarsh Gram Yojana (SAGY), launched by Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi in 2014, has said that the scheme has not made “any significant impact” and “is not achieving the desired purpose”. PM Modi had urged Members of Parliament (MPs) to adopt one or more villages in their constituency and turn them into “model villages”. While, in principle, SAGY is a good idea. But there are both political and structural flaws in its design. It fails to appreciate a ground reality. Any MP will find it difficult, if not impossible, to prioritise one village over another. A Lok Sabha MP represents, on an average, over 1.5 million voters of different castes, religion, gender and age groups, each with their own set of demands. For an MP to cherry-pick a few villages can be both politically counterproductive, and can disturb the delicate social equilibrium in villages/constituencies. Additionally, the scheme has no separate budgetary allocation and MPs are unwilling to allocate funds from the MP Local Area Development Scheme for projects in the model villages. However, with the Covid-19 pandemic wrecking lives and livelihoods, and spurring an exodus of labourers from cities to villages, a new and redesigned SAGY, with funding, can work. For this, expand the ambit from one village to a cluster of villages. Follow it up with mapping the skill sets of residents and upgrading/re-skilling them; investing in farm and related infrastructure such as cold chains and food processing units; and building critical infrastructure. This is politically more feasible for elected representatives, and can create economic opportunities within villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/redesign-the-model-village-scheme-ht-editorial/story-nHwbU4S2ZEtoijP0Acn73N.html
22-06-2020||Editorials||In the Covid-19 battle, Delhi turns to volunteers | HT Editorial||Last week, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal unveiled a scheme to involve non-governmental organisations (NGOs), volunteers, the National Cadet Corps and National Service Scheme Cadets, and scouts to join the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. Asymptomatic individuals and those working for NGOs and within the 18-55 age bracket can join the effort. The volunteers will be deployed to survey suspected cases; strengthen surveillance and management of isolation cases; manage Covid-19 helplines; and assist senior citizens, among other steps. The capital is facing a crisis. With official figures projecting up to 532,000 Covid-19 cases by the end of July, Delhi needs to massively ramp up its testing and health infrastructure in terms of hospital beds, personal protective equipments, oxygen cylinders and ventilators. It will also need a much larger number of health care personnel. While there can be no substitute for the domain knowledge and skills that doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, and Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) bring to health care, in this time of crisis, additional deployment of personnel to assist is helpful. These volunteers from civil society must be used for two tasks in particular. The first is contact tracing, and the second is ensuring more rigorous surveillance for those in home isolation. Delhi needs all the hands it can get.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-the-covid-19-battle-delhi-turns-to-volunteers/story-fVr2TNJnqHaYZ58Kyd8BDP.html
22-06-2020||Editorials||Restoring India’s case, credibility | HT Editorial||On Saturday, the Prime Minister’s Office issued a much-needed clarification about Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s statement, on Friday, that there was no (external) presence in Indian territory. It said that PM was referring to the situation pertaining to the Galwan Valley, where Indian Army personnel had bravely foiled China’s attempts to erect structures and transgress on June 15. The clarification came a day after the PM’s statement, at an all-party meeting, created a political and diplomatic row. The original statement, read independently, had the potential of undermining India’s sovereign claims and its negotiating position, confusing India’s friends, providing diplomatic ammunition to China, and appearing contradictory to earlier positions of the external affairs and defence ministries. It also seemed contrary to reports about the situation in Pangong Tso — namely Chinese occupation of a central portion of the shore that was behind the Indian claims line, but is disputed and not under the sovereign control of either country. It also prompted other questions. If there had been no intrusion in Galwan Valley, what led to the violence on June 15? What is the restoration of status quo ante that India wants if there is no transgression? While the clarification has helped, Beijing will throw the original statement back at the Indian side during the coming negotiations. The considerable support India has overseas can potentially get eroded as friendly governments presume New Delhi is prepared to concede land. Domestically, the PM’s remark deepened political polarisation and led to accusations about government being less than transparent.The PM has been remarkably sure-footed in the international arena and Friday’s statement was not in character. It is impossible to know whether it was a slip, or whether it was a strategic message meant to China to offer room for quiet de-escalation, or whether it was a political counter to the Opposition’s critique that the Line of Actual Control (LAC) had been breached, or whether, as the clarification noted, it was only about Galwan Valley. But irrespective of the motivations, the message sent out an ambiguous signal. The PM must speak again, and categorically address three issues: on Chinese transgression across the LAC, if any, in recent months; whether China is attempting to change the facts on the ground in Pangong Tso; and the current status in Galwan Valley. It is important to establish that the area that India has always claimed as its own is firmly under Indian control. There is sometimes value to strategic ambiguity in international politics. But this isn’t one of those. A new statement will help restore India’s stand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/restoring-india-s-case-credibility/story-7z1xwrSXDPk3MSVe5Qp7VP.html
