24-06-2020||Editorials||India’s Pakistan dilemma | HT Editorial||India has downgraded its diplomatic relationship with Pakistan. It has told the Pakistani high commission in Delhi to reduce its strength by half, on the grounds that officials were supporting “cross-border violence and terrorism”. Given the reciprocity that governs diplomatic ties, India will do the same in Pakistan. This comes soon after India expelled two Pakistani high commission officials for spying, and Pakistani agencies detained and harassed two members of the Indian diplomatic mission in Islamabad. Since August, when India decided to change the constitutional status of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), the two countries have also not had high commissioners in each other’s country. New Delhi’s recent decision is the first time after the 2001 Parliament attack that it has downgraded ties to this level. But the tit-for-tat diplomatic battle hides beneath it a real dilemma in India’s Pakistan policy. On one hand it is a clear, well-recognised, fact. Pakistan is a State that sponsors terrorism and engages in asymmetric warfare against India. It has, directly through its military-intelligence nexus, given patronage to terror groups that have conducted attacks, leading to huge loss of Indian lives. Pakistan continues to cause violence and instability in J&K — an integral part of India. It engages in mass disinformation campaigns against India internationally. And it is an “all-weather friend” of China, which has stepped up its offensive against India — perhaps even in close consultation with Islamabad. In this backdrop, even continuing with diplomatic niceties and talking to Pakistan appears futile. At the same time, Pakistan is a neighbour. Its alliance with China poses a threat, for it can lead to an adversarial “two-front” situation — which Indian policymakers have factored in, but must be avoided for the costs involved. Countering Pakistan’s disinformation campaigns is also a distraction from India’s core diplomatic goals. And not talking at all — and downgrading diplomatic ties — will not make the situation better. This then is the dilemma. The United Progressive Alliance government talked, hoping it would embolden constituencies of peace and lead to a breakthrough. It did not work. For the most part, the Narendra Modi government has not talked. It hasn’t worked either. There are no easy solutions. But at the minimum, diplomatic channels of some sort must remain intact to handle unforeseen situations, as well as the other elements of the relationship, including people-to-people ties. India must think more creatively about its legitimate Pakistan dilemma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/india-s-pakistan-dilemma/story-CYFdgg8j8HeSJyGPGhVI7I.html
24-06-2020||Editorials||The Centre must listen to all stakeholders on coal mining | HT Editorial||On June 18, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the auction of 41 coal mines for commercial mining. The list of 41 mines included several blocks located in forest-rich areas of Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha and Maharashtra. Three Opposition-ruled states — Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand — have expressed reservations against the decision. Maharashtra’s environment minister, Aaditya Thackeray, spoke about the loss of biodiversity and wildlife; Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, whose government has moved the Supreme Court against the order, raised the issue of displacement ; and Chhattisgarh forest minister Mohammad Akbar spoke about increasing human-elephant conflicts.Mineral resources are key to India’s development, and auctions generate huge funds. The government has also done well in making the auction process more transparent. At the same time, mining causes displacement; disturbs forests and wildlife; dries up or contaminates water sources; affects health; increases human-animal conflict, and deepens the climate crisis. This is why a calibrated approach is essential when it comes to the use of natural resources in general, and mining in particular. It is important to listen to stakeholders — states, affected gram sabhas (which have a say, as per Supreme Court’s 2013 order in the Vedanta case) and civil society groups. This can help plan a sustainable way forward that balances development and the protection of India’s under-stress biodiversity and wildlife. The Centre must listen more, and Opposition states must not politicise the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-centre-must-listen-to-all-stakeholders-on-coal-mining/story-tITnfFWR4JWibrT8TlUaCP.html
24-06-2020||Editorials||Don’t fix what’s not broken | HT Editorial||In the middle of a long and arduous battle with Covid-19, meddling with successful and globally established health protocols on how to manage the pandemic is an ill-advised step. A case in point is the needless flip-flop in the national Capital in recent days over one practice that has clearly been working well, not just in the city but across nations — home isolation for mild and pre-symptomatic cases. While Covid-19 is a deadly and life-threatening disease, it does not affect everyone in the same manner. A large number of patients develop no or mild symptoms, and can be treated at home with proper monitoring and care. The idea to keep them at home — given they have isolation space so as to not infect others, and a caregiver who can cater to their basic needs — is to keep the hospital beds, health centres and institutional isolation facilities free for people who really require them. This stops the health system from being overrun, particularly in a country such as India where resources are inadequate at the best of times.In this universally acknowledged backdrop, on June 19, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which is chaired by the lieutenant-governor, ordered that all patients, irrespective of their condition, must be kept in an institutional facility for at least five days. While DDMA said the idea was to stop the spread in densely populated communities, data till last week showed that of more than 27,000 patients who were in home isolation in Delhi, only 1,618 (or 6%) had to be shifted to hospitals, while the rest had either successfully recovered or were on the road to recovery. The order led to legitimate criticism. The Delhi government questioned the rationale behind it; the district administration said it would be unable to handle the extra flow of patients; and health officials complained of the lack of facilities and the additional load on care workers.The order was corrected the next day and status quo was restored with one major change — a mandatory first-examination at a government care centre for all those who test positive. But this revised framework with mandatory examination has already added to the pressure on health infrastructure in the city (the patients, for instance, are to be ferried to the centres in ambulances), with the Delhi government now asking for a reversal to the old system in which a medical team visited homes. As Covid-19 cases rise, home isolation will be key in battling the crisis while keeping the health system robust. The government and DDMA must develop a consistent, coherent framework, work on strengthening protocols and monitoring, and go back to the old system. Don’t fix what’s not broken.(This piece has been edited to reflect, more accurately, the original decision of the DDMA)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/don-t-fix-what-s-not-broken/story-y2oxgJPb6cvDtOgNw0tJIK.html
