25-06-2020||Editorials||Assess China’s actions, not words||The news on the India-China front remains grim. Officials familiar with ground developments and satellite imagery have indicated that China has engaged in a rapid, and rather drastic, build-up of troops and material at various points across the Line of Actual Control. In the Galwan Valley, where brave Indian soldiers destroyed a tent built by the People’s Liberation Army on June 15, the Chinese appear to have re-erected the structure. In Pangong-Tso, the Chinese presence between Finger 4 and Finger 8 is now well-established. While India has matched it up with its own troop deployment, the military moves from China signal escalation. The paradox is that this is happening despite military-level talks where both sides have agreed to disengage; it is also happening at a time when in diplomatic talks, while maintaining their respective positions, the two sides have indicated progress.India must carefully note this dual signalling from China — where it is involved in talks and makes commitments to step back, but continues to remain aggressive on the ground. India must continue to respond not by believing words, but assessing actions. China has had a long history in deception. In the 1950s, when India raised the issue of Chinese official maps indicating parts of Indian territory under its own sovereign jurisdiction, Chinese leaders reassured Delhi that this was a legacy of the past and did not reflect current positions. But soon after, in 1962, it engaged in an offensive operation and expanded its claims, exacerbated no doubt by India’s weak strategy. A more recent example is the Chinese mismatch between its commitment at military talks on June 6 to disengage and its actions on June 15 where, in what appears to be a “pre-mediated” act, it attacked and killed 20 personnel of the Indian Army.The lesson is simple — wait for action on the ground before giving an inch in any diplomatic talks. In this case, the Chinese military aggression is complicated by its historically untenable and false claim over the Galwan Valley. India had no choice but to continue to build its military posture on the ground, and prepare for all scenarios, even as diplomacy is given a chance to pressure China into translating its words into action on disengagement and limiting its claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/assess-china-s-actions-not-words/story-MoR4gfuosP1C0g4N6rZH3K.html
25-06-2020||Editorials||The Moscow reset||India invests in its relationship with Russia, but increasingly in return for neutrality rather than support. Defence minister Rajnath Singh visited Moscow to help mark World War II Victory Day just after external affairs minister S Jaishankar attended a virtual Russia-India-China summit hosted by Moscow. The defence minister asked Russia to speed up its delivery of the first battery of the S-400 air defence system. He did not ask Moscow to reconsider its steadfast neutrality during the altercation along the Sino-Indian border. This should not come as a surprise. Russia is not the Soviet Union. Its economy is half the size of India and its enormous economic relationship with China is essential to its prosperity. The two have a crude geopolitical convergence in their common antagonism towards the United States. Moscow supplies arms and hydrocarbons to both India and China. Russia is powerful enough to maintain relationships with both, but not strong enough to choose between them. And Russia sees its interests in maintaining this position. Among other things it is profitable: China was its first customer for the S-400.New Delhi has already begun seeking to reset its relationship, especially as the defence element is starting to fade. Energy and strategic minerals are now rising in importance between the two countries and this is evident in the bilateral investment figures. Moscow still wields a veto in the United Nations and will remain a diplomatic partner in many areas. More differences will crop up, as is evident already over Afghanistan, as the knob on bilateral ties is turned down from special to normal. All this flows naturally from a changing global order and New Delhi should adjust its policies without sentiment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-moscow-reset/story-IePz7UTUX4YbLj4KVNJ8tI.html
