29-06-2020||Editorials||The five tools against Covid-19||With over 80,000 cases and 2,500 deaths, Delhi is the second most affected state in terms of the spread of Covid-19. To its credit, Delhi has tested close to half-a-million samples. But this is little consolation at a time when the disease is affecting almost every neighbourhood, people have struggled to get tested or get admitted to hospital, and the death count has climbed up. But over the past 10 days, recognising the scale of the crisis, both the Centre — led by home minister Amit Shah — and the Delhi government have stepped up to deal with a surge in cases with a renewed plan. This is positive, and if implemented well, will begin showing results. In this backdrop, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has come up with what he called five weapons against the disease. The first is ramping up hospital beds. As a column in this paper pointed out on Sunday, 22% of Covid-19 deaths in Delhi have occurred within 24 hours of hospital admission and another 40% within 48 hours. This means that patients are getting admitted at too delayed a point, which reduces the prospects for recovery. Home isolation is essential for mild and asymptomatic cases — but hospital care is essential for those who are deteriorating. The absence of hospital beds and the complications with regard to admission often acted as a disincentive for patients. That is why ensuring enough beds is key. The second tool is testing. This newspaper has argued that the time for restrictive guidelines is over — anyone who wishes to get a test must be able to do so. Delhi has increased testing, and now has the infrastructure to do so even more. There must be no laxity on this front, for only testing can identify the infected, isolate cases, and stop people from spreading the disease, at a time when the lockdown is effectively over. The other tools in the Delhi playbook to deal with Covid-19 include the provision of pulse oxymeters to patients (an effective way to check oxygen levels), plasma therapy (which has not yet been scientifically proven as an effective remedy but has shown positive results in moderate cases), and surveys and screening (an essential step of Covid-19 protocols). The Centre’s intervention has helped in forcing the Delhi government to recognise its mistakes and step up. Mr Kejriwal has done well in appreciating this support. It is now time to put the plan in action and provide the support Delhi’s citizens need and deserve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-five-tools-against-covid-19/story-67PCf2kmylbzmfIKrF8wcI.html
29-06-2020||Editorials||The inhumanity, illegality of custodial torture||On June 19, P Jayaraj, 59, and his son, J Fennix Immanuel, 31, were picked up by the police at Thoothukudi, Tamil Nadu, for allegedly violating lockdown norms, by keeping their shop open for longer hours and defying the night curfew. They were lodged in jail on June 21. On June 22, Immanuel died of breathlessness, and a day later his father passed away. The family has alleged that both were subjected to custodial torture, resulting in rectal bleeding and eventual death. The deaths sparked protests. But even though two FIRs have been filed, no officer has been booked on murder charges. Only four policemen have been suspended.The Tamil Nadu deaths are not a one-off case. India’s police personnel are well-known for their high-handed behaviour, and third-degree methods in custody. As many as 100 people are reported to have died in police custody in 2017, according to the National Crime Records Bureau data. Of these, 58 were not on remand, while 42 were on police or judicial remand. Suicide (37) was the most reported reason for the deaths, followed by death due to illness (28) and injuries sustained during the police custody (5); journey connected with investigation (4); while escaping custody (3); injuries prior to custody (1); and Others (22). In 62 cases pertaining to custodial deaths, 33 policepersons were arrested, 27 chargesheeted, four were acquitted or discharged, and none was convicted. The State must implement the 2018 Supreme Court directives on police reforms that recommended the separation of police functions of investigation and maintaining law and order, and setting up of a complaints authority to look into complaints against officers in cases of custodial death, grievous hurt or rape in police custody. For India, custodial torture and deaths are a huge blot on its democratic credentials. It undermines rule of law, erodes the faith of people in the system and is inhuman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-inhumanity-illegality-of-custodial-torture/story-zeKevID9wENCFmVcbvW9kM.html
