30-06-2020||Editorials||Extending PMGKY is the right step | HT Editorial||In his address to the nation on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the government is extending free ration to 800 millions Indians up to November under the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY). In addition to 5kg of rice or wheat per family member, the beneficiaries will also get 1kg of gram, an important source of protein, per month. This decision deserves appreciation. As Covid-19 cases continue to surge, any immediate economic recovery, and therefore, restoration of incomes is unlikely. Ensuring food security for all has to be the first priority in such a situation.While 60% of India’s population will benefit from the programme, it will also generate economic benefits beyond preventing hunger. It will make sure that poor workers do not see a collapse in their bargaining power. Savings on food spending — India’s poor spend more than half of their household budget on food — will also give a boost to non-food demand. This will be crucial for bringing the non-farm economy back on track. The State should remain vigilant that farm incomes do not suffer due to excess production leading to a collapse in prices of food items, which are not included in the free ration scheme. Given the weakness in aggregate demand, this cannot be ruled out. To be sure, today’s announcement also had politics in mind. The PM mentioned Chhath, the most important festival in Bihar, which is due for elections at the end of the year. While this has drawn criticism, and speculating on motives is always hazardous, in a democracy, there is nothing wrong in politics driving augmentation of welfare. The challenge now is implementation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/extending-pmgky-is-the-right-step/story-IupwQW0YnWo99jKoEt0RlL.html
30-06-2020||Editorials||Imposing costs on China | HT Editorial||The Indian government’s decision to ban 59 Chinese apps may seem like a curious way to send a signal to Beijing after 20 Indian soldiers have been killed. But India’s app ban, and related restrictions on telecom hardware and mobile handsets, is based on the recognition that data streams and digital technology are a new currency of global power. They also take aim at one of China’s most ambitious goals, namely to become the digital superpower of the 21st century. The apps were not the most important or most insidious example of how Beijing was accumulating influence in this sector. But purging a Chinese browser like UC, number one among Indian phone users, sends a warning that worse things may follow — e-commerce and digital payment restrictions, data movement regulations, and bans on 5G telecom equipment.India has warned China of “consequences” if the status quo ante is not restored on the border. Beijing has not backed down yet, despite the military movements, diplomatic warnings and trade measures already taken. Multiple points of pressure need to be applied on many levels and over a long period of time. Digital action is only one of them. The app ban is a straightforward way to signal intent and leave room for escalation. China, India and most developed countries recognise that the next source of economic growth lies in the digital economy, that its raw material is data, and that whoever decides standards and builds the electronic backbone will have enormous advantages over everyone else. India has been relatively open to all players. China long ago drove out most foreign apps and software. Western countries have begun clipping the wings of Chinese products over security and privacy concerns. India was among the few large markets where Chinese apps were on par, if not ahead of its US counterparts. That edge has now been lost, possibly forever, in a market where numbers matter.To be sure, there must be a recognition that India cannot afford to sever all its economic links with the world’s second-largest economy, even in the digital space. Chinese finance is presently essential to sustaining India’s start-up economy. Much of the present telecom infrastructure of the country is from China and cannot be replaced without enormous disruption. Threats that are double-edged are not credible and will only weaken India’s negotiating position. Which is why, though New Delhi will need to take many more actions on many more fronts to impose costs on Beijing, these actions must be weighed on scales of both smartness and strength.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/imposing-costs-on-china/story-eHMEhBnWDBHyBXyPqLQR2J.html
30-06-2020||Editorials||To deal with China, understand it better||There is now no doubt that China will remain India’s greatest strategic threat in the decades to come. Beijing is not just interested in taking control of strategic areas or in stopping India’s infrastructure build-up at the border. As is visible in the statements emerging from retired officials and its State-controlled media, China wants to send a message to India — to accept Chinese dominance in the Asian hierarchy of power, stop deepening the partnership with the United States, and reconcile to a curtailed global role . New Delhi cannot do this, for its own national interests are at stake. While there is a need for a diplomatic reset, enhanced military capabilities and economic policies to reduce dependence on China, one other area which requires greater investment is the expertise on China in India. India is too dependent on a very limited set of retired diplomats and military officials who have engaged with China, select intelligence officials and diplomats who speak Mandarin, and a small set of academics outside government. This is not tenable. To understand Chinese motivations better, India needs more experts on the decision-making apparatus in China, the functioning of the Chinese Communist Party, the dynamic between the party and the People’s Liberation Army, China’s economic drivers and changing social dynamics, and its quest for digital dominance. For this, India must invest in language training, field visits, fellowships, and dedicated institutes. To battle China, understand it better.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/to-deal-with-china-understand-it-better/story-2LCVvLfUR8UIYJPiBmGFcJ.html
30-06-2020||Editorials||How Nepal’s PM is harming ties||Nepal’s Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli is back to his old tricks, or, to be more precise, two inter-related tricks of jingoistic anti-Indian nationalism and internal anti-Madhesi chauvinism. The first tool in his playbook is building up resentment against India, ramping up nationalistic fervour, and projecting himself as the saviour of the Nepali nation which India is out to target. The passage of an amendment to ratify a new Nepali map with territory claimed and controlled by India was one recent step in this direction. His claim on Sunday that India is out to topple his government — with no evidence — is another step.Two, Mr Oli also taps into a mindset which sees the Madhesis — Nepali citizens of the southern plains, the Tarai — who share extensive kinship ties with people across the border in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, as a “fifth column”, more loyal to India than to Nepal. This is why he ensured that the Constitution did not have equitable power-sharing arrangements. And that is why Nepali ultra-nationalists portray extensive cross-border marriages as somewhat dangerous to Nepal and its current demography — conspiracy theories of Nepal’s “Fiji-isation” and eventual “Sikkim-isation” are conjured up. A current bill in Nepal’s parliament, which would make it more difficult for those who have married Nepali citizens from obtaining citizenship is a step in this direction and will deal a blow to the close people-to-people ties between the two countries.These two tricks are essential for Mr Oli to overcome his real political challenges. His government has been an abysmal failure in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic. He faces challenges from within his own party. Despite a strong mandate, he has done little to deliver on his promise of economic development. And he presides over one of the most corrupt governments in Nepal in recent years, with crony capitalism at its peak. He also gets away because of the backing of the one external power that is today micro-managing Nepali politics, and saved his government by mediating between internal communist party factions just two months ago: China. If Mr Oli is truly a nationalist, he should worry about the Chinese penetration in every sphere of the Nepali polity. But that won’t happen. India needs to keep a careful watch on developments in Nepal, recognise the threat Mr Oli poses, quietly work with its friends and allies in Kathmandu to build a more inclusive polity, let the communist government collapse under the weight of its contradictions, and make it clear that with his actions and statements, PM Oli has left little scope for meaningful engagement||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/how-nepal-s-pm-is-harming-ties/story-gartG6Lc6nWioq75yHLn6N.html
