02-04-2021||Today's||On the gender test, India fails — yet again||Whichever way you look at it, India’s 28-point tumble to land at 140 out of 156 countries in the annual World Economic Forum (WEF) gender gap ranking is a fail mark. WEF looks at incontrovertible data on four parameters — education, health, economic opportunity and political empowerment — to reach its conclusions. Within South Asia, only two countries — Pakistan at 153 and Afghanistan at the bottom of the list at 156 — have done worse than us. India’s fall in ranking stems largely from an old crisis: The exit of women from paid work. Since 2011-12, 25 million women, roughly Shanghai’s population, have quit the workforce. If you go back to 2004-05, it’s 47 million. There are a number of reasons why women are quitting paid work. In a nutshell, it is to do with society’s definition of “women’s work”, which is to cook, clean and care for children and the elderly, an unpaid job that increased manifold during the pandemic. Obviously, the more time women spend on unpaid care work, the less they have for paid work. While job loss has hit everyone, data from the Centre of Monitoring Indian Economy tell us that it hit women hardest. In February 2021, female labour force participation shrunk by 9%; for men, it is 1.8%, says economist Mitali Nikore. The worst-hit are urban women where labour force contraction is 32% for the same month, the highest since the start of the pandemic, she says. Sure, other factors have contributed to our fall in rankings. The persistence of low political participation by women; the reduction of the number of women ministers; our ongoing sex ratio-at-birth problem. But, for the first time, the pandemic and its impact on job loss have brought India’s crisis of female employment into the public domain.The WEF report does not look into data from areas such as domestic violence that reportedly shot up during lockdown. It has not considered the impact of the gender digital divide where girls were shut out of online classes because they didn’t have access to smartphones. It did not see how this led to a surge in child marriage in states such as Rajasthan. It has not counted the numbers of women unable to access contraceptive and other health services and the impact of this on unwanted pregnancies and their health. And, yet, limited as it is, one can only hope that the ranking will serve as a wake-up call to government and policymakers. A wake-up call to first set up a national-level task force to study the pandemic’s impact on gender and, next, to suggest possible remedies. The blunt truth is India cannot afford to mutely witness any further erosion in gender rights. To do nothing is to wait for upwards of a century to close the gender gap, warns WEF. We simply cannot afford that wait.Namita Bhandare writes on genderThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/on-the-gender-test-india-fails-yet-again-101617372783870.html
02-04-2021||Today's||For gender equity, India needs a care manifesto||What began as an election promise of wages for housework (WFH) by Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) has become an exciting policy initiative adopted by several political parties. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), Trinamool Congress (TMC), the Congress in Assam, and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and United Democratic Front (UDF) in Kerala have all promised WFH ranging from ₹500 to ₹3,000 to homemakers.Whether it was driven by political ingenuity or the electoral compulsions of welfare populism, the mainstream recognition by political parties of the disproportionate burden of unpaid domestic and care work (UDCW), performed by anywhere between 160-360 million homemakers, is welcome.WFH exemplifies the spirit of a 2021 Supreme Court (SC) decision where Justice NV Ramana observed that fixing a notional income for a homemaker “becomes a recognition of the work, labour and sacrifices of homemakers and a reflection of changing attitudes” and is in furtherance of our international law obligations and constitutional vision of social equality and dignity. But we cannot stop with election manifestos promising WFH. We urgently need a care manifesto, one which values UDCW as well as paid care work and places care at the heart of a post-pandemic economic recovery process. Also Read | What explains the focus on financial assistance to women in these polls?Consider first the proposals for WFH. Detractors of the MNM’s proposal asked if love could be commodified or how the multitude of UDCW tasks can be measured, evaluated and paid for, or if the husband would become an employer. But parties have addressed these objections by rightly proposing a basic amount by way of an unconditional cash transfer. The DMK and TMC are offering to transfer the cash assistance to women in each household, irrespective of their homemaker status — in effect, a gendered basic income. The LDF is offering a pension. The UDF restricts the payment to homemakers between the ages of 40 and 60 who are not availing its minimum income guarantee scheme.Across the board, however, parties have offered a paltry amount, possibly bearing in mind the burdens on the exchequer. The replacement value of Indian women’s UDCW is estimated to be $612.8 billion. The SC, in a 2001 case, pegged the notional monthly income of a homemaker at ₹3,000; in 2021, it used the state-specific minimum wage of ₹5,547. Any payment below the minimum wage is prohibited by Article 23 of the Constitution, which outlaws forced labour.Parties must, therefore, increase this amount, and extend this payment to unmarried daughters who perform UDCW but are viewed as a burden to be married off; (this may delay marriage and push back against the demand for dowry); and to divorced and separated women who perform UDCW in their natal households. And it should be more than a handout for meeting monthly bills. Political messaging must recognise women’s worth as workers and promote their critical consciousness so that they share UDCW with men in their households and dislodge gendered norms around UDCW.Indian women face compulsory marriage and are reliant on marriage for their economic survival. State-paid WFH will likely enhance a homemaker’s economic bargaining power within marriage, help set time boundaries on UDCW, challenge the ideology of domesticity, even resist domestic violence, help her learn a skill or exit marriage. But WFH, during marriage, is only the beginning. The SC, in assessing compensation for deceased homemakers under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, recommended reforms in family law to protect women’s economic rights upon divorce. This includes a meaningful and enforceable right to maintenance and a community property regime so that women can realise the full value of their contributions through UDCW to the household’s economic assets.Marriage in India is the hub of social reproduction around which the various spokes of satellite economies of women’s reproductive labour revolve. Millions of women undertake paid work to fit around their unpaid care commitments at home but this is viewed as an extension of UDCW, as “intuitively feminine”, easy work and therefore devalued and underpaid. WFH must be accompanied by wide-ranging reforms so that paid domestic workers, teachers, health workers, Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs), anganwadi workers, mid-day meal cooks, nurses, sanitation workers and home-based workers are treated as workers and paid a living wage with the full protection of all labour laws. Further, women often resort to sex work and dancing due to failed marriages; their labour must not be criminalised. Surrogates and egg donors should be compensated for their reproductive labour.A care manifesto would ensure that the census, labour force surveys and time use surveys are restructured to account for the full spectrum of women’s unpaid labour, especially their unpaid economic activity on farms and in household enterprises. It would require the State to invest in building physical infrastructure, which reduces the burdens of UDCW through public services such as water, gas and electricity as well as care infrastructure, through affordable and high-quality creches, nurseries and pre-schools. There must be universal access to food, health care and maternity benefits. Investment in the care infrastructure, including through an urban-rural employment guarantee scheme, can create new jobs which generate longer-lasting economic benefits through direct, indirect and induced employment when compared to investment in construction.Women’s UDCW has long subsidised the State, capital and patriarchy. Political recognition of the value of UDCW through unconditional cash transfers is a globally unprecedented move in the right direction. A care manifesto will, however, help us move beyond tokenistic payments to homemakers to building an economy with a care infrastructure that allows women to combine paid and unpaid work on their own terms, with dignity and respect.Prabha Kotiswaran is at King’s College London. She has drawn on contributions of several feminists at a recent symposium on Wages for HouseworkThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/for-gender-equity-india-needs-a-care-manifesto-101617281458135.html
02-04-2021||Today's||How a new rail line in China will pose a security challenge to India||China’s 14th Five-Year Plan, approved in the recent National People’s Congress’s (NPC) annual session, outlines the Sichuan-Tibet railway line near the China-India border as a key strategic priority.The 1,629km Sichuan–Tibet high-elevation railway line will connect Chengdu, Sichuan province’s capital, to Lhasa, the capital of Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR). The 14th Five-Year plan reportedly highlighted this railway’s central section, from Ya’an in Sichuan to Nyingchi in Tibet, as a key infrastructure project. In November 2020, the Communist Party of China’s general secretary and China’s president, Xi Jinping, said that this railway line’s work is extremely challenging due to the complex geological and climatic conditions and the region’s sensitive environment.This railway line is divided into three sections. The Chengdu-Ya’an section in Sichuan had opened in December 2018, while the construction on the Lhasa-Nyingchi section in Tibet started in 2015. The latter is expected to be completed by June this year. The work on the central section linking Ya’an and Xinduqiao in Sichuan and Bomi and Nyingchi in Tibet will start soon as the public bidding to secure these projects was recently completed.Also Read | China’s plans on Tibet and border infra will pose a threat to India The central section’s construction is the most challenging part and the Chinese state media reports that the entire railway line from Chengdu to Lhasa would be functional by 2030. Upon completion, the railway will be the second to link Tibet with the rest of the country, following the Qinghai-Tibet Railway, which opened in 2006.Xi highlighted the railway’s importance, describing it as “a major step in safeguarding national unity and a significant move in promoting the western region’s economic and social development.” But besides integrating the region through economic and social development, China views this project as integral to its national security architecture.The project facilitates forwarding China’s border security goals with India in two important ways.First, China’s Western Theatre Command (WTC) is tasked with the responsibility for the Indian strategic direction. The WTC hosts the 76th Group Army, 77th Group Army, Tibet Military District and Xinjiang Military District. The 77th Group Army’s multiple infantry, motorised infantry, armoured, artillery, air defence, and special operations brigades are stationed in Chongqing and Sichuan. In case of a Sino-Indian border escalation, like the recent one in eastern Ladakh, the 76th and 77th Group Armies are tasked to mobilise additional support to the Tibet and Xinjiang Military Districts. The 77th Group Army will play a major role in the mobilisation of the forces if there’s an escalation near the Arunachal Pradesh border due to its proximity to the region.Under Xi’s civil-military fusion, there’s a collective effort to mobilise the PLA rapidly and on a large scale, using State, party and private enterprises. This was witnessed in the current Sino-Indian stand-off when additional People’s Liberation Army (PLA) deployment happened through the country’s railroad network.The Sichuan-Tibet railway runs dangerously close to the Indian border near Arunachal Pradesh. Thus, on completion in 2030, it will enhance the PLA’s mobility and connectivity on the border with India, especially in the eastern sector.Second, since the 19th Party Congress, which was held a month after the 2017 Doklam stand-off, Xi has emphasised creating border defence villages as a buffer zone on the border with India. These 624 border defence villages along 21 border counties are to be constructed by 2021. They will be the first line of defence, act as a watch post and curtail the movement of “pro-Dalai Lama forces” across the border.The Sichuan-Tibet railway line runs close to Nyingchi, Cona, Yadong, Lhunze and Medog counties bordering India’s Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim. On completion, the railway line will enable better control, consolidation and logistics supply to these border villages. Chinese scholars have already hailed this network as vital for delivering “strategic material” on the border. With the completion of this railway link in 2030, the PLA could use this infrastructure to alter the status quo and focus on its second strategic direction — addressing the rising India challenge.Suyash Desai is a research analyst from China Studies Programme at The Takshashila InstitutionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-a-new-rail-line-in-china-will-pose-a-security-challenge-to-india-101617278997764.html
