08-04-2021||Today's||Covid to polls: The chaos that is India||It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness”: Charles Dickens in A Tale of Two Cities. The author’s reflections on France and Britain in the mid-19th century now echo in 21st-century India, trapped as we are in our Dickensian moment. If 2020 was the year of doom and gloom, 2021 is where hope alternates with despair in surreal discomfort. Early year optimism that the worst was over has descended into deepening concerns over a second Covid-19 wave.Covid-19 cases have climbed to more than 100,000 a day, but if you are covering the state elections, you wouldn’t know that a pandemic was on. The masks are off as thousands gather at rallies. Lockdown rules and severe penalties are in place for the ordinary citizen, but devotees are in a celebratory mood at the Haridwar Maha Kumbh while cricket’s annual mela, the Indian Premier League, is set to kick off in Mumbai. Not more than 50 people can be invited to a wedding, but no Covid-19 protocols seem to apply to political rallies and religious gatherings. Crazy but true. Maharashtra is the worst-affected Covid-19 state, but is also racked by political instability with the coalition government in Mumbai on a monthly ventilator. Its “Big Boss”, Sharad Pawar, was admitted to hospital for a surgery, barely days after reports surfaced of a clandestine dinner meeting between him and Union home minister Amit Shah in the backdrop of extortion charges made by a former Mumbai police commissioner against the state home minister who has finally stepped down. It gets worse. The Union health ministry and the Maharashtra government are in an ugly face-off over vaccines. The claim that the state isn’t getting enough vaccines is a product of bureaucratic red tape, but so great is the trust deficit between Delhi and Mumbai that the fracas is hardly surprising. Caught in the middle are anxious citizens queuing up at vaccination centres. Many netas, by virtue of age or other health conditions, have got their vaccinations; the lesser mortals must wait their turn.Amid the wrangling, surely, one big lesson of 2020 is the need for the political leadership to focus on better Covid-19 management and get the economy back on track. Sadly, it’s a lesson unlearnt. An important budget session of Parliament was cut short because netas had to hit the campaign trail. Most Union ministers aren’t in their offices, but instead have been assigned specific districts in Bengal to handle. Such is the obsessive desire of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to win Bengal that the central government is playing second fiddle to the party’s ambitions; it’s almost as if governance and crucial policy decisions can wait till Kolkata is conquered.In television studios, we are told that a V-shaped recovery is on its way, but, on the ground, as one travels from Kerala to Assam, the one unifying factor is visible economic distress, especially among those in the unorganised sector. Jobs have been lost, incomes have shrunk, fuel prices have risen, but the dominant narrative on the campaign trail is once again about religion and the Hindu-Muslim divide. In Assam, the “pro-migrant” Badruddin Ajmal is the “enemy” figure, while in Kerala the rhetoric of “love jihad”, Sabarimala, Hindu traditions, Muslim appeasement and Church assertion now threatens decades of harmony. In Bengal, the religious polarisation has become so acute that chief minister Mamata Banerjee revealed her gotra and recited the Chandi Path. The one state relatively free of the religion card is Tamil Nadu but that’s perhaps because the number of Muslims is not significant enough here to make a difference at election time.And in the midst of the spiralling poll insanity around us, the Election Commission’s role is coming under the scanner. The body is supposed to be a neutral umpire but there are allegations that it is increasingly looking like a 12th man for the ruling party at the Centre — ready to show a red card to the Opposition but hesitant to blow the whistle when the BJP plays foul. These allegations are fuelled by its own actions: Even when it did act against BJP strongman Himanta Biswa Sarma, the penalty was quickly diluted.Meanwhile, farmers are still agitating and demanding that the farm laws be withdrawn. Their agitation has been on for at least four months now. Surprisingly, we don’t hear of rising Covid-19 cases in the farm community — though experts warn of its potential to be a super-spreader event, especially given the rising cases in Punjab — even as those in Mumbai’s high-rises bear the brunt. Is the battle-hardened kisan more immune to the virus than the sharp-suited Indian? May be, may be not: in the India of 2021, kuch bhi ho sakta hai (anything can happen). Post-script: Whether India’s farmers are Covid-19 proof or not, netas sure think they are. On the campaign trail in Assam, Sarma, who is also the state’s health minister, has refused to wear a mask. When asked why, he brazened it out: “There is no corona in Assam.” Another neta offers us an even better one-liner when we ask him why he doesn’t wear a mask on a roadshow. “Please, understand, people have gathered here to see me, not you. How can they see me properly if I wear a mask?”Rajdeep Sardesai is a senior journalist and author The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/covid-to-polls-the-chaos-that-is-india-101617886370485.html
08-04-2021||Today's||Despite divergences, build on strategic ties with Russia||All eyes were on the visit of Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov to India to meet his counterpart S Jaishankar earlier this week. In the past year, the pandemic led to the postponement of the 2020 India-Russia annual bilateral summit, and differences over the Indo-Pacific escalated amid heightened bipolar rivalry between the United States (US) and China. But Russia’s role in meeting India’s defence requirements during the stand-off with China, and the two visits of defence minister Rajnath Singh to Moscow were seen as positive developments. Carrying forward the discussion, the Lavrov-Jaishankar meeting covered a wide range of bilateral, regional and global issues, with preparations now underway for the Narendra Modi-Vladimir Putin annual summit later this year.The high-level engagement is particularly important in the India-Russia relationship as it remains driven by top-level interaction. Amid a changing world order, the need to strengthen and diversify bilateral ties makes the 2021 summit critical in determining the future direction of the partnership. As Jaishankar noted, the “context” of his talks with Lavrov was that of “global political changes” characterised by the “rebalanced nature of international relations”. A feature of this rebalancing has been Russia’s return as an influential power in world affairs, its turn to the east, and China emerging as its key external partner. This has also been evident in Lavrov’s visits in the first three months of 2021 alone, where he has been to the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, China, South Korea and Tajikistan (for the Heart of Asia conference), with a trip to Iran scheduled for mid-April. The India visit, where the minister was accompanied by special envoy on Afghanistan, Zamir Kabulov, was followed by one to Pakistan amid the push towards an Afghan peace agreement.Each of the geographies covered during these visits remain critical areas of interest for India, underscoring the need for engagement with the former superpower on issues of mutual strategic interest. Moscow might not always be the most powerful player, but it retains significant capacity to act both as a spoiler and a facilitator in Eurasia, and has seen a resurgence of influence in West Asia.An acknowledgement of this was evident in the detailed discussion on regional and global issues between the two foreign ministers. While both India and Russia will continue to pursue their respective trajectories in world affairs, coordination on mutually beneficial issues will be vital in this period of flux in the global system. In this regard, India shared its views on the Indo-Pacific, where Russia has significant reservations. While differences persist, a frank discussion offers the opportunity to avoid misinterpretation of intentions and allows for exploration of potential areas of cooperation. India insists that the former superpower is an important partner in its Act East policy, also because a more balanced Russia-China relationship is in its interests.Another area of focus was Afghanistan. Worried about the impact of an unstable Afghanistan on its security, India needs sustained engagement with the major powers engaged in peace efforts. In this regard, the decision to have Kabulov stay in regular contact with India is a positive development, even as Moscow improves in engagement with Pakistan with an eye on Afghanistan. Given Russia’s assurance to India about no military hardware supply to Pakistan, New Delhi would expect that the offer of military equipment for counter-terrorism to Islamabad does not upset the strategic balance. Looking at the broader context of Russian foreign policy and pragmatically assessing the bilateral ties offers India a chance to focus on promoting mutual interests. While there is no denying divergences in the relationship, both sides still have significant areas of cooperation — in the bilateral, regional and global arenas — which must be harnessed. Thus, taking a long-term view of the situation, as India develops ties with other like-minded powers to deal with the rise of China, it must also strengthen its special, privileged strategic partnership with Russia.Nivedita Kapoor is junior fellow, Observer Research Foundation The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/despite-divergences-build-on-strategic-ties-with-russia-101617885885708.html
