09-04-2021||Today's||The Taste With Vir: Why are vaccines not readily available?||As the Covid pandemic surges all over India, our government has told us that this is our own fault. It is a consequence of our refusal to mask up and engage in Covid appropriate behaviour.To an extent, the government is right. It is nobody’s case that we have all masked up or that we have not congregated in crowded areas.But two questions need to be asked. Is our disgraceful behaviour the primary reason for this sudden surge? After all we were just as irresponsible a few months ago when numbers started going down. So why is the virus spreading so quickly through our society now?I don’t know what the answer to that question is because nobody has told us what is going on with this virus.In the UK, even before the big surge began, the authorities had identified a variant that was more easily transmissible. In India, we are supposed to be working on the answer and though initially, the government spoke in many voices, the official position seems to be that there is no new, more transmissible, variant. Which, you must agree, is a bit odd.And the second question is more rhetorical than serious. At a time when politicians run amok across the country, not bothering about masks and addressing large, tightly packed, crowds at election rallies, do they really have any right to tell us to wear masks? Are they even conscious of the example they set? Why is it okay to impose night curfews and drive restaurants and other establishments into bankruptcy while, as far as politics is concerned, it is business as usual for our netas?And then there is the vaccine problem. Experience has shown us that the only way to halt the spread of the pandemic (or to at least slow it down) is by vaccinating as many people as possible.Also Read | The Taste by Vir Sanghvi: Why I am not travelling abroadWe have been slow to do that in India. You cannot argue with the government’s strategy to vaccinate high-risk sectors first. But the point is not priorities. It is speed. Yes, front line workers needed it first. But did we have to restrict all vaccination to just them for so long? Couldn’t we have spread it out faster?Part of the problem lies with the government’s vaccine czars. You have seen them on TV, smug and seemingly all-powerful. These are the people who wanted to keep such a tight control on everything that they resisted private sector involvement.Failing to recognise the gravity of the problem, and the need to vaccinate as many people as soon as possible, they acted like small time clerks used to do in the heyday of the license-permit-raj. They flung around phrases like ‘vaccine-equity’ as a way of denying more people vaccines, refused to make vaccines available on a pay-for-jab basis and crippled our program.More significantly, they underestimated how many doses we needed. There is now a widespread demand to expand the eligibility criteria which they continue to resist with shows of arrogance.The Health Secretary told a press conference that the government would not give the vaccine to those who wanted it. Instead it would only vaccinate those who “needed it.”So who needs it? People dying in a Covid hotspot? Well, no. Only people that the health ministry considers eligible.Also holding forth at the same press conference was VK Paul whose credibility seems miraculously unaffected by his claim last year that the pandemic would level off by May 16. (This was May 16, 2020!) He made a prediction last year at the daily briefing at the Health Ministry assuring us that by May, 2020, the crisis would have largely passed.He has since apologised and said that he never “ever said that the cases would go down to zero, there is a misunderstanding….” This may be true. But he certainly did forecast the end of the raging pandemic by then.These are the guys who now decide our strategy. So, are you really surprised by what is going on?The reason the Health Secretary, Dr Paul and the others are refusing to extend the eligibility criteria is because we don’t have enough vaccines to do it. They clearly did not expect this wave. Or if they did, they failed to plan for it. In March, the Health Minister told us that “India is in the end game of the pandemic”.He was widely criticised (as it turns out, with justification) but the remark provides an insight into the government’s thinking. The minister and his smug bureaucrats thought it was all coming to an end. Yes, they had missed Dr. Paul’s original May 2020 date but hey! Covid was soon going to end.The current position of the government of India is that there is no shortage of vaccines. Well, may be.But why are Covid centers (including government centers) shutting down in Mumbai? Why are so many hospitals in so many states turning away people, explaining that they have no vaccines?The Centre’s response has been to play politics and blame state governments. This suggests that Delhi believes that state chief ministers are quite happy to not distribute vaccines and let their people die. As a suggestion, this is breath-taking in its mendacity. And it is made worse by the Health Minister’s need to point out that the states that are complaining that vaccines are running out are ruled by the opposition.Even if there was no failure in the planning and ordering enough vaccines (which of course, there was) there is, undeniably, a massive failure in coordination and distribution. So what happens now?Well, I reckon they will start approving new vaccines quickly. But producing vaccines take time. And you can’t buy them off the shelf in the international market. The domestic players know how trapped and vulnerable the establishment it. The Serum Institute has now asked for ₹3000 crores to expand its production facilities, lobbing the ball into the government’s court.The truth is that there are no quick fixes. So, expect more lectures on how it is all our own fault. More thaali-banging type stunts. The odd utsav. And expect more deaths.For more stories by Vir Sanghvi read here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-taste-with-vir-why-are-covid-19-vaccines-not-readily-available-in-india-101617966242871.html
09-04-2021||Today's||As Covid’s second wave surges in India, history repeats itself||History repeats itself, first as tragedy, then as farce. One year after the imposition of the world’s strictest lockdown, India is now in the grip of a second Covid-19 wave. Aided by new variants, Covid-19 is spreading rapidly as is the penchant of governments for arbitrary mini lockdowns, weekend lockdowns, full lockdowns and night curfews. Hapless migrant workers, left without social security and uncertain job prospects, are once again queuing up at bus and train stations to go back home, their incomes already ravaged by the disastrous choices made last year. Like last year, there are no signs yet of any relief or stimulus in the offing as the economy takes an inevitable hit. Rather than pursuing coordinated policy action, the Centre and state governments are back at war.Yet, consensus has been forged amongst all arms of the State to resort to familiar toolkits — coercive policy through confounding orders (from last-minute lockdowns to making masks compulsory while alone in a vehicle); opacity (critical data — vaccines and reinfection, vaccines and side effects, disease severity, lockdowns and transmission dynamics — are missing from the public domain) and blaming citizens for abandoning Covid-19 caution even as the political leadership has willingly thrown caution to the winds in pursuit of political power. The farce is now unfolding as rapidly as the second wave and its consequences will be tragic.Also Watch | Rahul Gandhi slams PM Modi’s ‘Tika Utsav’ call; questions export of vaccinesWas this inevitable? Absolutely not. The year 2021 is not 2020. Despite many unknowns, India learnt important policy lessons that could have avoided repeating history in 2021. We learnt how to scale up testing, especially when it is demand-led — an implicit lesson for our vaccination strategy. Doctors and patients have a better understanding of treatment protocols. Crucially, we learnt a few things about transmission dynamic, especially that it is spatially clustered. Analysis by Centre for Policy Research on early testing data from Punjab in April 2020 traced 80% cases to less than 2% of the state’s polling booths. Even today, a cluster of states are contributing to the bulk of the case load.Spatial clustering calls for an agile, localised, coordinated health response. From surveillance to treatment and vaccinations (demand for vaccines is likely linked to experience of surges, which is one explanation for the emerging supply constraints), health resources can be repurposed, as China did in Wuhan, to service areas where cases are surging. But this requires the Centre and states to work together through institutionalised coordination mechanisms that simply do not exist. In his meeting with chief ministers on Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi ruled out the possibility of a national lockdown, pushing instead for a localised, micro containment strategy with increased testing and tracing. The infrastructure is in place, the PM said. The challenge is that of governance. But the reality is India needed far greater investments in our public health infrastructure, investments that go beyond protective kits and testing labs. Localised strategies require well-resourced public health systems — enhanced surveillance capacity, increased human resources at the community level and improved data systems. When the first wave began to abate, we had the opportunity to learn lessons and devise policy to respond to a possible second wave (this was never off the table) and future pandemics. Instead we got policy complacency and now a repeat of history.Lockdowns or not, the second wave will have a serious impact on our battered economy. Images of migrant workers making their way home have once again made headlines. Despite the significant economic impact of the 2020 lockdown on the poor, calls for expanded income support were ignored. The finance ministry refused to unlock its purse strings, paving the way for a profit-led recovery. Once again, there are no signs of a relief package even as workers and firms face renewed uncertainty. Crucially, as the second wave spreads, state governments are likely to face differential economic consequences, linked to transmission dynamics and state specific socio-economic profiles. If the Centre were to craft an appropriate response, fiscal support will need to be calibrated to state-specific needs. This will require the ministry of finance to devise an economic strategy, revisit GDP projections for 2021-22 and work closely with states. It didn’t do this in 2020, and has, so far, shown no signs of learning lessons from last year. Inequalities widened in 2020 and the second wave will only deepen this trend, laying bare the farce of equal citizenship.Finally on vaccines, the magic bullet solution India was relying on. India’s vaccine strategy is stumbling precisely because we failed to learn lessons from 2020. Tight bureaucratic control, complete lack of coordination, and a strategy that blames citizens, both for vaccine hesitancy and for demanding universal vaccinations, rather than builds their trust, is dominating vaccination roll out. Much has been said about the need for universalisation of vaccines and better coordination. But it is important to remember that a successful vaccination strategy will require transparency, citizen confidence and trust. Key data need to be collected and made transparent to the public – on vaccination supply, on adverse effects, on reinfection rates. Only then will citizen confidence and trust be built. In the absence of data and transparency, large-scale vaccination will remain an elusive strategy. Trust, confidence, transparency and co-ordination. These ought to be the tools for India as we respond to the second wave. There is still time to course correct. If not, history will repeat itself as farce. A farce India cannot afford. Yamini Aiyar is president and chief executive, Centre for Policy ResearchThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/as-covid-19-surges-history-repeats-itself-101617956815510.html
09-04-2021||Today's||Maoist challenge: Why large armies lose small wars||Debates on the latest Maoist attacks, critiquing or defending security forces and their tactics, miss the strategic picture. As Henry Kissinger said – the conventional army loses, if it does not win. The guerrilla wins, if he does not lose. To that extent, Maoists have been winning against security forces for over a decade now. A tactical playbook follows the trite cycle of postmortem, rolling of heads, threats of a fitting response, usually followed by a massive reprisal. Ironically, the latter is exactly what guerrillas count on. A strategic view helps join the dots.Mao Tse Tung, the ideological fountainhead of the movement, defined revolution as an act of violence by which one class (aka peasants) overthrows another class (landlords). In the Chinese context, the revolution was to overthrow the incumbent ruler. Ironically, Mao’s strategy was influenced more by Clausewitz than Sun Tzu because of his Soviet leaning, training and patronage. In his book, On protracted War, (which borrows heavily from Clausewitz’s On War), Mao identified three phases of the revolution — strategic defence, strategic stalemate and strategic offence.Also Read | As Maoist violence returns, decoding the rise of ultra left insurgencyThe first phase is when the guerrillas are weak and the State is overwhelmingly strong. According to Mao, retreat, defeat and weakness is part of this period. Guerrillas seek to avoid contact and use this phase to build capability, garner local support, national and international alliances. When his weak and fledgling Red Army, the forerunner of the People’s Liberation Army, was encircled by General Chiang Kai-shek’s troops in their stronghold at Jiangxi, Mao retreated 9,000km, in what came to be known as the Long March, over a year, all the way to barren and inhospitable Yan’an to rebuild the Red Army’s fighting capabilities. Much like the Maoist strongholds.In the stalemate phase, guerrillas consolidate a physical enclave where their writ runs and State forces are unable to interfere. This gives them operating room to increase numbers and lethality of their cadres. The enclave, or as in the case of the Maoists, a “corridor”, also allows them free movement and influx of external supplies from countries who are either sympathetic to their ideology or enemies of the State.As the name implies, the stalemate phase consists of a series of undecisive skirmishes which largely benefits guerrillas. For one, home ground gives guerrillas the advantage of terrain, local support, choice of timing and location of engagement. Second, since security forces are usually overwhelmed, it gives guerrillas an additional cache of sophisticated arms, ammunition, communication equipment and other resources. And in some cases, also hostages, who can be a major bargaining chip. Third, it boosts the morale of guerrilla cadres, especially when they have defeated crack and much vaunted government troops. The added benefit is creating legends and narratives around key guerrilla leaders and specific units – in this case, Madvi Hidma and the 1st Battalion of People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army. And most importantly, a humiliating rout compels the state to react with a heavy hand and overwhelming force — most of which is borne by the constituent population, thus cementing their support for the guerrillas. It is in this phase that the Maoist movement is now at, and probably will remain for some time to come.For a government with an image of “strong”responses to provocation, the temptation to launch into a major retaliative operation, possibly with armed forces participation, would be strong. But that would be a mistake.All terror operations are conducted for five audiences. The first is the incumbent government. The objective is to attack State instruments for psychological and political messaging, creating operating room and provoke disproportionate use of force especially on their second audience – the constituent population, thus alienating larger numbers from the State. The third audience is the non-constituent population, which is rest of the country, who are now aware of the seriousness of this problem and want to get involved. People with little understanding of warfare start baying for blood, compelling the government down a slippery slope of militarising the situation. Which in a perverse way, justifies the guerrilla’s cause of fighting the State. The fourth audience are internal cadres and potential recruits who swell because of the success of every operation and reprisals by State forces. The last audience are foreign countries who, at one extreme, will assist with moral and material support and, at the other, by internationalising the cause, reduce maneuvering room for the State.It would be naive to assume that an operation planned with such tactical finesse by Maoists would be devoid of strategic planning for its aftermath. Our armed forces and central armed police forces are stretched on an unprecedented level. We are facing a two-and-a-half-front war right now. While tensions may have abated on the eastern and western fronts, the commitment of troops continues. Troops are also committed in Kashmir, Northeast, in security duties for elections and of course battling the pandemic. Similarly, the mindshare of national strategic leadership is dominated by several pressing political and economic issues at the moment. Besides, brute force alone seldom exterminates guerrilla movements as nations with far larger armies have found to their great expense.Our security forces suffered heavy casualties because their tactical leaders walked into a trap. The strategic leaders shouldn’t walk into another one. And that calls for strategic restraint and maneuvering, rather than hasty resolute action.Raghu Raman is the founding CEO of NATGRIDThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/maoist-challenge-why-large-armies-lose-small-wars-101617956095210.html
09-04-2021||Today's||Pakistan’s failed quest to project soft power||It’s ironic that when Pakistan takes one step forward to project its positive side to the world, the country is pulled several miles backwards by its own political leadership and an obscurantist clergy.Speaking at a public gathering in Islamabad recently, Prime Minister Imran Khan pooh-poohed those who insist that Pakistan needs an image makeover through its soft power. He scoffed at the idea of using soft power as a means to win international goodwill, terming it an “inferiority complex”. “I repeatedly hear that we need to present a soft image of Pakistan. What does a soft image mean? Why do we say this, and if this soft image is established will the world consider us very good?” Dawn newspaper quoted Khan as saying.One doesn’t have to go far from where Khan spoke to find a powerful symbol of Pakistan’s aspiration to project its soft and democratic image. Walking down the Gali-e-dastoor (Constitution Lane) is like visiting a Left-wing art gallery in some Bolivarian country. Except that it is right inside the Parliament house of Pakistan, which is anything but a bastion of the Left.Sepia-coloured prints of old newspaper front pages announcing the imposition of martial law – barbed wires stretched across them to create a sinister effect -- jostle for space with the murals of famous revolutionary Urdu poets like Faiz Ahmed Faiz and Habib Jalib, along with the text of their fiery poetry. The Gali-e-dastoor bears witness to Pakistan’s troubled constitutional history and its perpetual conflict with the military establishment, as also to its aspiration for democracy and civilian rule.Also Read | US sanctions Pakistan-based transnational human smuggling networkIt is an attempt to showcase the country’s softer side and convince the world – especially foreign visitors – that Pakistan is not all about terrorist attacks on school kids, sectarian killings and notorious blasphemy laws; it’s a thriving democracy where civilian control over the country’s institutions is paramount, and freedom of expression is intact. So much so, that even the military’s anti-constitutional misdeeds are on display inside the country’s supreme civilian institution.I was amongst the delegates who were invited from 30-odd Asian countries to participate in the Asia Peace Film Festival (APFF) in Islamabad in 2017. Guests were treated to some of the best films and documentaries from Asia; there were informed debates in open seminars where speaker after speaker emphasised the need for Pakistan to assert its soft power. The three-day jamboree culminated in a conducted tour of the Gali-e-dastoor. In a country that almost always grabs the headlines for all the wrong reasons, it was quite surprising to see the soft side on full display.American philosopher Joseph S Nye is credited with coining the term soft power. He further elaborated the concept as “the ability to get what you want through attraction rather than coercion or payments.” It is essentially a foreign policy tool deployed as a charm offensive to increase a country’s global influence to achieve favourable results. According to the latest global soft power ranking index published in 2019 by communications consultancy Portland, France is at the top of the list, followed by Germany, with the United States under Donald Trump slipping down to number five. In a separate category of the top ten Asian countries, India ranked at number eight; Pakistan was not even considered for the survey.Impactful soft power initiatives (such as the APFF) in Pakistan are still few and far between, but they are nevertheless happening because, over the years, a liberal section of the power elite has realised that their country has already lost a lot of time and resources in trying to establish itself as the vanguard of the Islamic world. And the state’s patronage of terrorist outfits and religious extremists has not helped Pakistan gain an upper hand either in Kashmir or in Afghanistan, leave alone earning respect and goodwill of the international community.This realisation has led to some positive initiatives by independent groups, aimed at instilling liberal and progressive social values in the youth, especially university students and young professionals. The Islamabad-based think-tank Pakistan Institute of Peace Studies (PIPS) runs several programmes to de-radicalise the youth and to familiarise them with counter-extremism narratives. It also runs a programme called Youth for Interfaith Harmony to encourage tolerance for all religions as well as different sects of Islam. The organisers acknowledge that “religious extremism is a continuing problem” in Pakistan, and the youth need to be shepherded away from the sectarian and narrow-minded interpretation of Islam.While this section of society is desperate to change Pakistan’s negative image by projecting its hitherto ignored rich and diverse culture, the ruling establishment remains either totally indifferent to such ideas or mocks them. Questioning the whole concept of soft power and terming it a sign of “inferiority”, Khan, in one fell swoop, took the wind out of the sails of scores of filmmakers, writers, poets and rights activists who have been lobbying hard to build a softer image of their country.The irony in Khan’s speech, however, was not lost on anyone when he told the filmmakers to create bold and original cinema. A year earlier, his own government had failed to defend renowned director Sarmad Khoosat’s thought-provoking feature film, Zindagi Tamasha (Circus of Life), and deferred its release following the threats of violent protests from the far-right Islamist party Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP).It did not matter that the film had got plaudits at the Busan International Film Festival for its sensitive portrayal of a religious-looking elderly man who gets videoed while dancing to a raunchy film song at a wedding party, and when the video goes viral, he is subjected to humiliation, social boycott and ignominy. In a sanctimonious and vigilante society, it is rather scandalous, if not outright blasphemous, for an elderly man to swing his hips in an “unmanly” fashion. No wonder Khan thinks being soft is a sign of inferiority.The TLP targeted Khoosat for making what it called a “blasphemous” film that would “deviate the people from the path of Islam”. The threat was so serious and the social media campaign against him so severe, that Khoosat deleted his social media accounts and had to spend almost the whole year in fear.Incidentally, the TLP was also behind the widespread troubles that engulfed the streets of Pakistan in 2018 when the Supreme Court acquitted Christian farm worker Asia Bibi in a case of blasphemy against Islam and its Prophet – a crime punishable by death in Pakistan. Instead of strictly dealing with the thugs controlling the streets, Imran Khan’s government negotiated and signed an agreement with TLP leaders to wriggle out of the crisis.Juxtapose this with the government’s arbitrary clampdown on peaceful and secular activities. Soon after coming to power in 2018, Imran Khan gave marching orders to at least 18 NGOs; the authorities launched a drive against “unfavourable” school textbooks and banned at least 100 of them for allegedly carrying “blasphemous and anti-Pakistan” content. Some of the books were reportedly banned just because they carried the quotes by Mahatma Gandhi rather than Pakistan’s founding father Mohammad Ali Jinnah.On the one hand, the government is deeply suspicious of peaceful civil society organisations, but on the other hand, it treats violent extremist groups with kid gloves. Clearly, the political establishment thinks that Pakistan’s influence in the geostrategic arena will increase only by accumulating hard power – a strong military arsenal supported by extreme Islamist non-state actors and a robust economy; investing in art, culture, cinema and independent think tanks is just a waste of time.This imbalanced approach is holding Pakistan from realising its full soft power potential.Joseph S Nye once lamented that “some of our leaders do not understand the crucial importance of soft power.” Although he said it in the context of America, his words ring true for the political leadership of Pakistan. Taking a leaf out of Joseph S Nye’s books would do no harm either to Imran Khan or to the country he is currently leading.Rajesh Joshi is a New Delhi-based independent journalist and Visiting Professor at Haridev Joshi University of Journalism and Mass Communication, Jaipur (India)The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/pakistans-failed-quest-to-project-soft-power-101617877534201.html
