10-04-2021||Today's||As a tri-polar nation, India has a critical role in the Arctic||India recently circulated a draft Arctic Paper for public comments. A final document is now awaited. India’s Arctic attention has a brief-but-significant timeline, starting with expeditions in 2007 to the Arctic Ocean; the opening of a research station, Himadri, in 2008, at the international research base at Ny-Alesund in Svalbard, the northernmost island in the world belonging to Norway; and then being granted Observer Status to the Arctic Council in 2013 along with other Asian countries such as China, Japan, Singapore and South Korea.India’s Arctic activities have come on the back of its successful scientific and diplomatic endeavours in Antarctica, the southernmost frozen continent. Closer home, the Hindu-Kush Himalaya mountains, referred to as the Third Pole, with maximum snow and ice accumulation outside the two polar regions, is a critical water store for socio-economic development in India and its neighbourhood.The three poles — the Arctic, Antarctic and the Himalayas — with their breathtaking landscape and permafrost ecosystem are connected through risks and vulnerabilities of changing climate systems and are an intricate part of the global commons. The physical changes in the Arctic are highly likely to impact the Indian monsoon or “tele-connection” as it is described. Likewise, the emissions from the Gangetic plains partly explain the black carbon events witnessed recently in the Arctic.But what skips our imagination is that India is a tri-polar nation, both in terms of its multi-level scientific engagement vis-à-vis the Antarctic Treaty System and the Arctic Council, and its commitment to mitigating climate risks in its neighbourhood. India would do well to leverage the tri-polar geographical expression in its diplomacy, given its own climate vulnerability and its efforts to foster climate-resilient economic development.In fact, the intersection of science and diplomacy, as seen in India’s vaccine outreach, and the soft power projection that India has tried to assiduously build into its foreign policy makes the Arctic an important area to engage in. But unlike the Antarctic, where the legacy of peace and science prevails, the Arctic has politico-strategic challenges and competitive economic and commercial interests with 13% of the world’s undiscovered oil resources and 30% of undiscovered natural gas resources. Vast deposits of strategic metals have also been discovered. As the ice extent declines due to global warming, navigation in the Arctic Ocean will become significantly wider with the potential to become the world’s largest logistics intersections. The opening up of the Arctic in terms of economic opportunity is in India’s interest, but has to be carefully weighed. Rather than engaging in a resource rush, it would be better to draw home new investments in clean energy from the Arctic states. The year 2021 is estimated to be the first time renewable energy will surpass oil and gas as the largest area of spending in the energy sector. India has, over the last five years, built a positive climate image, often stating that its development trajectory will be increasingly green.The Arctic emphasis, thus, should continue to be one of scientific enterprise with efforts to build India’s knowledge profile. Expanding its scientific footprint will certainly require a state-of-the-art polar research vessel. Joint projects on polar research should become part of the bilateral arrangement with the Arctic states such as Russia and Canada. There is already abiding polar science cooperation with the Norwegian Polar Institute.Coincidentally, India and Norway are currently in the United Nations Security Council (UNSC). It is a unique opportunity for the two to align, “human-centric and inclusive solutions”, as India describes its tenure in UNSC, to the impact of the climate crisis on peace and security that Norway desires to raise.For India, the Arctic has a deep civilisational connect. It enshrines a consciousness of human social evolution as a response to the physical environment as Bal Gangadhar Tilak expressed in his work, The Arctic Home in the Vedas (1903). Celebrating international yoga day among the scientists in Ny-Alesund on June 21, the day of the summer solstice, will be a mark of diplomatic symbolism in the High North.Uttam Kumar Sinha works at the Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/as-a-tri-polar-nation-india-has-a-critical-role-in-the-arctic-101618049966302.html
10-04-2021||Today's||The Covid-19 battle needs more transparency||As the daily increase in Covid-19 cases surges past 145,000, leaving the first spike far behind, there are two issues that aren’t getting the attention they deserve. And what makes matters worse is those who should be speaking to us are either silent or not asked the right questions. Consequently, the government is far from forthright whilst independent epidemiologists and virologists are not pressed for answers. In these circumstances, let me see what I can piece together from my research.The first concern is the mutant Sars-Cov-2 variants that are spreading pretty furiously. There are two I want to focus on. First, Maharashtra has a double mutant. Shahid Jameel, one of our top virologists, says one of the mutations, L452R, is similar to what was earlier found amongst minks in Denmark and, thereafter, in the human population in California. It’s more infectious. The other, E484Q, has similarities to mutations found in South Africa and Brazil and is more resistant to the AstraZeneca vaccine. As he euphemistically puts it, this is “clearly worrisome”. How much depends on how far it’s spread. The government says 15-20% of samples genome-sequenced in Maharashtra are of this double mutant variety. However, I’m told by people who know that the percentage is closer to 60. And, not surprisingly, Jameel’s hunch is the double mutant is the primary cause of the surge in Maharashtra, and it will get a lot worse.The other worrying mutant strain is in Punjab. There, 81% of nearly 450 samples genome-sequenced are of the United Kingdom (UK) variant. Jameel says this shows they’re driving the surge. In fact, he believes it’s reached community levels of spread. And this time, it’s not a hunch. It’s the “only logical explanation”.So, though Balram Bhargava, the head of the Indian Council of Medical Research, insists the mutant strains aren’t driving the second surge, there is another credible view. It’s just that we haven’t heard it fully or properly. One more thing: There’s a third mutant in Bangalore — but I know little about it — and none of these strains will be contained within state borders.This leads me to the second issue that needs urgent attention: Genome sequencing. The government says, so far, 11,064 samples have been sequenced. That’s either 0.1% of our total cases or 1.0% of the increase since February. But is it sufficient for a population of 1.35 billion? Absolutely no one says it is. The ideal percentage is five. Britain makes that figure. The United States (US) is somewhere between two and three. At one, we’re 500% below it. A recent report in the Ahmedabad Mirror reveals genome sequencing is happening slowly. Of the 646 samples sent by Gujarat to the National Institute of Virology since mid-February, the results of only 181 were received by March 31. That’s about a quarter. Doctors on the Maharashtra government’s Covid-19 panel, speaking on NDTV, have reported similar delays. They weren’t at all happy.So what’s the explanation for these delays? Jameel, who’s also chairman of the government’s Scientific Advisory Committee on genome sequencing, tells me the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) labs are neither short-staffed nor, any longer, under-funded. The problem is local health workers. They often send samples unsuitable for sequencing. Consequently, the right ones get pushed back. This leads to a simple-but-stark conclusion. Until these issues are resolved and sequencing sharply stepped up, we won’t know how far the mutant strains have spread beyond Maharashtra and Punjab. All we’ll have is logical explanations and hunches. I guess we’ll have to live with that for a while but, at least, let the government be more informative. This is not a moment to be economical with the truth.Why? Because only the grim truth will make us return to masks and social distancing. We need to be shaken out of our present complacency. Two more things would help. First, an immediate curb on election rallies and shahi snans. Second, sack health ministers such as Himanta Biswa Sarma who claim “there’s no need to wear masks in Assam”.Karan Thapar is author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold Story The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-covid-19-battle-needs-more-transparency-101618049548418.html
10-04-2021||Today's||The economic rationale of bank nationalisation||Before the government concludes its discussions with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on privatising public sector banks (PSBs), it may want to study the history of Indira Gandhi’s bank nationalisation — for nationalisation did have its positive outcomes and privatisation can have negative outcomes.It’s not surprising that the nationalisation of 14 banks in 1969 has generally been seen as a politically-motivated decision. At the time, PN Haksar was secretary in the prime minister’s secretariat. He was, in the words of his biographer Jairam Ramesh, “Indira Gandhi’s ideological compass and moral beacon”. She was then fighting a running battle with the Syndicate, a group of veteran leaders who had earlier chosen her to be prime minister, and with her rival, Morarji Desai.Haksar, a former communist, advised her to convert this from a personal to an ideological battle, projecting an image of Gandhi, the progressive, being challenged by reactionaries. Bank nationalisation has been seen as the first major step in this political conversion and its economic justification has been ignored.The pre-nationalised banks had a profit motive, and shared close links with the corporate sector. So it’s not surprising that they had been lending 67% of their funds to industry and virtually nothing to agriculture. In 1969, commercial banks couldn’t lend money to farmers because they were only present in less than 1% of villages. Farmers were unable to get bank loans just when the Green Revolution was getting underway and they needed credit to buy the expensive inputs required to increase output.In 2018, it was estimated that four out of five Indians had a bank account. Had the banks not been nationalised, I don’t think they would have ventured so deeply into unprofitable rural India. But if PSBs are now widely present in the countryside, why have they not been more effective in providing credit to farmers? Why are indebted farmers still dying by suicide? Why are money lenders still able to find borrowers prepared to pay 5% interest per month on a loan?The bureaucratic functioning of banks has been a serious impediment to farmers getting timely loans. Some years ago, in the Karnataka town of Navalgund, a bank manager told me that a farmer had to get certificates that he was free of debt from the nine other banks operating in the town before applying for a loan. As manager, he had to check and sign every transaction. That could involve a thousand signatures a day. When I asked why he alone could sign, he replied: “I have two other officers classified as supervisory but under bank rules, they are not allowed to supervise.”Because PSBs are owned by the government, politicians in power think they are the owners. This has led to two frequent forms of political interference in banking. The first is known as telephone banking, with politicians ringing bank officials with instructions to lend money to their cronies. Second, some politicians have also undermined PSB’s by using them to win votes with loan waivers or by responding to public demand to finance unproductive projects. But it is a myth that PSBs are inherently inefficient, and privatisation is more efficient. If this is not challenged, banking reforms currently being discussed may well cause an imbalance in India’s development even further. If the corporate sector is allowed to dominate banking again, profit will become the prime motive rather than the desire to serve the public. A better solution than privatisation may well be giving PSBs autonomy to reform themselves and function free of political interference. Remember, most East Asian success stories have been underpinned by financial systems effectively controlled by governments, and in the West, governments have had to rescue private banks from bankruptcy. India should think through its approach to public banks.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-economic-rationale-of-bank-nationalisation-101618049387827.html
