21-04-2021||Today's||With design changes, Svamitva scheme can be a game changer||The Survey of Villages Abadi and Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Areas or Svamitva scheme, launched in April 2020, can play a key role in ensuring secure property rights for rural India. The scheme aims to provide an integrated property validation solution for rural India through the demarcation of inhabited areas using drones. By providing a Record of Rights (RoRs) to village household owners in inhabited rural areas, it attempts to create accurate land and property records, which can be pivotal in reducing property-related disputes and facilitating monetisation of rural residential assets for credit and other financial services. By providing clear records of land ownership, it also envisages improved tax collection through the gram panchayat institutions. As of March, drone survey has been completed in over 31,000 villages, and property cards distributed to about 230,000 property holders in 2,626 villages.But the scheme’s legal, social and economic design needs more thought. One, property cards distributed under the scheme need legal validity in order to enable citizens to establish their title and to avail financial services. The Framework for Implementation of the Svamitva Scheme places the responsibility of carrying out appropriate amendments to the revenue laws for this purpose on the respective state revenue departments. As these departments make the required changes, a careful consideration of the laws will ensure that no legal loopholes impact its effectiveness. For example, in Haryana, the Svamitva scheme has been implemented under section 26 of its Panchayati Raj Act. However, section 26 of the Act only empowers the panchayat to prepare the maps of the said area, not to create the associated RoRs. Panchayats, in this case, may not be the competent authority to complete this process of entrusting property titles to rural residents. Thus, there is a possibility of disputes if due legal process is not followed. To ensure such inconsistencies do not arise, a review of the state laws related to land and revenue impacting the legality of property cards should be undertaken. These experts could be tasked with drafting amendments to the existing laws or framing new laws to create legally admissible property cards.Two, at 12%, single women form a significant share of the population but are often devoid of property ownership. The scheme presents an opportunity to enable recognition of women’s ownership rights as it issues property cards based on “possession” and not “inheritance”. To ensure this, states can also consider including details of more than one owner on the property cards, and recognising joint ownership of property by women.Madhya Pradesh and Odisha have existing schemes that provide homestead land to weaker sections such as Dalits and single women. Svamitva can strive to include those in possession of these lands and also include low-income families and SC/ST communities who have been residing in village commons for generations. There is also scope to rope in civil society organisations for gender and caste-based sensitisation of field functionaries. Third, the Fifteenth Finance Commission report has emphasised the importance of property tax as “the most effective instrument for revenue mobilisation by local bodies”, thereby encouraging the administration to “build a framework for property taxation with universal coverage.”To ensure that Svamitva is able to achieve the objective of building financially resilient local governments, legal changes are needed to empower panchayats to both collect and utilise property tax. Gram panchayats may also be authorised to revise property tax records at the time of land record updates (registration, mutation) to ensure robust and consistent revenue collection. A Geographic Information System-based-based software may be provided to panchayats to manage property and taxation records. Such software is available for municipal corporations and urban local bodies. As more states gear up for the implementation of Svamitva, including these design principles could ensure the realisation of rural India’s aspirations.Shivani Gupta is a senior policy analyst, The Quantum Hub The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/with-design-changes-svamitva-scheme-can-be-a-game-changer-101619017963938.html
21-04-2021||Today's||The new vaccine policy needs an overhaul||Indulging in eerie Covid statistics of daily numbers of tests and cases is facile, futile, and a façade. Facile because these numbers are a function of inadequate testing and flawed reporting; futile because they do not help solve the crisis; and a façade because they hide real human agony and distract attention away from the core issue. Instead, there is only one number we need to focus on every single day in the fight against Covid.Seven per cent. That is the percentage of Indian adults who have received at least one dose of the Covid vaccine thus far. The government’s single-minded pursuit should be to see how the 7% figure can grow to at least 75% in the shortest possible time.To this effect, on April 19, the Narendra Modi government announced a “liberalised and accelerated Covid-19 vaccination strategy” with much fanfare. Alas, it turned out to be a confused and complicated strategy that threatens to derail a smooth vaccination roll-out. Here is why.As per this new vaccination strategy, if you are a 45-year-old Tamilian who wants to get vaccinated after May 1, you will have to first wade through these myriad set of options — a free vaccine offered by the Government of India (GOI) in a public hospital, or a vaccine for a price offered by the GOI at a private hospital, or a vaccine offered by the government of Tamil Nadu that may either be free or charged depending on the rules in the state; or a priced vaccine offered by a private hospital of their own accord.Also Read | ‘For a few industrialists’: Rahul Gandhi compares vaccine policy with note banIf you are a vaccine maker, you have to create two equal categories of all the vaccines produced — one to be sold to GOI at a fixed price and another to be sold to state governments or a private player at a different price, which will presumably be higher than the price offered to GOI.If this was not head-spinning enough, state governments can buy the vaccine directly from the manufacturer at a price different from what the Centre pays but most states are starved of funds. They will need to borrow money to buy the vaccine for which, as per constitutional norms, they have to seek permission from the Centre.Different prices for the same product may be the norm for airline tickets but for the critical task of getting a majority of Indians vaccinated quickly, the new vaccination strategy is an abominable aberration. It does not require an economist to infer that creating multiple fixed price systems and buying channels for the same product will inevitably lead to people trying to arbitrage and create parallel unofficial markets. Covid vaccination is a national mission of utmost importance and urgency, not some trivial stock market type activity to match buyers and sellers of vaccines.Also Read | Karnataka govt sets up war room to monitor supply of oxygen, RemdesivirInstead, here is a plan that the government must adopt to smoothen the vaccine roll-out strategy.One, the Centre must fix a uniform standard price for all vaccines transparently, after negotiations with all the vaccine manufacturers. Two, state governments and private players must be allowed to procure vaccines directly as per their requirements, at this fixed price.Three, the Centre must facilitate unconditional borrowing for the state governments for the purpose of Covid vaccination through a special borrowing window with the Reserve Bank of India for a specific period of time, at a specific rate of interest, and an amount for each state depending on the size of their population (not the number of Covid cases, which is merely a function of testing).Four, states should be free to roll out their own vaccination strategy as they deem fit. Private players can also set up their own facilities for vaccination. Five, the Centre should then play the role of the mediator and judge, monitoring and measuring the pace of vaccination in each state and district through the CoWin platform. This information should be published daily, which can spur healthy competition across states and districts to rapidly vaccinate their residents.And six, the Centre takes on the responsibility to ensure adequate availability of vaccines through negotiations with vaccine makers across the world, and lets states and private players focus on implementing the vaccination process for all citizens.Also Read | Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga calls off India visit amid Covid-19 spike: ReportIt is a testament to the spirit of the free enterprise of the modern world that we have a plethora of choices of scientifically proven vaccines available in such a short time to put an end to the Covid-19 nightmare. Our task now is to focus on getting the maximum number of Indians vaccinated in the shortest possible time. The principles that made the vaccine available to humankind are exactly the ones that will also enable us to achieve this objective — unleashing the spirit of competitive dynamics of various states with the soft-touch guiding hand of the Centre.Covid-19 has not just taken thousands of lives away from us but has also ruptured the economic structure of our society and left profound scars that will take a long time to heal. The defeat of Covid is merely the first step in the long and arduous climb back to normalcy for India. We will then have to repair and mend our broken economy through a series of bold measures aimed directly at the people in the form of income supplements and job creation through investments.Vaccines are the surest way to defeat Covid-19. Victory against Covid is possible only through a sensible and simple vaccination strategy, not a convoluted and complicated one like the government has announced.Praveen Chakravarty is a political economist and senior office-bearer of the CongressThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-new-vaccine-policy-needs-an-overhaul-101618995822988.html
21-04-2021||Today's||The Taste with Vir Sanghvi | Covid-19: Here’s What You Need To Know||For weeks now, this column has been about Covid. Even before this wave of the Pandemic reached today’s heights, I have been complaining about the ineptitude of the government’s Covid managers. These were the people who wanted to keep such a tight control on the battle against Covid that they destroyed our vaccination strategy by refusing to order enough vaccines, by fighting off demands for private sector involvement in distribution, assured us that the Pandemic was in its end game and took too long to approve new vaccines.One by one, every single idiotic position they adopted has collapsed and government policy has been reversed. But it has taken too long for that to happen and hundreds of people have lost their lives in the meantime.You could easily make out a case of criminal negligence against them. But, I hope, that at the very least, they will be held accountable and dismissed. Too many people have died. And India has paid a terrible price for their smugness, arrogance and stupidity.But now that we are in worse shape than ever before, here is a layman’s guide to the key questions about the pandemic.What accounts for this wave?Well according to our government, it is our own fault. We have ignored Covid protocols, not worn masks, gathered in crowded places, etc. Some of this is true. Indians have behaved irresponsibly. Forget about the metros, I have travelled through Agra, Jaipur and other cities and found the streets full of people who did not bother to wear masks.But here’s the problem: this was when numbers were actually going down. The irresponsibility of the public did not change. It was the same when Covid was on the decline and when the numbers rose again. So logic suggests that there has to have been a new variable.Or a new variant.Is this the current wave attributable to a different variant?Logic tells us it must be. Nothing else has changed. So why would numbers go up so drastically unless a more easily transmissible Covid variant is causing the infections?We have found new variants all over India. In Punjab the UK variant is partly responsible for the infections. And a so-called Indian variant was found late last year. It accounts for many of the Maharashtra infections.The trouble is that the virus mutates all the time. There are many variants. You need careful research to establish whether a new variant is more dangerous.We are still lagging behind in that research so there is no official word from the government. But the world seems to think that a new variant is causing this wave. That is why the UK has banned travel to and from India.How does one cope with a new variant?You can look at the experience of the UK. When it discovered a highly transmissible variant called the Kent variant (what we now know as the UK variant), the government locked down the country and speeded up vaccinations. It worked. The UK is slowly returning to normal.So why didn’t we do that?Because we say we are still not sure (at least officially) if a variant is responsible for our Pandemic. The crucial research is still incomplete. And there is a vaccination problem.What ‘vaccination problem’?First of all, we need to be sure that our existing vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin work against this variant.The government announced a few days ago – finally – that they worked against most variants, including the Indian mutation.The logical thing to have done would have been to begin to follow the UK’s example and stepped up vaccination for all.But there was a problem.India is the vaccine manufacturing hub of the world as we bragged when we sent lakhs of vaccines abroad. So vaccine availability should not have been a problem.But there is no accounting for human stupidity and arrogance. The Indian government delayed approving vaccines that the rest of the world had approved (such as the Russian Sputnik V) and did not order enough of the Covishield vaccine we were manufacturing in India.Why did they do this?Because they are arrogant idiots. Obviously, the Prime Minister shares this view of his medical czars.Because, after a public uproar, their policies were reversed. India said we would welcome any vaccine that was in general use abroad, we allowed vaccine imports and we gave money to the two Indian manufacturers to increase production.Much of this could have been done two months ago.Now, because it takes time to get vaccines, the earliest we can open up vaccination to all adults is 1 May.Will increasing vaccination help?Yes, of course it will.But recent experience shows us that even if you have had both your jabs (as Manmohan Singh did) you might still get Covid. But, say doctors, the vaccines will make the impact of the disease less serious. It is very unlikely that you will fall critically ill or die.What should we do then?Wear masks. Ideally N 95 masks, or if not, then two regular masks at the same time.Isn’t this the same old advice?Yes and no. Science is now more sure of the need for masks. The old view was that Covid spread through surfaces and big droplets. So if you used sanitizers on everything and maintained social distancing, you were fine. The sanitizers would disinfect the surfaces and the droplets would fall to the ground before they could reach anyone who maintained social distancing.The new view is that it is actually very difficult to get infections from surfaces. So sanitizers are of limited use. Just wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water.Covid, we now know, does not spread through large droplets that fall to the floor. The primary cause of infection is the breath of a Covid-infected person which comes out in a spray, full of micro-particles that may linger in the air.If the Covid affected person is wearing a mask, he does not spray as many micro-particles. And if you are wearing one too, you won’t inhale them.Is there a new general rule?Yes. Do not remain unmasked in a closed space unless you are with someone you are confident about, say your spouse or your kids. Otherwise, keep your mask on: a person may have Covid and be totally asymptomatic and still be infectious. At the very least, if you have to take off your mask, make sure the other person is wearing one.Even if the person who you are exposed to has been vaccinated, work on the assumption that he or she could be Covid positive.Is there a way out?Only to some extent. Scientists say that it is safer outside, so if you want to go to a restaurant then eat al fresco. You can perhaps take your mask off if you are isolated in a park.Are there any other things to worry about?Plenty. But here is just one. In the first wave, children did not seem to get Covid. Older people were at much more risk of infection. But in this wave, all ages are at risk.When will it get better?Things should improve once many more people are vaccinated. But even if all goes well, we won’t get to a stage where it makes much difference till September-October.So get used to life as a masked person.Batman came to terms with it. So should you.For more stories by Vir Sanghvi read here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-taste-with-vir-sanghvi-covid-19-here-s-what-you-need-to-know-101618987370589.html
21-04-2021||Today's||As vaccination opens up, design a smarter communication plan||In public health, communication is often equated with sharing of information. If there is anything we have learnt over the past year, it is that information alone does not result in lasting behaviour change. This is particularly true in an environment burdened with information overload, blurring lines between fact, fiction and opinion. That is where strategic communication becomes vital to help shape behaviour. Information is cold, but communication can make it warm, personal and thereby more effective.As we enter the general public vaccination drive, in the middle of an unprecedented wave of infections, citizens will hopefully be more convinced of the need to take the jab. But instead of only leaving it to them, it is important to craft communication that combines motivation, relevant information and appropriate messaging.In February, The Indian Covid-19 Alliance (TICA), anchored by IDFC Institute, partnered with a market research consultancy Convergent View to understand issues surrounding vaccine hesitancy and eagerness. Our qualitative study showed that reversing the disruption in people’s economic stability, social life, and way of living is the most critical motivator to opt for the vaccine — more than safeguarding oneself from health risks.During the early period of the pandemic, when it was critical to adjust to a different way of living, communication was instructional, overloaded with information, and directing (one might even say ordering) the public on desired health behaviour to prevent the spread of the virus. This mechanism is not likely to work now.First, Covid-19 is not just a public health problem. The study’s respondents expressed concerns about a diverse range of issues – from children become addicted to mobile devices, to financial devastation. Any form of communication must consider this social and human aspect. Mainstream messages in the earlier phases of the pandemic focused on the actions we expected from the public but failed to pay attention to the stimulus most likely to trigger that action. Until we unearth those reasons, and listen to our audiences, we cannot expect behaviour to change.Second, the launch of the vaccination program in mid-January brought with it volumes of misinformation, disinformation, and every other kind of information resulting in an infodemic. Our study confirmed that too much erratic information is leading to vaccine hesitancy. Those who were reluctant feared severe side-effects both in the long and short term; believed in the vaccine being curative and not preventative; saw vaccines as not meant for healthy people; suspected vaccine tampering by health care workers; perceived it as a money-making exercise; preferred ayurveda to allopathic interventions; and claimed Covid-19 was being blown out of proportion. Other reports from our partners, frontline workers and NGOs suggest misinformation around more implausible side-effects of vaccination, including an inability to conceive, impotence, and an inability to consume alcohol or non-vegetarian food. The second wave may have changed incentives and dispelled some of this, but it is useful to know the nature of misperceptions out there.Third, there is both fatigue and lack of awareness of the importance of Covid-appropriate behaviour (both pre and post vaccination). Any future communication campaigns, therefore, need to emphasise the value of the Covid-19 vaccine not just from the lens of prevention of serious disease and fatality but by stating with conviction this it is currently the best and only known path to restoration of normalcy in our lives. Here lies the answer for “why should I” and the most compelling motivation for anyone to opt for the vaccine.India has a rich history of having successfully eradicated insurmountable diseases through public vaccination campaigns. It is the country’s responsibility to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease and treat infected patients. But it is an individual’s responsibility to manage their lives and families and do their bit. If each and every one of us has a strong enough personal motivation, we are more likely to do our bit by opting for the vaccine as and when offered.Kalyani Rajan is Visiting Senior Fellow and Shilpa Rao is Head, Stage Engagements, IDFC Institute. This article is part of TICA projectThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/as-vaccination-opens-up-design-a-smarter-communication-plan-101618922138059.html
21-04-2021||Today's||India’s war against Covid-19||We are facing a war on three major fronts — medical, financial, and a strained internal and external environment, which predates the pandemic and persists.To wage a successful war, the entire national capacity has to be leveraged. Resources, energies and mindshare of leaders have to be synergised and concentrated on the point of decision, which, in this case, is minimising the damage of the pandemic. Synergy has to be shepherded through a series of negotiations, persuasion and coordination. Like in any war, this has to be achieved while incurring casualties within the very machinery tasked to execute these complicated manoeuvres.We have some strategic advantages. Though belated, a sense of national emergency is kicking in among citizens. We have an excellent communication system with deep penetration of mobile phones, which is useful for planning. Aadhaar is a robust mechanism to coordinate and control vaccination and lifesaving drug delivery. Our technology prowess can help solve resource allocation problems and guide policymakers. Our top 200 corporates have the muscle to reach every nook and corner of the country in terms of logistical and management bandwidth. We also have a fair amount of idle aviation capacity to cart resources between cities.Also Read | Covid-19: 10 states account for over 77% of new casesOur challenge, thus, is not at an absolute resource shortage but the ability to join the dots, monitor execution and bridge gaps quickly. If we have to fight a war against the pandemic, then we might as well follow the ten principles of war.The first principle is the selection and maintenance of a singular unambiguous aim. We must have the aim of fighting the health and financial crisis, and maintain it throughout. In wars, contradictory aims have to be managed with compromises. Wartime decisions can seldom satisfy all stakeholders and hence statesmanship is needed.Second, the maintenance of morale. This has three elements. Citizens have to be given the true picture, no matter how grim; shown the roadmap for the way out; and demonstrated quick wins. If there is dissonance between the narrative and reality, the credibility of the narratives and narrators gets diffused, diminishing unity of purpose.Third, offensive action, or a series of practical steps that seize initiative, maintain momentum and create advantageous positions. Resources must be allocated proactively and initiative left to local leaders to implement the strategy. Higher formations focus on provisioning of resources and lower ones deploy those on the ground. There will be compelling and unsatisfiable demands from lower formations but that is the nature of war; hence, higher formations will need to make strategic long term priorities. Towards that end, cities which are strategic, financial and industrial hubs will need to be safeguarded first. If those nodes fail, everything else will collapse.Fourth, security — defined as provision and maintenance of an operating environment that affords necessary freedom of action to achieve objectives. Imbalance in supply and demand, especially of lifesaving resources, breeds moral and material corruption. Any blockage of resources, be it because of bureaucratic hurdles, apathy or greed, sabotages the war effort. The government should leverage capacity of institutions created specifically for fusing thousands of databases that can provide visibility of resource allocations and dispensation, preventing leakages and delays. The mandate of such organisations needs to be changed but that too is the nature of war. Entire assembly lines convert to producing war material in times of existential emergencies.The fifth principle — surprise — acts in reverse in this case. There must be second and third order of thinking so that surprise is minimised. Every decision has unintended consequences, for instance the exodus of migrants following the lockdown. In wartime, decisions are often between one wrong and lesser wrong. Red teams must evaluate the implications of major decisions and create credible implication flows that allow decision makers to evaluate the lesser evil. These teams must be populated by imaginative thinkers pooled in from every ministry and the corporate sector.Sixth, concentration of forces. Prioritising frontline workers for vaccination was an example of this principle. Often leaders spread their resources too thin so they don’t make a decisive impact.The seventh principle, economy of effort, recognises that resources will always be short in war and therefore every effort must be leveraged to its fullest. This implies strict watch on wastage, cold chain storage, and ironing out process delays to ensure that there is least friction in the system.Eighth, flexibility. Once there is an overall strategy, implementation must be delegated down with adequate empowerment and oversight. For instance, local leaders may find that their population can be more easily vaccinated as a family unit, rather than age criteria. Such changes must be allowed on ground.Ninth, cooperation. This involves teamwork and a sharing of dangers, burdens, risks and opportunities in every aspect of warfare. This key principle is often the Achilles' heel of most campaigns as dangers, burdens and risks are often borne by the majority while a smaller cohort seeks the opportunities and glory. Such campaigns usually lose steam, morale and consequently their efficacy.The last principle, sustainability, is to generate the means by which fighting power is sustained and freedom of action maintained. Which is where the larger issue of the economic front kicks in. Without that engine grinding back, the war against the pandemic will start sputtering.These principles of war give us a road map. The only silver lining of a nation at war is that despite internal bickering, there is an opportunity to unleash its full potential. It is not the absolute lack of resources or knowledge that defeats nations but hubris of past victories, underestimating the adversary, and not altering strategy when required.Raghu Raman is founding CEO, Natgrid The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indias-war-against-covid19-101618913917918.html
