22-04-2021||Today's||On India, the contestation within Pakistan’s army||Over the past few weeks, signs have emerged, like the tips of an iceberg, of an ongoing contestation within Pakistan on the country’s India policy. These indications are important to make an assessment of how far current India-Pakistan endeavours to reduce bilateral tensions can really progress.The February 25 joint statement to cease fire on the Line of Control (LOC) and “all other sectors” is holding. The term “all other sectors” relates to the International Border (IB) in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) and the Actual Ground Position Line (AGPL) on the Saltoro ridge. The Pakistan army uses the cover of firing along LOC as one of the means to push terrorists into J&K. It would, however, be wrong to assume that the ceasefire is indicative of a shift in its strategic doctrine relating to India — which, on one end of the spectrum, relies on the use of terror and, at the other end, on nuclear weapons. Nevertheless, the ceasefire is welcome relief to those who live along LOC and IB in J&K. Significantly, external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi were in Abu Dhabi at the same time on official visits a few days ago. In an interview to a leading newspaper in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), on April 18, Qureshi mentioned the joint statement as a “positive development”. He further noted that Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s message to PM Imran Khan on Pakistan’s national day in March and India’s “dialling down” of rhetoric and its desire to see a peaceful Afghanistan and region were also “positive developments”. To Qureshi’s positives list can be added reports that India will give visas to the Pakistan cricket team for the ICC T20 World Cup scheduled to be played in India in October this year.Also Read | Pakistan probes shooting of former prominent journalist critical of militaryThese “positive developments” cannot be taken, though, as indicative of the relationship turning a corner — due to the approach of Qureshi and some other important leaders of the ruling Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party. The Pakistan government’s about-turn on cotton and sugar imports from India, despite great shortages of both commodities, is a sure manifestation of the pressure that these politicians were able to bring to bear in the cabinet even though the commerce ministry, which is headed by Imran Khan himself, had cleared the proposal. It is inconceivable in view of the dynamics of Pakistan’s foreign and security policymaking that Qureshi and other politicians would openly oppose a move, which had PM Khan’s approval, and was in line with army chief Qamar Bajwa’s stated interest in improving ties with India — unless there was a coterie of senior generals behind them.There can be little doubt that it is this support from the men in khaki which emboldened Qureshi, despite taking note of “positive developments”, to make scathing comments against India on UAE soil. He did so despite the full knowledge that the UAE is seeking to play, at minimum, a facilitation role to help India and Pakistan develop, what UAE’s ambassador to the United States recently called a “healthy functional relationship”.Qureshi said that Pakistan’s greatest achievement in the last two years has been to defeat India’s design to diplomatically isolate Pakistan. He went on to assert that Pakistan was able to expose India’s smear campaign. These are not helpful words for the India-Pakistan process underway and Qureshi, an experienced politician who has served as the country’s foreign minister (though not continuously) for five years, would be aware of this fact.In considering the India-Pakistan relationship, it is important to bear in mind that the Pakistani army has always maintained a stranglehold on its approach towards India. After Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, Pakistan’s civilian leadership, with the exception of former PM Nawaz Sharif, has accepted the army’s key role in all matters pertaining to India. Certainly, Imran Khan, who the Pakistani opposition calls a “selected prime minister”, is in no position to challenge the army. Thus, the future of the current initiatives will depend on whether Bajwa succeeds in fostering a consensus on the India policy among the generals. That is clearly absent today.Retired senior Pakistani generals confided in Indian participants on the “track two” circuit, soon after Bajwa became the army chief, that he seriously wanted to normalise India-Pakistan ties. They also indirectly acknowledged that many of Bajwa’s colleagues were not on the same page with him on this issue. It would seem Bajwa and Khan realise that Pakistan needs to establish a “healthy functional relationship” with India to take it out of its economic and social morass. The recent Tehreek-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP) agitation is one more pointer of the deep roots of religious rigidity in Jinnah’s creation.The problem for Bajwa and Khan is that Pakistan went so overboard in its opposition to the constitutional changes in J&K that they will find it difficult to counter the charge of a sell-out, especially if that is the thinking of some senior generals. India should factor this point into its calculations as it proceeds on normalising ties with Pakistan. It should also be prepared for adventurous actions by recalcitrant Pakistani generals.Vivek Katju is a retired diplomat who has extensively dealt with Pakistan The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/on-india-the-contestation-within-pakistan-s-army-101619095610329.html
22-04-2021||Today's||Covid-19: The buck stops at the top||All through his long political career, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been the master of optics — the ability to effectively use the visual image, a slogan, a sharp soundbite at just the right moment in a multimedia age is what has been his distinct leadership weapon. But last week, the well-honed technique of perception management appeared to let down the PM for once. On a day when the daily Covid-19 case count crossed 200,000 for the first time, the PM was busily addressing large election rallies in West Bengal. With little masking and no social distancing at the gathering, he appeared to be operating in a parallel universe to the stark ground realities of a country in the midst of another severe Covid wave. In his public communication, Modi has repeatedly urged people to observe “do gaz ki doori”, and, yet, now he was happily seen rousing frenzied crowds to gather in even greater numbers. The imagery and messaging were strikingly jarring.To be fair, to expect the PM not to campaign in a high-stakes election battle like Bengal is like asking Virat Kohli to withdraw from the world test championships final. As a consummate political campaigner, Modi was never going to back off from hitting the road aggressively. This is his standard formula for fighting and winning elections: Modi and his chief aide, home minister Amit Shah, take no prisoners when in election mode. Also Read | Offered India not-for-profit price for Covid-19 vaccine: PfizerBut every formula must be rejigged in extraordinary times. Could the PM, for example, have not used the BJP’s vast digital footprint to address more people online? Maybe, more realistically, the Election Commission itself should have been nudged to curtail a crazily elongated election schedule. The key here is to set an example that others will be encouraged to embrace; true leadership is about being a step ahead of the competition, not becoming part of the multitude.Unfortunately, a hyper-polarised society runs the risk of being trapped in the noise of constant politicking. This is precisely the trap the Modi government has got ensnared in, at a time when its single-minded focus should have been on how to tackle Covid-19. In the past year, the Centre has been engaged in a variety of bruising battles, each of which exhausted political capital and mindspace at the wrong time. Was it really necessary, for example, to push through contentious farm legislation in Parliament at a time when there was an urgent need to build political consensus on how to fight a public health emergency? Far too many political distractions, marked by a sense of infallibility, meant that the eye was lifted from the Covid gaze. Having won the November Bihar election in particular, it seems as if an all-powerful Modi government felt that its political agenda would trump all else. If citizens were guilty of letting their guard down because of Covid fatigue, the Centre too seemed caught in Covid hubris, convinced that it was fully in control of the situation, without accounting for the dangerous red signals that were beginning to flash. The disjointed vaccine policy is a classic example of being stuck in an echo chamber of cheerleaders who were already waving celebratory flags of conquering the coronavirus when the urgent need was to prepare for worst-case scenarios. Why, for example, the rush to export vaccines outside existing global commitments without first getting the domestic situation fully in control? By restricting the number of vaccine options, not placing enough firm vaccine supply orders in advance, adopting a rigid quota-permit raj for vaccine distribution in each state, not doing enough to fund and incentivise private sector manufacturers, and not offering flexibility in vaccinating people across age groups, a bureaucratic maze was created. This prevented fast-tracking the vaccine rollout at a crucial time. The latest policy course correction is welcome but that the world’s leading vaccine manufacturer is now desperately rushing to import vaccines to meet shortages reflects how the battle to contain the pandemic is a long and complicated one. The Opposition would, of course, like to pin the entire blame on the Modi government for being seemingly ill-prepared to combat the second Covid wave. Hasn’t Congress leader, Rahul Gandhi, after all, been forewarning the Centre of pitfalls in its Covid management, warnings that have been met with typically dismissive reactions? And yet, can one really say that the Congress or Opposition-ruled states are in any better shape to combat Covid than BJP-governed states? The virus doesn’t know of political boundaries and there isn’t a magic mantra to tackle a pandemic. But if the Centre is quick to take credit for anything positive that happens in new India, then it must accept its share of blame for missteps. When it centralises power and micromanages decision-making but refuses to share even basic information on money spent through PM-Cares on fighting Covid 19, then it must also be held accountable when things don’t go to plan. The buck this time stops at the top. Post-script: Nothing quite exemplifies the mess in Covid decision making than the unseemly war of words last week between the Maharashtra government and the Centre over shortage in oxygen and remdesivir supplies. When Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray claimed that the Prime Minister was uncontactable because he was campaigning in Bengal, Union minister Piyush Goyal hit back, accusing the Maharashtra government of “corruption” and “ineptitude”. Just wonder: isn’t there a hotline between Delhi and Mumbai for Covid crisis management, or will every issue become a political slanging match on Twitter?Rajdeep Sardesai is a senior journalist and authorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/covid19-the-buck-stops-at-the-top-101619093690323.html
22-04-2021||Today's||An open letter to farmers: Suspend your agitation||I write as a senior citizen, on behalf of them, among others, who are exposed to the vicious second surge of the virus. Those who take precautions with great care also get afflicted because of the sheer load around us of those who are not taking any care, and being callously careless.I also write on behalf of seniors among you, in your homes, and the countless in the areas around where your massed protests are located — their vulnerability to the virus has increased many times over as a result of the great convergence. The elderly and those who, for livelihood reasons, have to venture out, are now at great risk, even fatal risk. This risk is far greater than it was last year.Your being massed in protest sites around the national capital for the greater part of a year has drawn international attention, acclaim. The spirit behind your protest has been spontaneously sympathised with, even by those who may not agree with all your demands. I am among those who believe that justice is on your side. I cannot reconcile to your interests being compromised in any way.Also Watch | ‘Want vaccine centres here’: Rakesh Tikait says protest sites are farmers’ homeBut I have this appeal to make to you, great farming-soldiers, soldier-farmers: Recognising the peril of the virus and the grim fact that your agitation is unwittingly fuelling the virus, please suspend your agitation now.Surely, it cannot be your intention to cause any innocent person the slightest harm. But by staying massed as you are, with members of the protest groups returning to the villages and then coming back, without realising it, you are becoming accomplices to the risk. That is something that you do not, cannot, want.I have appealed to the government, in the interests of public health, to scrap the three acts you are objecting to. Or at least to suspend them in toto until the virus is brought under control. But I have not had even an acknowledgment. I have also appealed to valued friends who are part of your agitation, to persuade you to suspend the agitation until the virus is brought under control. This too has not received (except from the tireless P Sainath) notice or acknowledgment.Hence, this open appeal. The virus is India’s public enemy number one at this moment. It is vicious, murderous. Just see the pictures of those who have died or been bereaved by Covid-19 deaths. They could be you or me, your or my loved ones.The three farm acts are at this juncture, less, far less, of a menace. I am not saying the acts are not to be opposed; far from it. I am only saying that there is such a thing as a wrong time for doing even a right thing. This is not the time to converge in hundreds around a city where the virus is dancing the dance of death-by-crowding. I am not asking you to stop it or end the agitation. Only to dismantle its present form and keep it dismantled until the virus is completely under control.Holding mammoth election rallies, processions and door to door campaigns has been a great folly. Exposing hundreds of thousands to the virus at the kumbh mela has been another monumental wrong. It should not be said of you, great and wise kisans, that you have been as callous, as uncaring, as insensitive in the battle against the virusPlease suspend the agitation and announce a return of the protesters to their villages, to get vaccinated. You will thereby get the gratitude of the whole country and the admiration of all those across the world who are watching your stamina and your zeal for justice. Do not misunderstand me, dear fellow-citizens, when I say that the wave of public sympathy stands in danger of waning if the perception gains ground that you do not care if the virus spreads.I know you do care, for you are passionate human beings, loving parents and doting children. And above all, patriots of the first order, many of you being ex-jawans and retired officers of the armed forces yourselves.In great pride of your courage and your common sense,Jai Hind.Gopalkrishna Gandhi is a former administrator and diplomat who has also served as the governor of West BengalThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/an-open-letter-to-farmers-suspend-your-agitation-101619093210360.html
