23-04-2021||Today's||President Joe Biden, do the right thing||It’s time for President Joe Biden to display his compassionate side and statesmanship on the world stage. Biden needs to convince developed and high-income countries (starting with his own) to allow the World Trade Organization (WTO) to grant temporary waiver from intellectual property (IP) rights to Covid-19 vaccines, therapeutics and new technologies so that they can be accessible to people all around the world.A proposal to this effect was moved by India and South Africa at WTO on October 2 when Sars-CoV-2 looked invincible, with no vaccine in sight. Seven months and many millions of infected cases and deaths after, that proposal has not moved an inch, blocked by high-income countries such as the United Sates, at the behest of pharmaceutical companies who argue IP rights fund their research and innovation.A temporary waiver of these rights, such as patents, will not siphon off vaccines from these countries. Biden will not be forced by the waiver to part with vaccines from the US stockpile, which, he doesn’t want to do until all willing Americans have been vaccinated. That goal stands halfway accomplished. More than 219 million Americans — of the total population of 328 million — have received at least one shot of the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna’s two-dose vaccines and Johnson & Johnson’s single-dose alternative; 66 million, or 20%, have been fully vaccinated. The Washington Post estimates that the total number of vaccines secured by the US is twice the number of doses needed to inoculate all its citizens. Also Read | Global stocks mixed after Wall Street falls on Joe Biden tax reportAround 80 countries have lined up behind this appeal from India and South Africa so far, as have a growing number of US lawmakers, especially those from Biden’s own party. “To bring the pandemic to its quickest end and save the lives of Americans and people around the world, we ask that you prioritise people over pharmaceutical company profits by reversing the Trump position and announcing US support for the WTO TRIPS (the agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights) waiver,” said 10 US Democratic senators, including Bernie Sanders, in a letter to Biden on April 17.Overturning this WTO decision should be easy for Biden as reversing President Donald Trump’s policy imprint has been a key feature of his foreign policy. And it will be welcomed by India as fair and long overdue. Trump badgered India to release a consignment of hydroxychloroquine, an anti-malarial drug used as a prophylactic that he believed at the time could also be used for treating Covid-19, despite a ban. But he denied India a quid pro quo when it needed him, at WTO. While at it, Biden might also take a look at a supply bottleneck caused by his use of a war-time law, the Defense Production Act , in ramping up vaccine production in India. Indian vaccine-makers such as the Serum Institute of India have complained of being denied supplies of raw materials needed for Covid-19 vaccines because American suppliers are obligated under that law to prioritise domestic buyers.yashwant.raj@hindustantimes.com The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/president-joe-biden-do-the-right-thing-101619181656285.html
23-04-2021||Today's||Covid-19: Battling the second wave||India is in a war-like situation with a highly adaptable and unpredictable enemy. A few months ago, we thought the war was over, but have now discovered that was merely one battle — the next battle has turned out to be even more aggressive and unpredictable. So, how did we get here and where do we go now?The first wave took us by surprise. Our health system did not hold up to the challenge of the virus. We fought as best as the country could and built a plane while learning how to fly it. Economically and socially expensive lockdowns bought time; the administrative capacity of the country focused on this one emergency; a rudimentary test-trace-isolate capability was built, as was a critical care capacity; extensive communication campaigns were rolled out motivating people to wear masks and practise social distancing. We came through it all faring better than some of the predictions. With vaccines being developed surprisingly fast, it was hoped that the pandemic would be behind us.And then the virus outsmarted us. New strains, with higher infectiveness and virulence, surprised us in a second wave with a steep exponential rise.Also Read | Work as one nation to ensure no scarcity: Modi to CMs amid surge in Covid casesFrom the viewpoint of the health system, we are in better shape today in some respects. A large number of health workers have been vaccinated and are at work in the private and public sector, unlike last year. Processes of quarantine, isolation, tracking and clinical capabilities are stronger today, although the infrastructure like testing, Intensive Care Units (ICU)s and oxygen is completely overloaded and overwhelmed with a far greater number of patients than it can handle.The experience and learnings of the first wave have been organic and fragmented, without a systematic machinery that could have averted this second wave. In some ways, we are back to square one, struggling with grave shortages of infrastructure. Importantly, the second wave may not be the end, as the virus mutates further. So, the burning question is — where can we go from here?Global experience shows the value of building a responsive system to manage infectious disease outbreaks in an ongoing manner. There are at least three strands to this.The first is doubling down on surveillance and epidemiological research. An early warning signal in January and February, which tracked variants and disease trends real-time, could have given timely warning to change population behaviours and strengthen care capacity.The second is a transparent, continuously reinforced, and enforced protocol of citizen behaviour based on virus risk levels as done by countries such as South Korea and Vietnam. This would have led to adherence to social distancing before reaching the need for lockdowns, as has emerged now through outrightly irresponsible super-spreader events and diluted vigilance over preventive behaviours.And the third is the ability to scale up infrastructure capacity (ICUs, ambulances, oxygen and testing) for peak load, through the government paying for additional capacity, advance commitments, and establishing public-private partnerships. This could have ensured, for example, that the 150-plus oxygen generation plants planned eight months back, were now up and running.Also Read | Military importing oxygen generation plants from GermanyVaccines are a critical defence system against Covid-19 waves. The current rate of vaccination in India, 2.6 million doses a day on average in the week ending April 22, one of the highest in the world, has covered less than 9% of the population with one dose. This is a run rate grossly insufficient against this second wave, even as the vaccination rate per day in the past week is less than the 3.3 million doses per day rate in the week ending April 15. India should aim to cover at least 50% of population in the next four months to reduce risk of future waves, translating into at least 10 million doses a day. This will require unprecedented efforts.First, reduce the constraint on supply. Currently supply from local manufacturers is about 70 million doses a month. The government is removing key bottlenecks through liberalising procurement, advance commitments, and transparency in allocation. However, the supply gap is large and time is of the essence. Aggressive advance commitments by the Centre/states to manufacturers to secure supply may be required. While autonomy to states is welcome, differential fiscal and capacity contexts should not result in inequities across states.Second, ensure bottom-up local-demand generation, driven by local committees and leaders. Community ownership of vaccination can be a game-changer as seen with polio, and local governments can play a strong role here.Most importantly, India can gain from increased attention to the institutional capacity needed. India has many capable institutions, deeply engaged in the response, but the response till date has been fragmented. In contrast, focused infectious diseases institutions have led to coordinated and more effective Covid responses in other countries such as Germany, South Korea, Vietnam. Pandemic response planning, epidemiology and research capabilities, deep technical knowledge and coordination mechanism with local public health institution were housed in the Robert Koch Institute in Germany. Some countries which had a poorer response last year, have revamped their infectious disease institutions, such as the United Kingdom (UK), which established the new UK Health Security Agency on April 1, 2021, to lead future infectious disease responses.India needs a dedicated and empowered institution, technically and politically, for future Covid-19 waves and for other pandemics.Amrita Agarwal is a health systems researcher Sandhya Venkateswaran is fellow, Lancet Citizen’s Commission for Reimagining India’s Health System The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/covid19-battling-the-second-wave-101619180996600.html
23-04-2021||Today's||Exploring a US Green Marshall Plan for India||President Joe Biden used this week’s climate summit to reassert America’s leadership of the world’s most important multilateral issue. He announced an emissions target for the United States (US) and climate funds for developing countries. What the US wants to do with emerging economies could prove more decisive. Despite its unwieldy name, the India-US climate and clean energy agenda 2030 partnership, announced by Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, bears watching. The US appetite on this front is enormous, the potential for India is almost as large, but the devil’s in the details, as US climate envoy John Kerry found on his earlier visit to India.Kerry outlined his green vision for India in early March. Given India needs $600 billion to make a complete green transition, finance is the country’s biggest challenge. But, he said, a “small consortia” of countries and “major investment houses and asset managers” are ready to help India with “some of the finance and transition.” The consortium already includes Japan, France, Denmark and Norway. The United Kingdom may sign up soon. There is an echo of the Eisenhower administration’s Aid India group of 1958 but this time with a carbon agenda.The initial US vision was burning bush stuff. Kerry told consortium members and Indian officials he could envisage paying for the closure of all of India’s coal-fired plants and mines. He didn’t stop there — perhaps New Delhi could be paid to drop its plans to use natural gas as a stepping stone fuel and go a deep forest green. The catch was he wanted India to announce a net-zero target. In other words, India would commit to contributing no more global carbon emissions in three or four decades.New Delhi felt this was too fast and furious. India pumps out about 2.5 billion metric tonnes of black stuff, about 7% of the global total. To take this to zero even while growing its Gross Domestic Product was more mythology than public policy. Before and during his visit to New Delhi in April, the US envoy was told not to make it all about net-zero. He got the message and kept mum when he met PM Modi.Also Read | At global climate summit, PM Modi unveils new US partnership to foster investments, tiesWhat New Delhi did tell Kerry was that India was more than willing to take a deep green path. Modi’s commitment to renewables and his concern about the climate crisis were second to none. But the journey needed to be mapped, demarcated and funded to the hilt. New Delhi was ready to seriously consider a “greenbacks for green energy” understanding. The new Modi-Biden clean energy partnership makes it public but also provides a testing period for both sides. Fixing a carbon peak year for India will be the likely first milestone. New Delhi is pleased at pushing Kerry back, but it also needs to give serious thought at what is on offer here. The world is going on a climate downslope that will accelerate rapidly. India needs lay out an aggressive carbon-reducing plan going beyond renewables and green hydrogen, one that brings in energy efficiency, electric mobility and more. This is about clean air, but also about guaranteeing the country’s economic future.The European Union will impose carbon tariffs on imports sometime this year. The Biden administration plans to follow suit. Similar laws will be imposed on investors — effective financial penalties if your money is going into infrastructure or projects that are carbon-lax. Soon an Indian car-maker will not be able to raise capital or export its products if it’s not wholly viridescent. The cars have to be electrical or hydrogen, the factory powered by renewables, and subcontractors environmentally certified. As NITI Aayog’s Amitabh Kant has argued, “The world will increasingly pay a premium for carbon-free products.”Then there are the coming technologies. Made in India will die a slow death if it is not among the best at batteries, electric vehicles, solar power widgets, smart grid equipment, biofuels and so on. The next Saudi Arabia will be the country that produces hydrogen better, cheaper and cleaner than anyone else. India gets this, but its weakness is evident in its recent National Hydrogen Mission, which has everything except money.Also Read | ‘You get away with it now, but...’: Greta blasts politicians over climate crisisWhich is why India should apply its mind to what amounts to a Green Marshall Plan. China is racing to grab the green future. PM Modi can be applauded for India’s solar accomplishments, even as he has spent six years struggling to shut down India’s ultra-dirty subcritical coal plants. Things will be much easier if the funding and knowhow for such moves is on tap, including for handouts and re-skilling to minimise the social costs.Trade, capital and technology will flow to the economies that are green and growing. If India sensibly leverages Kerry’s consortium and the new US partnership, the warp jump into the 21st century that it already wants to do will be smoother and cheaper. It could also become a partner to the US, Japan and others in all the relevant technologies. There is an obvious geopolitical undercurrent. India would automatically align with the standards and supply chains of the West rather than China. Then, Beijing has yet to come bearing green gifts. Even its Belt Road Initiative is wreathed with smoke and soot. The US is ready, willing and presumably now a bit more realistic. Indians, as Kerry said in early March on climate, “are determined to lead and to be an important player here…and we want to work with them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/exploring-a-us-green-marshall-plan-for-india-101619174696345.html
