25-04-2021||Today's||How to win the war against Covid-19||Two million people perished during the bloody birth of our nation. The pandemic has claimed one-tenth of that number already. There is no negating its severity anymore because even the staunchest deniers are sick, dying or cremating their families. Our health infrastructure has already collapsed and we have yet to face subsequent waves as super-spreader melas and rallies start their transmission cycles. India is waging a third world war. And a nation at war cannot afford internal squabbling.What should or could have been done to avoid the situation are passe conversations which can wait. A war requires unity of purpose and participation of citizens. We are facing a much bigger enemy than differences in ideology, religion or political affinity. We will have time enough for the latter if we win the battle against the former. If we don’t, our economy will be in tatters, families will be devastated and we will live a mauled existence for decades. Who will the corporates sell to if their customer base is diminished? How will politicians govern, if the nation is depleted of people? How can the rich live safely when the poor have nothing left to lose?That is why, at this time, there must be a single-minded focus on how we can contribute to the war effort rather than indulge in recrimination.War times require nations to leverage their national capacity. A national war effort is a sum of the constructive energy of every citizen and organisation. This war needs to be fought on fronts other than government operations which perforce deal reactively with the immediate crisis and will always be inadequate. Here are six strategic initiatives which can help the war effort.Bureaucracy must ruthlessly convert peacetime processes to a wartime sense of urgency. Every rule that impedes fluidity must be suspended. Every order passed must be war-gamed through its implications in consultation with stakeholder representatives. These instructions need to be reviewed every 12 hours and tweaked based on ground feedback. An entirely separate set of officers must start planning and catering for impending contingencies like the approaching summer which will trigger power shortages, monsoons that will choke ravaged cities like Mumbai and non-Covid-19 diseases whose toll will start rising exponentially.Large corporates must pitch in with every possible resource they can spare. They should vaccinate all their direct and indirect employees and families, set up medical facilities for them and frontload their corporate social responsibility (CSR) budgets for the next decade right now. The government must allow carrying forward CSR credit with pro-rata incentives. Similarly, corporates should hasten their payment cycles to vendors and employees to inject more spending power into the system. Venture capitalist funds must redirect their focus on equipment and platforms required to fight Covid to spur innovation and scale.Software giants, telecom back-offices, call centres, e-commerce platforms must offer their resources proactively. Business associations and various other trade bodies at all levels must submit assistance for coordination and movement of resources and dissemination of information. Unsold inventory of the real estate sector should be modified into wards or holding areas. The idle capacity of schools and private buses must be commandeered and redeployed for the pandemic. These solutions must be planned in totality and offered as self-contained projects. The government is too overwhelmed to redeploy resources offered piecemeal.Our health and hygiene, police, medical supply chain and ancillary personnel are frontline warriors. Many of them have not been able to cater to their own families over the last few weeks. Resident Welfare Associations and neighbours should take every possible administrative load off them. Frontline staff should be commuted to work instead of having to travel themselves, their children should be looked after and their families helped, so that they can focus on the pandemic. The policemen on duty must be taken care of by us to alleviate exhaustion and fatigue. Hygiene workers should be given cash and food to boost their wherewithal. Every ounce of energy that frontline soldiers divert from the battle, towards their administrative requirements, results in lost lives. Every administrative call they have to attend to is a professional call missed.We need to work the phones with our non-resident Indian (NRI) assets asking for assistance of resources and pressure to be applied on their host countries’ governments. The latter must realise that India is a back-office and industrial base for the world, not just for Indians. Indian diplomats must make the case that a weakened India strengthens Chinese hegemony. We need to call in our IOUs to nations like the United States, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, France and so on who have benefited immensely from their Indian diaspora, and more importantly, need access to Indian markets in the future. Regardless of which parties NRIs support, they are still Indians and their homeland needs them.Our national leaders, irrespective of political affiliation must be pressed into service to leverage their expertise, organisational capabilities and relationships with counterparts, CEOs and industrialists in other countries. This is not unprecedented. Prime minister Narasimha Rao sent Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the then leader of the Opposition to defend India in the United Nations. Rao showed his statesmanship by electing the best man for the job and Vajpayee did India proud. Both fought for India even though they were political adversaries. And that is the spirit we need to win a war.Raghu Raman is founding CEO, NATGRIDThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-to-win-the-war-against-covid19-101619358067851.html
25-04-2021||Today's||Vaccine nationalism hurts the whole world||There can be no doubt that the most effective weapon against the Covid-19 pandemic is to vaccinate as many people as we can in the shortest possible time. We cannot even begin to think that we have won half the battle until at least 70% of the world’s population is vaccinated. But this doesn’t seem possible as things stand now. For India, the situation is particularly grim given the soaring number of cases and the United States (US) placing restrictions on raw materials for vaccine production.The reason why vaccines are not either easily available or affordable to everyone, especially the underprivileged, is because of vaccine nationalism, which is seeing countries buy up vaccines at a rapid rate with many of them now having supplies far above their requirements. The West has focused on “the developing world” largely to exploit cheap labour. When labour became expensive in Europe and the US, a majority of multinational companies from these places turned to China. At that time, the world’s most populous country was desperate to pull itself out of poverty. Despite its avowedly Communist ideology, the proposal by various European countries, under the tutelage of the US, to set up factories in China was welcomed by its leadership. Though communism and capitalism made for strange bedfellows, they proved hugely beneficial to China. Today, it has a significant presence on the world stage and has emerged as a strong challenger to the US in economic terms. The tensions between the US and China are, in the view of some experts, akin to the beginning of a second Cold War. But before this spiralled out of control, the coronavirus, which originated in Wuhan, shattered the world as we know it. It ripped through continents, shutting down businesses, stopping cross-border commerce and putting the brakes on socialising. The lengthy lockdowns slowed down the process of globalisation. The US, the United Kingdom (UK) and other developed nations rushed in to corner the bulk of vaccines for their citizens. According to the British Medical Journal, at the outset of the pandemic, the US booked 800 million doses of the vaccine with six vaccine-manufacturing companies with a provision for a billion more doses. The population of the US is 331.42 million which means that it has far more than its needs. The same is the case with the UK. The Boris Johnson government has made arrangements for five doses per citizen. This is detrimental to poor countries in Africa and developing nations like India. India has a population of 1.4 billion. To vaccinate 70% of its people, it will need as many, if not more, doses than the US has made provisions for. A degree of immunity kicks in only after two doses of the vaccine. Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s active initiative has led two companies in Pune and Hyderabad to begin manufacturing the vaccine some months ago. The material required for the Serum Institute of India in Pune to manufacture the vaccine has been restricted by the US. The CEO of the company, Adar Poonawalla, has requested President Joe Biden to lift these restrictions, but so far he has not done so. Hopefully, the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Indian government will be able to put enough pressure on the US to make it see reason. Meanwhile, Bharat Biotech has announced that it has increased manufacturing with help from the Centre. This is a positive step, but experts feel it will take months to manufacture the required amount of doses.And it is not just vaccines. Patients need oxygen, hospitals, and ventilators. PM Modi has assured the nation that this is being given top priority. It would have been of great help if the rich countries that benefit from India’s cheap labour had offered a helping hand. WHO predicts that only 37 countries will be able to achieve the desired vaccination goals. We may have to wait till the end of 2022. Vaccine nationalism by rich countries will be counterproductive in the long run. The International Chamber of Commerce has predicted that if developing nations do not receive the required doses of the vaccine, the global economy will suffer losses of up to $9.2 trillion. It will cost around $25 billion to provide enough vaccines to all poor countries. The head of WHO, Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, has rightly pointed out that if the poor and middle-income countries do not get vaccines, it will be impossible to bring the global economy back on track. That is why it is in the interest of all nations to ensure the equitable distribution of the vaccine in an interdependent world. The WHO chief’s statement in this regard is pertinent — the priority should be to vaccinate some people in all countries rather than all people in some countries. But will the rich and powerful countries see the wisdom in this?Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, Hindustan The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/vaccine-nationalism-hurts-the-whole-world-101619358008334.html
25-04-2021||Today's||The CCP history revision elevates Xi Jinping to the level of Mao Zedong||Last week, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) revised its history again. Since 1999, the party has made these revisions once every decade, airbrushing out leaders who crossed the line, blanking out certain incidents from public memory and putting its own gloss on major events.The latest version, released earlier this month, was timed to coincide with the 100th year of the party’s founding. This new edition of the party’s history endorses the policies of Xi Jinping, reinforcing other efforts to enhance his image as he prepares to secure a third term at the helm of affairs at the next party Congress in 2022. This is unprecedented as, since 1980, no Chinese leader has held the country’s top positions for a third term.Although indoctrinating entire generations with sanitised versions of events has always been important to authoritarian regimes, this is probably the first time that the party has simultaneously launched a year-long campaign for the nationwide study of its new history.Everyone in the 92-million-strong party, as well as all members of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA), is mandated to study this Brief History of the Communist Party of China. It will also be taught in all schools and universities across the country.The importance of the new history can be gauged from reports, articles and commentaries that appear every day in the People’s Daily, the party’s official newspaper, as well as from the extensive coverage by media. On March 31, before the revision was announced, the party’s leading theoretical fortnightly journal Qiu Shi (Seeking Truth) reproduced a hitherto unpublished speech by Xi on the importance of studying party history. In his speech, delivered on February 20, Xi specifically listed eight important points for study.The Brief History and the study campaign also have political significance. They promote Xi’s image and elevate him to a position at par with Mao Zedong and Deng Xiaoping, China’s most important Communist leaders. They reinforce the narrative, pushed since 2013, that China under Xi has embarked on another 30-year era like those of Mao and Deng.Among the important differences between the old and new versions is the reduced emphasis on Mao’s era. While the older version had three or four chapters on Mao’s 30-year era, the new edition encapsulates it in only two. Further, the older version extensively examined the decade-long Cultural Revolution -- the period of national turmoil from 1966 – and discussed it in one lengthy 11,000-word chapter, holding Mao responsible for the “serious disaster”.The new version appears to absolve Mao of the Cultural Revolution’s excesses, has shrunk references to it to just one page, and makes no mention of party rectification, the anti-Rightist struggle, the Great Leap Forward, or the overthrow of the Gang of Four. Instead, it says the internal turmoil was not caused by Mao but rather because many of his ideas for building socialism were not thoroughly implemented. In fact, it credits Mao with exploring new ways to fight corruption, special privileges and red tape within the party and the government, indicating its hardening stance under Xi.The new version predictably takes a more hawkish and nationalistic approach to major events, thereby, endorsing Xi’s aggressive foreign policy. Writing on the day of the new history’s release, the Hong Kong-based Apple Daily said that while the older edition emphasised Deng Xiaoping’s low-profile approach to diplomacy, the new version highlights the party’s heightened efforts to deal with western sanctions. It recalls that in November 1989, well after the West imposed sanctions on China following the bloody Tiananmen Square crackdown in June 1989, Deng told then United States (US) president Richard Nixon that the Chinese people would “never beg for the cancellation of the sanctions” even if they dragged on for 100 years.Xi’s bid for a third term may, however, not be without any serious hiccups. The resentments among a wide cross-section of people lingering since last year and exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic, may resurface nearer the party Congress.Jayadeva Ranade is a former additional secretary, Cabinet Secretariat, Government of India, and is presently president of the Centre for China Analysis and StrategyThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-ccp-history-revision-elevates-xi-jinping-to-the-level-of-mao-zedong-101619358006936.html
