27-04-2021||Today's||Evidence: The bedrock of Covid management||Twitter in India is a desperate place. Pleas for beds, sources of oxygen, remdesivir and plasma overwhelm, even as volunteers amplify messages and scramble to help. Tongue twisters — tocilizumab, itolizumab — appear in discussion as people call, message and sink into despair and guilt at being unable to procure what they are told is needed to care for their family or friend.We are struggling with a health care system that is inequitable in access and quality at the best of times. There is limited surge capacity for seasonal illnesses in hospitals, few trained and competent staff, especially in infectious diseases and critical care, and a fragmented health care system. At any time, and especially now, evidence-based medicine, or “the right care at the right time to the right patient” is essential.As the Indian medical community and health policymakers, we have not done well in this pandemic. We have promoted, as “cures”, poorly evaluated treatments from our traditional systems of medicine. This is a disservice to the accrued knowledge over millennia of the science of life in Indian systems of medicine.We have held on to “expert opinion” for drugs such as hydroxychloroquine, even as data continued to emerge from randomised controlled trials that it did not work. Guidance from the National Covid-19 Task Force from last week treats as equivalent “may do” recommendations, hydroxychloroquine, for which data from the Together trial in outpatients and the World Health Organization (WHO) Solidarity trial in inpatients show lack of benefit, and inhaled budesonide, which is supported at least by the open label Stoic trial and showed less progression to need for hospitalisation and less time to recover.Evidence-based medicine requires lifelong learning, and the continued education of medical communities and patients. For a new infectious disease where we have little knowledge of how damage is caused and how to manage or reverse it, it is important to focus on the generation of evidence by testing old and new drugs and medical management measures.Early in the course of the Sars-CoV2 pandemic, we relied heavily on information emerging from China where it appeared that we would need early and intensive ventilatory support, and many clinical trials were supported for antivirals and other drugs. Through the experience of pulmonologists and critical care specialists, we now know that keeping patients off ventilators for as long as possible makes it feasible to manage many with oxygen masks, high-flow nasal cannulas or non-invasive ventilation, moving to invasive ventilation as a last resort. Whether it is proning or ventilation, these were not situations where the treatment could be hidden from the patient or the doctor, so blinded or controlled and randomised clinical trials were not feasible.However, when it comes to specific drugs, the right drug at the right time for the right patient does and should depend on evidence and that evidence needs to be generated through clinical trials, and not depend on opinion. Many of the early Chinese clinical trials failed to meet their recruitment targets and initially we had little evidence to base our recommendations on.To know what drugs are needed when, it is important to understand how the disease is caused and develops. In the early phase, the disease is primarily driven by replication of Sars-CoV-2. Later, and especially when the infection is not controlled and symptoms start to become severe, the disease appears to be driven by an uncontrolled immune and inflammatory response to Sars-CoV-2 that leads to tissue damage. Based on this understanding, in general, any antiviral treatment would have the greatest effect early in the course of the disease, while immunosuppressive/anti-inflammatory therapies would be needed in the later stages of Covid-19.With positive data on budesonide (an inhaled steroid used for asthma) in early illness and dexamethasone in hospitalised patients with severe disease from the Stoic and Recovery trials, it appears that steroids are important to stop the disease from progressing. Many drugs for which there was some hope, such as the antiviral lopinavir/ritonavir, interferon and hydroxychloroquine have been shown not to work.For remdesivir, the Solidarity trial showed no effect on severe disease or death, but the ACTT-1 trial showed that for patients who were at the stage of requiring supplemental oxygen, but not yet needing high-flow oxygen or non-invasive ventilation, remdesivir provided some benefit in shortening duration and preventing death. This highlights that the drug is not for every patient, but for a small subset at a specific stage of treatment.Similarly, for tocilizumab, evidence-based recommendations are narrow, for a subset of patients with rapid progression who need either high-flow oxygen or non-invasive ventilation, and in combination with other therapy including steroids. For plasma therapy, there is no evidence that any plasma from any group of donors is helpful as shown in the Indian Council of Medical Research-supported Placid trial, and is not currently recommended. Clear answers come from large clinical trials. We have over 400 registered studies in the Clinical Trials Registry of India, mostly small studies that will not inform future practice.As people desperately seek drugs that may not be needed, we have an ethical and moral responsibility to ensure that all health care providers use evidence to inform treatment. Professional organisations, clinical research communities, the regulator and policymakers must play a role in ensuring that treatments are used according to need and not to create false hope.Gagandeep Kang is professor, Christian Medical College, VelloreThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/evidence-the-bedrock-of-covid-management-101619532812017.html
27-04-2021||Today's||Decentralise and empower states and civil society||“Wait for Godot or wait for God?” — is a philosophical question that seekers direct at the masters. Godot was an enigmatic character created by the Irish playwright Samuel Beckett in his popular play, Waiting for Godot. In Beckett’s play, two characters, Vladimir and Estragon, engage in animated discussions about various issues while waiting for the arrival of Godot, who never turns up. Waiting for Godot eventually became an allegory in the Christian tradition for man’s urge for salvation which would never come.Allegorically speaking, that appears to be the situation the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has pushed many in India towards. The health care establishment has been so overwhelmed that many patients find it difficult to access. Although called a wave, the second outburst of the pandemic turned out to be a tsunami.We were able to handle the first wave efficiently. It was possible due to the timely steps taken by the government on one hand, and the disciplined response of the people on the other. But, over the last few months, complacency seems to have crept in. Going by the statements of the leaders in the government, they did not anticipate the virulence of the second wave. Citizens too seemed to be taking things lightly by not following pandemic protocols.Social media is full of criticism these days. The larger share of the blame is laid at the doorstep of the government. It may partly be because people had high expectations from this government. They were convinced from last year’s experience that the government knew how to handle the pandemic and would act swiftly. When things seem otherwise, they naturally blame the government.Criticism is easy. But it must also be remembered that the challenge before the government is unprecedented. Nobody in the country has witnessed such a massive health care crisis in their lifetime. The last time that humanity experienced such a crisis was during the Spanish flu in 1918-19. An estimated 20 million Indians had perished during that pandemic. Globally, over 100 million were said to have died of that virus. The severity of the Spanish flu virus was such that Mahatma Gandhi, himself afflicted, had confided in a confidante that “all interest in living has ceased”.Covid is not too dissimilar to the Spanish flu. Both spread through human contact, and nose and mouth were the infecting organs. There are lessons to be learnt from both the experiences.One big lesson that the Covid-19 pandemic has taught is that a country of India’s size and diversity needed greater decentralisation. Decentralisation does not simply mean the Centre forwarding vaccines, medicines and oxygen supplies to the states for free distribution. It is about sufficiently empowering various stakeholders, including state governments, district and village administrations and non-governmental organisations (NGOs).Right from the time of the making of the Indian Constitution, there was a tendency for building a strong Centre. Many members of the Constituent Assembly had argued that we should make, not a federal, but a unitary constitution. Many expressed fears about Indian provinces developing secessionist tendencies if a federal system was put in place. The provincial representatives, on the other hand, were against centralisation. BR Ambedkar, in his own wisdom, rightly impressed upon the members the need for having balanced decentralisation of powers. He insisted that the dominance of the Centre will be “expressly confined to emergencies only”.There is a health care emergency today, no doubt. But it must be appreciated that greater empowered involvement of different stakeholders is imperative for the country to tide over this emergency. The differential and higher pricing of vaccines for states is unconvincing. Health being a state subject, the states are responsible for health care and need a greater independent role. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s principle of cooperative federalism should be at work.Civil society and NGOs, which have been facing some difficulties in the recent past, need to be encouraged to supplement the government’s efforts. In 1918, when British administrators had run away from the crisis and hidden in palatial rest-houses in forests and remote areas, it was the media and civil society which had provided succour to the suffering millions. “Never before, perhaps, in the history of India, have the educated and more fortunately placed members of the community, come forward in large numbers to help their poorer brethren in time of distress,” a British government report said.Lastly, when a crisis befalls a nation, intellectual humility needs to be the way for all who matter. Just as success brings plaudits, crisis brings panning. There will be advice, both solicited and unsolicited and criticism, both warranted and unwarranted. But in such a situation, the wise betray humility, not haughtiness. Haughtiness may win the day, but humility wins the race. It can be called the Socratic way.When unreasonably condemned by the Athenian court for treason, Socrates, referring to an oracle’s statement that he was the wisest among all citizens, humbly says: “What’s likely, gentlemen, is that in reality it’s the god who is wise, and the oracle is saying, ‘he among you humans is wisest who, like Socrates, knows that he’s really worth nothing when it comes to wisdom’.”Ram Madhav is a member of the national executive of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and member of the board of governors, India FoundationThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/decentralise-and-empower-states-and-civil-society-101619532810917.html
27-04-2021||Today's||In the second wave, is India’s CFR rising?||On Sunday, 2,808 people lost their lives to Covid-19 across India, the highest ever in a single day. On Monday, this figure was 2,764. For the week ending Monday, 2,476 people lost their lives every day on average. A week ago, this number was 1,348 deaths a day – meaning average deaths in the country are increasing at 84% a week right now. To put this number in perspective, even during the brutal third wave in the United States, daily deaths never grew at a rate that exceeded 50%. India’s daily deaths have been increasing above that 50% threshold for nearly four straight weeks now. Does this mean that India is squandering its advantage of having the best case fatality rate, or CFR, among the world’s worst-hit nations? A close look at numbers presents a disturbing answer. For an accurate understanding of the relationship between Covid-19 cases and deaths, one must keep in account a 14-day lag. This is because studies have showed that the median time between someone testing positive for Covid-19 and dying from it (if things go South) is around 13.8 days. So, people who are dying because of Covid-19 today will most likely have tested positive around two weeks ago. In the past week, 17,330 people died across the country. If we look at the corresponding period 14 days ago, there were 1,001,558 new infections in the country. This would imply that around 1.7% of all Covid-19 patients are currently dying – the highest proportion since at least early August. A week before that, CFR was 1.6%; two weeks before, it was 1.3%. When we look at the same figures in the number of deaths reported in early February, the CFR drops to as low as 0.7%. So, it is clear that the CFR, which was dropping steadily for the past several months, has again started rising. This rising mortality rate is not because the disease has become more fatal all of a sudden, but because the massive caseload (there were nearly 2.9 million active cases in the country on Monday) has completely overwhelmed India’s health care system. People are dying not just because of the fatality of the disease, but also due to the lack of treatment, hospital beds, medicines, oxygen, even ambulances. With active cases continuing to rise at a record level, the burden on the country’s health care system is only increasing, which means the crisis will only worsen in the near future. On Sunday, with 354,709 new cases, India broke the record for most daily cases reported in a country for the fifth day in a row. If 1.7% of these cases end up dying, India will likely be reporting daily deaths in excess of 6,000 a day in as little as two weeks. This is a frightening figure, even without taking into account reports of massive undercounting of deaths or the impact of a further rising active caseload on CFR. Most models expect India’s second wave to peak by the third week of May. By then, if fatality numbers don’t turn around, confirmed daily deaths may be in excess of 7,000 a day. This highlights the urgency of arresting the second wave — the lives of hundreds of thousands of people are at stake.jamie.mullick@htlive.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-the-second-wave-is-india-s-cfrrising-101619532751242.html
27-04-2021||Today's||The Taste with Vir Sanghvi: The slow death of hope||It shouldn’t feel so different. After all, we have been here before. Last year, we were locked in at home for months while the government tried to cope with what was then, the worst Pandemic since the Spanish Flu of the early Twentieth Century.And yet, this time feels totally different.The last time around too there were stories about the rapid spread of cases. There were appeals on social media for ventilator beds at hospitals. There were queues at crematoria.There was widespread paranoia about surfaces. Don’t touch newspapers, we were told. Don’t touch boxes or packages. Don’t touch takeaway foods. Don’t even touch currency notes.This time around, the lockdown is not so stringent. The stuff about getting Covid from surfaces has been debunked and put into context. (Yes, it is theoretically possible but very unlikely.) We have faced Covid before and it is no longer a mysterious new threat.And yet, we are more depressed, more panicked, more paranoid and more gloomy about the future than we have been at any time since the Covid pandemic started.What’s made the difference?Two words.Confidence. And Hope.During the first wave, we were confident that the lockdown was a holding operation. That, as terrible as it was, the crisis would peter out. Doctors were looking for solutions. There would soon be a vaccine. We would augment hospital capacity. Should the virus return for a second massive bite out of us, we would be prepared. We had confidence in the government and in its medical establishment.This time around, we realise that we were betrayed. That the confidence was misplaced.And last time we had hope. We believed then, that for all its problems, India was on its way to becoming a major power. That the virus was a global phenomenon and given how low our death rates were (compared to some Western countries) we would actually emerge stronger than the rest of the world when the crisis ended.It is getting harder and harder to be hopeful now.Let’s take the betrayal of confidence, first.Our primary hope lay in the vaccine. And in fact the vaccine developed by Oxford University did come along pretty much on schedule. India took a while to approve it perhaps because we were waiting for a domestic vaccine, created by Bharat Biotech to also be ready so that we could launch both together and claim that this was an achievement of Atmanirbhar Bharat.No matter. At least we had the vaccines.Then, the screw-ups began. Not recognising the need for emergency action, we rolled out the programme too slowly. When other vaccine manufacturers asked for permission to sell in India, we were sniffy. We don’t need Pfizer, we said. Will Sputnik even work in summer temperatures in Rajasthan? Go and do more tests before we approve, we told them.Instead of taking the line that, if a vaccine was approved for use by the world’s major countries, you needed to do very little further research before buying it, we insisted that we had to run the approvals process from scratch. (As a matter of interest, the so-called Indian vaccines are still not approved in the US. Neither AstraZeneca --- which we call ‘Indian’ because we manufacture it in India under licence in Poona — nor the Bharat Biotech vaccine have been approved in the US.)The priority then was to score political points. We were going to use Indian vaccines, we were told. We would not import any vaccines from abroad, even if they were available (which, given the demand, was already a big ask). The vaccine programme would be the Prime Minister’s personal triumph. They even put his photo on the vaccine certificates.You can argue about the merits of this strategy but what you can’t dispute is that we did not order enough doses to vaccinate most of our people. Even today, many centres run out of vaccines. It is generally accepted that we face a vaccine shortage.Despite the urgency of the situation, only around two per cent of our population has been fully vaccinated (both doses) to date.Two percent.Confidence in these guys?You must be kidding.And then there is the oxygen problem. Covid itself may or may not necessarily be fatal but if a patient in serious condition doesn’t get oxygen, he or she dies.Each day, scores of people who should have lived, die because hospitals do not have enough oxygen.Who is to blame for those killings?In Delhi the state government blames the Centre for the oxygen shortage. The Centre blames the state government.Either way, it is a governmental failure.Can you really have confidence in those people? In the health ‘experts’ who screwed up the vaccination policy? In the politicians who played with lives to advance their own petty interests.And as for hope, well, here’s why that is so hard to rely on.Last year, Dr. VK Paul, the government’s Covid Czar told us that the pandemic would wind down by May 2020.Earlier this year, Harsh Vardhan, the Health Minister bowed low before Baba Ramdev before endorsing Coronil, a ‘medicine’ that was first advertised as a cure for Covid, and then, when that claim could not be sustained, described as an immunity-booster. Dr. Paul did his bit. He urged us to have haldi milk, kadha and Chyawanprash if we had Covid. This was while he was still denying most of us the vaccine.As for the pandemic, Harsh Vardhan told us, we were in the endgame.Who can have any hope when the people who are supposed to look after our health are such negligent nitwits?As deaths have risen, the Prime Minister has stepped in. Every vaccine that has been approved abroad can be used in India, you can import vaccines, and the eligibility criteria have been expanded.Everything the government’s critics had asked for has finally been done.But no, though the PM has overturned every one of their decisions (when it is too late to save many lives) not one of the guys who landed us in this mess has been sacked or held accountable.So if you can’t have hope in the health ‘experts’ can you have hope in their political masters?Not a chance.Politicians knew what they were doing when they held super-spreader rallies in Bengal. They knew what they were doing when they allowed the Kumbh to go ahead. They can’t be surprised that Covid cases have surged in Bengal and Uttaranchal.So that’s why, this time around, there is zero confidence and so little hope.Last year, we settled down to a holding operation, steeled ourselves for sacrifices, baked bread at home and looked for distracting lockdown activities.This time, we are panicked and desperate. We have been betrayed.And we don’t know who to turn to.For more stories by Vir Sanghvi read here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-taste-with-vir-sanghvi-the-slow-death-of-hope-101619519054846.html
