29-04-2021||Today's||National impact of the Bengal elections||No assembly election in recent times has attracted as much attention as the recent exercise in West Bengal. For a state that has, since 1977, alternated between 34 years of uninterrupted Left Front rule and 10 years of a government led by the mercurial Mamata Banerjee, this eastern corner of India has quite abruptly been posited as a barometer of India’s future politics. With Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, not to mention the entire national leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), throwing their entire weight behind the party’s challenge, the outcome on May 2 seems calculated to reverberate nationally—although in ways no one is entirely sure about.The eight-phase poll that concluded on April 29 can broadly be divided into two distinct parts. The first six phases of polling took place in the backdrop of a boisterous and bitter campaign where there was an interplay between regional concerns, national issues, and the invocation of Bengali exceptionalism. By contrast, the final two phases were overshadowed by the sudden re-emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic, the severe curtailment of the campaign and the panic in the urban areas that contributed to significantly lower voter turnouts in Kolkata and its adjoining regions, Durgapur and Asansol.On counting day, it will be interested to monitor the impact of the voter turnout on the outcome. However, even if the final two phases produce a verdict at variance with the first six phases, the voters of West Bengal will have the satisfaction of knowing that the votes registered in the electronic voting machines (EVMs) were authentic. Such an assertion may seem strange in an all-India context, but the sad reality is that West Bengal has led the way in elections that were clouded in intimidation, booth-capturing and partisan administration.It is to the credit of the Election Commission that the conduct of the 2021 assembly election was exemplary. Intimidation may not have entirely ceased but voters this time had the satisfaction of voting without being told at the booth who to vote for and, worse, having someone peering over their shoulder. The decision to keep the local police 200 metres away from the polling stations contributed immeasurably to enhanced voter confidence. In the context of elections in West Bengal, this assembly election was quite emphatically a landmark.What was also significant about this election was the very distinct nature of support for the BJP. That there was a visible undercurrent of Hindu-Muslim polarisation has been detected by many observers. However, the striking feature was not merely the BJP’s natural dependence on Hindu voters and the Trinamool Congress’s over-dependence on minority support. In rural Bengal, where support for the BJP was very marked, the party’s campaign was spearheaded by youth, women, and voters from the poorest communities—sections that in an earlier era had formed the backbone of the Communist Party of India (Marxist). The lopsided and corrupt distribution of state welfare payments, particularly in the aftermath of the Amphan cyclone that hit the state last summer, was unquestionably the main source of anger against the Mamata government. To this was added a belief in the youth that a BJP government in the state would witness a rush of either jobs or opportunities at the local level. By contrast, the Trinamool support came from more established families, particularly those who benefited from the state government’s welfare projects. In many ways, the leadership of the Trinamool in the districts was a mirror image of the support enjoyed by the undivided Congress in the heyday of CPI(M) dominance. It was the BJP which succeeded in rallying the subaltern classes with its cry of Jai Shri Ram.Traditionally, the anti-establishment forces in West Bengal had originated in urban centres. In the 1952 elections, the undivided Communist Party of India had performed exceptionally well in and around Kolkata, whereas the Congress made a clean sweep of the countryside. Mamata Banerjee’s revolt against the CPI(M) too was centred on Kolkata and adjoining regions. In social terms, the Trinamool galvanised that very section of the youth which had been at the forefront of the fight-back against the Naxalite movement in the early 1970s. The BJP challenge, on the other hand, has been centred on North Bengal, the Jungle Mahals and districts which had always lost out to Kolkata, at least in the 10 years of Mamata rule.The relative importance of the districts in the BJP’s ecosystem may be a factor behind the party’s relative inability to make a big dent among those who see themselves as custodians of ‘enlightened’ and cosmopolitan Bengali bhadralok values. During her campaign, Mamata Banerjee attacked the BJP as outsiders, a shorthand for Hindi-speakers. While this may certainly have swayed a section that equates Bengali pride with Bengali exceptionalism, it masked the profound wariness of a section of ‘secularists’ with a Bengali rural and small-town culture that is explicitly Hindu. What was witnessed in Bengal in recent months was an understated but very real culture war that heightened modernist fears of the barbarian at the gates. It was this dread that Bengal would be overwhelmed by a new breed of outlanders that prevented the more recognised Bengali intellectuals from speaking out against the misrule and corruption of the past 10 years.Like the Lutyens’ elite at the national level, the social leadership of the Bengali bhadralok sought to cling to their relevance in a changing world. The results will indicate if Bengal clings to a decrepit status quo or embraces a new world.Swapan Dasgupta is a BJP candidate in the West Bengal assembly elections and political commentatorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/national-impact-of-the-bengal-elections-101619704905366.html
29-04-2021||Today's||Only a proper data system can help India tackle Covid-19 better||India is witnessing a second wave of Covid-19 that neither the country nor the government was prepared for. There are reports of under-reporting the number of Covid-19 cases and resulting mortality by state governments, hospitals running out of beds and oxygen and RT-PCR testing being put on hold in several private and government facilities as they have huge backlogs and not enough staff or material to carry these out. One of the many reasons and certainly one of the most important ones behind this chaos and crisis is the failure to build an adequate data system that is transparent, evolves as per developments and is flexible enough to be moulded according to varying requirements across different states.This pandemic has proved to be most unpredictable. Research and understanding of the infection and its trajectory is still evolving across the globe. With the spread of variants, there have been and continue to be cases that come up negative in the RT-PCR test only to be clinically diagnosed as positive after a CT scan or chest X-ray. But since a clinical diagnosis of this infection has not been defined yet, these cases are not recorded in government data or official bulletins. These cases occupy Covid beds in hospitals though, resulting in an obvious mismatch between the data published by the government and the actual numbers in the hospitals.Deaths in many states are still counted on the basis of reporting from hospitals. This suggests that the deaths of patients while under home quarantine or while waiting outside a hospital for a bed, with or without a Covid-19 test report, are never included in official statistics. So while these bodies are cremated or buried following Covid-19 protocol, their exclusion from the official released numbers has made headlines in the media. An approach to take by every state government is to track a patient from testing positive, both in the laboratory and clinically, till the outcome of the infection. If the status of the patient is recorded on each day from diagnosis (11-17 days), the official statistics would be closer to being accurate and the system transparent. This is also the only way for the government to assess and understand the gravity of the situation and use this data to make realistic projections of cases. This analysis can then be used for planning and preparations for the required infrastructure, equipment and manpower in the following weeks.Unless a data system is designed, built and maintained to capture the reality and make realistic projections for the coming weeks and months, preparations in terms of infrastructure, provisions, equipment, drugs manpower and capacity will always be reactionary and, therefore, fall short of the requirements for the current situation.Neither the pattern of spread nor the behaviour of the virus has remained the same as last year when the pandemic started. The system designed to capture this evolution objectively needs to adapt to these changes. Different states are witnessing different patterns of this spread. Consequently, the strategies and protocols for containment will also vary. The data system needs to be sufficiently flexible for the states to add details, introduce checks and create modules. This same system should be able to capture and monitor the implementation of vaccination efforts. It is only through a comprehensive and evolving data system design, that accurate numbers can be shared with the people and the media, for internal calculations and for all preparatory purposes. Data entry, process, system and capabilities can no longer come second in the list of priorities. The governments and the people need to realise that it is only through transparent, open, accessible and accurate data systems that accountability and responsibility can be established for pre-emptive and timely action. It is also the only means that remains to rebuild trust and hope in the government, going forward. Tulika Avni Sinha is a development professional working in Covid management with the government of Punjab The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/only-a-proper-data-system-can-help-india-tackle-covid-19-better-101619704904327.html
29-04-2021||Today's||The histories of Indian international relations||India’s external affairs minister S Jaishankar recently lambasted international organisations critical of India’s strained democratic credentials as hypocritical, ‘self-appointed custodians of the world’. The remark was unsurprising given India’s natural sensitivities towards external criticism. But the comment demonstrated the multiple ideological sources of India’s nationalist and internationalist thought, most of which remains under-appreciated in the still western-centric world of international relations.India has been pivotal in developing knowledge about international relations both as a practice and as an academic discipline. As one looks beyond the worldviews and influences of Jawaharlal Nehru, Mahatma Gandhi, and Rabindranath Tagore, and tries to gauge the ideas and global impact of figures such as Veer Savarkar and Subhash Chandra Bose, it becomes imperative to systematically unpack the multiple sources of India’s intellectual contributions to this field. One site for the development of such knowledge was the Indian Council on World Affairs (ICWA), India’s first independent international affairs think-tank. From 1943, as with the revolving door between American think-tanks and the United States state department, the ICWA became an institutional powerhouse that generated foreign policy knowledge not just for a decolonising state, but the world at large. Prominent figures, such as Angadipuram Appadorai, were part of a new cadre of scholar-practitioners playing a substantial role in the conception and implementation of the non-aligned movement that challenged Cold War binaries in fundamental ways. The generation of such useful foreign policy knowledge for independent India provides one lineage of Indian international relations, but we needn’t stop there.Other deeper histories can be found in unlikely places. Since its inception in 1919, the League of Nations was the target of critique from a wide section of the Indian intelligentsia. Often seen as an imperial club, India’s membership of the League was overseen by the colonial state which selected moderate delegations to the League’s assembly who were favourable to the interests of the British raj.One of the League’s functions, under the auspices of the International Committee on Intellectual Cooperation (ICIC), was to develop the ‘scientific’ study of international relations. Newly researched archival material at the League’s Geneva repository shows how these efforts included the establishing of League societies in India and attempts by the ICIC to encourage Tagore to advance the League’s mission within India.Such efforts drew in scholars such as the Lucknow political scientists Vangala Shiva Ram and Brij Mohan Sharma. They actively voiced Indian perspectives on League of Nations reform and world federation in newly establishing scholarly journals such as the Indian Journal of Political Science. A third lineage can be identified in the worldly exploits of activists, scholars, and revolutionaries who advanced the cause of Indian independence through overseas travel and encounter.Generations of Indian schoolchildren are familiar with the freedom fighters and their role in advancing India’s domestic liberation. But, through their travels, the activist-scholars among them frequently developed an international outlook too, broadcasting their works through outlets such as the Calcutta-based Modern Review.In many ways, India’s freedom was a product of transnational advocacy. Calcutta University sociologist Benoy Kumar Sarkar’s lengthy research trips to East Asia, Europe, and North America, for instance, included publications in leading American journals of political science. He advanced ‘Hindu’ interpretations of world order, including the Kautilyan mandala conception of geopolitics, later adopted by Nehru. Although ostensibly moderate in his views, Sarkar’s collaborations with the peripatetic Taraknath Das hinted at more revolutionary connections. Das’s scholarly profile included works on Japanese foreign policy and the history of India’s world role.India’s history of international relations thinking is, therefore, the story of multiple intellectual lineages, both deeper and more complex than existing accounts often allow. This is the story of a field of thought deeply entangled with world affairs and global developments in the systematisation of international affairs knowledge in the first half of the 20th century. A more holistic story of the histories of Indian international thought is possible, as scholars such as Raphaëlle Khan, Vineet Thakur, and Rahul Sagar, are now showing.Not only would renewed attention to these histories offer a more faithful recovery of Indian international thought, it would also provide a wider tapestry from which to tease out the lineages of international relations thinking that feature in contemporary Indian foreign policy debates. The Hindu right’s active geographic imaginary of a ‘greater India’ — Akhand Bharat — the rhetoric of India’s ‘human bridge’ through its diaspora connections, and Jaishankar’s ire towards western institutions – all have their roots in the visions of a world order crafted throughout the early 20th century.India’s contributions to international relations thinking are substantial and ongoing. Its current world role can be better understood through these more detailed historical investigations.Martin Bayly is an assistant professor, department of international relations, The London School of Economics and Political Science The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-histories-of-indian-international-relations-101619704903162.html
