06-12-2021||Jammu||J-K youth saves drowning woman, felicitated||Senior CPM leader Kesar passes awayJammu: Senior CPM leader Sham Prasad Kesar died at a hospital here on Sunday, his family said. He was 75. “My father suffered high blood pressure on Tuesday and was shifted to a hospital, where he breathed his last,” Kesar’s elder son said. Kesar, who served as the CPM state committee member and regional secretary Jammu, is survived by his wife and two sons. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/youth-saves-drowning-woman-felicitated-346720
06-12-2021||Srinagar||Two Lashkar militants held in Shopian||Security forces arrested two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants and recovered arms and ammunition in Shopian district of J&K on Sunday.Acting on specific input regarding the presence of LeT terrorist Shahid Ahmad Gaine, a resident of Doomwani Keegam, and his close associate in Doomwani village near Rambi Ara, security forces launched a cordon and search operation in the area, a police spokesman said.He said as the security forces approached the suspected spot, the duo tried to flee. However, they were apprehended by the search party, the spokesman added. He identified the other arrested as Kifayat Ayoub Alie, a resident of Pinjoora Shopian.Incriminating material, arms and ammunition, including a Chinese pistol, a pistol magazine, two Chinese hand grenades and eight pistol rounds, were recovered from their possession. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/two-lashkar-militants-held-in-shopian-346721
06-12-2021||Srinagar||May have to emulate farmers to restore Article 370: Farooq Abdullah||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Sunday said the people of Jammu and Kashmir might have to make “sacrifices”, as farmers protesting the new farm laws did, to restore its statehood and special status.Addressing a convention of the NC’s youth wing on the 116th birth anniversary of party founder Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah at his mausoleum at Naseembagh here, Farooq, however, said his party did not support violence.“The farmers protested for 11 months. More than 700 farmers died. The Centre had to revoke the three farm bills when farmers made sacrifices. We may also have to make sacrifices like that to get back our rights. We have promised to get back (Articles) 370, 35-A and statehood and we are ready to make any sacrifice,” Farooq said.The NC, however, was not against brotherhood and did not support violence, he said.On the recent Hyderpora encounter and how the families of two civilians killed in the operation forced the administration to return their bodies, he said it was made possible because people showed unity.He demanded that the body of another person, Amir Magray, killed in the encounter also be returned to his family. “Three innocent persons were killed (in the Hyderpora encounter). When people raised their voices, they (the administration) returned the bodies so that their kin could bury them. This is what unity can do. How many innocent people would they have killed this way?” the NC chief said.Referring to Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s remark that tourism has increased in J&K after abrogation of Article 370, he said, “As if tourism is everything when it comes to the UT. You had promised 50,000 jobs, where are they? Were there no people for employing in the (J&K) bank that you got people from Punjab and Haryana?” — PTITributes paid to NC founder Sheikh AbdullahNational Conference leaders and workers paid homage to party founder Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah, popularly known as ‘Sher-e-Kashmir’ on his 116th birth anniversary on Sunday, an NC spokesman said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/may-have-to-emulate-farmers-to-restore-article-370-farooq-abdullah-346722
06-12-2021||Srinagar||Like farmers, people of J-K may have to make ?sacrifices? to get back their rights: Farooq Abdullah||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Sunday said the people of Jammu and Kashmir may have to make “sacrifices”, as farmers protesting the new farm laws did, to restore its statehood and special status.Addressing a convention of the NC’s youth wing on the occasion of the 116th birth anniversary of party founder Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah at his mausoleum at Naseembagh here, Abdullah, however, said his party does not support violence.After almost a year of protests by farmers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on November 19 announced the decision to repeal the farm laws passed last year to ease rules around the sale, pricing and storage of crops.Parliament passed a Bill to repeal the farm laws on the first day of the ongoing Winter Session on November 29.“(The farmers protested for) 11 months, more than 700 farmers died. The Centre had to revoke the three farm Bills when farmers made sacrifices. We may also have to make sacrifices like that to get back our rights.“Remember this, we have promised to get back (Articles) 370, 35-A and statehood and we are ready to make any sacrifice,” Abdullah said.The NC, however, is not against brotherhood and does not support violence, he said.The Centre revoked the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir and split it into two union territories on August 5, 2019.On the recent Hyderpora encounter and how the families of two civilians killed in the operation forced the administration to return their bodies, Abdullah said it was made possible because people showed unity.He demanded that the body of another person, Amir Magray, killed in the encounter also be returned to his family.“Three innocent people were killed (in the Hyderpora encounter). When people raised their voices, they (the administration) returned the bodies so that their kin could bury them. This is what unity can do.“But the body of one person has still not been returned to his family. How many innocent people would they have killed this way? We will hold them accountable. He (God) will also hold them accountable and no one will escape that,” the NC chief said.Referring to Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s remarks that tourism has increased in Jammu and Kashmir after the abrogation of Article 370, Abdullah said “as if tourism is everything” when it comes to the union territory.“You had promised 50,000 jobs, where are they? Rather you are terminating our people. Were there no people for employing in the (Jammu & Kashmir) Bank that you got people from Punjab and Haryana?“Where will the boys and girls from J&K go? But if we raise our voices, they are crushed. The media is facing pressure, they (journalists) are summoned to police stations if they write anything against (the government). And they (government) say there is freedom,” he said.Abdullah asked NC workers to remain united and hold the party flag high.“Many enemies will come and try to pull you (away) from the party, be wary (of them). They are roaming around. Do not listen to them and remain with the party,” he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/like-farmers-people-of-j-k-may-have-to-make-sacrifices-to-get-back-their-rights-farooq-abdullah-346547
