07-12-2021||New Delhi||BJP running J-K like a colony, experimental lab: Mehbooba||The ruling BJP is running Jammu and Kashmir like a colony and treating it as a laboratory for experiments to be replicated nationally, People’s Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti said on Tuesday.Speaking to journalists at Indian Women’s Press Corps a day after staging a protest at Jantar Mantar for restoration of Article 370, Mufti reiterated the PDP stand to contest J&K elections as and when they happen and said she would not contest personally.“Of course we are going to fight elections. We won’t cede any space to them (BJP). I won’t contest personally until Articles 370 and 35-A are restored,” said Mufti, whose party has kept a distance from the ongoing delimitation exercise in the UT.The former chief minister of J&K also rued the ongoing political outreach by Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad in Jammu and said, “Ghulam Nabi Azad’s moves will divide the opposition votes and benefit the BJP.”Evasive on the larger question of opposition disunity with parties like the TMC and Congress pulling in different directions, Mufti said, “Political parties will always have their own agendas. But in J&K the constituents of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration have a common goal which is the restoration of Article 370 and return to the pre August 5, 2019 status. On that demand we are all together.”Mufti also said there had been no outreach by the government since the June 24 meeting of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the mainstream parties of Jammu and Kashmir.“The onus of a dialogue is on the Centre, not on us. We have nothing to give to the Centre. They have to keep their word,” said Mufti, dismissing the ongoing delimitation exercise in J&K as part of BJP’s larger agenda.“They want to carve out constituencies to suit their political interests. The very fact that they singled J&K out for delimitation reveals there is an agenda at work. Otherwise why could they not have waited till 2026 to undertake the delimitation exercise? What was the need for such an exercise right now?” asked Mufti, whose party boycotted the commission meetings.The PDP chief also challenged the government’s narrative that J&K was peaceful and progressing after the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019.“This is a fake narrative. The fact is we feel suffocated. I can’t meet the victims of security personnel atrocities. Doors are locked. I don’t have the freedom to protest. That is why I protested at Jantar Mantar yesterday. The BJP is running J&K with a colonial mindset. J&K has become a lab for them to test whatever has to be done nationally,” said Mehbooba alleging that “Mahatma Gandhi’s India had become Godse’s India”.The PDP chief also said “big pillars of democracy, media and the judiciary have failed the people of J&K”.She was referring to petitions challenging the abrogation of Article 370 pending before the SC for over two years.Repeating her stand that India and Pakistan need to talk for a solution to the J&K issue, Mehbooba said she had not seen a greater statesman than late PM Atal Behari Vajpayee.“The Vajpayee book is there. The BJP just needs to open it. Reconciliation and dialogue are the only ways out. Vajpayee ji not only talked to Pakistan, he even visited there even though there was Kargil and Parliament attack,” said the former JK CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/bjp-running-j-k-like-a-colony-experimental-lab-mehbooba-347476
07-12-2021||Srinagar||Cold wave grips Kashmir Valley||The minimum temperature across Kashmir fell below freezing point again on Tuesday, after a day's respite from subzero temperatures, even as the weather office forecast possibility of a wet spell in the valley over two days from Wednesday.Gulmarg resort in north Kashmir's Baramulla district recorded a minimum temperature of minus 7 degrees Celsius, the officials said.They said the resort was the coldest recorded place in the valley.Srinagar recorded a low of minus 1.4 degrees Celsius on Monday night, a plunge of four degrees from the previous night, the officials said.They said Pahalgam, which serves as the base camp for the annual Amarnath yatra, recorded a low of minus 4.8 degrees Celsius, dropping more than five degrees.The minimum temperature in Kupwara in north Kashmir settled at a low of minus 1 degrees Celsius.Qazigund recorded minus 0.2 degrees Celsius, while Kokernag recorded a low of minus 1.2 degrees Celsius.The MeT Office has said there is a possibility of light rain or snow on Wednesday and Thursday at some places. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/cold-wave-grips-kashmir-valley-347420
07-12-2021||Srinagar||108 new Covid cases in J&K||J&K recorded 108 fresh Covid cases on Monday, pushing the infection count to 3,37,915, while two fatalities raised the death toll to 4,483, officials said. Ladakh has reported 31 fresh cases. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/108-new-cases-in-jk-347259
07-12-2021||---||Voices stifled in Kashmir Valley: Mehbooba Mufti at Delhi protest||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 6Claiming Kashmir is in pain, J&K’s ex-Chief Minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti today staged a dharna at Jantar Mantar to protest the alleged repression of UT people and demanded that the “killing of innocents be stopped immediately”.Kashmir in pain, alleges PDP leaderThe PDP president said she decided to stage the protest in the National Capital as she was never allowed to register her protest in Kashmir. She said she was either detained at her house or whisked away by the police every time she planned a protest.It is worth mentioning here that National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah had yesterday remarked that to change the course of events in J&K, the UT people should protest like the farming community did for the repeal of the three contentious farm laws.While interacting with mediapersons, Mehbooba said, “Kashmir has become a prison where people are not allowed to express their opinion. They have been repressed since August 2019. What surprises me is how the government is busy portraying that everything is hunky-dory in the Valley with the help of some of the paid media.”Carrying a placard that read “Kashmir is in pain”, Mehbooba said, “You have seen what happened in Nagaland where 13 civilians were gunned down. An FIR has been lodged immediately. Why does the same not happen in Kashmir as well? Though I do not have much hope that anything is going to come out of these inquiries, still the government is seen doing something.”Mehbooba alleged that corruption was at its peak in J&K and local residents were being deprived of jobs. “I have come here to tell the people that if they don’t wake up even now, the day is not far when the nation of (Mahatma) Gandhi and (BR) Ambedkar will get converted into (Nathuram) Godse’s country and after that we all will be helpless,” she said.When she was requested by photo journalists to remove her facemask for better pictures, she smilingly said, “If I remove the mask, I can be booked under UAPA immediately.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/voices-stifled-in-valley-mufti-at-delhi-protest-347258
