11-12-2021||Jammu||No way out except holding talks with Pakistan to end militancy in J&K: Farooq Abdullah||Terming the killing of two police personnel by terrorists in the valley a “sad story”, National Conference president Farooq Abdullah Saturday said there is no way out except holding talks with Pakistan to end militancy in Jammu and Kashmir.  He also took exception to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's statement that the practice of offering 'namaz' in the open “will not be tolerated” and asked him to provide spaces to Muslims for prayers as the Constitution guarantees religious freedom.  The former J&K chief minister was talking to reporters on the sidelines of a party function here. Reacting to a question about the killing of two policemen by militants in north Kashmir's Bandipora district on Friday, Abdullah said, “…you think we are happy that they are killing people? It is a sad story and let the government who are saying everything is hunky dory (speak). Is it hunky dory? Are people safe? When your police personnel are not safe, how is an ordinary man safe?” The two personnel were killed in a terror attack on a police party in Bandipora district on Friday, evoking widespread condemnation from various political parties. The terrorists opened fire on the police team at the Gulshan Chowk in the evening.Asked if he still insisted on talks with Pakistan, Abdullah retorted, “You have to talk. There is no way out (to end militancy).” “You can talk to China. What do you say about that? China is coming and occupying our territory. They are making their own houses in that territory. Let the Government of India allow discussion in the parliament to understand what the Chinese are doing,” the NC MP from Srinagar said. When a reporter asked him if, by insisting on talks with Pakistan, he was giving a clean chit to Pakistani terrorists who are killing people, a visibly angry Abdullah said, “You are not a journalist. Your attitude is communal.” In response to a question about the Haryana chief minister's statement, Abdullah said there is a religious tolerance in the country and the Constitution also provides religious freedom.“If he does not allow prayers in open space, let him create a space where they can pray. Pray they have to, that is why open spaces are used because there is no place (for namaz),” he said. On reports that the J&K delimitation commission has called for a meeting with five MPs of National Conference and BJP in Delhi on December 20, he said the party has not received any invitation letter so far.“Let the letter come…what we will do there, I have to say it there,” he said, responding to a question whether his party will press for political reservation for Kashmiri migrant pandits at the meeting. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/no-way-out-except-holding-talks-with-pakistan-to-end-militancy-in-jk-farooq-abdullah-349176
11-12-2021||Srinagar||Police working on identifying those involved in killing of 2 cops: J&K DGP||Police have obtained clues in the killing of two cops in Bandipora and are working on identifying those involved, Jammu and Kashmir Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said on Saturday.The two policemen were killed in a terror attack on Friday.The DGP was speaking to reporters in Sopore after visiting the family of one of the slain cops.“Initial clues have come and police are working on them and very soon those involved in the case will be neutralised. We have got some initial clues and the police are working on identifying those behind the killings,” he said.Singh said those involved will soon be brought to book.He said policemen were being targeted as they protect and work for the welfare of the people.“The terrorists and Pakistani elements feel this pain and when someone comes in between the locals and terrorists, they get frustrated,” Singh said.“Police works for the safety of the people from terrorists. Police with our forces from Army, BSF, CRPF jointly keep the terrorists at distance. This is their (terrorists’) desperation, and it is because of this, the killing takes place. We will respond to them,” Singh said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/police-working-on-identifying-those-involved-in-killing-of-2-cops-jk-dgp-349168
11-12-2021||Jammu||J&K never to be part of ‘ethnic cleansing’ conspirators: Farooq Abdullah||Nothing can stop the displaced Kashmiri Pandits from returning to their native land and the conspirators of their “ethnic cleansing” will never get Jammu and Kashmir, National Conference (NC) chief Farooq Abdullah said on Saturday.He, however, said time was not ripe for their return because of the hatred between two communities in the valley that is “deliberately created” over the years by the “vested interests” for political gains.“(Kashmiri) Muslims did not drive you out from your homes…those behind it were thinking Kashmir will be theirs by this ethnic cleansing. I repeat from this stage... even if the sky and the earth meet, Jammu and Kashmir will never be theirs,” the former chief minister said in an apparent reference to Pakistan.Kashmiri Pandits migrated from the valley in the wake of Pakistan-sponsored militancy in the early 1990s.Addressing a gathering largely comprising migrant Pandits at a one-day convention organised by NC’s minority cell here, Abdullah said the community was being used as a “vote bank” by a political party that only claims to be its sympathiser.Without naming any party, Abdullah said, “Big promises were made to you by those treating you as just a vote bank. They have not fulfilled a single promise”.Abdullah, who recalled his long association with the Kashmiri Pandits, said the hatred which has crept into the hearts needs to be removed.“We have to identify those who want to divide us for their petty political interests. Our culture, language and way of living are the same and we are one. I have never distinguished between a Hindu and a Muslim,” the NC leader said.Referring to the migration of the Pandits, he said, “Nobody wants to name (former governor) Jagmohan who arranged transport (for their migration) and promised to ensure their return within two months...instead allegations are levelled against me”.“I am praying to my Allah not to take me away till I see the return of those old days when there was communal harmony and peaceful atmosphere in the valley and the people moved freely without being asked to show their identity,” he said.The former chief minister said he had made several attempts during his government to bring back the community but had to stop the process in the wake of massacres in Ganderbal and Budgam as, “I do not want the blood of innocents on my hands”. He said it is not the right the time for their return because of the hatred which has crept into the hearts.“We cannot live in peace as our enemies will use that hatred and attempt to create further wedge among us. I request you with folded hands to give up this hatred and pray to Lord to unite us again,” he said.Abdullah called on the two communities to stand together and reject those dividing them on the basis of religion.“We should introspect and assess who has the habit of ‘use and throw’ and reject such parties,” he said, citing the example of senior BJP leader Varun Gandhi and claiming that the latter had now become irrelevant for his party. “I am not asking for votes for my party but want you to think before you cast your vote at the time of the election. Choose those parties that seek votes on their work and not on the basis of religion,” he said. He lauded Kashmiri Pandits for safeguarding their culture and language even in migration.Abdullah said the NC brought temples and shrines bill to safeguard the places of worship of the community which was, however, not supported by those who claim to be the communities’ defenders.“They enjoy the numbers in the Parliament and can pass it anytime but I know they will not do it,” he said, adding, “Same is the case with the women rights bill which is pending as there are people who do not want to empower women”. Referring to the raising of national flags on important days, he said, “It should be hoisted by heart without the use of power or through agents.” Lauding the people of Jammu for providing shelter to the Pandits in the aftermath of their migration from the valley, he supported the continuation of the ‘Darbar move’, a long practice under which the civil secretariat functions six months each in Srinagar and Jammu. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/jk-never-to-be-part-of-ethnic-cleansing-conspirators-farooq-abdullah-349158
11-12-2021||Srinagar||Cold wave intensifies in Valley, Ladakh||Cold wave intensified in Kashmir and Ladakh on Friday with Drass freezing at minus 16.9 degrees Celsius.An official of the Meteorological Department (MeT) said the minimum temperature remained below the freezing point in Kashmir and Ladakh. Drass in Ladakh was the coldest at minus 16.9. “Srinagar had a minimum temperature of minus 2.6, Pahalgam minus 5.9 and Gulmarg minus 6.0. Leh town had minus 11.0 and Kargil minus 8.6 as the night's lowest temperature," the office stated.“Jammu city and Katra town, both had 8.2, Batote 4.9, Banihal 4.8 and Bhaderwah 1.0 as the minimum temperature,” a MeT official said. Weather is likely to remain dry till December 20, the official added. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/cold-wave-intensifies-in-valley-ladakh-348857
11-12-2021||J&K has recorded 173 new Covid cases and one death in 24 hours||173 new Covid cases in J&K||In Ladakh, 24 more persons were tested positive for the virus, bringing the infection tally to 21,773. The active cases now stand at 237. pti||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/173-new-covid-cases-in-jk-348856
11-12-2021||Srinagar||Banker suspended for emoji on Gen's death||J&K Bank has placed a woman employee under suspension for her “inappropriate emoji” to a social media post on the death of Chief of Defence Staff, officials said on Friday.The banking attendant was suspended on Thursday, pending disciplinary proceedings. “Despite repeated circulars issued against the misuse of social media platforms contrary to the interests/rules of the bank, one of our employees made derogatory comments/remarks...,” the bank stated. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/banker-suspended-for-emoji-on-gens-death-348855
11-12-2021||Srinagar||Int'l bodies should help resolve K-issue: Hurriyat||The Hurriyat Conference, led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, on Friday appealed to the international human rights’ organisations to play their part in “ensuring” that the “Kashmir conflict is resolved” and the fundamental human rights of the people of J&K are “respected and reinstated”.In a statement issued on the International Human Rights Day, the Hurriyat said that for the last three decades, the “abysmal” human rights situation in J&K due to the “lingering conflict” had shown no sign of improvement.No improvementFor 3 decades, the abysmal human rights situation in J&K has shown no sign of improvement. —Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, Hurriyat leader“Instead, it has grown worse. Since August 5, 2019 (when the Centre revoked J&K’s special status) with unprecedented lockdowns, extra judicial measures, detentions and communication gags, human rights are the greatest casualty,” the Hurriyat said.It said all forms of human rights violations were unacceptable, be it from the state, or the killing of minority community members and non-locals living here.The Hurriyat appealed to the United Nations Human Rights Council, Amnesty International, Asia Watch, National Human Rights Commission, international leaders and policy makers, and people of India to play their part in “ensuring that the conflict is resolved” and the fundamental human rights of the people of J&K are respected and reinstated. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/intl-bodies-should-help-resolve-k-issue-hurriyat-348854
11-12-2021||---||Terrorists target police party in J&K, two dead||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 10Two personnel of the Jammu & Kashmir Police were killed after an attack by militants in north Kashmir’s Bandipora district today, said officials.After the attack, security forces have launched a cordon and search operation in the area. The slain policemen were identified by the officials as constables Mohammad Sultan and Fayaz Ahmad. The cops were injured in the attack and were taken to a hospital, where they died, the officials said. The police said the attack took place at Gulshan Chowk of Bandipora. “Terrorists fired upon a police party at Gulshan Chowk area of Bandipora. In this terror incident, two police personnel namely Selection Grade Constable Mohd Sultan & Constable Fayaz Ahmad were injured and later succumbed. The area was cordoned,” tweeted the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/terrorists-target-police-party-in-jk-two-dead-348848
