24-12-2021||New Delhi||NC will approach SC against Delimitation Commission recommendations: Abdullah||National Conference president and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah said on Friday that his party is preparing to approach the Supreme Court against the Delimitation Commission's recommendations as it believes that the very basis of the exercise is "illegal".The veteran politician, who has been chief minister of the erstwhile state three times as well as union minister, also said the time has come for the opposition parties to come together and fight the forces who are bent on destroying the secular fabric of the country.Giving a detailed account of his interactions during the Delimitation Commission meeting earlier this week, Abdullah told PTI that the very first point raised "by us at the meeting was that the commission was illegal" as the party's petition challenging the reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir was pending in the Supreme Court.However, commission chairperson Justice (retd.) Ranjana Desai countered the National Conference's argument by saying that as far as the panel was concerned she had been given authority by the government and, therefore, she had done this job."But whatever the Supreme Court finally says, it will be binding on them (Commission) also. So that clears the position. Then they explained other parameters also.... We are now preparing to go to the Supreme Court," he said.On the Supreme Court not interfering in recommendations made by previous Delimitation Commissions, Abdullah said the present commission was born after the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, which has been challenged in the top court and no decision has been pronounced on it yet."That is why...we are going to the Supreme Court. Others have also gone," he said.On Minister of State in the PMO Jitendra Singh claiming after the Delimitation Commission meeting of December 20 that he and other NC members were satisfied, Abdullah said, "What did he (Singh) expect us to do. Fight? We are not goondas. We have no voting rights, we can only listen and put our objections which they have allowed us to do. And they have given us time till December 31. Our report will be there before that with our objections." He said since the report is preliminary, the commission will see the upsurge that has taken place among various communities in Jammu and Kashmir, and reiterated his demand for holding the delimitation exercise after the next census.Referring to the reservation of nine seats for Scheduled Tribes and seven seats for Scheduled Castes in the preliminary report of the commission, the NC leader said, "We are not against the Scheduled Tribe reservation. Without reservation also, they had 15 members. So there is nothing new." "The Scheduled Caste (population) has also increased over the years...Kashmiri Pandits have been hankering for this for a long time. What about them, the Sikhs and the people of Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir? I am absolutely certain it is going to further divide communities and that is a tragedy," he said.On the criticism from certain quarters over its participation in the second meeting of the Delimitation Commission, the National Conference leader said, "If we did not participate, they would still criticise us. So criticism is part of this life and we do not get worried by criticism. They (critics) give us strength. Because we participated, we realised what is in it and what have they done? How have they done?" Asked about his participation in a meeting chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi in Delhi recently, Abdullah said, "The unity is essential if we want to save this nation, (protect it from) further division and further damage to its existence." "The unity is a priority and luckily Gandhi's efforts are to that effect. We should appreciate that she has taken this step. It is a good beginning and I am sure this will culminate in a good unity before the 2024 election. I am sure more meetings will take place, bringing more people together as we alone cannot beat the communal forces. She has to be part of (the united opposition)," Abdullah said.On the differences between the Congress and the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress, he said things have to be ironed out and "those will be ironed out, there is no doubt about it." "Past has to be put behind us if we want to work on the future," he said, expressing hope that "there will be unity of purpose" among the opposition parties."So this is what our intentions are that we should get this India back on the rails that we all dreamt of and we no longer have the fear that we would be put under various draconian laws and in prison," Abdullah said.Asked about the investigations of the Enforcement Directorate and the CBI against him, he said he will come out of these as a much stronger person. "It does not matter. This is part of life which you have to face. You do not run away from it and I will come back as a much stronger person," he said. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/nc-will-approach-sc-against-delimitation-commission-recommendations-abdullah-354011
24-12-2021||Srinagar||Hizbul Mujahideen militant killed in encounter with security forces in J-K’s Anantnag||A Hizbul Mujahideen militant, involved in the killing of an inspector and BJP workers among others, was killed in an encounter with security forces in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, police said.A police spokesman said a cordon and search operation was launched in Mumanhal Aarwani area of Bijbehara in the south Kashmir district based on inputs about the presence of militants there.“During the search operation, as the presence of the trapped terrorist got ascertained, he was given ample opportunities to surrender. However, he denied the surrender opportunities and instead fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party which was retaliated leading to an encounter,” he said.In the ensuing encounter, the militant identified as Shahzad Ahmad Seh, a resident of Sehpora in Kulgam, was killed and his body was retrieved from the site of the shootout, the spokesman said.“As per police records, the man was a categorised terrorist linked with proscribed terror outfit Hizbul Mujahideen and was part of groups involved in several terror cases,” he said.Seh was involved in the killing of police Inspector Mohammad Ashraf Bhat in Anantnag in October last year, he said.“He was involved in the killing of three BJP workers at YK-Pora Kulgam in October last year. He was also involved in the killing of a BJP sarpanch and his wife at Lal-Chowk Anantnag on August 9 this year,” the spokesman said.He said the slain militant was also involved in the attack on DDC candidate Anees ul Islam Ganie at Sagam Kokernag in December last year and in snatching the weapon from a constable at Shamispora crossing in Khudwani area of Kulgam in July this year.“Moreover, he was involved in various grenade lobbing incidents and attacks on security establishments in Anantnag and Kulgam areas,” the spokesman said.Incriminating materials, arms and ammunition including an AK-47 rifle, two AK magazines, 40 AK rounds and a grenade were recovered from his possession and all the seized materials have been taken into case records for further investigation, the spokesman said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/militant-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-j-ks-anantnag-353967
24-12-2021||Srinagar||132 fresh Covid cases in J&K||J&K on Thursday recorded 132 fresh Covid cases and three deaths. The caseload has reached 3,40,293 and the death toll 4,518.There are 1,319 active cases in the UT. As many as 3,34,456 patients have recovered, an official said. Srinagar recorded the highest of 40 cases. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/132-fresh-cases-in-jk-353819
24-12-2021||New Delhi||NIA chargesheets 3 in terror case in Jammu court||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) today said it had filed a chargesheet in a Jammu court against three persons, who were in touch with Pakistan-based handlers, in connection with a case regarding seizure of an improvised explosive device. The IED was seized from Nadeem Ul Haq near Madarsa Markaz Ul Haroof at Bhatindi in June this year.The other accused named in the chargesheet are Talib Ur Rehman of Ramban and Nadeem Ayoub Rather of Shopian. The chargesheet has been filed under the IPC, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Explosive Substances Act, the official added.Initially, the police had registered the case in June which was later taken up by the NIA in July. The three accused were receiving instructions from Pakistan-based The Resistance Front handlers via WhatsApp, the official of the National Investigation Agency said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/nia-chargesheets-3-in-terror-case-353816
24-12-2021||---||Attack averted, 5-kg IED defused in Pulwama||New Delhi, December 23Averting a major terror incident in J&K, security forces have seized 5-kg improvised explosive device (IED) in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district, officials said.The IED was found by a joint team of security forces along the Newa-Srinagar road in Wanpora area. The explosive device was later defused.2 Lashkar aides held“Acting on a specific intelligence input that terrorists had planted an IED, a search operation was launched jointly by the Pulwama police, 50 RR and CRPF’s 183 Battalion. During the search, an explosive device was found planted on the roadside,” a senior J&K police official said, adding that the explosive material weighed approximately 5 kg. It had been assembled in a container.Soon after the recovery, a bomb disposal team from the police, along with Army personnel, destroyed it on the spot through controlled detonation, the official said. “With the timely action, a major tragedy was averted,” he said, adding that a case had been registered and a few suspects taken for questioning.The IED was found a day after militants shot dead a police officer and a civilian in two separate attacks in the Kashmir Valley.Meanwhile, security forces arrested two overground workers of Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) in Budgam district, the police said. "Acting on specific inputs, a team of the police, the Army and the CRPF apprehended Mohammad Shafi Ganai and Zahoor Ahmad Chopan from Magam area of Budgam," a police spokesman said.Incriminating materials were seized from them. During preliminary investigation, it was revealed that the arrested persons were in touch with LeT commanders and involved in providing logistics, shelter as well as transportation to the terrorists, he said.An FIR has been registered at Khag police station and further investigation is under process, the spokesperson added. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/attack-averted-5-kg-ied-defused-in-pulwama-353815
