27-12-2021||---||Don't feel any such need: LG Sinha on review of AFSPA in J&K||Jammu, December 27Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday said there is no need to set up a panel to review the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) in the union territory.Sinha was asked if Jammu and Kashmir felt the need to set up a panel to review or repeal the AFSPA as is being done in Nagaland."Do not be concerned about it. I am looking into it. I do not feel any such need (to set up a panel to review it)," Sinha told a press conference here.The Centre on Sunday constituted a high-level committee, headed by a secretary-rank officer, to examine the possibility of lifting the controversial Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act in Nagaland, apparently to soothe the rising tension in the northeastern state following the killing of 14 civilians.Vivek Joshi, who is Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India, will head the five-member committee while Additional Secretary in the Union Home Ministry Piyush Goyal will be the member secretary of the panel. Other members of the committee are chief secretary and DGP of Nagaland and DGP of the Assam Rifles, a government official privy to the development had said.LG Sinha outright rejected apprehensions among some political leaders in Jammu and Kashmir about demographic change in the union territory."I outright reject it. I will not react to statements of leaders," Sinha said while replying to another question.In bid to address such apprehension, the LG said, a large chunk of local youth have been given employment in hydro power, tunnel and road projects in J&K.He said it is an attempt to incite people. "We will take people on board," he said.In his address earlier in the day to the first ever investment summit, the LG said an attempt to create hindrance will be dealt with. "We will bring down the wall of hindrance (in the development journey of Jammu and Kashmir). We will take swift steps in this development journey," he said.He, however, advised investors to take on board the people of Jammu and Kashmir. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/dont-feel-any-such-need-lg-sinha-on-review-of-afspa-in-jk-355119
27-12-2021||---||Ultra who killed ASI shot in Anantnag encounter||New Delhi, December 26Security forces have killed a terrorist belonging to the Islamic State Jammu and Kashmir outfit, who was reportedly involved in the killing of an assistant sub-inspector, in an encounter in Anantnag, officials said on Sunday. The slain man has been identified as Faheem Bhat, resident of Anantnag.The encounter at K Kalan, Srigufwara area of the south Kashmir district, began late on Saturday night, the officials said, adding that it was the third encounter between security forces and terrorists on Saturday. Two terrorists each were killed in Shopian and Pulwama earlier on Saturday.A senior J&K Police official said security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation in K Kalan following inputs about the presence of terrorists. The search operation turned into an encounter after the hiding terrorists fired on the forces, who retaliated.Kashmir IGP Vijay Kumar tweeted that Faheem Bhat had recently joined the ISJK and was involved in killing of ASI Mohd Ashraf, who was posted at Bijbehara police station. ASI Ashraf was shot outside the Bijbehara hospital on Wednesday evening.Meanwhile, at least two policemen sustained injuries after militants lobbed a hand grenade near the post office in Pulwama on Sunday afternoon. Security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation to nab the culprits, they added.Search operationSlain militant was ISJK member||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/ultra-who-killed-asi-shot-in-anantnag-encounter-354935
27-12-2021||New Delhi||Farooq Abdullah hints at fighting polls with PAGD allies||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah, who is the chairperson of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), has hinted his party will fight the next Assembly elections in J&K together with the constituents of the new coalition to defeat “communal forces”.Talking about the situation in Kashmir, Abdullah claimed it was worse than the 90s — when militancy erupted in the UT — because the youth feel they have no place in modern India and have lost faith in the government in Delhi.“...and I am sure when the elections come, we’ll sit down together again to defeat the divisive and communal forces,” Abdullah, who has been a Union minister and three-time CM of the erstwhile state, said.The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration is a five-party alliance comprising the National Conference (NC), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), CPM, Awami National Conference and the Peoples Movement. It seeks the restoration of the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir which was revoked by the Centre in August 2019.“What is created is a combination of all parties to fight for the rights and identity of our people — the Dogras, the Kashmiris and others. We recently had a meeting and we all condemned what the delimitation commission has done,” Abdullah said.— PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/farooq-abdullah-hints-at-fighting-polls-with-pagd-allies-354932
27-12-2021||Srinagar||124 new Covid cases, 2 deaths in J&K||J&K on Sunday recorded 124 fresh Covid cases, raising the tally to 3,40,722, officials said. The Union Territory also reported two more deaths due to the virus which pushed the death toll to 4,523.There are 1,350 active cases in the UT. The number of recovered Covid patients is 3,34,849.Ladakh’s Covid caseload increased to 22,083 as 24 more people tested positive. While 16 of the new cases were detected in Leh district, eight were recorded in Kargil district. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/124-new-covid-cases-2-deaths-in-jk-354928
