29-12-2021||Srinagar||Policeman injured in encounter in J-K’s Anantnag||A policeman was injured as an encounter broke out between security forces and militants in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, police said.A police official said the encounter happened when security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Nowgam Shahabad of Dooru in the south Kashmir district acting on a specific input about the presence of militants.He said as the forces were conducting the searches, the hiding militants fired upon them.The forces retaliated, ensuing an encounter, the official said.In the initial firing, a police personnel was injured and has been shifted to a hospital, the official added.The exchange of firing was going on and further details were awaited, he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/policeman-injured-in-encounter-in-j-ks-anantnag-355933
29-12-2021||Srinagar||Hyderpora encounter: SIT rules out foul play by security forces||The special investigation team (SIT) of the J&K Police, probing the Hyderpora encounter, on Tuesday said while one civilian was killed by the foreign terrorist, the owner of the building and a local militant died in the crossfire after being used as a human shield by the hiding ultra.A Pakistani terrorist and three other persons were killed in Hyderpora on November 15 and the police claimed that all the slain men had links to militancy. The families of the three, alleging foul play, had claimed that they were innocent, prompting the police to order the inquiry.On Tuesday, SIT head DIG Sujith K virtually gave a clean chit to the security forces but added the team was open to reviewing its findings if any other evidence came to light.“Our investigation so far has revealed that Dr Mudasir Gul was killed by the foreign terrorist hiding inside the building as his body was recovered from the attic. The security forces did not go to the attic at all during searches or subsequent operation, “ head of the SIT, DIG Sujith K Singh, told reporters here.Giving details of the investigation, Singh said the probe had revealed that Amir Magray, the employee of Dr Gul, was closely associated with the foreign terrorist — Bilal Bhai — who was killed in the operation while trying to flee. “Mohammad Altaf Bhat (building owner) and Amir were killed in the crossfire with security forces as they were used as a human shield by the foreign terrorist. It is substantiated by the fact the Altaf fell (after being hit by bullets) outside the door, while Amir had managed to run a few more steps and the foreign terrorist’s body was found 83 feet away,” he said. The officer said besides examining the CCTV footage and call detail records, the SIT has also examined more than 20 witnesses so far.“Statements of six of these witnesses have been recorded before the magistrate at well,” he added. Asked why the civilians were sent in for house searches if the security forces had information about the presence of terrorists inside, the officer said Bhat had volunteered to go inside as “he was very sure that there was no one hiding inside”.Asked if the police disclosure about the investigations could preempt the magisterial probe ordered by the UT government, IGP (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar said the inquiry was already complete. — PTIProbe findingsIt’s repetition of old story, says PAGD’s Tarigami||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/hyderpora-encounter-sit-rules-out-foul-play-by-security-forces-355752
29-12-2021||Srinagar/Leh||J&K records 91 new Covid cases, 1 death||J&K on Tuesday recorded 91 fresh Covid cases, taking the infected number of persons to 3,40,924, officials said. The UT also reported one more death due to the infection. Of the fresh cases, 32 were recorded from the Jammu division and 59 from the Kashmir division. They said Srinagar district recorded the highest of 30 cases, followed by 20 cases in Jammu district. There are 1,296 active Covid cases in the UT while the number of recovered patients is 3,35,103Ladakh’s death toll due to Covid has climbed to 219 following a fatality in Leh, while 14 fresh cases pushed the overall infection tally to 22,105 in the UT. All the 14 fresh cases were reported in Leh. The active cases have declined to 193. While 161 people died because of the virus in Leh, 58 died in Kargil. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/jk-records-91-new-covid-cases-1-death-355750
29-12-2021||---||Boost to border infra, new bridges for Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh||New Delhi, December 28Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday said the country faced the adversary (China) in the northern sector recently with grit and determination. This could not have been possible without proper infrastructural development, he asserted as he went on to praise the Border Roads Organisation.A strong infrastructure in border areas is essential in today’s uncertain times as it strengthens strategic capabilities, the Defence Minister said, adding that as part of the border infrastructure, India must bolster surveillance systems as well.Rajnath was speaking at a function to dedicate to the nation 24 bridges and three roads built by the BRO.Of the 24 bridges unveiled virtually, nine are in Jammu and Kashmir, five each are located in Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh, three are in Uttarakhand and one each in Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh.Also read: Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur thanks Rajnath Singh for five bridgesOf the three roads, two are in Ladakh and one is in West Bengal. Among the key border projects are an indigenous 140-ft double-lane modular bridge, built at a height of 11,000 ft in Flag Hill-Dokala, Sikkim, and the Chisumle-Demchok road that passes through Umling La at over 19,000 feet in Ladakh. It holds the Guinness World Record of world’s highest motorable road.The projects have ensured a significant road network along the northern and eastern borders of the country. Rajnath Singh said the road at Umling La in eastern Ladakh would enable faster movement of the armed forces, boost tourism and ensure socio-economic development of the region.Rajnath Singh defined the construction of roads, highways, tunnels and bridges in border areas as pivotal to building a strong and prosperous nation. It would improve the socio-economic condition of the people in far-flung areas and help the country achieve its security, communication and trade objectives.27 projects unveiled||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/boost-to-border-infra-new-bridges-for-ladakh-hp-355630
