20-04-2021||Lucknow||'Health services have collapsed': Akhilesh Yadav on Covid-19 surge in UP||With Uttar Pradesh battling a surge in Covid-19 cases, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday claimed that health services in the state have "collapsed" and the situation is worse in villages as compared to cities.Taking a dig at the state government for converting hospitals and other buildings built by the erstwhile SP dispensation into Covid-19 facilities, Yadav said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is "allergic" to the work carried out by his party during its regime.Uttar Pradesh has registered a record increase in Covid-19 cases on five of the last seven days.The state's Covid-19 case count stands at 9,09,405 while 10,159 people have succumbed to the disease so far, according to official data."Health services in the state have collapsed," Yadav said in a statement issued here.The situation is bad not only in cities, it is worse in villages, where there is no one to hear the voice of the poor villagers, he claimed.Yadav further said, "The CM, who is allergic to the work carried out during the SP's regime, is playing with the lives of the people."The CM did not care about improving the health services. The SP had put forth this demand. But now as the situation is worsening, the government has decided to convert cancer hospital, Haj House, Awadh Shilpgram built during the SP's regime into Covid centres, he said."The priority of the BJP government and its CM is to be in power and win elections without caring about the spread of coronavirus even at his rallies. There is no value of people's lives for the BJP," he added.Yadav alleged that the BJP government has been befooling people for the last four years."Due to the lack of coordination among administrative officers, the situation is worsening day by day," he claimed.In another statement, Leader of Opposition in the state assembly and senior SP leader Ram Govind Chowdhury demanded the withdrawal of a state government order to impose a fine of ₹10,000 on those found without masks for a second time."This is a reminder of the British era and the CM should immediately roll back his decision. The Yogi government has handed over the state to vultures who are targeting the common man by realising fines and black marketing essential commodities," he said.The party whose PM and CM attended rallies without wearing masks do not have the moral right to penalise the common man for it, Chowdhury said, referring to Modi and Adityanath addressing public meetings in states where assembly elections are underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/health-services-have-collapsed-akhilesh-yadav-on-covid-19-surge-in-up-101618927118842.html
20-04-2021||Lucknow||Research institutes to help covid testing, sample collection in Lucknow||: Research institutes in Lucknow have decided to set up sample collection centres across the city to boost testing for coronavirus infection. Lucknow based National Botanical Research Institute (NBRI), Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI), Birbal Sahani Institute of Paleosciences (BSIP) and Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR) are planning to set up sample collection units in the city. “We are planning to begin Covid-19 sample collection as covid cases are increasing. Mass testing is one of the major aspects of controlling the spread of Covid-19 infection and we want to assist the health infrastructure of the state government,” said NBRI director Dr SK Barik. The move is in keeping with the state government’s decision to boost testing following the alarming surge in Covid-19 cases. The state recorded nearly 30,000 new cases on Tuesday. Of these, about 5000 cases were reported from state capital itself. At present majority of sample collection is being done by King George’s Medical University (KGMU) and Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) in Lucknow, beside some private labs. Samples collected at government centres are then sent to these research institutes for testing. If research institutes begin samples collection for testing, an additional 1500 to 1700 Covid-19 samples could be tested each day. “Our staff is equipped to handle Covid-19 samples. We are in talks with the local administration about places where sample collection can be done. Once it is finalised we will be in position to begin sample collection within 72 hours,” said CDRI director Dr Tapas Kundu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/research-institutes-to-help-covid-testing-sample-collection-in-lucknow-101618938638086.html
20-04-2021||Lucknow||AAP versus UP govt over migrants workers’ exodus from Delhi||The exodus of migrant workers from Delhi after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s announcement of a six-day curfew has sparked A war of words between the Uttar Pradesh government and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Siddharth Nath Singh, UP government spokesperson and MSME minister, alleged that the Delhi government had meted out step-motherly treatment to migrant workers belonging to UP and Bihar. “To hide the failure of his government, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has announced a six-day lockdown in the national capital in haste,” he said. “The Delhi government failed to provide beds, hospitals and other facilities to Covid patients and when health services collapsed, they announced lockdown without any preparations,” said Singh. “The migrants were dumped on the Delhi-UP border on Monday night. The hapless people were left to their fate. Earlier too during the nationwide lockdown in March last year, the Delhi government had dumped the migrant workers,” he added. To send the migrants workers home, the UP government acted swiftly. On the direction of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, fleets of government and private buses were sent to Anand Vihar and Kaushambi bus stations located on Delhi border, said the minister. “Over one lakh migrant workers were sent home on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday,” said Singh. Also read: ‘Lockdown should be last resort’ - PM Modi urges states in address to nationCountering the statement of the UP minister, AAP’s Uttar Pradesh spokesperson Vaibhav Maheshwari said, “Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said lockdown has been imposed for a small period to break the Covid infection chain.” “In a video message, he also appealed to migrants workers to stay in Delhi as the state government was arranging for their food and shelter. The Delhi government is providing all facilities to migrants including medical, food and lodging,” he added. Maheshwari said the UP government failed to provide basic facilities to Covid-19 patients across the state and a large number of them was not getting beds and oxygen in hospitals. “The UP government has failed in Covid management whereas the Delhi government is working sensitively to provide medical facilities to Covid patients,” he said. A state government official said the buses ferrying migrants from the Delhi border had been sent to all districts. Around 1,400 buses left the Anand Vihar and Kaushambi bus stations on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday with migrants workers heading home in UP. The magistrates of all 75 districts were directed to screen migrants workers and those with Covid symptoms will stay in quarantine facilities set up by the government or in home isolation. Village surveillance committees will maintain a vigil on migrant workers and monitor their health conditions. According to the guidelines issued by the state government, migrants coming from other states will have to stay in seven days’ home quarantine even if they do not have Covid-19 symptoms, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/app-versus-up-govt-over-migrants-workers-exodus-from-delhi-101618936958769.html
20-04-2021||Lucknow||Yogi announces weekend corona curfew||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday announced a two-day weekend corona curfew to be enforced from 8pm on Friday to 7am on Monday across the state as part of measures to fight Covid-19. In addition to the weekend curfew, no other activities, barring essential services, will be allowed from 8pm to 7am daily in the districts having more than 500 active cases of Covid-19. The new rules for the corona curfew will come into force immediately, he added. The chief minister was reviewing the Covid-19 situation at a video conference with officers of Team-11 here. He said every citizen contributed in making corona curfew a success. People should not venture out unnecessarily and should celebrate festivals at home, he added. He also said the people should mandatorily use mask while moving out of their homes. There should be no crowding at public places and this should be strictly enforced, he added. State to have 15,000 more Covid-19 beds He said the number of Covid-19 beds should be doubled in Lucknow, Kanpur Nagar, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Jhansi, Gorakhpur and Meerut. As many as 200 beds should be increased in every district immediately, he said, adding that all these beds should have regular oxygen supply. He said with this, the state would have 15,000 more Covid-19 beds. He said a secretary-level officer should be deployed to oversee the increase in number of beds and this work should be carried out on top priority. Minister for medical education and minister for health should be in regular communication with the administration in different districts and ensure action, he added. The chief minister said King George’s Medical University (KGMU) and Balrampur hospitals should work as dedicated Covid hospitals to the optimum. He said Era, TS Mishra, Integral, Hind and Mayo Medical College should also use their capacity to the optimum and work as Covid-19 hospitals. Non-Covid patients undergoing treatment there should be shifted elsewhere, he added. The chief minister said more than 4,500 beds were available in Lucknow. He said new hospitals should be listed in L-2 and L-3 categories and the number of beds be increased there. He said a nodal officer should be appointed for all the hospitals of Lucknow and the situation there should be reviewed through integrated command and control centres. He said more than 800 beds were available at the Swaroop Rani Medical College and United Medical College of Prayagraj. The number of beds available in private hospitals was more than this and the number be increased further, he added. The chief minister said RT-PCR positivity rate was higher in Varanasi and the number of tests should be increased there. He said in view of the way the Covid-19 infection was spreading, the need for isolation and ICU beds was bound to increase there. Besides Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial (GSVM) Medical College, Rama Medical College and Narayana Medical College, the resources of private medical colleges should also be used in the fight against Covid-19 in Kanpur, the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-announces-weekend-corona-curfew-101618927297536.html
20-04-2021||Lucknow||570 UP cops test positive in 4 days; active cases count cross 1000 mark in police force||With at least 570 cops testing positive in the last four days, the total count of active cases in the state police force crossed the 1000 mark on Tuesday, said senior police officials at the DGP headquarters.Moreover, the Covid-19 infection claimed the lives of at least five police personnel during the same period, they added.A senior police official said the active cases in police force were merely 461 on April 16 which has increased to over double in four days as 1,008 active cases were reported on Tuesday. He said the maximum rise in cases was reported from district police units with 730 active cases at present.The official said the active cases figures, included 159 from other units, 50 from Government Railway Police (GRP), 47 from Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC), 11 from the DGP headquarters and nine from police training centres and two cases from home guards’ wing.Sharing details of death toll, the official said that maximum numbers of 73 deaths were reported from district units, six from PAC, three from other units, two each from DGP headquarters and home guards’ wings and one from a police training centre.He said the special advisory had been issued to the police personnel deployed in panchayat poll duties to wear mask and carry sanitizers along with them. “The cases in the police force would increase drastically if proper measures were not taken during the poll duties,” he added.The official said a total 13,666 police personnel had been tested positive while 88 lost their lives after been infected to Covid-19 since April 24, 2020. He said as many as 10,851 police personnel in field duties in different districts across the state tested positive between April 24, 2020, and April 20, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/570-up-cops-test-positive-in-4-days-active-cases-count-cross-1000-mark-in-police-force-101618922858410.html
20-04-2021||Lucknow||Revoke my suspension, let me serve Covid patients: Kafeel Khan to UP govt||Kafeel Khan, the suspended paediatrician of Gorakhpur’s Baba Raghav Das (BRD) Medical College, has written to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath urging him to revoke his suspension and allow him to serve Covid-19 patients.“I have written 38 letters to the state government to revoke my suspension. The inquiry committee constituted by the state government has given a clean chit in the case. The Allahabad high court, as well as the Supreme Court in the orders passed in 2019, directed the state government to take a decision on my suspension within 90 days but even after 1,300 days, the suspension has not been revoked,” he wrote.Also Read | Lockdown in Delhi imposed ‘in a rush’ to ‘cover failures’: UP ministerKhan was suspended after he was accused of medical negligence during the August 2017 oxygen shortage tragedy that resulted in the deaths of children at BRD Medical College.He wrote he has 15-year experience in managing the patients admitted to the intensive care units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/revoke-my-suspension-let-me-serve-covid-patients-kafeel-khan-to-upgovt-101618913978076.html
