24-04-2021||Lucknow||Current Covid-19 wave 30 times more intense than last one: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said the current Covid-19 wave was 30 times more intense than the one witnessed last year. “This is calamity, pandemic. We should not dismiss it as mere viral fever. I, too, got infected and (am) following isolation and all protocols since April 13,” he said in an interaction with editors and senior journalists of various publications and media outlets.At the same time, he said in the last three days, the number of recoveries each day had been higher in Lucknow than the number of fresh Covid-19 positive cases. Yogi Adityanath also said that there was no shortage of drugs like Remdesivir. “When the demand increased, we sent the state plane to Ahmedabad, directly procured it from a pharma company, and brought the consignment to Lucknow the same day. Like oxygen, not all patients need Remdesivir,” he said.He also underscored, “There will be no dearth of beds, and the bed situation is being monitored and reviewed each day.” The chief minister said to the senior journalists: “When the first case surfaced in UP last year, we did not have any resources. We had one lab that started with 72 tests in March 2020. Now, we are doing 2.25 lakh tests per day and will escalate it. UP is the only state to have done nearly four crore tests. Last year, 36 districts that did not have even a single ventilator. Today, all districts have ventilators.”The chief minister alleged there were some vested interests who were engaged in spreading rumours and panic. There had been instances when the same fake distress message was relayed from different social media accounts, he said. There was a need to identify such people and act against them, he added.Dwelling more on the government’s efforts, he said: “Recently, when the Delhi government announced lockdown, nearly 1.5 lakh migrants arrived in UP. We promptly arranged buses, tests, and quarantine.”Regarding Covid vaccination, he said that UP was the first state to announce free vaccination for all. The state had nearly 8,000 vaccination centres ready where vaccines will be given to people about 18 years of age from May 1. At a Covid-19 review meeting earlier in the day, the chief minister aid stress on proper preparations for the new phase of the vaccination drive. Till now, those above 45 years of age were getting inoculated.The chief minister asked for extensive sanitisation during the corona curfew.In the last 24 hours, more than 23,000 Covid-19 positive patients had recovered, he noted.He also asked for promptness in ambulance services for Covid-19 patients, effective implementation of norms in containment zones, providing Covid kit to home isolation patients, and smooth operations in wheat purchase across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/current-covid-19-wave-30-times-more-intense-than-last-one-yogi-101619285521027.html
24-04-2021||Lucknow||Oxygen Express reaches Lucknow from Bokaro with 30,000 litres of life-saving gas||Packed with around 30,000 litres of liquid medical oxygen (LMO), the Oxygen Express reached Lucknow’s Charbagh Railway Station at around 6:30 am on Saturday.“The train, Oxygen Express, has arrived in UP on Saturday. Of the three trucks, one was offloaded in Varanasi while two were brought to Lucknow. Each truck is of 15,000 litres capacity,” said Awanish Kumar Awasthi, additional chief secretary (Home), who was supervising the operation.Watch: Oxygen Express train with 30,000 litres of liquid medical oxygen reaches UP﻿﻿Government officials said the train is expected to bring much-needed relief to the state capital and other oxygen-starved districts of Uttar Pradesh that witnessed a sudden increase in demand for oxygen for Covid 19 patients.The train, which is said to be the first-of-its-kind rail operation in history, left Bokaro, Jharkhand, loaded with three truckloads of LMO at around 2 pm on Friday.Awasthi said the quantity of oxygen that has reached Lucknow is enough to meet half of the total oxygen demand in the state capital. “Things will surely improve in Lucknow. The total amount of oxygen arrived would be enough to meet half of the total demand here,” added Awasthi.On Friday, Lucknow reported 5,862 fresh cases and 14 fatalities. The total number of active cases under treatment in Lucknow is around 53,475. The death toll in Lucknow has gone up to 1,598.Besides, he also said that UP has rushed another Oxygen Express train on Saturday morning to fetch oxygen from Bokaro to meet the increased oxygen demand of other districts following the rise in the Covid 19 cases.Sanjay Trupathi, divisional railway manager (DRM) Northern Railway (NR) Lucknow, who was part of the operation said, “The operation was successful. It’s was perhaps the first of its kind train operation. We have sent another train, loaded with 4 empty oxygen tankers to Bokaro. The train is expected to reach UP on Monday,” said Sanjay Tripathi, DRM NR.He said such operations would be a boon in curbing the ‘oxygen crisis’ that has emerged following the sudden spike in its demand.The transport department has roped in around 40 oxygen-carrying tankers from across the state, for the purpose.The initiative is a part of the UP government’s move under which it had approached the Railways to help them out in bringing in LMO from Jharkhand, Bengal and Odisha to meet the increased demand in the state, especially in districts like Lucknow, Varanasi and Faizabad.Government officials said that traditional oxygen tankers would take nearly 5 to 6 days to bring in oxygen from Jharkhand, Bengal and Odisha and transporting it by Railways is two times faster. The railway ministry pressed in Roll On Roll Off (RORO) services for the same.On Friday, the state reported another single-day high with 37,238 fresh Covid-19 cases and 199 deaths, according to state health department data. The total number of cases now stands at 10,13,370 and the death toll has reached 10,737.Currently, the state has 2,73,653 active cases, including 2,18,000 patients in home isolation, official data showed. While 22,566 patients were discharged during the day, 7,28,980 patients have recovered so far. UP’s total caseload has crossed the 10-lakh (one million) mark in 418 days since the first case was reported on March 2, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/oxygen-express-reaches-lucknow-from-bokaro-with-30-000-litres-of-life-saving-gas-101619238719592.html
24-04-2021||Lucknow||Vaccination to continue during weekend corona curfew: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said Covid-19 vaccination will continue as usual and people will be able to move freely for it during the weekend corona curfew that will be in force till 7am on Monday. The chief minister also said the vaccination drive from May 1 for those above 18 years of age would be free of cost and the committee under the UP finance minister would make a detailed plan for the campaign from May 1. “The committee will establish a dialogue with vaccine companies to make the vaccination drive successful,” he said at a Covid-19 review meeting. He asked the officers concerned to act sternly against such people who were engaged in black-marketeering of oxygen and medicines, spreading rumours, and trying to vitiate the atmosphere. “Invoke the Gangsters Act, the National Security Act and even attach their properties,” Yogi Adityanath said. “It is heartening that in the last 24 hours, 22,000 patients have recovered from the disease and if we stick to the Covid appropriate behaviour and follow the mantra of test, trace, and treat, then we will attain victory over the virus,” he added. There should not be any discrimination in the distribution of Remdesivir and other lifesaving Covid drugs, he added. He also said the medicine distribution system required improvement. He asked officers concerned that people should not be overcharged for Covid-19 tests and treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/vaccination-to-continue-during-weekend-corona-curfew-yogi-101619204516779.html
24-04-2021||Lucknow||Two Oxygen Exp trains on track for destination Lucknow||Two Oxygen Express trains that aim at ending the oxygen crisis in Uttar Pradesh are expected to reach Lucknow on Saturday and Sunday morning respectively. The first special train will have three oxygen tankers of 20,000 litres each. One tanker will be unloaded in Varanasi en route. The remaining two will be brought to the state capital. Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi confirmed one train would arrive on Saturday and said, “Of the three loaded containers, one would unload at Varanasi and two in Lucknow. Of these two, one will be sent to Kanpur and the other will be used in Lucknow itself.” The first train left Bokaro, Jharkhand, on Friday noon. The railways rushed the second train loaded with empty oxygen tankers to fetch another consignment from Bokaro. “The load is ready, it is all set to leave Bokaro for Lucknow,” said Dhaneshwar Mohanta, additional divisional railway manager of the Adra division of South Eastern Railway (SER). Mohanta was overseeing the entire train operation in Bokaro. The officials with Northern Railway (NR) said the (second) train is expected to reach state capital on Sunday morning. “The Oxygen Express that aims at ensuring the supply of oxygen to UP has left Bokaro Steel Plant. We have also created a green corridor to minimise the total journeying time. Railway is making spontaneous efforts to ensure fast and regular supply of oxygen in states,” reads a tweet by railway minister Piyush Goyal soon after the (first) train left Bokaro on Friday. Sanjay Tripathi, divisional railway manager (DRM) of Northern Railway, Lucknow, said the train was moving at an average speed of 63km per hour and it was expected to reach Lucknow on Saturday morning. The NR DRM also said the other Oxygen Express train was rushed to Bokaro to bring in more LMO in order to meet the crisis situation. Officials with Northern Railway (NR) said they were expecting more such trains in the near future that would be a boon in curbing the “oxygen crisis-like situation” that has emerged following the sudden spike in the demand of LMO that plays a key role in giving relief to Covid-19 patients. The UP government had approached the railways to help it in bringing in LMO from Jharkhand, Bengal and Odisha in order to meet the increased demand in the state, especially in Lucknow, Varanasi and Ayodhya (Faizabad) districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-oxygen-exp-trains-on-track-for-destination-lucknow-101619200256578.html
