26-04-2021||Lucknow||SP, Congress engaging in politics of lies: UP minister||UP minister Siddharth Nath Singh on Monday lashed out at the Congress and Samajwadi Party (SP) for engaging in “politics of lies” to defame the BJP government.“During these pandemic times, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhiji and SP chief Akhilesh Yadavji should focus on helping the people instead of trading in politics of lies,” he said.His statement made to the media came a day after the Congress government in Chhattisgarh announced it was sending 16 tons of oxygen for a private hospital in Lucknow. “On being informed by Priyanka Gandhiji on phone about acute crisis of oxygen in Lucknow, a tanker of oxygen has been sent for Medanta Hospital in Lucknow,” Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel had tweeted on Sunday.However, Siddharth Nath claimed the opposition leaders, desperate to regain lost political ground, were engaged in political stunt instead of helping the people.“Everyone knows what the Congress government had done last time in the name of sending students from UP, back to their villages, during the lockdown announced by the government in the first Covid wave,” he said.“Instead of questioning us, the Congress would do well to question their own chief ministers on what they have done to help the common man hit by the pandemic,” Siddharth Nath said.The UP minister also hit out at the SP chief. “Instead of raising fingers at the BJP government, the SP should tell what all it did to better health infrastructure in the state during its four stints in power,” he said.The UP government’s counterattack came after Congress leaders, including its state chief Ajay Kumar ‘Lallu’ and other party leaders in the state took to twitter to thank the Chhattisgarh chief minister even as his party leaders, including former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and party’s UP in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra targeted the BJP, accusing it of hiding the reality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-congress-engaging-in-politics-of-lies-up-minister-101619460138195.html
26-04-2021||Lucknow||IIM-L professors brainstorm on ‘oxygen audit’ project||A team of professors at the Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow (IIM-L) is currently working on the procedure to be adopted for oxygen audit under which they will track and monitor usage of oxygen in hospitals to ensure optimal utilization. The team is led by professor Suresh Jakhar with professor Arunabha Mukhopadhyay, Prof Ajay Garg and Prof Kshitij Awasthi as other team members. The IIM-L professors are busy developing a procedural and monitoring framework for oxygen supply and optimal utilization by hospitals. “Initially we will develop parametres for collecting information from each hospital on daily basis and centralised oxygen unit will monitor it,” said one of the team members. The team members held quite a few virtual interactions with each other to finalise on how to go about it. The teachers at IIM-L held meetings with larger group of experts drawn from other institutes. IIM-L is working with UP government, IIT-Kanpur and IIT BHU for oxygen audit in the hospitals of UP. Prof Archana Shukla, director, IIM-L is part of high-powered group comprising of additional chief secretary home, Awanish Awasthi, director IIT-K, Abhay Karandikar and director IIT BHU Prof PN Jain and medical experts among others. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced the oxygen audit a day after launching a digital platform for monitoring oxygen supply system. He asked officials to strike a balance between demand and supply of oxygen. He also asked them to “distribute oxygen in a transparent manner.” Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said efforts were on to ensure rational utilisation of oxygen in hospitals. The health department and the medical education department have issued guidelines for the use of oxygen in Covid-19 pandemic. The state government had also received guidelines for the judicious use of oxygen as a therapy to treat Covid-19 patients, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iiml-professors-brainstorm-on-oxygen-audit-project-101619460018234.html
26-04-2021||Lucknow||UP govt fudging data to show fewer deaths: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Monday charged the state government with fudging coronavirus death numbers and said the data shown by it was contradicted by the rush at crematoriums.“While on one hand the government is showing fewer deaths on the other hand there is no let-up in cremations. There is an emergency of breaths because of lack of oxygen, beds and medicines. The way people are dying, it’s genocide like situation,” said the former UP chief minister.In a statement, Akshilesh said short-sightedness and mismanagement of the BJP government, despite warnings from experts, has turned UP into ‘Corona Pradesh (Corona state). “The BJP must quit its arrogance of power and should start thinking like family members of Covid patients. It must immediately start making arrangement of oxygen cylinders at Covid patients in home quarantine. Patient is a patient, be at hospital or home,” he said.Akhilesh also demanded that prices of vaccines should be uniform and people be inoculated free-of-cost.“The government has failed to the extent that even BJP MPs and MLAs are not satisfied with the current state of affairs and warning of sitting on dharna. The phone numbers of hospitals and doctors that the BJP government is publicising are all wrong. Such an insensitive government was never seen in the state,” he said.The former chief minister further said that the government also failed on checking black-marketing of drugs and oxygen in the state. He said “Medical experts and scientists had been indicating that the second wave of Covid pandemic would be far more severe, but the BJP government was busy trying to win praise. The BJP government has no moral right to stay in power.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-fudging-data-to-show-fewer-deaths-akhilesh-yadav-101619458037982.html
26-04-2021||Lucknow||UP govt fudged coronavirus fatality number, alleges Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday accused the Uttar Pradesh government of fudging coronavirus death number, saying the data shown by it is contradicted by the rush at crematoriums.The former UP chief minister further alleged that the BJP government’s mismanagement and short-sightedness has turned the state into a "corona pradesh"."Fake data is being given to show fewer deaths while a rush is being witnessed at crematoriums," Yadav said in a statement."It is the government's failure that even BJP MPs and MLAs are not satisfied with the current state of affairs. The number of doctors, hospitals and other facilities given by the BJP is mostly fake. Such an insensitive government was never seen in the state," he said."The BJP should shun its pride of being in power. They should think like family members of Covid patients and ensure availability of oxygen at their homes," Akhilesh said, accusing the party of not paying any heed to experts’ warning about the second wave of the infection.The SP chief also demanded uniformity in rates of Covid vaccine in the entire country and appealed to his party workers to help people battle coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-fudged-coronavirus-fatality-number-alleges-akhilesh-yadav-101619440682098.html
26-04-2021||Lucknow||2nd Oxygen Express reaches Uttar Pradesh with 60,000 litres of life saving gas||The second Oxygen Express loaded with 60,000 litres of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) reached Charbagh Railway Station in Lucknow on Monday morning to meet a shortage of the life-sustaining gas in hospitals treating severe Covid-19 patients across Uttar Pradesh. The train, loaded with four oxygen-tankers, each 15,000 litres in capacity, left Bokaro in Jharkhand at around 2pm on Sunday, said officials.Two of the four tankers to have arrived on the Indian Railways’ second Roll-On-Roll-Off (RORO) service, immediately left for Jhansi and Bareilly (one tanker for each destination) while the remaining two were stationed in Lucknow to meet the increased oxygen demand in the state capital. Ready to drive trailer- truck units with pre-mounted oxygen tankers, roll-on and roll-off the flat railway wagons, saving precious time when hundreds of thousands of lives are at stake. The first RORO Oxygen Express, loaded with 30,000 litres of LMO, had arrived in the state on Saturday, said Sanjay Tripathi, divisional railway manager (DRM), Lucknow, Northern RailwaysThe DRM said, one more Oxygen Express, loaded with 75,000 litres of the life-saving gas is expected to arrive in the state on Tuesday as part of state government’s Operation Oxygen. Health minister JP Singh said the Central government had allocated 753 metric tonne of oxygen for the state.Lucknow alone logged 5,187 fresh Covid-19 cases and 14 more deaths on Sunday, pushing up the death toll in the city to 1,654. Whereas Uttar Pradesh reported 35,614 fresh Covid-19 cases and 208 deaths, taking the number of infections to 1.086mn and the death toll to 11,165, since early July last year, according to the health department data.Under Operation Oxygen, Railways was requested to transport LMO from Jharkhand, Bengal and Odisha in around 40 oxygen tankers roped in from across the state.“(Railways) being two times faster.. [in] LMO [transportation] [compared to] road, we approached Railways to bring in Oxygen from Jharkhand Bengal and Odisha to bring relief to UP districts at the earliest,” said Awanish Kumar Awasthi, additional chief secretary (Home), who was supervising the entire train operation.Railways’ RORO service has also procured oxygen for Maharashtra and its services have also been requested by other states that are severely hit by Covid-19’s second wave.Detailing the intricacies of the operation, Railways said in a statement: “Liquid oxygen, being a cryogenic cargo, has many limitations like maximum speed at which it can be carried, maximum acceleration and deceleration and loading restrictions like availability of liquid oxygen tankers and loading ramps. Route mapping also takes care of the maximum clearances available along the route.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/2nd-oxygen-express-reaches-uttar-pradesh-with-60-000-litres-of-life-saving-gas-101619415309935.html
