28-04-2021||Lucknow||UP logs highest single-day spike in Covid deaths at 266; 29,824 new cases seen||Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday recorded the highest single-day rise in its Covid-19 death toll with 266 more people succumbing to disease, while 29,824 new cases pushed the tally to 11,82,848.The death toll in the state now stands at 11,943.A total of 35,903 Covid-19 patients were discharged after recovery in the past 24 hours.Of the 266 fresh deaths, Allahabad recorded 21 deaths, followed by 15 in Hardoi, 14 in Varanasi, 13 each in Lucknow and Kanpur, 12 each in Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad, 11 in Gorakhpur and 10 in Agra, the Uttar Pradesh government said in a statement here.Of the new cases, Lucknow reported 3,759 cases, followed by 1,909 in Varanasi, 1,650 in Kanpur, 1,355 in Meerut, 1,261 in Allahabad, 1,076 in Agra, 1,045 in Gorakhpur and 1,041 in Bareilly.A total of 8,70,864 Covid-19 patients have been discharged after recovery so far.The total number of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 3,00,041, the statement said.In the past 24 hours, more than 1.86 lakh samples in the state have been tested for Covid-19, taking the total samples tested so far to 4.03 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-logs-highest-single-day-spike-in-covid-deaths-at-266-29-824-new-cases-seen-101619616954353.html
28-04-2021||Lucknow||273 patients counting on 'few hours' of oxygen: AMU's hospital sends out alert||The Aligarh Muslim University (AMU)'s Jawaharlal Nehru medical college and hospital on Wednesday sent out an alert, saying it has not received oxygen cylinders for the past four days and its own plants are running out of liquid oxygen.The frontline central government hospital in Uttar Pradesh, which is a part of the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), has 273 oxygen-dependent patients, including those suffering from Covid-19, officials said.Though the hospital has oxygen plants, they have just "a few hours" of liquid oxygen supply, a senior official said, adding that a truck of liquid oxygen is expected to arrive today.Of the 273 patients, 63 are Covid-19 positive, 140 have shown symptoms of the infection and are being tested, and 70 are non-Covid patients in serious condition, the officials said."We have not received a single cylinder of oxygen since the past four days and are now totally dependent on our own three plants for oxygen, which are awaiting supply of raw material (liquid oxygen)," the medical college-cum-hospital's principal Shahid Ali Siddiqi said.Two of the plants are at the trauma center of the hospital, while one at its old building complex. These plants convert liquid oxygen to a gaseous state and then it is administered to patients."Our two liquid oxygen plants at the trauma center are left with just a few hours of supply. We are expecting a truckload of raw stock supplies any time today. We hope that with this fresh arrival of stock our two plants will continue to function without a break," he said.Siddiqi said the third liquid oxygen plant in the old building is functioning round the clock and is a "lifesaver". This plant has raw stock "for another 36 hours", he said.Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday recorded its highest Covid-19 death toll so far as 265 people succumbed to the disease, while the state added nearly 33,000 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 11,53,097, according to official data.In view of the shortage, AMU Vice Chancellor Tariq Mansoor Wednesday announced that the university will install a new oxygen plant within the next 30 days.The university has from its own resources generated ₹1.4 crore for purchasing this plant on an emergency basis, he said.AMU Registrar Abdul Hamid said, "Our main priority is to save human lives". The new plant will also be able to refill oxygen cylinders, he said.Aligarh MP Satish Gautam had told reporters on Tuesday night that he had a telephonic conversation with the Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath.The chief minister has assured that medical oxygen is being brought from Bokaro in Jharkhand and with this, the immediate requirements of Aligarh, Mathura, and Agra will be fulfilled.He said that the chief minister has assured that the present shortage would be met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/273-patients-counting-on-few-hours-of-oxygen-amu-s-hospital-sends-out-alert-101619607637285.html
28-04-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj businessman adopts 3 govt hospitals, to set up oxygen plant||A Prayagraj businessman says he is setting up a modern oxygen generation plant to supply free gas to three city-based, state-run hospitals, which experienced shortage of the life-saving gas in the past couple of weeks as its demand rose dramatically due to a sharp rise in Covid-19 patients requiring oxygen support.A former student of Allahabad University, Umesh Jaiswal has promised lifelong supply of free oxygen to Tej Bahadur Sapru (Beli) Hospital, Dufferin Hospital and Colvin Hospital beginning August, when he expects the new oxygen plant to start operating.The plant is to come up in a plot measuring 7,400 square meters at sector 3 of Naini Industrial Area. The district administration and Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Corporation have helped him procure the land for the proposed plant, says Jaiswal.While Tej Bahadur Sapru (Beli) Hospital is a dedicated Covid treatment facility with 180 beds, the other two--Dufferin and Colvin, are non-Covid hospitals with a combined capacity of around 350 beds. Dufferin is a women-only hospital.All three hospitals put together, on an average require about 225 oxygen cylinders daily. The Beli hospital alone requires 200 of these cylinders. All three have been facing shortage of oxygen from time to time during the recent weeks, said authorities, who didn’t wish to be named. From August onwards, their oxygen needs will be taken care of by Jaiswal’s plant, with a planned capacity to refill 1100 cylinders a day, which can even go up to 1500 cylinders.Jaiswal says his decision was driven by the “recent deaths” in the district due to shortage of oxygen. “I have a separate business, never in my wildest dream had I thought of putting up an oxygen plant,” he says. He says he was inspired on the occasion of Ramnavmi after reading about a Varanasi businessman, who decided to install an oxygen plant to help Covid patients. “Then and there, I also decided to initiate something of this kind for Prayagraj,” says Jaiswal.Jaiswal’s primary business is road construction. He says he was advised by close friends to set up a large and modern plant if he really wanted to make a difference.“The next day, I spoke to senior superintendent of police (SSP), Prayagraj, Sarvashresth Tripathi, who helped me meet the divisional commissioner Sanjay Goyal, who forwarded my proposal the same day to the authorities concerned,” he said.After the district magistrate’s (DM) approval, all the required paperwork was completed swiftly. “I have given orders to a Gujarat-based company for installing an automatic oxygen synthesis plant, which can produce liquid oxygen and its gaseous form simultaneously,” he says.The district authorities are confident that the project will take off very soon. “All support is being extended to the businessman for setting up the plant on priority. We are confident that work on it will start anytime in the coming few days,” said Bhanu Chandra Goswami, DM Prayagraj.The plant is estimated to be built at a cost of ₹14 crore and the registry of the land it will be built on, will be done in a couple of days, Jaiswal says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-businessman-adopts-3-govt-hospitals-to-set-up-oxygen-plant-101619600557808.html
28-04-2021||Lucknow||Need hospital bed for Covid-19 patient in Lucknow? Check availability here||Uttar Pradesh continues to witness a massive surge in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with many people failing to find beds in hospitals to admit critically ill patients.On Tuesday, UP’s capital city Lucknow reported 4,437 new Covid-19 cases, 39 more deaths and 5,960 fresh recoveries, according to official data. The overall toll in the city due to the viral disease has gone up to 1,713. The number of deaths on the day was the highest since April 24 when 42 fatalities were recorded. The number of active cases has dropped below 50,000 in Lucknow for the first time since April 18. At present, there are 49,064 active cases in Lucknow.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereFamilies of Covid-19 positive patients are knocking on the doors of hospitals across the city in a desperate bid to save the lives of their near and dear ones, prompting the Uttar Pradesh government to announce last week that no hospital in the state will turn away patients. It further said that if state-run hospitals run short of beds the patients can be sent to private hospitals and the government will bear the expense.District magistrate in-charge Dr Roshan Jacob directed officials to issue online links and update bed details in hospitals so that the patients and their families do not face any difficulty finding them, HT’s sister publication Live Hindustan reported. The information regarding Covid Hospitals in Lucknow can now be obtained from http://dgmhup.gov.in/EN/covid19bedtrack.Hospitals in Lucknow began updating the details on the web portal from Tuesday and the information is available for the people to access.Roshan Jacob said that all government and private hospitals have been provided with login credentials on the portal, where they will update the details regarding vacant and filled beds regularly, according to Live Hindustan. It is necessary for all hospitals to fill the details every morning at 8am and 4pm in the evening.Meanwhile, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday directed the state government officials to make teleconsultation arrangements for Covid and non-Covid patients in every district of the state. He has also said that doctors, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and UP Nursing Home Association must play a key role in spreading awareness about Covid-19 and clear any doubts that the citizens may have, PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/need-hospital-bed-for-covid-19-patient-in-lucknow-check-availability-here-101619592357361.html
28-04-2021||Lucknow||Lucknowites rising to food cause amid Covid chaos||The surge in Covid19 cases and suffering of people has brought a human side to all. Many good samaritans have emerged to the occasion and are offering services in their own personal capacity. Some Lucknowites have identified home-cooked food needs of those in quarantine and helping them in all possible way. Geetika Kapoor, an educationist, got inspired by a boy in Sector-63, Noida who started free-of-cost food to quarantined senior citizen in his locality. “When my brother was in quarantine in Vikas Nagar we took services of tiffin provider. So, I thought over it and initiated this service in Gomti Nagar for senior citizens. I posted on social media and from Monday started with 11 people. I prepare lunch for them and another portion for dinner and get it delivered by my driver,” she said. People from different places are calling her to help with funds which she politely refused. “The happiness that I am getting in serving people is beyond explanation. My friend Neeti Juneja got motivated and she too has started with eight people in Surya Nagar, Agra. I hope more people join in this tough time which I pray get over soon.” Last week, four friends Talha Alvi, Ali Rizvi, Shirish Sharma and Amit Kumar decided to start free quarantine food service. “We friends pooled in some funds and started food service at Ali’s home from Saturday. As orders started pouring in, we hired a cook and we are now given 75 deliveries for some 30 families in Gomti Nagar and Indira Nagar,” said Amit, a businessman. Since they were delivering themselves, it became challenging. “So, Akashi Abraham is helping us with their Project Khel volunteers. We are exploring delivery by food aggregators for far-off places. We are even managing a delivery at Sushant Golf City as people are really in need,” he added. Similarly, Mashi Biryani World is providing free quarantine food to people in isolation in Chowk locality. “This is our third day. Our target area is Old City, and we now are providing services to patients admitted in as well. Ranging from 40 and 60 packets we are offering. On Labour Day (May 1) too we will be providing free meal too all food aggregator delivery boys,” said its owner Rizve Mashi. Besides these samaritans, many restaurants are also quarantine food for a small price. Sassy Canteen in Gomti Nagar, The Bun-tie Project on Faziabad Road and many others are offering homestyle cooked food for the quarantined lot which can offer them nutritious food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknowites-rising-to-food-cause-amid-covid-chaos-101619557473198.html
28-04-2021||Lucknow||Eight patients die due to lack of O2 in Meerut hospitals: Doctors||Atleast eight Covid-19 patients died in two hospitals of Meerut in the past two days due to shortage of oxygen, said hospital authorities on Tuesday.Speaking to reporters, the administration of both hospitals admitted these patients could have been saved had there been proper supply of oxygen.Three patients died on Sunday night at Anand Hospital, a private facility where 173 people were undergoing treatment when a scarcity of oxygen was reported to the administration.The officials managed to shift 10 critical patients who required high-flow oxygen and also managed to provide a few cylinders to maintain oxygen supply in the hospital. Dr Subhash Yadav, who is part of the hospital’s management, said the facility required 400 cylinders but got only 90 cylinders and now has been increased to 200.“Under such circumstances they shifted critical patients to other hospitals, but three patients succumbed due to shortage of oxygen,” he told reporters.Authorities at KMC hospital in Meerut, another private facility, said three to four patients died on Monday and two or three on Sunday due to shortage of oxygen. This was confirmed by Dr Sunil Gupta, a doctor at the hospital, but later denied by the hospital staff.Meerut chief medical officer Dr Akhilesh Mohan said the hospitals had not given any report about the death of patients due to shortage of oxygen. He accepted that there was shortage of oxygen but added that everything possible was being done to maintain adequate supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/eight-patients-die-due-to-lack-of-o2-in-meerut-hospitals-doctors-101619552480719.html
