30-04-2021||Lucknow||UP to give jabs to 18+ in seven districts first||Uttar Pradesh will begin the Covid-19 vaccination drive for people above 18 years of age in only seven of the state’s 75 districts on Saturday. These seven districts have been chosen as they have a high active caseload. The other districts will be covered later. The state authorities hope to get a supply of 10,000 vaccine doses by Saturday morning.“The seven districts where the vaccination drive will be launched for the beneficiaries above 18 years include Lucknow, Kanpur, Prayagraj, Meerut, Gorakhpur, Bareilly, and Varanasi. Here, the active cases are high. Hence, we begin from these districts and more districts will get the benefit later,” said additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad on Friday.“We have taken up those districts where the active cases are over 9,000. There are seven such districts,” said Prasad.In Lucknow, a stock of 3,000 doses of the Covid vaccine has already been kept in cold chain points to be distributed at 10 vaccination centres in the city. These centres have been identified for the vaccination of people above 18 years of age. The stock will be given to the vaccination centres at around 8am, said chief medical officer (Lucknow) Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar.The 10 vaccination centres in Lucknow for the new phase are: King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences (RMLIMS), Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), Lok Bandhu Raj Narain Hospital, Rani Laxmibai Hospital, Civil Hospital, Jhalkaribai Hospital, Awantibai Hospital, Balrampur Hospital and BRD hospital. Each centre will get 300 doses. In Varanasi, chief medical officer Dr VB Singh said a vehicle had been sent to Lucknow for bringing the vaccine doses to Varanasi. The doses were likely to arrive early on Saturday morning. Prayagraj’s district nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination Dr RS Thakur said 3,000 doses of Covaxin had been received by Prayagraj for vaccination of individuals aged above 18 years. The vaccination will take place from 11am to 5pm at four rural primary health centres in Chaka, Jasra, Kotwa and Jhunsi areas, besides MLN Medical College, Dufferin Hospital, MD Eye Hospital, Railway Hospital and TB Sapru Hospital in the urban areas of Prayagraj. Dr Thakur said the vaccines would be administered to only those individuals who had got themselves registered in advance.A health department officer who did not wish to be named said in view of the uncertainty over the supply of vaccine doses, the state government had decided to run the third phase on a trial basis in the seven districts. The state government hopes that it will get the required doses in the first week of May to launch the drive in the remaining districts. Director general (family welfare) Dr Rakesh Dubey said the private hospitals and medical colleges will have to procure vaccines from the manufacturers to give doses to beneficiaries above 45 years of age and also to those between 18 and 44 years of the age (for the phase commencing on May 1). For earlier phases, the private hospitals and medical colleges had procured the vaccine doses from the state government. The private centres were charging ₹250 per dose from the beneficiaries. To get Covid-19 vaccines for the third phase, the Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday decided to float global tenders to procure four to five crore doses of Covid vaccines.The state government has already placed an order for the supply of one crore Covid vaccine doses —50 lakh doses each from Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited that manufactures Covaxin and the Pune- based Serum Institute of India (SII) that makes Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-to-give-jabs-to-18-in-seven-districts-first-101619801808391.html
30-04-2021||Lucknow||‘Over 700 staff on poll duty in UP lost battle to Covid-19’: Teachers’ body||Claiming that over 700 primary, upper primary school government teachers and other employees succumbed to Covid-19 after training and panchayat poll duty across the state since April 12, Uttar Pradeshiya Prathmik Shikshak Sangh has demanded that the counting of votes slated for May 2 should be deferred for now. The four-phase panchayat elections in the state were held between April 15 and April 29.In a letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath and the state election commission (SEC) on April 29, teachers’ association president Dinesh Chandra Sharma mentioned the names of all teachers who died after they contracted the infection when called for training and election duty.Minister of state (independent charge) for basic education, Satish Chandra Dwivedi was quick to react and said, “There’s no specific audit done by basic education department about the number of teachers’ death. It is wrong to say all those who were engaged in election duty died due to Covid. How do we know that teachers were not infected when they came for election duty? And how does anyone know that teachers, after returning from the election duty, got infected for some other reasons? It is also beyond any justification that teachers contracted infection during poll duty and succumbed to it.”“Government teachers alone were not doing election duty. There were people from other departments too. We don’t have any data on how teachers got infected and I don’t know how teachers’ association leader has prepared that list of 700 teachers and staff who succumbed to Covid,” the minister added. He further said if Sharma had written a letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath, it was up to the CM and the SEC to take a call on his demands.Sharma also claimed that in the last 2 to 3 weeks, he sent several letters to the chief minister and SEC to defer the election as several lives were lost. The teachers’ union leader said a maximum of 33 teachers died in Azamgarh district, 31 in Gorakhpur, 25 in Prayagraj and 20 each in Lucknow and Lakhimpur Kheri districts. He said many of these lives could have been saved had the SEC taken note of his April 12 letter in which he pointed out that Covid protocol was not being followed during training.The issue drew a lot of attention after Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav took to Twitter on Thursday demanding compensation of ₹50 lakh each for those who lost their lives in panchayat polls.On Friday, Dwivedi criticised Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for her tweet on the issue. “You have a habit of deleting tweets on many occasions when they turn out to be wrong. You have done dirty politics on the basis of incorrect figures to scare people,” the minister tweeted.In a string of tweets, Dwivedi said, “The global pandemic has engulfed the life of every section of the society. Both PM Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath are leaving no stone unturned in fighting out the pandemic. Like every section, teachers are very important to us. We are committed to their safety.” The minister said it would be better if Priyanka Gandhi Vadra worried about Congress-ruled states like Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra.Lucknow primary school teacher Ramesh Kumar Yadav, 28, was among those who died battling Covid-19. He was among the 69,000 teachers who had got the job when fresh recruitments of assistant teachers were made recently. The wait for the job had been a long over two years as the matter had reached court. “My brother passed away without getting his first salary,” said his eldest brother Suresh Kumar.Yadav was posted at primary school, Adampur, in Sultanpur in December last. As per his family, he contracted the infection during poll training and his condition worsened soon after election duty on April 19. Yadav had been eagerly looking forward to his first salary. He had plans to give a surprise gift to his wife, Nisha, who is inconsolable, as are his parents.On April 22, primary and secondary government teachers jointly carried out an online campaign on Twitter #PostponeUPElection to air their grievances against the panchayat polls, alleging that many of their fellow teachers contracted Covid infection during training and poll duty.With over 94K tweets, it was among the top trending hashtag as teachers from across the state participated in the campaign, urging the state government to call off the three-tier panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/over-700-staff-on-poll-duty-in-up-lost-battle-to-covid-19-teachers-body-101619788548468.html
30-04-2021||Lucknow||UP records single-day 332 Covid-19 deaths; 34,626 more test positive||A record single-day 332 Covid-19 deaths were reported in Uttar Pradesh on Friday, pushing the fatality count in the state to 12,570, while the total number of cases mounted to 12,52,324 with 34,626 more people testing positive for the disease.A total of 32,494 people recovered from coronavirus in the past 24 hours. The active cases in the state now stand at 3,10,783So far, 9,28,971 patients have recuperated from Covid-19 in the state, Additional Chief Secretary Amit Mohan Prasad told reportersMore than 2.44 lakh samples were tested for Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, which included over 1.08 lakh RTPCR tests, taking the total number of samples tested so far in the state to over 4.07 crore, the highest in the country, Prasad said.Among the active cases, 2.43 lakh are in home isolation, he said.About the need of a Chief Medical Officer’s (CMO) referral letter for getting admission in hospitals, Prasad that it was not required and a government order clarifying it has already been issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-records-single-day-332-covid-19-deaths-34-626-more-test-positive-101619782236539.html
30-04-2021||Lucknow||India's image 'tarnished' due to Centre's Covid 'mismanagement': Akhilesh Yadav||Former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday hit out at the Centre for the 'mismanagement' of the Covid-19 pandemic, saying that the country's image had been 'tarnished'.In a tweet, Yadav pointed out that international newspapers had been reporting about the increasing number of Covid-related deaths in the country."Because of the mismanagement of the BJP government, Covid-deaths are being reported in newspapers and magazines around the world and our country's global image has been tarnished," the SP leader tweeted in Hindi.He added, "People who lie publicly will now confiscate the property of those publications or impose sanctions on them."Uttar Pradesh is one of the states worst-hit by Covid-19 in the country. As per the Union health ministry, there are currently 3,09,237 active cases in the state and 8,96,477 recoveries and 12,238 deaths have been reported so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/indias-image-tarnished-due-to-centre-s-covid-mismanagement-akhilesh-yadav-101619773537070.html
30-04-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh to float global tender for 40-50 million vaccine doses||Uttar Pradesh on Thursday decided to float global tenders to procure 40 to 50 million doses of Covid vaccines as states grappled with jab shortages and delivery uncertainties ahead of the third phase of the Covid-19 immunisation drive for all adults beginning May 1.The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by chief minister Yogi Adityanath.“The state government has decided to float global tenders for carrying the vaccination drive effectively. Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech have been given orders of 50 lakh vaccine doses each,” Adityanath said in a statement.The state has already announced that it will administer the shots free of cost. Last week, Maharashtra had also announced that it would float a global tender for vaccines.“Such an arrangement should be made that the vaccines are not wasted. Only those who are to be vaccinated should be allowed entry in vaccination centres,” he said. Registration of beneficiaries for the third phase was launched on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-to-float-global-tender-for-40-50-million-vaccine-doses-101619731126519.html
