01-11-2020||Opinion||Etched in time||Sir — The West Bengal government has decided to preserve the Durga idol of Barisha Club — Durga appears as a migrant mother with a toddler, Kartik, in her arms — as a tribute to migrant workers across the country. This move is particularly laudable in view of the controversy wilfully generated by some sections in the country. Art has for long immortalized incidents that have taught valuable lessons to mankind. This sculpture bears testimony to the sufferings of migrant workers in India this year as well as to the talent of the artisans of Bengal. Prathama Biswas
Calcutta Sir — The stabbing of three persons inside the Notre-Dame basilica in the French city of Nice close on the heels of the beheading of a school teacher for showing cartoons of Prophet Mohammad to his students in a civics class was a tragedy that exposed religious fault lines in the contemporary world (“Savagery again, Macron defiant”, Oct 30). It is even sadder that the victims in Nice had nothing to do with religious feuds; they were just a church sacristan and two women worshippers. The manner of the killings clearly shows that the assailant was a religious fanatic. Religious indoctrination renders people incapable of mercy. Targeting civilians is cowardice. Violence begets violence and it cannot be glorified or condoned no matter who commits it and for what reason. Violence by individuals, groups and states must be viewed at the same level. The knife attack in Nice warrants more than condemnation; the deployment of more security forces to guard churches and schools was much needed to prevent more such crimes. The attack inside the cathedral was symptomatic of the visceral hostility that still exists between religions. Both sides claim that they are under siege from the other. The West’s interference in the Islamic world as part of its desire for global domination and its tendency to equate Islam with terrorism lie at the root of such tensions. Radicalization does not occur in a vacuum. Pigeonholing masses of people into ‘us’ and ‘them’ is the real problem. As such, vows by the far right to eradicate “Islamo-fascism” from French soil will only deepen the division and fuel extremism. Even the global pandemic does not seem to have taught the warring people the futility of confrontation and the utility of cooperation. Killing and dying for religion is sheer folly. Respect for all religions and inter-faith dialogue are needed to combat the scourge of communal violence. Instances of religious extremism also strengthen the case for conversion to science. G. David Milton
Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir —  The knife attack in a church in Nice was the third in less than two months that French authorities have attributed to Muslim extremists, including the beheading of a teacher who had shown caricatures of Prophet Mohammad in class. The people of France have lived through many terror attacks in recent decades. This is not just the violence associated with the rise of the Islamic State; it is a seemingly endless series of attacks, going back to the Strasbourg-Paris train bombing in June 1961 that killed 28. As France goes into a second Covid-19 lockdown, with its economy on its knees and its people anxious, the spectre of extremism and an escalating cycle of violence are the last things the country needs. This must also be an especially difficult time to be a Muslim in France. Ranganathan Sivakumar
Chennai Sir — It is shocking to hear the news of the extremist attacks in France. Now, more than ever, the people of France must stand beside one another and resist communal hatred. After all, France has for long held up the idea of equality and fraternity and inspired the rest of the world. While religious extremism is not justifiable in the least, leaders of the country should be mindful of the terms they use in their speeches, even if they mean well. The people are emotionally vulnerable at the moment, and provocative words might lead to a situation that will only worsen the plight of the nation. Sarbani Choudhury
Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-124
01-11-2020||Opinion||With Priyanka at the helm in UP, Congress is rebuilding itself||The resignation of Annu Tandon, former Lok Sabha parliamentarian from Unnao, has brought to the fore the simmering unease in the Congress in Uttar Pradesh over the methods of the general-secretary in charge, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Unlike other defectors, Tandon hailed the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi but blamed the local structures. It seems that Priyanka’s success in carrying out a complete overhaul of the organizational machinery, putting in place a new leadership at all levels in the state, has unnerved old guards who did not want to vacate their places in spite of their failure to revive the party over decades. Reportedly, more such leaders are contemplating exit for better options. But this has not rattled the new leadership. Under Ajay Kumar Lallu, Priyanka has established a younger team, willing to work hard and rebuild a new Congress instead of waiting for the voters’ mood to swing against the incumbent government. There is an allegation that Priyanka encouraged leftists, ignoring loyal Congressmen. But the new set of office-bearers are out in the field, addressing people’s concerns, instead of sitting around in air-conditioned offices. Priyanka monitors every activity and stays in touch with a range of workers instead of relying on a coterie. The new team dreams of reclaiming the party’s lost glory rather than surviving on the crutches of alliance partners like the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party. Clearly, the Congress is rebuilding itself in the state after 30 years of decline. The people of Bihar are talking about the ‘strong arms’ of Tejashwi Yadav, the Rashtriya Janata Dal leader and the younger son of Lalu Prasad, who happens to be the chief ministerial candidate of the Opposition’s Grand Alliance. A youth was obstructing his way after an election rally and trying to take a selfie. Tejashwi caught his arm and swung him 180 degrees back into the crowd while moving forward to board a helicopter waiting for him. The video of the act has gone viral, which also shows the leader admonishing him. “Iske bajuon mein dum hai, leader aisa hi hona chahiye (He has power in his arms. A leader should indeed be like this),” quipped an admirer. Although the ruling National Democratic Alliance leaders, already rattled by the rising popularity of Tejashwi and the massive crowds at his rallies, tried to corner him for ill-treating the youth, he offered an explanation for his action. “I did it to save the youth,” he said. “My helicopter had started and there could have been an accident. Our rallies are drawing a large number of people, but the concerned administrations are not providing adequate security and crowd management. We have written to the Election Commission also about this.” Even Covid-19 cannot keep netas away from delivering speeches and conducting road shows. Bihar’s deputy chief minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader, Sushil Kumar Modi, proved this by exposing others to the deadly virus and violating norms of the Epidemic Diseases Act. He had tested positive for the virus on October 22 and was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna. The hospital discharged him on October 27, with instructions to rest in home isolation for at least seven days. However, with the state being amid the polls, he waited for just two days at home and started conducting road shows in different parts of the state. He wore just a face mask and gloves even when standing in close proximity with other people. All political parties were shocked by the leader’s bravado. The Congress spokesperson, Rajesh Rathore, demanded his arrest, while the RJD spokesperson, Mritunjay Tiwary, called the BJP leader a “corona spreader” and appealed to the Election Commission to take strict action against him in order to set an example for other politicians. For celebrated lawyer Harish Salve, the year of the pandemic has been one of changes. He is now Queen’s Counsel, divorced and remarried; all within the past 10 months when much of life had come to a standstill for the entire world. This became news as word got out of his wedding to his companion for the past year, Caroline Brossard, a city-based artist, in London last Wednesday. Given that everyone is free to voice an opinion on social media, views ranged from congratulations on the new beginning to eyebrows being raised over a church wedding — few in India knew of his inter-religious family history. Among those who joined in virtually for the restricted celebrations was Mukesh Ambani, who reportedly claimed that he would not let Salve get away without a splurge to celebrate the new marriage once the pandemic is over. The absence of the home minister, Amit Shah, from the Bihar poll campaigns so far seems to have come as a blessing in disguise for the BJP chief, JP Nadda. Otherwise a low-profile leader, Nadda is now addressing a series of campaign meetings and even getting considerable media coverage. Recently, he was even interviewed by a number of news channels, where he recalled his school days as a swimming champion before he turned to politics in a Patna college. Although a native of Himachal Pradesh, Nadda was born and brought up in Patna. Many in the party believe that had Shah been on the scene, Nadda would have been deprived of the limelight. Shah, hailed as the master election strategist, tends to dominate the polls, second only to the prime minister, Narendra Modi. Nadda has so far remained in the shadow of their domineering duopoly. The Bihar polls and the absence of Shah has given him an opportunity to shine. Shah had reportedly said in a TV interview that he has recovered fully from Covid-19 and would campaign in Bihar after October 25. The party has not announced this yet, although some say Shah could address rallies in the last phase. Until then, Nadda can have his day in the sun. The Congress’s preference for loyalists has never been a secret. One such die-hard loyalist, KV Thomas, is in line to be made the working president of its Kerala unit. While eyebrows did go up when news spread about resurrecting Thomas, who was denied a ticket in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, insiders say the high command wanted “a hardcore loyalist” than the existing bigwigs who failed to echo the allegations of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi against the BJP misusing Central investigating agencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-124
01-11-2020||Opinion||Aarogya Setu: Mind the gap||If you were to look up Howrah Bridge on the Internet you would find information aplenty, from its proposal in 1862 to reports and committees, reviews, interruptions and commissions, how many tonnes of high-tensile alloy used, number of nuts and bolts used — the answer is none, gotcha. More than 70 years later, comes a bridge across ill-being and well-being, the Aarogya Setu. Between its launch in April this year and July it is downloaded, reportedly, 127.6 million times. At different times, across job types, geographies and services, it is made mandatory. The PM himself urges its use to fight Covid-19. And yet, when an activist files an RTI to know more about the app’s making, he comes up with zilch. Of course, this has earned concerned bodies the rap and most likely a genesis story is on its way. The ruling BJP is well aware of the power of apps. During the 2014 poll campaign, the party launched Raksha for the safety of women, and India272+ to mobilise volunteers. In 2015, the Narendra Modi app was launched. It promised people, among other things, the “exclusive opportunity to receive e-mails and messages directly from the PM”. In 2016, Amit Shah set a target of over 50 million downloads of the app. He directed the BJP state units to ensure one lakh downloads in each of over 570 districts. Even NCC cadets — 13 lakh across the country — were urged to download it. One of the major launches of 2016 was DigitalBJP. It was meant to connect office-bearers and party workers. And then, a month after demonetisation, in the midst of criticism about it being an anti-Dalit move among other things, and just ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, BHIM was launched.  The PM said, “The mantra of Dr Ambedkar was to work for the uplift of the poor. And the biggest power of technology is that it can empower the poor.” In 2017, came the one-in-all app, Umang --- 100-plus services of the Centre and state government on one single platform. That year, Mukesh Ambani said in a speech: “We are at the beginning of an era where data is the new oil.” In his Houston speech in 2019, the PM said: “I will also add that data is the new gold.” In 2020, as China clashed with India on the ground, India spiked Chinese apps. The war cry of Digital India Atmanirbhar Bharat Innovate Challenge was sounded. The apps are turning. Even for the Bihar elections underway the party has launched something called Kamal Konnect. The apps are churning precious data. Most precious and so much easier to read than whole minds and beating hearts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-124
01-11-2020||Opinion||Memorable lesson||The pandemic has left most people and institutions scrambling for solutions to unprecedented difficulties. With schools closed for months, teaching has shifted online to a great extent. While formulating methods and material for online communication cannot be easy for teachers, trying to learn in a new way can be unimaginably difficult for children, especially the younger ones. This year’s Annual Status of Education Report, produced by Pratham, would normally have been the ‘basic’ study of district, state and national estimates of rural children’s schooling and foundational learning. But current conditions led not only to a survey via telephone but also to the focus being shifted to the way the pandemic has affected children’s learning in rural India. The survey included 59,251 children aged five to 16 from 52,227 households and 8,963 schools. That access to remote learning cannot be universal is of primary concern the world over, not only because of general ‘learning loss’ but also because this would deepen already existing inequities. The results can be tragic; in India and elsewhere, exclusion has led to depression, and even self-harm. The ASER report says that only 11 per cent of the surveyed children can attend live online classes. Schools were able to reach learning materials to about 80 per cent of the children, and 24.3 per cent had not received anything during the week of the survey, chiefly because they have no access to a smartphone. This actually means a huge number of children. Smartphones have become fundamental to lessons now. Parents are alert to this; many have bought smartphones for their child’s lessons. Even then, households with more than one child still face difficulties, although the support from parents, other relatives — according to their learning levels — and older siblings, even neighbours who have smartphones, is one of the more heartening aspects of these deeply troubling times. The lower enrolment figure — compared to 2018 — especially among the youngest children may in large part be driven by the pause in admissions because of the pandemic, although this cannot be fully determined till schools reopen. Meanwhile, more children have moved to government schools. That may be because money is running short at home, or because of fears that private schools may shut down. The survey of states shows that schools in West Bengal have been most successful in reaching textbooks to the children, and the state has also reduced the dropout rate. The policy of distributing food grains to the pupils’ families in lieu of mid-day meals seems to have helped in this. What matters most in this crisis is the need to get through to those children who are being excluded from lessons. The students who have partial or full access to remote learning, too, may not find the going smooth. Learning outcomes, recorded later, may help decide the approach that would be needed to neutralize the damage inflicted by the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-124
01-11-2020||Opinion||A common strain||The tension between politics and religious community defines the contemporary nation state. This is true not only of states that are openly majoritarian, like Israel or Pakistan, but even those that aren’t. British politics is currently roiled by a row about anti-Semitism. Jeremy Corbyn has been suspended for saying that the findings of an inquiry into anti-Semitism in the Labour Party during his tenure as its leader exaggerated the extent of the problem. The politics of the Republican Party in the United States of America are shaped by the cultural and religious prejudices of Evangelical voters. Emmanuel Macron, France’s president, declared that the Republic was besieged by jihadist Islam after a schoolteacher was decapitated for using cartoons of Mohammad as a teaching aid. China, a formally atheistic State, has made the erasure of the Uighurs, a small Muslim community in Xinjiang, a political project. Under Narendra Modi, a once performatively pluralist India has strained to become, in policy and in law, a Hindu rashtra, ideologically committed to discriminating against its minority citizens, particularly Muslims. In Britain, the US, France and China, religious difference is sharpened by racism. Anti-Semitism has always been religious bigotry with a racist edge. This is one reason why the left wing of the Labour Party, which prides itself on its anti-racist commitments, is so sensitive to the charge of anti-Semitism. The Republican Party’s political coalition is led by white Evangelicals. To the outsider, it seems obvious that the party’s constituents are united as much by white anxiety as Christian belief. In France, the stand-off between the Republic and Islam is also a confrontation between France’s unassimilated North African citizens and a State that uses laïcité, a rigorously religion-blind secularism, as a blindfold, the better to ignore racial inequality and discrimination. It’s the reason why a liberal like Macron and a fascist like Marine Le Pen can use the same rhetoric about republican values in their response to Islamist violence. The Chinese privileging of Han identity and culture at the expense of religious minorities like Tibetans and the Uighur is an assertion of ethnic superiority. Hindutva is the exception to this rule: it is a pure assertion of communal hegemony, unalloyed by racism. To note that politics is frequently communal in nations that aren’t ideologically denominational is not, however, to equalize bigotry or paint all these countries with the same brush. It is to establish a hierarchy of intolerance. People will argue about the extent of anti-Semitism in the Labour Party in particular and British politics in general. Corbyn’s supporters claim that the charge of anti-Semitism was exaggerated to discredit a left-wing insurgency that threatened the centrist consensus of parliamentary politics. Others have argued that anti-Semitism has a durable history in Labour Party politics going back to figures like Ken Livingstone, who was leader of the Greater London Council in the 1980s. Regardless of who is right, the relevant fact is that a statutory public body like the Equality and Human Rights Commission can conduct an inquiry into one of the two major political parties in Britain and formally arraign it for instances of discriminatory behaviour. It has the power to force it to institute an independent disciplinary procedure. British politics is home to Islamophobes, anti-Semites and racists but there is space in the mainstream media to talk about bigotry and institutional recourse against it. From the vantage point of Delhi, the accuracy of the EHRC’s report is almost beside the point: for something like this to happen in contemporary India you would need daily miracles for a month of Sundays. Despite Donald Trump’s animus against Muslims and his country’s bipartisan enthusiasm for violently re-arranging the furniture in Muslim countries, America’s original sin is racism, not religious bigotry. A country where a nominally Jewish politician like Bernie Sanders can plausibly run for president and where Ilhan Omar, a Somali Muslim woman, can represent a Minnesota district that’s 63 per cent white and overwhelmingly non-Muslim, is different from the country we live in. Modi’s India is a low bar, but our republic’s reason for being till not so long ago was that it claimed to be a pluralist, inclusive nation. Which is why it is important to acknowledge those qualities where they still exist, if only to construct a coherent view of the world and our place in it. Macron’s France, despite its racial and religious diversity and its vaunted secularism, seems a more brittle and dangerous place for a religious minority than Trump’s America. The run-off second round vote for the presidency of France in 2017 saw France’s dominant political parties, the Socialist Party and the Republican Party, displaced by Macron, a political upstart at the head of the brand-new En Marche, and Marine Le Pen, the leader of the far-right National Front. Had Le Pen won, France would have been the first major Western democracy to be ruled by a neo-fascist since the Second World War. Given the current communal temperature in France after the jihadist murders that followed the cartoon row, this could still happen. The 1905 law on the separation of Church and State in France froze the folkways and institutions of a white Christian country into a rigid conception of secularism perversely hostile to public cultural difference. This is why even mainstream French politicians will construe burkinis on the beach and halal food in the supermarket as signs of a creeping separatism, even the first steps in the creation of a “counter-society”, to use Macron’s ominous phrase. But it is hard to think of any form of State-sponsored bigotry more sinister than China’s institutionalized assault on the Uighur. From face-recognition software to monitor signs of religious observance to correction camps, to the systematic destruction of mosques, to the suppression of language and culture, to the sterilization of women, China’s Uighur policy is genocide in slow motion. That Muslim politicians from Muslim countries like Pakistan should look away tells us something about their status as China’s clients but even more about the cynical, transactional nature of this brand of Islamist politics. Ironically for a state that was admired by the philosophes of Enlightenment France for its civilizational ‘secularism’, China is now the world’s poster-child for State-sponsored bigotry. It has become harder for Indians, though, to make these judgments with a straight face, given the subcontinental glass house we live in. Poor but democratic used to be our sales pitch before we got tired of being poor. We still have elections so perhaps one way of measuring our place in the pecking order of minority suppression is to acknowledge that we are where France might have been had Marine Le Pen won two successive presidential elections. The problem with that comparison is that she dropped the death penalty, homophobia and anti-Semitism from her party’s political rhetoric to become respectable. Marine Le Pen is probably too ‘moderate’ to suggest the enormity of Yogi’s UP and Modi’s India. This is where we are. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-124
01-11-2020||Opinion||Let us do some dhan ki baat||Where do we begin? Any suggestions? Probably your pocket? If you have a pocket. Or trees? They say it grows on trees, this thing called Dhan. Would you have a tree? Shake the tree if you have one and check out what happens; maybe Dhan will rain down, who knows. Can you shake a tree, though? Do you have the strength and the will left in you? To acquire Dhan? Shake a tree or two? Have a pocket if not two? If you have no pockets you have nowhere to put Dhan. If you have no Dhan you don’t have a pocket, forget two. It is a vicious sort of cycle. You have Dhan, you plant a tree. You plant a tree, it grows. When a tree grows, you shake it and Dhan comes down the tree. If you have no tree. You most likely have no Dhan. There is no tree, and no Dhan falling off it. That is how Dhan is, a vicious thing astride a cycle. Dhan cycles on to more Dhan, if you have no Dhan then well, bachchoo, bach ke rehna, cycles have chains too, they catch you and grind you, while the fellow on top goes on churning more Dhan from Dhan. DhanDhanaaDhan. Those who have Dhan get more Dhan more easily. They get fatter loans because they have Dhan. They get lines of credit because they have Dhan. They get recommended for being recipients of more Dhan because they give Dhan to those that make those recommendations. With Dhan that is not Dhan but only borrowed or loaned Dhan, they are able to spin even more Dhan. Like begets like, you know. Something like that. Someone called Gregor Mendel said it; it’s true, even though Mendel was saying it about rabbits and peas. But he could have said it about Dhan, except he did not conduct his experiments with Dhan. But like like begets like, Dhan begets Dhan. And it begets in ways that there is no end to. And when there is no end, well, that is how we often define greed. The more Dhan there lies accumulated, the more the greed for more Dhan. And sometimes it so happens that those with Dhan soak up so much borrowed Dhan that they do not want to part with it, even though part they must. But no problem. There is no problem that Dhan cannot solve. While you are still alive, that is. When you are no longer alive there are no longer any problems. I wouldn’t know, though. Nobody has come back to tell or complain from afterlife. Anyhow, let’s not digress, terrible habit that repeats itself, going zig-zag and tangential in a straight and narrow column space. Dhan can get you away from Dhan-related problems. Dhan can buy you an aeroplane, a really nice and comfy one, padded and souped up, so that you can just board and command the pilot to fly off. Phurrr... Dhan can get you a passport for where you are escaping to. Dhan can get you the best vaqeels and peshkaars to build ramparts and battlements around you so that you can enjoy your Dhan to the fullest. Dhan can get you the favour of Rajas, and the favour of Rajas can get you almost anything in turn. But if you have no Dhan? Then you will have even less of it. Because you will seek Dhan, and you will spend Dhan, and between the seeking and the spending of it there will be no Dhan left. And if you borrow Dhan they will make you pay, and you will have to pay because you do not have the Dhan to say no, I will not pay. If you do not pay the Dhan you owe, they will take away what few other things you may possess. Like begets like, the absence of Dhan begets absence of Dhan. And that is why the quest  for Dhan, or the promise of it, is forever a seductive thing. It’s that thing you don’t have, but might get. Remain interested, remain hooked. Just there, we are told
A magical goodness lies
Not far at all, the pot of gold
Not far at all as the crow flies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-124
