02-11-2020||Opinion||Healthy glow: Body shaming has become a trend||Sir — Obesity is unhealthy — none can deny this. But to use the excuse of health to ‘fat-shame’ people has become a trend. Why is it that no one points out to thin people that being underweight can have adverse health implications like malnutrition and osteoporosis too? People have different body types and a body mass index unique to them. Plenty of people would not fit into society’s idea of the perfect figure but this does not mean that there is anything wrong with their health. It is good to underline the importance of exercise for health; but using this as a garb to make people feel bad about themselves is unacceptable. Rima Roy,Calcutta Familiar comfort Sir — The article, “Unusual season” (Oct 30), by Bhaswati Chakravorty, made for wonderful reading, especially for innumerable Bengalis like me, who are die-hard admirers of Puja barshikis. The article reminded me of the days when I used to wait with bated breath for the Puja barshikis of Dev Sahitya Kutir. Buying those for the children was an inviolable ritual in our family. Along with the pieces by famous Bengali authors, the sketches and illustrations were a great attraction for us. Even though these books were primarily published for young readers, there was a craze among more than one adult to read these. The popularity of the Puja barshikis was unbelievable and publishers often had to reprint in order to meet the demand. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — I was not fortunate enough to have met my grandparents and heard stories from them as the characters Bhaswati Chakravorty mentions in “Unusual season” were. But I was lucky enough to read stories by great writers such as Upendrakishore Ray Chowdhury, Satyajit Ray and so on in the Puja barshikis of yore. These magazines were an essential part of Durga Puja for children growing up in Bengal. My wife, who comes from a joint family, narrates to my daughter and me tales of her escapades during the Pujas which are a source of great envy for me. The merit of these magazines can be judged from the fact that children who run away from books during the Pujas, wait all the year round for these magazines, and once they arrive, they cannot wait till after the Pujas to sink their teeth into the Puja barshikis. This year though has been the exception. The mood of Bengalis was dampened by the pandemic. As such, how can one keep his or her spirits high even if it is the biggest festival of the Bengali calendar? This is where these stories come in — tales in the Puja barshikis never get old. Old Bengali classics kept me going this year. I turned especially to Ray’s Tarini Khuro, which helped me escape the reality of this year.Alok Ganguly,Kalyani, Nadia Sir — Durga Puja is as much about the smells as it is about the sights — the intoxicating smell of dhuno, of the various sweet and savoury treats like popcorn and phuchka, egg roll and noodles being cooked on the street side near pandals and so on. This year, for the cautious among us at least, the absence of these smells has been striking. In such times, the smell of the freshly printed pages of the Puja barshikis has been a godsend. Not even the sprinkle of sanitizer could take away the familiar, comforting smell of these volumes. Thus, to answer Bhaswati Chakravorty’s query, the addict’s pleasure stems both from memory and the hope for happier seasons. Yashodhara Sen,Calcutta Careless content Sir — Bengali soap operas have reached their nadir. Most of the dailies have no clear plot, time-frame or trajectory. Haphazardly conceived content, copied from other vernacular counterparts and discreetly scattered events with few linkages have become the order of the day. This also seems to be the situation with daily soaps in other languages, including Hindi, across India. One wonders whether these are a reflection of the tastes of present-day society. Although the portrayal of adult content, violence and gender discrimination have reduced somewhat owing to the watchful eyes of the judiciary, civil society and the executive, unethical content has made inroads into our drawing rooms. People also have limited choice since most daily soaps follow the same trajectory. Otherwise one has no option but to watch the news — which is no less disturbing than daily soaps — movies, music, sports and so on. Bengali soaps often portray unnatural behaviour among family members, like siblings baying for each other’s blood. One hopes people do not get influenced by such capricious content. The producers of these dailies should not take the viewers for granted and change the course of these serials. Time has come for serious introspection about the damaging effects of these serials. Chanchal Nandy,West Burdwan Sir — The content of prime-time television has been dealt a body blow with the advent of OTT platforms like Netflix, Amazon Prime and the numerous others started by various Indian TV channels themselves. What one wonders is why can shows on OTT platforms not be shown on television when the good TV shows are often available for streaming on these platforms. This way both media can coexist. Roshni Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-123
02-11-2020||Opinion||Old trick: Working mothers' plight||Motherhood is venerated in India, but mothers, ironically, are also penalized for it. That essential rights are often denied to working mothers was brought to the fore, once again, when the Supreme Court expressed its displeasure at the decision of a college under Delhi University to remove an ad hoc assistant professor from employment during her maternity leave. The apex court has rightly ordered her reinstatement, but such transgressions are not uncommon. In 2016, an employee of a private company alleged that she had been sacked for requesting maternity leave; earlier this year, the National Commission for Women pulled up a television news channel for sacking a journalist reportedly on the grounds that her pregnancy would interfere with her ability to work. The tendency to equate maternity with loss of productivity is a telling tactic to deprive women of both recognition and hard-won employment rights; India’s highest court recognized this chicanery when it said that “having a child is no reflection on a woman’s professional ability”. The problem — cultural as much as it is structural — is particularly acute in the informal sector. The Code on Social Security, 2020, which consolidates existing legislation on social security, makes arbitrary categorizations that do not extend protections — including maternity benefits — to thousands of working mothers. The maternity law, amended only three years ago, increased the right to paid maternity leave from 12 weeks to 26 weeks, but this is only applicable for women who work in a company with at least 10 employees. As such, the law effectively benefits only around one per cent of Indian women. There is also a gap between legislations and their implementation. The law makes it mandatory for organizations with 50 or more employees to have a crèche facility but the fallout of this intervention has been telling; a recent survey found that almost half of early-stage start-ups in India had hired fewer or no women last year on account of the higher costs of complying with the new paid maternity leave policy. The irony is that employers demand productivity from women while denying them ideal conditions that help enhance performance. Private choices — it is not uncommon for women to be asked whether they intend to have a child during job interviews — are then used to deny basic entitlements or, worse, employment. The Supreme Court had made it clear in the past that employers must “be considerate” towards a woman “performing her duties at the workplace while carrying a baby... or while rearing... the child after birth”, and must do “[w]hatever is needed to facilitate” the process. This wisdom is not reflected on the ground. Gender sensitivity and equality at the workplace will remain a pipe dream till employers shed their conservatism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-123
02-11-2020||Opinion||Past evils: Modi calls Tejashwi 'jungle raj' prince||The distant past has its uses. It distracts attention from the immediate present. That seemed to be the driving impulse behind three of the prime minister’s campaign speeches around the time of the first phase of assembly elections in Bihar. Narendra Modi focused on the ‘jungle raj’ appellation given to the rule of Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi, a term once used by the Patna High Court. Mr Modi used it to reawaken memories — and fears — of lawlessness and corruption, and of the Yadav dominance resented by the upper castes as well as by other scheduled groups. He referred to Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, leading the Rashtriya Janata Dal, as the crown prince of the jungle raj. By thus defining Mr Yadav’s identity as the son of Lalu Prasad, he suggested that he would carry on their legacy. Mr Modi’s strategy here was meant to neutralize Mr Yadav’s electoral promises of development and employment and his expressed abandonment of identity politics. But to do that, Mr Modi had to go back at least 15 years, which is when the RJD regime lost power. Yet the prime minister could have emphasized the rupture with ‘jungle raj’ lawlessness carried out by the National Democratic Alliance government led by Janata Dal (United)’s Nitish Kumar. Strangely, he expended few words on that. Mr Modi seems to believe that the distant past is the cause of all present evils, as his repeated references to Jawaharlal Nehru indicate. Clearly, his Bharatiya Janata Party needs as long a time to take India out of those malign influences. Painting the past as inglorious or glorious to manipulate voter response is not the style of Bihar’s Opposition leaders. In his campaign speeches at the same time, Rahul Gandhi declared that this election was about the state’s future. He promised that if elected, an RJD-Congress government would be for every caste and community, all districts and regions. Mr Gandhi backed up Mr Yadav’s promises of development and inclusiveness, saying that an RJD-Congress government would work for education, health, jobs and women’s safety. He sought to dismiss the past — Mr Modi’s favourite weapon — with promises for the future. The Opposition might be hoping that addressing state-specific problems might count as more worthwhile with voters than the prime minister’s references to the achievement of Ram Mandir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-123
02-11-2020||Opinion||Two Bengals, two economies||According to the International Monetary Fund’s World Economic Outlook report, Bangladesh has eclipsed India in terms of per capita income. Bangladesh is expected to grow its per capita income by 4 per cent in 2020 to US$1,888. India’s per capita GDP is expected to contract by 10.5 percent to $1,877. Bangladesh and West Bengal have much in common, including language, fertile land, abundant rainfall and warm year-round temperatures and a dense population. Some critics were not sure about Bangladesh’s sustainability as an independent nation. The country faced severe disruptions after its liberation in 1971, such as famine, natural calamities, military coups and fanaticism. West Bengal, too, has been marked by migration from East Pakistan, a strained relationship with the Centre, archaic leftist politics, natural calamities as well as a rudderless development policy. In spite of the challenges, Bangladesh’s performance based on select socio-economic parameters has been better than that of West Bengal. According to the IMF, the country grew by 5.24 per cent during the financial year, 2019-20, raising its per capita income by $155 to $1,888. The average per capita income of West Bengal was reported to be $1,500 during the same period. When it comes to sector-wise contributions, the services sector was the largest in the two Bengals, contributing 59 per cent in West Bengal and 52 per cent in Bangladesh. The manufacturing sector comes second, generating 34 per cent of Bangladesh’s GDP. In West Bengal, the share of agriculture was 21 per cent, followed by manufacturing at 20 per cent. Agriculture, however, was at the third spot in Bangladesh, contributing only 14 per cent. In 2019, about 38 per cent of the total labour force was active in the agricultural sector in Bangladesh. In contrast, the figure is as high as 43 per cent in West Bengal. The manufacturing industry, especially ready-made garments, has become a major contributor — 84 per cent — to Bangladesh’s total exports ($45.13 billion in June 2020) and engages four million people. Significantly, it contributes 11 per cent to the total GDP. Bangladesh’s garments sector has also benefited from countries such as China because a number of sunset firms have moved there on account of increasing labour costs. West Bengal could have become a strong garment hub in India if only successive state governments and policymakers had the vision and strategies in place to recognize the state’s potential. Currently, the textile and apparel sector in West Bengal accounts for about 9 per cent of the state domestic product and employs around two million people. Bengalis in Bangladesh have also outperformed Bengalis of West Bengal on most social indicators. Bengalis residing in the east can expect to live three years longer than their counterparts in the west. Bangladesh has achieved some of the largest reductions in the early death of infants; it has more females than males, and the status of women within the household has improved considerably. Eighty per cent of the workers in the ready-made garments sector are women. They are now the decision-makers at the household level, having a say on such critical issues as family health, education and nutrition. Bangladesh has decided to follow the best practices of development without any political bias. This, then, brings us to the following question: is economic growth a necessary condition for social progress? The story of Bangladesh imparts some telling lessons. West Bengal, on the other hand, became a crucible for experimental adventurism in its development model and suffered at the hands of errant policymakers and myopic politicians. Consequently, Bengalis in this part of Bengal are still struggling to find what would change their lives for the better.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-124
02-11-2020||Opinion||A sea of red||Myanmar goes to the polls in a matter of days in the midst of a surging ‘second wave’ of the coronavirus. Despite the mounting death toll — now claiming more than 30 people a day — millions of voters will cast their ballots in what is a crucial election that could decide what happens to the country’s fragile transition to democracy. This could be a watershed moment in Myanmar’s recent political history and irreversibly cement the country’s desire for democracy and civilian government. Although the pro-democracy party, the National League for Democracy, led by Aung San Suu Kyi, won the last election in 2015, the army continues to play a major role in determining the country’s development, making it difficult for Suu Kyi to govern. The military still exercises enormous political power in what is essentially a ‘coalition’ administration: under the pro-military 2008 Constitution, the military has 25 per cent of the seats in the national and the regional Parliaments; the army chief appoints three ministers — border, defence and interior — and exercises enormous autonomy over budget, defence and security matters. This is the third election since the former military rulers allowed a measure of democracy and introduced multi-party elections 10 years ago. Although there are more than 90 parties contesting the elections, only two are serious contenders: the NLD and the pro-military Union Solidarity and Development Party. Urban areas like Mandalay and Yangon are awash with the red flags and posters of the NLD, whereas visible support for the USDP, the ‘green party’ as it is known in Myanmar, is more subdued. “It’s confusing all these parties — more than last time [2015],” said Yadarna Khine, a 41-year-old, female street-seller whose business has been hit hard by the strict Covid-19 restrictions imposed in Yangon. “I just know the NLD and USDP parties, but I am going to vote NLD as I wish the next government to work to help and solve all our troubles and problems,” she said. This will be a deeply flawed election according to many academics, analysts and diplomats. Not the least because of the recent resurgence of Covid-19. For a while, it seemed that like much of East Asia Myanmar had weathered the storm, but it has been left reeling from a recent ‘second wave’ of the pandemic. The rates of infection and the death toll are continuing to mount. Last month, the country posted a record 2,000 cases in a single day: Myanmar now has more Covid-19 cases and deaths than any other mainland Southeast Asian country. The pandemic has virtually paralysed most of Myanmar, raising significant and substantial questions about the advisability of the polls going ahead. Opposition political parties are in no doubt that the difficulties unacceptably damage the election’s viability and are clamouring for the polls to be postponed. Electioneering has been effectively halted in most of the country. Traditional campaigning with rallies, door-to-door canvassing and other activities have been severely curtailed owing to the pandemic, and political parties have been left to campaign mostly online — which gives the ruling NLD an enormous advantage. “More than ever this is an election which is really being fought digitally — on social media,” said Felix Hass, a business consultant and analyst based in Yangon. While critics have accused the government of mishandling the response to the Covid-19 crisis, the pandemic has given Aung San Suu Kyi and the NLD an opportunity to emphasize leadership and authority. “Our rules and regulations are not meant to restrict people,” the country’s de facto leader and State Counselor, Aung San Suu Kyi, said in a televised speech introducing the new lockdown measures earlier last month. “We intend to contain the disease,” she pledged. She portrays herself almost as the commander-in-chief, with her nightly televised addresses to the public. “I want the people to understand how much importance our union government has given to this matter, and how much effort is being put in for the health and security of the people, to the best of our ability.” The public response has been very positive. “As a Yangon resident, I see the government restrictions as somewhat necessary in order to contain the virus though there are some drawbacks on social and economic activities,” said Ma San Maw, a 34-year-old communication consultant.  “As far as I know, Aung San Suu Kyi is really trying hard to control and prevent the spread of the virus. I really think this government is doing a good job for our country and our people,” she added. But it is very difficult to distinguish between her role as the country’s key civilian leader and that of the ruling party’s main figurehead seeking re-election in the run-up to the elections. As a result, most Opposition parties have accused Aung San Suu Kyi and the NLD of having an unfair advantage. These elections are now undoubtedly ‘Covid elections’ — the pandemic is dominating everything, making Aung San Suu Kyi and her NLD outright favourites to win. “Covid has changed the landscape of the election,” according to the analyst and entrepreneur, Zaw Naing. “Her presence on Facebook is a massive win... she’s everywhere — on social media, television and the front page of the government newspapers. It’s all you see,” he added. “It will almost certainly seal the deal for these elections, as there’s little room left to move on the campaign trail — with social distancing requirements and now the ban on travel and other constraints — social media will play a critical role, even more so than in the previous election,” said the head of Mandalay Technology. From the very early stages of the emergence of the coronavirus in Myanmar —back in March — Aung San Suu Kyi has shown strong leadership, reinforced later by the astute use of social media. Her lectures and discussions on Facebook have demonstrated the command that the government and the State Counsellor have over the situation. It has left the other political parties flat-footed and bewildered; and it has left the country’s military — an integral part of the power structure — side-lined. “As the face of the government’s very effective response to Covid, she has done amazingly well. Her arrival on social media is good leadership and it’s been remarkably effective,” said Hass. Her speeches are retweeted on social media by NLD supporters and sympathizers and circulated on a recently formed Viber ‘Covid chat group’ with more than one and a half million official followers, he pointed out. In Yangon at least, public opinion seems to strongly endorse the desire for a civilian and democratic future. For Aung Zaw Win, a 64-year-old English teacher, the choice is very clear: “I am very excited and eager to vote, and I will vote for the NLD,” he said. “I expect the next NLD government to write a new Constitution to replace the present [pro-military] 2008 Constitution,” he added. Already many voters are hoping that these elections will represent a step forward on the road to genuine democracy, inclusiveness and good governance “For the start of a new era of democracy, the next government [Cabinet] must be formed with a group of technocrats in charge to formulate evidence-based policy instead of opting for loyal people because of political reasons,” said Poe Pwint Phyu, a 31-year-old medical supplies representative. While the election maybe grievously flawed, there is little doubt that the NLD will win. But then the real problem will be the next five years. Will the NLD  be able to change the Constitution and introduce a genuinely democratic and federal Constitution, forcing the soldiers to return to their barracks? The author is a former BBC World Service news editor for Asia and is based in Myanmar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-124
