03-11-2020||Opinion||Ideas at war: France attacks||Ideas are civilization’s survival kit. But the clash of ideas can also imperil civilizations. It is possible to look at the recent gruesome attacks in France — the decapitation of a school-teacher by a radicalized immigrant was followed by the slaying of three civilians by a Tunisian in a cathedral in Nice — as instances of the simmering conflict between the principle of liberalism and a dangerous kind of orthodoxy. These shocking depredations have been attributed to the dissemination of cartoons of the Prophet — a practice that has been defended by France as an element integral to free speech. The debate between religious sensibility and secular free speech is not limited to France: it is a global discourse, albeit with regional variations. But there is, arguably, a common element. Both contestants have committed errors in judgment. The orthodox — not just radical Islam but doctrinaire strains in other faiths, including Hinduism — seem to believe that violent reprisal is a legitimate form of protest against what it argues are the licences taken by free speech. This is unacceptable. Difference of opinion in any civilized society is resolved through debate — not decapitation. The law of the land must act swiftly and fairly against this kind of malevolence. This is not to suggest that the West’s secular edifice is free of warts. Assimilation is a leitmotif of the liberal project but the peaceful co-existence of contrarian ideas cannot be enforced. There is a case for pluralist societies to examine the reasons for the persistent alienation suffered by minorities and the antagonism that results from such distancing. The chasm need not be a reflection of religious differences: France, just like any secular polity, is committed to uphold the equality of all faiths in the eyes of the law. But historical, economic and social conditions are vital to the integration of communities, and there is evidence to suggest that France’s ‘Muslim problem’ could well be the result of soaring unemployment, racial discrimination as well as the Republic’s unwillingness to acknowledge the crimes of the Empire — the ‘Rights of Man’ seem not to have been applied to North African Muslims. Retaliation from the margins is then held out as justification for conflating the radicalized lumpen with Islam in entirety. If the laïcité has to work in letter or spirit in France or elsewhere, it must be reimagined as a platform to resuscitate dialogue among cultures. But the success of such a conversation rests on France — and India’s? — ability to recognize that it is a conversation among equals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-123
03-11-2020||Opinion||Above and beyond: Remembering Sean Connery||Sir — The passing of the veteran Scottish actor, Sean Connery, comes as a shock to cinema fans all over the world (“Shaken but thank you, Mr Bond”, Nov 1). Connery played the infamous MI6 spy, James Bond, in seven movies and was arguably the best actor to play the role. It would seem that no one had quite mastered the art of wielding a gun like he had when he would shoot at villains without even turning his eyes away from the heroine in embrace. The introductory words, uttered by the character in Dr. No when he introduces himself to Sylvia Trench — played by the late British actress, Eunice Gayson — “Bond. James Bond.”, has become one of the most famous catchphrases in the history of cinema. Connery was a truly exceptional figure in Hollywood and continued to hold the title of being one of the most desirable men on the silver screen in an industry that is notorious for ageism — he was declared by People magazine as the “Sexiest Man Alive” in 1989 at 59 years of age. While paying tribute to Connery, we must also remember his humble origins. He was raised in near poverty in the slums of Edinburgh and left school at 13 to help support his family. He was in many ways an unlikely choice for a character known for his affinity for fast cars and vodka martinis. Connery, however, proved to be the best fit for the role and went on to portray the iconic character in a way that no other has been able to match. The actor was much more versatile than he was given credit for. His portrayal of a tough Irish cop in Brian De Palma’s 1987 classic, The Untouchables, led him to win the Oscar in a supporting role. He was also politically conscious and was an ardent supporter of Scotland’s independence. He will be mourned like no other. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — Sean Connery, the most memorable actor to play James Bond on the silver screen, will be remembered for many incredible performances. Some of his best roles came after he had hung up his boots as Bond, including The Untouchables, The Hunt for Red October and Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade. Although several actors have played the role of James Bond since then, none can come close to his portrayal of the character. However, it is Connery’s underprivileged background as the son of a factory worker and a domestic cleaner — he worked innumerable odd jobs before he could enthral cinema-goers — that will continue to inspire others. He will always be missed. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — The passing of the original on-screen James Bond, Sean Connery, has left millions of fans around the world in mourning. The Oscar-winning actor rose to prominence in the world of cinema by donning the cap of Ian Fleming’s iconic character. He first appeared in Dr. No (1962) and went on to star in six more Bond movies. Had it not been for his charismatic, suave and witty screen presence, the character would not have flourished the way it did. The current James Bond, Daniel Craig, is right in his praise of the late actor. Connery truly did define “an era and a style”. Rahul Chouhan,Ujjain Sir — The veteran actor, Sean Connery, whose demise has led to a wave of mourning around the world, was one of the last men in the Hollywood old guard. He lived and worked in an era that favoured a certain kind of overt masculinity that has now become obsolete. He was truly the only actor since Cary Grant that men have wanted to emulate so much. James Bond epitomized the excesses and debauched recklessness that men in the post-World War II era craved to embrace. Dishearteningly, he also once explained in a magazine interview why he believed that slapping a woman with an open hand is justifiable. As a conscious consumer, how do you appreciate his excellence as an actor without acknowledging his glaring shortcomings in other aspects? The Bond films themselves have long been criticized for their abysmal portrayal of women and blatant objectification. Connery was undeniably a powerful actor whose best performances came later in his career. One of his finest but most underrated performances was as a medieval monk-turned-detective in the historical drama, The Name of the Rose. He was also immensely lovable as Henry Jones Sr., the father of the whip-wielding archaeologist, Indiana Jones. No matter how iconic his early ‘macho’ roles were, Connery was at his finest when he was humble. It is this Sean Connery that the young generation of cine-lovers will appreciate and remember. Anamika Sen,Calcutta Risky moves Sir — As people can no longer travel long distances during the pandemic, many have been vacationing at rural homestays and private resorts. The Bengal tourism department, too, recently announced that it plans to promote rural tourism in Kalimpong. But is it wise to travel to remote areas in the midst of a pandemic? Cities are hotbeds of infections and people are more likely to carry them to rural areas where the situation is not as severe. We must understand that health facilities are far more difficult to access in villages. Any further spread of the coronavirus there will only bring greater misery to the less fortunate. Bani Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-123
03-11-2020||Opinion||Laws work: Death penalty for rape||Crimes against women in India show that, however severe, laws by themselves are no deterrent. The Karnataka High Court, however, has recommended that Section 376D of the Indian Penal Code that prescribes imprisonment of 20 years to life together with a fine for those convicted of gang rape be amended to include the death penalty. The high court was upholding the sentence of life imprisonment for seven persons convicted of the gang rape of a student in Bangalore in 2012. Capital punishment is already part of the law against gang rape with murder: the men convicted in the December 2012 gang rape in a Delhi bus faced the death penalty, although not the minor offender. The Karnataka High Court wished to increase the severity of the penalty because the judges felt that gang rape was worse than murder. This comment may reflect the acute humiliation and pain that a gang rape inflicts, although it would be difficult to grade the destruction wreaked by any rape. The death penalty for rape has been repeatedly proposed, but there are arguments against it. Activists contend that the criminal would tend to murder the woman if capital punishment becomes a possibility to prevent identification and erase evidence. It is suspected that there has been a rise in murder after rape recently. It is also feared that, with the possibility of capital punishment, the rate of conviction for rape would drop. Reports of the National Crime Records Bureau show that the already low conviction rate of 32.2 per cent in 2017 dropped further to 27.2 in 2018. Of 1,56,327 cases on trial in 2018, 1,38,642 remained pending; in 17,313 completed trials, there were convictions only in 4,708 cases. Obviously, severe laws and the threat of death are no deterrents unless procedures underline the heinousness of the crime by moving fast to make tightly knit cases. Even increasing special courts, as has been done to some extent, is not enough; evidence production, beginning from forensic reports, must be swift and accurate. Laxity points to an underlying reluctance to penalize sexual criminals, which is why cases are blunted by the time they come to trial. It is the fear of quick apprehension and inevitable punishment that will act as deterrents, not just the threat of the death penalty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-123
03-11-2020||Opinion||Fight against all odds||Zhong Fangrong, who recently aced the gao kao, China’s challenging pre-university entrance exam, has announced that she wants to study archaeology. No, she is not from the kind of family where such leanings can be indulged in without worrying about mundane things like job prospects and salaries. A child of migrant workers, Zhong was brought up by her grandparents in their village. This ‘left-behind child’ — the phrase used for children of migrant labour who are left behind in their villages — came fourth among the 1,94,000 liberal arts students in her province, Hunan. Zhong could have had her pick of subjects, but she chose archaeology, because, as she said, history and cultural relics had always fascinated her. This made her the target of harsh ‘advice’ on social media. “You will regret your choice once you enter the job market,’’ she was warned by netizens, who unkindly pointed out to her that she was from an underprivileged background and should, therefore, choose a subject that promises a high-paying job. The phrase, ‘#left-behind girl was enrolled by Peking University but chose to study archaeology’, became a trending topic on China’s version of Twitter. Unexpected help Before she could buckle under, however, Zhong got support from unexpected quarters. The 82-year-old honorary president of the country’s oldest archaeological institute sent her a copy of her biography and a letter advising her to stay true to her dreams. Herself a Peking University alumnus, this Shanghai-born trailblazer had travelled to the edge of the Gobi desert way back in 1963, driven by the urge to protect the Mogao Grottoes, which were then being looked after by an institute set up in 1944. She spent her life looking after these ancient Buddhist caves, which were declared a Unesco world heritage site in 1987. Other museums and archaeological institutes too sent Zhong artifacts and literature to encourage her. That someone like Zhong can choose a career in a low-profile discipline shows that China is today a land of opportunity for those willing to be adventurous. Take, for instance, the volleyball-playing Beijing student who sat for an extra exam after the gao kao in order to qualify for admission in a sports university. Her struggle was brought to light in a documentary on four aspirants of this year’s gao kao, which was held under the shadow of Covid-19. The girl’s mother is a nurse who, on account of the pandemic, could not take leave to help her daughter prepare for the all-important exam as she would normally have done. The father stepped into the mother’s shoes, taking over the housework and also helping his daughter study.  Success stories Then there was the case of the boy on the freezing terrace. As in India, the shift to online classes necessitated by the lockdown hit poor students the hardest. One of them made news when a photograph of him studying on the freezing terrace of his building at 5.30 am appeared in the newspapers. It was only at that hour and at that spot that the boy could get the strongest internet signal on his phone. Too poor to afford either a computer or an internet data pack, he had to gain access to online classes on his father’s cell phone by connecting to a kind neighbour’s WiFi. After reading about him, his school got him a computer, local authorities arranged a free broadband connection and, most importantly, a prestigious university showed interest in him. His performance in the gao kao made him eligible to enroll himself in the engineering course of the university.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-123
03-11-2020||Opinion||American chasms||Irrespective of the result of the 59th quadrennial presidential election, the emerging structural realities of the United States of America exacerbated by the acts and the omissions of President Donald Trump will outlast his term. First, Trump’s messaging, amplified through social media, has legitimized the utterances of the fringe, online, right-wing extremists. This has consequences as it has instilled fear among minorities and within society. An alleged terrorist plan to kidnap the present Michigan governor, Gretchen Whitmer, by white supremacist terrorists was foiled recently. Second, in the midst of growing inequality within the US exacerbated by Covid-19 and the irreversible realities of the new economic structure, the middle-aged, white, blue-collar population faces further shrinkage of opportunities. This gulf should not be seen in the context of binary tensions between the Red states and the Blue coastal states, which have been the beneficiaries of the new economy. The economic gap will rise even within the traditionally red states as places like Austin in Texas, Raleigh in North Carolina, Atlanta in Georgia and Charleston in South Carolina join the new economic model. There is migration of the highly-skilled tech workforce taking place from the Democratic Party’s bastions of northeastern states to these relatively warmer climes and tax-friendly hubs. This trend is shaping new political and economic realities. The suburban and rural parts of the Red states remain conservative and racially homogenized — mostly white, with disturbing aspects like a rampant opioid crisis. New political, social and economic fault lines are being drawn within the states, and this may fuel fresh social and ideological tensions. Related to this point is the ongoing intensification of cultural wars in the US. On one side is the population that values America’s multi-ethnic and multi-national character. They are ardent supporters of the US taking on the mantle of global leadership on issues like climate change. The Silicon Valley and allied companies belong to this camp. The US’s tech enterprise draws talent from across the world. On the other side is another group that remains seeped in such values as the racial supremacy of the whites and are climate-change denialists. There is an economic enterprise underwriting this project. In the 2017 book, Dark Money: The Hidden History of the Billionaires Behind the Rise of the Radical Right, Jane Mayer methodically illustrates how Charles and David Koch, the enormously rich proprietors of an oil company based in Kansas, laid the foundations for conservative movements that were anti-government and opposed climate change. The funding of various movements, think tanks and newspapers inadvertently created a fertile landscape for Trump to exploit in the 2016 elections. Third, scarred by the history of slavery, relations between minorities — particularly African-Americans — and the police have always remained tense in the US. This had been accentuated further by what many describe as the growing ‘militarization of the police’ in various states and counties. Radley Balko, the author of Rise Of The Warrior Cop, informs “the police departments are increasingly using equipment designed for use on a battlefield, including tanks, bayonets and grenades.” He adds that the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan had created a massive surplus of many weapons, which were given away to police departments across the country. This is coupled with the fact that the police’s organizational structures prevent reforms. There is the sheer size of various decentralized police units; there are reportedly more than 18,000 state and local police agencies. Strong police unions have exercised disproportionate powers and have often protected erroneous colleagues in various cases of alleged police brutality. The political leadership has faced backlash from these unions whenever it has raised questions about police abuse. The infamous recurring tensions between the New York City mayor, Bill de Blasio, and the New York Police Department are a case in point. Interestingly, the Police Benevolent Association, NYC’s largest police union, reportedly “broke with a longstanding tradition of not endorsing presidential candidates and threw its support behind President Trump, as many officers view him as more of an ally to their pro-police ‘Blue Lives Matter’ movement than Joe Biden.” Four, while the US has become increasingly diverse, this growing diversity is still not fully reflected in critical federal institutions. Even the state department, the face of the US to the world, doesn’t reflect the nation’s diversity. A widely shared article in The New York Times, “The State Department Was Designed to Keep African-Americans Out”, by the former American diplomat, Christopher Richardson, noted that “even in 2020 the State Department struggles to recruit and retain black officers”. “The Government Accountability Office recently found that the percentage of African-Americans in the Foreign Service increased only to 7 percent from 6 percent between 2002 and 2018. In the Trump administration, only three out of 189 American ambassadors serving abroad are black.” Five, the pandemic shows no sign of relenting. More than 2,00,000 Americans have already died; nearly the same number is estimated to die during the winter. The impact has been disproportionately borne by poorer communities. The inept handling of the crisis has exposed the vulnerabilities of the medical infrastructure, including an inefficient insurance system. The first year of the new administration, particularly the first quarter of 2021, will continue to be consumed by the fight against Covid-19. Six, with a conservative majority in the Supreme Court’s judicial composition — the Senate has confirmed Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court — there is a foreseeable threat to various progressive legislations, particularly those relevant to minorities and women. These include the Affordable Care Act, Roe vs Wade and the appeals that come before the apex court from various states on issues linked to voter suppression. Seven, the US immigration system is presently predicated on the family reunification model, not on the points system as other Western countries such as Canada. The Covid-19-induced economic crisis will make the discussions on the issue of initiating pathways to citizenship for millions of undocumented migrants, mostly from Central America, even more complex. Trump’s first term and broader trend lines are not all gloom and doom. The importance of institutional checks and balances has been re-emphasized. The press regularly exposed executive errors. In conjunction, several career civil servants acted conscientiously, resigned, and have been whistle-blowers as they refused to be cowed down by executive high-handedness. The impact of toxicity unleashed by the Trump administration was greatly mitigated as many states refused to comply with federal executive orders. The protests against acts of brutality against African-Americans had an all-time-high representation from the racial groups, particularly younger citizens. The idea of human dignity and protection became even more mainstream. It took deeper societal roots, particularly among millennials and super-millennials, some of the most diverse generations in the last 244 years of the US’s existence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-123
