04-11-2020||Opinion||Unity in diversity: Modi govt is destroying democratic institutions||Sir — It is no secret that the current dispensation, led by the prime minister, Narendra Modi, has destroyed the institutions essential to democracy, which take decades to build. Devoid of stalwarts who laid the foundation stones of such institutions, the Bharatiya Janata Party is trying to usurp the work of the hardcore Congressman, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, under the banner of the sangh parivar. This was evident in the celebrations of the Rashtriya Ekta Divas on October 31. The contributions of other leaders — Modi’s bête noire, Jawaharlal Nehru, M.K. Gandhi and Subhas Chandra Bose are just a handful of such greats — cannot be wished away by the Modi government. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — On October 31, Narendra Modi emphasized the words, “ekta” and “akhandta”, with respect to the nation. It is more than a little ironic then that on a day dedicated to unity, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh were split officially last year into two separate Union territories. Both Modi and his right-hand man, the home minister, Amit Shah, have claimed on numerous occasions that had the integration of Kashmir with India been left to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Article 370 would never have come into existence. Yet, several historians like Srinath Raghavan and A.G. Noorani state that negotiations on the matter were held at Vallabhbhai Patel’s residence in New Delhi, where Jawaharlal Nehru and Sheikh Abdullah were present. Raghavan even goes so far as to say that when a draft letter from Nehru to Abdullah was prepared, summarizing the understanding reached in the negotiations, it was sent to Patel with a note: “Will you kindly let Jawaharlalji know direct as to your approval of it? He will issue the letter to Sheikh Abdullah only after receiving your approval”. Hoarse proclamations can draw a veil over the truth only for a limited period of time. Facts will emerge eventually and once they do, people will not forgive those who have been trying to violate the spirit of ‘Unity in Diversity’ that Sardar Patel embodied. Sushant Panda,Mayurbhanj, Odisha Fine balance Sir — The report about the pathetic condition of the vice-chancellors of various universities in India was shocking (“The shaky chairs in academia”, Nov 2). The Delhi University VC, Yogesh K. Tyagi, has been suspended for misgovernance. He is the 10th VC of a Central university to be suspended, dismissed or forced to resign under the present term of the National Democratic Alliance government. This indeed reflects poorly on the selection process. Vice-chancellors suspended owing to the misappropriation of funds must be punished; stopping their pension could be one way of going about this. Such punishment will act as a deterrent for others. But the predicament of VCs must be considered as well. They have to tread a thin line between appeasing teachers and students, satisfying the chief minister of their state and the chancellor who could have a different political leaning. A method must be evolved to protect VCs from various warring interests so that they can carry out their duties truthfully in the interest of the country. Benu Kumar Bose,Calcutta Sweet lies Sir — Plans are apparently afoot to boost sugar consumption in India to balance the country’s chronic overproduction. How can two wrongs make a right? Sugarcane is a water-guzzling crop that not only leaches the soil of nutrients but also ruins the lives of farmers across the country. Add to this the water that goes into the production of sugar and we get an environmental hazard. The adverse effects of consuming sugar do not bear reiteration. The government must start awareness campaigns to ensure people do not fall into the trap of marketing gimmicks. Pritha Das,Calcutta Parting shot Sir — Ordinary voters are confused by leaders who appear to lead from the front as part of a particular ideology, but change their colours once they win. Leaders who, when on opposing sides, used abusive language against one another, are now showering accolades on each other. There is a paucity of leaders with convictions of values or ideology. Most of our politicians are only interested in increasing their bank balances. In the meantime, market prices of all essential commodities have shot up, education and health have been corporatized and employment is at an all-time low. Truly, “ki bichitra ei desh”. Suparna Banerjee,West Burdwan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-122
04-11-2020||Opinion||Strange friends: Political rivals as partners||Indian politics, metaphorically speaking, is a bed on which rests strange bedfellows. The coming together of parties with competing ideologies has been a singular phenomenon in this nation’s political history. The Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s willingness to fight the forthcoming assembly elections in Bengal by joining forces with secular parties, including the Congress, must be seen in the context of such a continuum. The CPI(M) and the Congress, while burying the hatchet in Bengal, remain at each other’s throats in Kerala. This selective — strategic — unity has been ridiculed by their rivals: the Trinamul Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party, the two other contenders in the fray in Bengal, dismiss this union as opportunistic. But the truth of the matter is that no national party — not even the BJP — can resist tactical, temporary, solidarity. The BJP did not hesitate to embrace the Peoples Democratic Party in Kashmir even though the two outfits, on account of their ideologies, do not see eye-to-eye on a number of issues. In Bengal, the BJP had allied with Bimal Gurung and his faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha even though the party’s central leadership remained non-committal to Mr Gurung’s principal demand of Gorkhaland. The primary reason for these seemingly confounding alliances is that regional politics and its demands are, more often than not, significantly different from those that propel politics at the national level in a vast federation of diverse states. The other explanation is that morality is increasingly becoming expedient to the political project. This malleability makes it easier for political parties to prioritize strategy over ideology. This is not to suggest that the voter is always receptive to new-found chemistry. The Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party were left with egg on their faces after they jointly fought the parliamentary elections of 2019. But the electorate can be as fickle as politicians: the Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Janata Dal (United), adversaries in 2020, had been rewarded with the throne of Bihar in 2015. Political partnerships between rivals add to the depth and the unpredictability of democratic systems. They also have the potential to check hegemonies. In the absence of strange allies, Indian politics could have been reduced to dour monopolies, the kind that the Congress once enjoyed and the BJP now desires.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-122
04-11-2020||Opinion||Special target: Interfaith marriage||The Indian State can seldom desist from fiddling with its people’s lawful personal affairs. Two consenting adults can marry legally; it is nobody’s business if one partner decides to change his or her religion to do so. The Special Marriage Act exists in case an interfaith couple wants a civil marriage; if not, it is up to the couple if one wishes to convert to the other’s faith. If such a marriage causes conflict with the respective families, the duty of the State and of the courts is to protect the pair should they ask the administration or the law for help. But under the Narendra Modi-led government, love jihad has become a way of persecuting such marriages — as though honour killings and khap panchayats were not enough. Love jihad is targeted at men of the minority community, who, apparently under false identities, are supposed to be inducing women of the majority community to marry them in order to convert them. Allegedly, this is part of a conspiracy to reduce the majority community to a minority one. The government admitted last February that this phenomenon does not exist. This has not deterred the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, from announcing a law that will ban marriages pointing to love jihad, and threatening with death, indirectly, those men who allegedly lure ‘daughters and sisters’ into marriage by disguising their identities. Since no one can be put to death for this, the comment would encourage vigilante violence. The chief minister referred to a recent ruling of the Allahabad High Court that conversion purely for the sake of marriage was unacceptable. Funnily enough, in that case, a Muslim woman had converted to marry a Hindu man. The court, though, had mentioned a 2014 precedent in which the reverse had happened. That any court should rule thus is truly disconcerting. It is far less surprising that Mr Adityanath should use the judgment to suit his own purposes, and that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Haryana government should seize the instance of a girl’s murder in Faridabad by a stalker of another faith to announce plans for a similar law. Targeting a particular community and keeping ‘daughters and sisters’ under control, as though they are the community’s ‘property’, are two of the BJP’s favourite activities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-122
04-11-2020||Opinion||A new kind of social conflict||A new dimension of politics that has emerged under the current regime is that of intra-elite conflict. The current political regime is not only building a majoritarian polity but is also replacing the social elites that came into being in the post-Independence period with the ushering in of constitutional values, liberal institutions and modernity with traditional elites. The latter are characterized by an old status, not class or economic power. Traditional elites visualize themselves more as cultural rather than economic elites. They remain traditional in their outlook but not necessarily in their lifestyle. This constituency includes caste Hindus who wish to preserve caste prejudices and caste distinctions, believe in natural superiority, and value ascriptive identities. They had been sidelined by constitutional reforms, the discourse of secularism and reservations, new gender and LGBT rights, global cosmopolitanism and other progressive legislations. The Congress represented the new elites with the suspension of the privy purse, the dissolution of princely states and the nationalization of resources. The BJP-RSS combine represents the elites that got marginalized. The Congress, too, included the old elites, such as former maharajas and zamindars, but with the pre-condition that they would have to change their outlook in favour of a new, progressive, secular and inclusive nationalism. This progressive spirit created a new middle class that was liberal as well as new social elites comprising scholars, artists, film stars, global investors, bureaucrats and the national bourgeoisie. The BJP-RSS is seeking to combine the traditional elites with comprador corporations. The only problem in connecting old and new elites is the discourse on growth, market reforms and urbanization. The new elites endorse ‘progressive neoliberalism’, which, today, is being challenged by the ‘conservative neoliberalism’ of the traditional elites.  Traditional elites have succeeded in packaging themselves as ‘cultural subalterns’ who have been short-changed by history and unfairly displaced by the new elites. They are striving to combine their interests with the demands of the subaltern castes, such as OBCs and sections of the Dalits, through a predominantly cultural idiom. The rhetoric of the traditional elites is also anti-elitist and mobilizes the antipathy against progressive elites and liberal institutions — the proverbial ‘Khan Market Gang’ or ‘Lutyens’ Delhi’. The freedoms they espouse, be it LGBT rights or those of religious minorities, is projected as indifference, selfish and, therefore, ‘anti-national’. The subalterns would end up being shoved into old social hierarchies but as of today they tend to identify with the traditional elites. The progressive outlook of the new elites is inclusive, but there are limits to this inclusion. The traditional elites are able to resonate with the subaltern castes in spite of their exclusionary and hierarchical social vision because it reinforces traditional privileges, such as gender within family and status within rural hinterlands, as well as religious-majoritarian gratification. There has also been political representation offered to many of these castes and communities. There are new training programmes for bureaucrats; the national bourgeoisie has been displaced by privileged protection to chosen corporations, thereby marking a shift in favour of those aligned to a conservative outlook. The recent witch-hunt against academics, journalists and Bollywood stars has to be seen in the light of the displacement of progressive elites. This will also include the targeting of political representatives. This is not merely the reining in of Opposition parties but also a shift among elites. We are witnessing a new kind of intra-elite conflict. The crisis of modernity and its inability to be inclusive in its cohabitation with capitalism and neoliberalism have left many social groups excluded. The philosopher, Michael Sandel, points out in The Tyranny of Merit that the language and policy of meritocracy implies that the new elite are born out of modern education. The traditional elites are thus undermining the importance of modern education itself. This resistance is visible in the National Education Policy, 2020. The traditional elites are reasserting themselves by using the tensions and the unresolved conflicts within the progressive social order to legitimize their conservative social ethos. The progressive elites are, therefore, facing a crisis of legitimacy. They are disconnected from the subaltern segment because of the cultural idiom and are unable to offer a model of politics that is truly inclusive. The traditional elites are better connected through culture even if they are conservative and detrimental to the interests of a majority of social groups. Traditional elites will eventually become even more exclusionary than modern elites who hold some degree of respect for diversity and redistribution of social opportunities. The kind of challenge that will confront the traditional elites will determine the course of Indian democracy in the near future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-123
04-11-2020||Opinion||Bihar’s schizophrenia||Elections can be, in a manner of speaking, occasions for diagnosis and prescription —what’s wrong, what can right it. The people do it, and they do it very often with contrary, even conflicting, assessments of disease and cure. Bihar has lived a schizophrenia for three decades now, bossed in equal measure by two remarkably different men. One, a man of spellbinding charisma and chutzpah who came from nowhere to unleash a ruling manner all his own. Subaltern hero, unshakeable guardian of communal concord, a captivating political entity. But he was woefully lost on governance and often in abject abuse of power. The other, an introvert, almost babu-like of mien, a dour doer, who made correction and revival his mission, a power-beaver adept at locating the means to back his ambition. But he turned out a whimsical proposition, implacably averse to conference, loose on convictions and so spectacularly promiscuous to the purposes of personal power that he lost way and political credibility to the left and right of him. Neither Lalu Prasad nor Nitish Kumar brought to the table what they began by promising its people: ‘Naya Bihar’. For the better part, this piece must be a repetition of things already said, for Bihar often seems struck by amnesia over its own sorry past; the more things refuse to change, the more they seem to forget what hasn’t, the more they remain swayed on the disarrayed booty of their unfulfillments. We can still be moved and motivated by the promise of drinking water, as if it were a promise of magical novelty. The ‘Naya Bihar’ slogan is an old one. Every time it rings off a new throat, Biharis begin to stir with hope like only the hopeless can — this time, surely. They’ve discovered, unfailingly, that the shimmer that promised to relieve them of their scorched lives was a mirage, no more. I am part of the ineffable construct of what it must mean to be a Bihari. I can begin to exult in the smallest things at home — a length of pucca road, a stable hour of electricity, a school that has students and teachers in it, a health centre that isn’t padlocked, an office that isn’t a runaround, an officer who minds an office. Can that happen? And when that happens, will it last? The Bihari cheer always comes stained with doubt: how real or durable can any of this be? That doubt has reliably and regularly choked the prospect of cheer. Bihar was never at a loss for those who set out to build it. In the narrow firmament of Bihari consciousness, they make a clotted constellation of visionaries and builders, reformists and revolutionaries, samaritans and messiahs, charmers and charlatans. Sri Krishna Sinha and Anugrah Narayan Sinha, Jaya Prakash Narayan and Karpoori Thakur, Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav and Jagannath Mishra. They have either been forgotten, some mercifully, or live on in dust-ridden memorial halls and rent-a-crowd commemorations. Or in disregarded town squares as busts routinely shat upon by birds. For all the retrospective reputation they have come to acquire, the gifts of Bihar’s league of legends don’t add up to much. I have often found myself collared for being harsh on Bihar and its people — no less because I am also non-resident — but I see no merit in romancing what is wrong with Bihar and Biharis. Much is. And correction lies with them, not only with the political order, which often bears disproportionate burdens of blame. I have often been tempted to quote to my critics passages from a speech the Nigerian Nobel laureate, Chinua Achebe, made to an audience in Paris. It was a discourse titled “Africa is People” and it should rank as compulsory reading for anyone trying to understand the complexities of our world. I merely quote this: “I am not an apologist for Africa’s many failings. And I am hard-headed enough to realise that we must not be soft on them, must never go out to justify them. But I am also rational enough to realise that we should strive to understand our failings objectively and not simply swallow the mystifications and mythologies cooked up by those whose goodwill we have every reason to suspect... I understand and accept the logic that if a country mismanages its resources it should be prepared to face the music of hard times.” Biharis owe to themselves the favour of better sense. It is not caste and its embedded ills and impediments that I refer to; caste engulfs a wider geography than Bihar and its resolutions will require civilizational time and tussle. I refer to fundamental, quotidian things. Biharis need to tell themselves it does their wards no good to be helped to cheat their way through examinations. That it is not parental duty to search out and bribe examiners to up their grades. That it is not a thing of pride to game the system they are part of, to draw public salaries as doctors and teachers and render no public service in return. That the promise of a government job is not a freebie; it is a job, an undertaking, it needs to be done in return for a livelihood. That discarding masks and distancing during a raging epidemic is not bravado. A good place for us to start would be to stop imagining the world to be shaped like a spittoon. The mouthfuls of masticated paan Biharis are wont to spit any and everywhere as right and ritual of who we are must rank high on the catalogue of uncivil liberties we feel entitled to. To have a dual-carriageway in Bihar becomes a challenge to finding innovative ways of violating the one-way regime. To find a padded seat on a bus becomes an invitation to stab it and rip the foam. Very often, the delight of deflowering virgin foam is reserved for those who bother squeezing into buses, the best seats may still be right on top, whether the insides are entirely taken or not. Better sense, anyone? Nonsense, just keep it to yourself. There is that standing joke about Bihar and Japan and which can potentially become which; Japan turning into Bihar is swifter done. Bihar is voting again. And once again new-fangled themes of ‘Naya Bihar’ are oozing off chopper missions, boxed confetti from the last campaign unpacked and set afloat anew. The faithful are elated to reach out for a staleness whose stench they’ve turned inured to: this time, surely. Irrespective of who wins Bihar next week, the dawn of the promised newness is as unlikely as a cuckoo spawning swans. It isn’t for the politicians to usher. It isn’t coming until Biharis diagnose their own schizophrenia — the fracture between what they might desire and how they debilitate it — and write a prescription to themselves. sankarshan.thakur@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-123
