05-11-2020||Opinion||Gold rush for a Covid vaccine||The arrival of a potent vaccine — several are being tested around the world — is likely to resolve the crisis brought about by the coronavirus. But it is also possible that significant challenges would remain even after a medicine is found to tame the raging virus. Having examined existing purchasing agreements and production capacities, researchers at the Duke University Health Innovation Centre in the United States of America have stated that millions of people could lack reliable access to the drug in its early phase of roll-out. The reason for this shocking shortfall, unsurprisingly, is the embedded inequality of the global order. Economic muscle-flexing by high-income nations, it is feared, would lead to hoarding. Data bear out this anxiety. Canada, for instance, would have enough medicines to vaccinate its population five times over; the United Kingdom, just like the US, can do it twice over. At the other end of the spectrum lie India, Bangladesh and Egypt — populous nations that have the means to inoculate less than 30 per cent of their people. Other kinds of fault lines are also emerging. There is concern that inadequate infrastructure — modern cold chains — could adversely affect the distribution of the vaccine in rural areas in poorer nations. The asymmetries reveal several urgencies. Greater investment must be made in avenues of international medical cooperation: the Covax initiative, facilitated by the World Health Organization and its alliance partners, is one platform that demands support from the international fraternity. India must ponder the urgent need to bolster indigenous research. The fruits of cutting-edge research facilities could reduce New Delhi’s reliance on a foreign vaccine. Finally, the skewed relationship between ethics and economics needs to be reset. A pandemic that has taken lakhs of lives should not be deemed as an occasion fit for monopoly and hoarding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-122
05-11-2020||Opinion||Continued trouble: No resolution for Delhi's air pollution||Sir — The decision taken by the Centre to issue an ordinance to combat air pollution in the national capital region is welcome (“Jail for pollution in capital”, Oct 30). Violations can amount to five years of imprisonment and a hefty fine of Rs 1 crore. It must, however, be noted that any law can only be effective if it is duly enforced. It is a matter of concern that the air quality in the north Indian states has started turning foul after a months-long spell of good air. Now, along with vehicular pollution, the burning of crop residue has turned the air unbreathable. According to an estimate, around 15-20 million tonnes of paddy stubble are burnt in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh annually around this time of the year. Thus, the pollutants emitted in just 60 days are four to five times of what all Delhi vehicles contribute in the entire year. While different state governments have banned stubble burning and imposed fines on farmers in case of improper disposal, the situation has not improved. State governments are providing 50 to 80 per cent subsidy to farmers and cooperative societies to buy modern farm equipment for better management of paddy straw. But stubble burning has continued unabated. According to a recent study, air pollution has been linked to 15 per cent of coronavirus deaths globally. There is a direct link between air pollution and respiratory diseases. In a city like Delhi where air pollution is one of the major contributors to poor health, the combination of bad air and Covid-19 has doubled the crisis. The government must do everything it can to improve the living condition of the people in the Delhi-NCR region.Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — The high levels of air pollution in Delhi have become a recurring source of distress for the last few years. The problem is that we are still opting for reactive methods like the graded response action plan, which is kicked into motion only after the air quality index slips considerably. What we need are preventive, institutional steps that aim to remedy the situation in the long run. It is unfortunate that north India has to grapple with severe air pollution in the midst of a raging pandemic. Since the burning of agricultural residual waste in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh is the key reason for the deteriorating air condition, the government should perhaps look into innovative policy interventions that are effective while being easy for farmers to implement. Improving public transport, increasing the use of clean renewable energy, using more electric vehicles, introducing less polluting fuel and strict emission regulations can also help improve the situation. There is no quick fix to this. Change can be brought about only through concerted efforts from both the government and citizens concerned. Ravi Teja Kathuripalli,Hyderabad Sir — The decision of the Centre to form a commission to monitor air quality specifically for the Delhi-NCR region comes at the right time. Now, the government must ensure that the endeavour bears fruit. The months-long lockdown implemented at the beginning of the pandemic saw an improvement in air quality because of sharp decrease in emissions. But unfortunately that could not be sustained for long. With curbs on road transport and rail services, and air travel still to resume fully, there is still some time to remedy the problem. The government must act swiftly and do all that is necessary. Chandan Kumar Nath,Guwahati Fight for survival Sir — It seems that the prolonged closure of schools has plunged the bakery units in and around Calcutta into a deep crisis. Bakeries, including the popular Bapuji Bakery, have admitted that their production levels are half of what they used to be. It is hoped that once the pandemic subsides most industries will gradually make a full recovery. But what of small business owners? It is likely that many small businesses, dependent on specific groups of customers, will shut down for good. Local bakeries, whose products have long been staples in Bengali tiffin boxes, might just be some of them. Robin Basu,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-122
05-11-2020||Opinion||Chokehold: Season of smog and pollution||As another season of smog and pollution settles over North India, the Central government has responded by issuing an ordinance to set up a commission for air quality management in the national capital region and adjoining areas. One of the reasons for this intervention is to stop the piecemeal, ineffective measures taken by a number of Central and state institutions that were jointly responsible for managing air quality in these areas. The composition of the commission is suggestive of a welcome push to bring all stakeholders together: several ministries like agriculture, commerce and industries have found a place in the body. This is important because the management of air pollution is a holistic exercise, necessitating simultaneous, cooperative action on a range of pollutants — from stubble burning to industrial emission. The commission has at its disposal an impressive arsenal too. It has been empowered to impose a fine of up to one crore rupees and imprisonment of up to five years; these newly-added deterrents only expose the gravity of the situation. New Delhi earned the ignominy of being the world’s most polluted capital for a second straight year in 2019. It must, however, be asked whether punitive measures are the only options when it comes to tackling pollution. After all, prison terms have not led to a fall in stubble burning: stiff penalties could further alienate the constituency that engages in this practice. Sensitization holds the key. But public awareness has met a formidable opponent in the form of a dangerous complicity among institutions, administrators and citizens: it is this nexus that lies at the root of the NCR’s — and Delhi’s — pollution challenge. The Delhi government blames stubble burning in Punjab; the Punjab government rests its faith in punitive action against farmers; the farmers, in turn, blame the government for the lack of subsidies. In the midst of this vicious cycle, relevant laws — the Air Act of 1981 is an example — remain behind time as does administrative attitude. Little wonder then that the adoption of cleaner technology is progressing at a snail’s pace in India. The common thread linking these transgressions is criminal indifference. Clean air is a fundamental right, integral to the idea of citizenship. The scope of punitive action must be expanded to include elected representatives at every level who must be held accountable for poor air in their respective constituencies. But this kind of deterrence can work when the people themselves are willing to press for such a rightful demand. That is not all. Why should policy imagination remain restricted to the NCR and its neighbouring areas? Has the rest of India — six of the world’s 10 most polluted cities are in this country — purged the spectre of pollution?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-122
05-11-2020||Opinion||Unruly waves of rivalry in Western Indian Ocean||The geopolitical importance of the Western Indian Ocean rests on its connectivity with North America, Europe and Asia. In recent years, the discovery of oil and gas blocks has attracted global players to the region. For India, the region assumes special significance, considering 95 per cent of its oil and trade flows through it. Its marine resources also help achieve food security. Any disruption of the sea-lanes would have serious consequences for the Indian economy. Historically, the stretch has been viewed as India’s backyard. Many in the Indian navy believe that it is destined to become the predominant maritime security provider, stretching from the Bab-el-Mandeb to the Malacca Strait and beyond. At present, India’s concern is the growing naval presence of China in the Western Indian Ocean, a direct challenge to the region’s status quo and India’s sphere of influence. Since the Belt and Road Initiative became central to China’s foreign policy, Beijing has increasingly viewed the Indian Ocean region as fundamental to its regional security and regards India to be its principal Asian rival. It is strengthening its relationships with the East African littoral and island states with its naval presence in the region. The foundation of these relationships rests on massive economic investments in these states and attempts to influence the policies of their governments. For instance, China has identified Kenya as a key maritime pivot and engaged with the latter as well as its neighbours with projects such as ports, roads, railway and pipelines. This has generated goodwill and increased China’s influence. In 2017, China dispatched the People’s Liberation Army to build its first overseas naval base in Djibouti, signalling a turning point in the expansion of the PLA’s operations in the Indian Ocean region and beyond. China argues that it is not a military base and that it has been set up for a humanitarian-peacekeeping mission. But that is not how India views it. Taking into account the strategic position of Djibouti in the Indian Ocean region, Indian experts interpret the setting up of the base as another military alliance to encircle India. Besides Djibouti, China is wooing Mauritius and the Seychelles. So far, India has dominated the economic and political milieu of Mauritius as the Indian diaspora constitutes 68 per cent of Mauritius’s population. Despite India’s strong relations and powerful historical ties, China has been able to penetrate Mauritius with massive financial support to fulfil ‘Vision 2030’, a project that aims to place Mauritius among the league of high-income countries by 2030. In return, Prime Minister Pravind K. Jugnauth welcomed China’s BRI in his country and offered support to the ‘One China’ policy. To curb China’s aspirations in the Indian Ocean region and secure its own trade routes, India has developed or revived several forms of bilateral and multilateral cooperation platforms with the Indian Ocean coastal states. From 2010, in conjunction with an expansion of India’s naval capabilities, there has been a significant extension of New Delhi’s maritime security relationships throughout this region. Much of the emphasis has been on developing relationships with small states at or near the key entry points to the Western Indian Ocean such as Mauritius, the Seychelles and Oman. Some of these states have long seen India as a benign security provider and have maritime policing needs that New Delhi can fulfil. India established its first overseas surveillance facility in Madagascar as it was deemed important to guard against the threat from terrorists from East Africa as well as to counter the growing Chinese influence. India is also looking at developing another monitoring facility at an atoll it has leased from Mauritius to strengthen its naval contacts with Mozambique and the Seychelles. Additionally, the Indian government has been promoting the ‘Security and Growth for All in the Region’ concept since 2015 — a counter-move against China designed to revive India’s ancient trade routes and cultural linkages around the Indian Ocean. This represents a logical shift in India’s foreign policy towards coastal East African and littoral states and offers an alternative vision to China’s Maritime Silk Road. Much to China’s irritation, Indonesia has granted India economic and military access to the strategic island of Sabang at the northern tip of Sumatra to undertake port-related infrastructure under SAGAR. Sabang is close to the north-western entry point of the Malacca Straits through which passes almost 40 per cent of India’s trade. To secure a greater foothold in the Indian Ocean, New Delhi also signed a defence agreement with France, the biggest Indian Ocean maritime power. The logistics agreement with France will give India access to the strategically important French bases in Djibouti in the Horn of Africa and Reunion Islands near Madagascar. Similar agreements have been signed with Japan and the United States of America that will help India receive access services in Japan’s overseas base in Djibouti as well in Diego Garcia, the biggest American base in the Western Indian Ocean region. India’s ties with China are at a crossroads. The Western Indian Ocean region has the potential to become the new hotbed of a power struggle between the world’s two most populous nations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-122
05-11-2020||Opinion||Chaos reigns||The run-up to the presidential elections in the United States of America has brought into focus important features of an increasingly authoritarian, cruel, intolerant and polarized society. Many of the problems faced by the US resonate in other parts of the world, including India. The US, as the world’s largest economy and the oldest democracy, is a case study of the crisis in the political economy of capitalism. Whoever wins the US presidential election, these problems will persist for years to come. It may be argued that the oddities of the Donald Trump administration were symptoms of a deeper malaise. This malaise can be diagnosed as a failure of the capitalist world economy propped by markets and parliamentary democracies. The political unit of this system, the nation state, is also under severe strain, aggravated by a global public health crisis. The capitalist world order led by the US became more globalized during the early 1990s. International trade and capital movements grew at an astonishing pace. Workers, skilled and unskilled, began to look for greener pastures in all parts of the world, particularly in the rich market economies. The large corporations of the world, especially the ones involved with technology and finance, became the new masters of the universe. Political ideologies shifted to the right with the fall of the Soviet Union and its empire. There was a resurgence of faith in markets and in democracy. Markets, left on their own, were supposed to take care of all economic problems, ensure unlimited growth, make everyone richer and turn a magnificent array of goods and services affordable that would feed the insatiable appetite of consumers. As the world became richer, the natural environment was expected to be better as people would become conscious of the need for cleaner air and safer water. This promise did not hold for all, not even for the majority. A few clearly benefited and business magazines wrote lead articles about the rise in the number of billionaires. Economic inequality exploded as markets were cornered and manipulated by large companies with gigantic advertising budgets. Market outcomes became unpredictable and volatile. Unemployment increased as jobs and capital moved across geographies. Jobs became scarcer and more insecure with rapid technological changes. Labour unions lost almost all their hard-fought gains made in the twentieth century. It was clear that the bonanza of growth was not for everybody despite the claims to the contrary by the voices of big business. People wanted to move too. They were willing to work for less than the local people. In many cases, they were smarter and more industrious. The system was marked by cheap labour, large profits, and rapid technological changes that brought new products and new models of old products to the shopping carts of the world’s top 10 per cent. The goods came from all over the world, and paying for them was never a problem as debt was allowed to grow in a never-ending fashion. Consumerism became the sex symbol of globalization. Three things have happened to the economy over the past thirty years of growth and prosperity. First, most people were unsure that the system would be able to deliver a secure life with a reasonable income. The State had moved back in terms of support when the chips were down. If someone failed, it was because of the person’s incompetency and, hence, the person was left to fend for himself/herself. Yet some people (the few and fortunate) were distinctly better off and, sometimes, remarkably so. Second, demographic changes took place through migration. The ‘Others’ in the labour market appeared to steal jobs and opportunities. Nobody in power, however, wanted to disturb a source of cheap and hard-working labour, including highly-skilled scientists and engineers. The third thing that took place on a rapid and decisive scale was the increase in business influence over democratically elected governments. With an electorate with changing aspirations and ambitions, political contests intensified. To stay in power, political parties and politicians needed greater finances to fund elections and win by hook or by crook. Big business bankrolled elections to retain influence, keep taxes low, and enhance opportunities for investments with greater ease of doing business. There were two consequences of these economic changes that ran deep in society and polity. Those who criticized the ‘system’ — academics, journalists, authors and other intellectuals — were termed ‘liberals’. It was alleged that they comprise the elite and that they were trying to bring about damage to a system that delivered for big business and for politicians. Billionaires became leaders of the subaltern masses, claiming they would make the nation great again. There were two enemies that had to be tackled on a war footing. The ‘Other’ — migrants and minorities — and the liberal elite that dared to interrogate the populism, which was to take the masses to the Promised Land. Academics, thinkers and critics became the enemy of the people. The liberal project of globalization was under severe attack. Society became polarized. Conservatives are usually unable to think of a shared, inclusive world order. Hence globalism gave way to an inward looking nationalism. The magic was to allow business to thrive without foreign competition and without restraints, such as taking care of the environment. The hungry and the homeless disliked career politicians but oddly would be seen at ‘Make America Great Again’ rallies. Technology also played a large part in creating this surreal world of hyper-nationalism. Social media has been a systematic tool for control and construction of perceptions and beliefs. Technology also allows for a kind of surveillance that was not possible even a few years ago. The seductive hand-held devices are a source of enormous private information about users that ultimately can be accessed by arms of the State and political machines. The information obtained can be manipulated through voice-overs and morphing. However, despite this dependence on technology for manufacturing consent for the national project of consolidating power, there is deep distrust of science and any other form of expert knowledge. Scientific knowledge is considered fake news. Scientific data are dubbed as false. According to one recent survey, more than 50 per cent of Republican supporters in the US believe that universities do more harm than good for society. Finally, the rule of law is considered important, but not the laws legislated or the principles enshrined in a written Constitution. The law is interpreted politically to serve individual interests. The US is showing systemic cracks that will be difficult to heal. The unravelling of the economy, a population divided by incomes and debts, the rise of political authoritarianism, the sharp degradation of the natural environment, the surfacing of deep-rooted racism and xenophobia, a discernible increase in misogyny, belief systems grounded in religious myths, gun-wielding individualism and, above all, a hatred of knowledge and expertise — the US is fast becoming a land from where the death knell of liberalism can be heard resonating across the world. Little wonder then that the US leads the world in the highest number of imprisoned people per capita, the largest proportion of the adult population who believe in angels, and the largest defence budget in the world which is more than the combined sum of the next 25 nations. The champion of free trade and democracy is now in the throes of protectionism and facing serious challenges to its political system. Is it transformative change? Or is it mere chaos? The distant future may throw some light. The author is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-122
