06-11-2020||Opinion||Trumped: Donald's indelible mark on the US||The presidential election in the United States of America has been singular in some ways. First, an impressive voter turnout did not lead to a decisive victory for either candidate in the fray. Second — this is no less significant — Donald Trump, the Republican presidential candidate, would be a satisfied man at the end of the day no matter what the results of the poll are. That is because Trumpism — the body of core values espoused by this maverick, controversial leader — seems to have left an indelible mark on America. This is borne out by the fact that in spite of the opinion polls predicting a relatively comfortable victory for his Democratic rival, Joe Biden, the race has been a lot closer than what had been expected. That only means that a substantial segment of the US endorses the Trumpian vision. Two elements are integral to this perspective. First, the resurrection of the principle of isolationism, which was the hallmark of American foreign policy in the 1930s. Mr Trump’s appeal, especially in the American heartland, remains formidable on account of his ability to effectively combine economic protectionism with insularity in foreign policy. The second — critical — dimension of the Trumpian formula is best expressed by the slogan, ‘America First’. This supposed prioritization of the nation over the US’s international commitments, too, has struck a deep chord. That explains the public support not only for Mr Trump’s strategy to lock horns with China but also for his explicit anti-immigrant ethic. A large number of Americans have been made to believe that their rights to education, employment and trade could be protected by building a wall — metaphorical or literal. Of course, the US turning a corner under Mr Trump cannot be viewed in isolation. Much of the global order, on account of the crisis in capitalism, remains under the spell of charismatic leaders who are promising their people a return to greatness. The clash between Mr Trump and Mr Biden in that sense is also a bitter battle between two different kinds of ethos. Multilateralism, institutional integrity, gender and racial justice, accommodation and global outreach — the trademarks of Mr Biden’s liberal pill to resuscitate the US — have been pitted against a shrill — bigoted? — conservatism. It is unlikely that the US would be able to purge the shadow of Mr Trump’s ideals any time soon irrespective of the outcome of the roll of the electoral dice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-121
06-11-2020||Opinion||Toxic fumes: Banning fireworks||Sir — The West Bengal government has ‘advised’ people against the use of firecrackers during Diwali and Kali Puja in view of the Covid-19 pandemic (“Advice against crackers”, Nov 4). The National Green Tribunal as well as doctors have expressed concern that fireworks-induced pollution could be hazardous for Covid-19 patients as the virus can cause more damage amidst an already volatile situation. It is disappointing that instead of imposing a ban on the bursting of crackers the state government has left it to the good sense of the people to refrain from it. It is well-known that even the threat of legal action mostly falls on deaf ears. Even when the common people try to protest against the use of firecrackers, they are met with verbal abuse from a section of the unruly revellers. The problem is that most political parties in India focus more on populism — to win elections and stay in power — than good governance. For the latter, one must take decisions that are best for the country and its people, irrespective of its consequences. In this context, the governments of Rajasthan and Odisha, which have prohibited the sale and use of fireworks, are exceptions. Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — The Supreme Court must consider imposing a total ban on the sale of firecrackers permanently, given that they pose grave health hazards. The smoke that emanates from bursting firecrackers pollutes the environment because of the chemicals used in them. During Diwali, the level of respirable suspended particulate matter goes up considerably, making the air unhealthy to breathe. Firecrackers also emit carbon dioxide, which causes global warming. The bursting of crackers also results in the generation of a great amount of non-biodegradable dry waste, that could add to soil pollution. Studies have shown that chemical particles also contaminate water bodies as they penetrate the soil and mix with the groundwater, rendering it unfit for consumption. R. Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — One must express one’s gratitude to the Mamata Banerjee-led government in West Bengal for its concern regarding the consequences of bursting firecrackers for Covid-19 patients. People are used to celebrating Kali Puja and Diwali with firecrackers, but this could create serious health hazards for many. One hopes that the people of Bengal heed the government’s advice and refrain from bursting crackers. Shyamal Thakur,Ramnagar, East Burdwan Stand tall Sir — Massive protests in Poland have succeeded in delaying the tightening of oppressive abortion laws in the country. In spite of the pandemic, people came out on to the streets in numbers to protest against the curbing of a woman’s right over her own body. It is shameful that even in this day and age, governments try to deprive women of their most basic rights, such as that of exercising her choice in whether or not to give birth. The fight must go on until such unjust laws are entirely repealed. Annesha Ganguly,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-121
06-11-2020||Opinion||Unreformed: Former Finance Secretary's anguish||The former finance secretary, Subhash Chandra Garg, recently revealed his anguish on being transferred from the ministry, allegedly at the behest of the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman. What is revealing, however, is another observation that Mr Garg made in this context. In Mr Garg’s opinion, the government under the leadership of the prime minister has run out of steam for pursuing major economic reforms. Does this insider’s perspective then suggest a lack of interest on the part of the prime minister and the finance minister to make India a $10 trillion economy by 2030? This expansion and growth of the economy had been announced as part of the political agenda of the government as well as a specific target that would be pursued from the provisional budget of 2019-20. With a comfortable electoral mandate under his belt, there was no compelling reason for Narendra Modi not to make a beginning, or at least chart out a pathway, to the promised land of $10 trillion. Now, of course, with the pandemic and the unprecedented lockdown in the early part of the year, that target has become impossible to achieve. Even a $5 trillion economy is no longer feasible in the near future. The point raised by Mr Garg demands attention because it may help assess the real agenda of the prime minister. Mr Modi claims to be a nation-builder but is turning out to be yet another populist leader. The lethargy shown after the beginning of his second term was not expected of a leader who has pledged to turn the economy around. The moment was opportune. The economy had begun to slow down but, politically speaking, Mr Modi was in a solid position to undertake strong measures. Instead the government prioritized the construction of the Ram temple and a new Parliament complex: these issues seem to have distracted its attention from ushering in major economic reforms. After the pandemic hit, the options for serious reforms became limited since short-term relief measures and fiscal stimuli received top priority, warranting immediate action. Then, a little later, when the economy was really down and out from the effects of the lockdown, Mr Modi pushed for two sets of ‘reforms’ — in agriculture and for labour markets. These immediately became controversial because of their objectives and timing. Mr Modi had missed the opportune time to introduce these measures. He is also running out of time to unfurl a strong stimulus package.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-121
06-11-2020||Opinion||Keep a close eye: Social audits in India||The auditing agility of government programmes seems to have gained strength. After the recent floods in Assam, the state planned to carry out a social audit of relief measures to look into corruption and bribery. This is the first time that any government is trying to reinforce a social audit in the aftermath of a natural disaster. But when the nation is inundated with a plethora of fraudulent activities and policy paralysis is rampant, the nature and compass of social audits should be overhauled. In this context, the government is planning to institutionalize social audits in the National Social Assistance Programme and Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Gramin. Recently, the Centre ordered a probe into the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act in Punjab as it was alleged that funds were being siphoned off from the Central scheme. A multi-crore scam under the MGNREGA scheme in Gujarat was also alleged. Several people who are dead have been found to be not just ‘working’ under the scheme but are also getting paid. Jharkhand’s Social Audit Unit found that 48 per cent of people did not receive two months’ worth of ration during the lockdown under the public distribution scheme. There is no doubt that the ambit of social audits to actualize the pace of developmental projects is getting wider and has undergone a remarkable change. It is no longer restricted to areas like the MGNREGA and the National Food Security Act where the mechanism is meant to reduce corruption; monitor and ensure accountability; and elicit community participation and engagement. The basic difference between social audits and other audits lies in the fact that the beneficiaries are the auditors. In India, social audits were begun by Tata Iron and Steel Company in 1979. Later, such auditing mechanism gained significance after the 73rd Amendment to the Constitution which attempted to empower panchayati raj institutions and gram sabhas by arming them with such audits. This has worked wonders and made a landmark impact in some states. Andhra Pradesh could minimize leakages and wastage in the MGNREGA; Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh managed to check specific irregularities through sarpanchs and sachivs in the gram sabha. But the execution of social audits remains pliable. The government has not institutionalized SAUs which are at times intimidated when it comes to accessing data on various programmes. The apathy of implementing agencies, the paucity of autonomy of SAUs, lack of awareness among gram sabha members and incentives for participating in SAUs are some of the reasons for the failure of social audits. As per the United Nations’s Human Development Report 2019, Norway, Switzerland and Ireland ranked as the top three developed nations in the world. The methodology of audits in Norway is flawless, covering all aspects of irregularities like corruption, breach of trust, embezzlement, theft, false reporting of financial statements and results. By the dint of social audits, the country could make a mark in the domain of corporate social responsibility, which is benefitting both for the companies and to society. India is one of the top five fastest developing countries in the world. But governance does not seem to be improving. The corruption perceptions index estimated by Transparency International has persistently ranked India poorly in the years 2017, 2018, 2019 and the nation is not able to meet the sustainable development goals. Its target to become a $5 trillion economy is becoming a distant dream. At this juncture, the audit activity equipped with competent resource persons should be mobilized with adequate financial autonomy. Participatory social audits are to be encouraged to expose and deter corruption. Institutional support should be adequate so that beneficiary-led audits can be spontaneous and sustainable. To make use of required interventions and harness people’s energy, the follow-ups and enforcement of punishments need to be reworked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-121
06-11-2020||Opinion||Elections: Promises meant to be broken||Ideally, election manifestos should be visionary frameworks that declare policy options and aims of political parties in any forthcoming electoral contest. Manifestos reflect the ideological position of political parties on varied issues of governance that can influence prospective voters to vote in their favour. In India, election manifestos have largely been a political template that outlines the proposed plan of action for five years once a party is voted to power. The legitimacy of an election manifesto in the implementation of policies has been a matter of debate. The accountability of manifestos remains a key question of reform in an electoral democracy like ours. There are global practices in the form of regulatory mechanisms to control the content of election manifestos to avoid undue influence on voters. The developed and the developing countries have devised unique and indigenous practices to maintain fairness in electoral competition among political parties. In the United Kingdom, the electoral authority has the power to issue specific guidelines for manifestos as part of campaign material. In the United States of America, political parties have developed an internal mechanism to govern the charter of the party. In some Asian countries like Bhutan, the Election Commission has the power to approve the content of an election manifesto before it is in circulation for mass consumption. In Latin American countries like Mexico, certification, registration and validation of the Federal Electoral Institute is mandatory for the nomination of contestants. In India, the Representation of the People Act, 1951, which was enacted by the Indian provincial legislature before the first general elections of 1952, defines the rules for the mode of conduct of elections. Article 324 to Article 329 of Part XV of the Constitution deal with the electoral system. In its more than six decades of existence, the Election Commission of India has been embroiled in many tussles. In the context of the Bihar elections, the pledge in the Bharatiya Janata Party’s manifesto to distribute Covid-19 vaccines free of cost to the state population has created a combative situation. Opposition parties have accused the BJP of politicizing the pandemic and playing on the fears of the people. The question is whether such an electoral promise violated the model code of conduct. A complaint to the EC by the RTI activist, Saket Gokhale, alleged that such a promise was a breach of the powers vested in the Union. It is also being argued that this kind of a pledge would disrupt the level playing field of elections. The EC, however, dismissed the charge of violation of the model code of conduct. Promises of freebies have stirred the proverbial hornet’s nest in past elections too. There have been arguments about ‘freebies’ being in contravention of Section 123 of the Representation of the People Act. In S. Subramaniam Balaji vs Govt. of T. Nadu & Ors., the Supreme Court reposed its faith in the EC to regulate its powers after consulting Article 324 to facilitate free and fair elections. The court was apprehensive about the possibility of freebies vitiating the sanctity of the electoral process. But it also expressed its jurisdictional limitation to issue direction to the legislature on the matter. Instead it routed its concern by directing the EC to frame elaborate guidelines for the preparation of manifestos and include them in the model code of conduct to guide political parties and candidates. In India, public confidence in election manifestos is minimal. They are usually construed as baits for gaining power. Should not the promises made in election manifestos be binding on political parties? Electoral reforms can initiate stringent rules to make manifestos accountable. Electoral manifestos should be released well in advance to enable voters to take informed decisions about the deliverables being promised by political parties. The quality of any democracy is premised upon fair electoral practices that establish democratic credibility and evoke electoral confidence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-122
06-11-2020||Opinion||On an even keel||One of the most contentious and consequential US presidential elections has just taken place. While final election results are still awaited, the strategic trajectory of India-US relations should not be affected by the outcome. We are at an opportune moment to reflect on the past relationship, to better understand the current dynamic, and perhaps to see what the future may hold for us. There are recent signs of confidence that the relationship between both countries has matured to a level that transcends both partisan politics and individual personalities. The outcomes of the QUAD meeting of foreign ministers in Tokyo last month and, more significantly, the third 2 plus 2 India-US meeting of foreign and defence ministers in Delhi, barely one week before the US elections, reinforce this confidence. At the same time, there have been some raised eyebrows on the direction of our security partnership and the advisability of hitching our wagon to a flickering star. Given the unpredictability of policies of different US presidents on the issues of China and Eurasian security, there are concerns that a close embrace with the US could undermine our strategic autonomy and our room for manoeuvrability in a fluid situation. Nonalignment has been and remains the lodestar of our foreign policy, in all its different ideological avatars of “non-alignment 2”, multi-alignment”, strategic autonomy and so on. Pragmatic rebalancing by anticipating and adjusting to changing circumstances has been consistently practised by our successive governments since Independence. In 1962, just one year after the nonaligned movement’s founding summit in Belgrade, in response to Jawaharlal Nehru’s SOS after the Sino-India border war, US combat units were deployed in India and U2 reconnaissance operated covert flights over China. In 1971, just one month after Kissinger’s secret visit to China, Indira Gandhi finalized the Indo-Soviet treaty. This effectively checkmated the possibility of any US-China pincer moves to forestall the liberation of Bangladesh. At another turning point marking Sino-Soviet rapprochement, Rajiv Gandhi’s pathbreaking visit to China in 1988 came before the ill-timed visit of Mikhail Gorbachev to Beijing the following year during the Tiananmen Square protests. Such realignments among the US, China, Russia and other countries were not always at the initiative of the weaker party. The strong strategic partnership between Russia and China in recent years has coincided with US-China and US-Russia relations and now India-China relations sinking to their lowest levels. This has posed an unprecedented national security challenge for us. I am sure that we will effectively address the evolving situation, protecting our national security while averting an irreversible break in India-China relations and not allowing China to unduly influence the direction and pace of our relations with the US, Russia and our neighbours. We tend to use different yardsticks to judge US policies, be it foreign, national security, trade, or immigration, compared to how we view those of any other country or for that matter even our own policies. We expect certainty and constancy in our partners’ policies while retaining flexibility in our own. We take for granted the bi-partisan consensus in the US Congress on India-US relations. This consensus was manifested in the four-fifth vote in favour of the nuclear deal by both the Republican-controlled House and Senate in 2006 and the Democratic-controlled House and Senate in 2008. At the same time, allegations of surrendering our sovereignty to the US levied by the Left-BJP combine almost succeeded in unseating the UPA government of Manmohan Singh in a parliamentary vote of confidence in 2007. While the India-US deal and nuclear liability terms were analysed threadbare, those with Russia and France escaped public scrutiny. Good sense finally prevailed in 2017 when Narendra Modi termed the nuclear deal as the “centre-piece” of India-US ties after his first meeting with Donald Trump and imparted a new impetus to the partnership. Many of the selling points of the nuclear deal and the defence agreement of 2005 remain relevant today. China was not the main motivating or cementing factor, but the idea of strengthening liberal, pluralist, federal and democratic India as an alternative model to an inexorably rising communist China resonated very strongly with George W. Bush personally and also with both sides of the aisle on Capitol Hill and in State assemblies and beyond. We have rightly ignored unsolicited homilies on our internal developments made by leaders and lawmakers from countries with different cultures and histories. But we need to heed the civilizational values espoused by our own national icons, including Mahatma Gandhi, Swami Vivekananda, Rabindranath Tagore, Jamsetji Tata and others. There was a shared conviction that democracy promotes peace and stability, as historically democracies do not go to war against each other. It was not coincidental that institutions of democracy, like our Parliament and the US Capitol, and that of free-market economies, like the Twin Towers in New York and our financial capital, Mumbai, were targets of radical terrorists. With an average annual GDP growth rate of around 8.5% between 2004 to 2008, India was perceived to have also demonstrated that democracy was not an impediment for growth in a poor and incredibly diverse country of subcontinental size. Never before have India-US relations been as good as they are today. It is also true that our previous expectations of collaboration have not been fully realized. The nuclear deal has not yet resulted in any new power stations being set up with any country. We are known to take our time. It took 28 years after the signing of the Indo-Soviet agreement in 1988 till our prime minister’s inauguration of the Kudankulam nuclear power station in 2014. We did not utilize the significant opportunities that the nuclear deal had unlocked to access US dual-use technologies. It took us a decade and a half to finalize the three foundational agreements to enable defence cooperation. Now we have to take a call on how and how far to proceed in terms of operational inter-operability. Major sales of US platforms have taken place, but no joint co-production or co-development projects are in the pipeline yet. The strength and resilience of any strategic partnership needs the ballast of mutually beneficial economic ties. We had missed opportunities for resolution of some trade and economic issues in an earlier favourable political atmosphere. The world has now moved on. A free trade agreement (FTA) with the US will have to conform to the provisions of the US-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) for US Congressional approval. Unnecessary political capital need not be expended on such a bilateral trade deal or on the H1B visa issue where realistic outcomes would not be commensurate with the efforts. Morarji Desai had once flummoxed Jimmy Carter by retorting “they [the USSR] build walls to keep people in; you build walls to keep people out.” This has contemporary relevance in terms of race and religion-based immigration practices and protectionist trade policies. Moving forward in our relations with the US and other strategic partners, we should focus our efforts on leveraging complementarity of interests and our strengths in talent and market size, along with shaping the new standards and regulatory regimes. An area of interest in this regard is new and emerging technologies, which we have seen being fast-tracked to meet the needs of the post-Covid-19 digital era. The author is the former ambassador to the US||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-122
