07-11-2020||Opinion||Dark below the flame: A doctor and Aladdin's lamp||Every event is open to more than one reading, as is the adventure of the doctor and the lamp. At the most prosaic level, this is the story of an audacious con that missed success by a hair’s breadth. A doctor in Meerut, Uttar Pradesh, just back from the United Kingdom, bought a lamp off two men who told him it was Aladdin’s lamp complete with the djinn who would give him everything he wanted. The doctor may have remembered Aladdin’s golden palace, limitless riches and marriage to a princess that were the high points of the popular version of the story. The two men, whom the doctor met while treating a woman supposedly related to one of them, persuaded him to meet a ‘priest’ with unusual powers, and reportedly also made the genie appear. From various reports, it seems that the doctor paid about Rs 70 lakh — a ‘discounted price’ for an object the men claimed was worth Rs 2.5 crore — and was told that using the lamp before two years had passed would bring misfortune to his family. That was a neat touch. The genie failed to appear. The doctor reported the incident to the police and two men were caught, although, reportedly, a woman accomplice is on the run. The group has allegedly been carrying out similar lucrative tricks for some time. But they are far less interesting than their nemesis, the doctor who bought a lamp made of steel — or so the police said — and accepted as a genie a man dressed up as one — the doctor himself said this. The mundane story of cheating takes on a more colourful guise when read as a fable. It demonstrates that an anti-scientific spirit is overtaking the country: even a doctor can accept the wildly irrational if it promises to fulfil his heart’s desires. Therein lies the nub. The irrational is allied with desire, with the greed for a prosperity that can only be dreamt of. Ironically, that desire is activated by the conmen’s greed. But the greed, in other situations, need not be for money alone. Unlimited power over people (immeasurable wealth is a corollary), suppression of difference or dissent, perfect compliance of all — it can be for anything. It is enough to stimulate illusions of prosperity and domination in the prey with lies: everyone will buy steel lamps at the price of their souls and conjure up the genie from within their minds. This sinister reading is a bit unfair to the story of the doctor and the lamp though. Its potential for entertainment cannot be denied; it almost matches some of the escapades in One Thousand and One Arabian Nights. So maybe the event validates the charm and power of storytelling, too, reviving old tales in new forms in everyday life — however scientific the era — like the irrepressible genie in a bottle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-121
07-11-2020||Opinion||Deep shame: Faisal Khan's arrest||Sir — Reading about the arrest of Faisal Khan, the national convenor of the Delhi-based social outfit, Khudai Khidmatgar, for offering namaz inside a temple in Mathura made me hang my head in shame (“Even Tulsidas wouldn’t have been safe”, Nov 4). Such an act of religious inclusion and amity ought to be celebrated, not punished. However, the leaders of New India will not allow this to happen; unity among the people of India is anathema to them. Such hostility is also unsurprising when one considers the venue of the arrest; Mathura is in Uttar Pradesh, which is ruled by the Yogi Adityanath-led government. It is even more saddening when one considers the fact that the religious harmony evident in Khan’s actions — as well as those of the people who invited him to perform his prayers on the temple premises — is fundamental to our nation’s social and cultural fabric. The UP government is known for its oppression of religious minorities on the flimsiest of grounds, a propensity that finds support from the Centre — they are, after all, led by the same party. It is up to the citizens of India to come together and strongly resist the Bharatiya Janata Party’s attempts to destroy India’s religious unity. Under no circumstances must we allow the brotherhood among people from different religions to be ruined. Shiuli Bose,Calcutta Sir — The outrage over Faisal Khan’s ‘unpardonable’ act of offering namaz at a Mathura temple and his subsequent arrest are condemnable. What else can one expect in ‘New India’? The suggestion made by a Hindi scholar, as reported in The Telegraph, that the 16th-century poet, Tulsidas, too might have been arrested in the present day for expressing his desire to sleep in a mosque was pertinent. This incident brings to mind reports from a few years ago about Mohammad Zahir, who took care of a dargah as well as a Shiva temple in Khandwa near Indore in Madhya Pradesh. Not only did he clean the temple premises but also helped pilgrims perform the puja and place their offerings at the lingam. Would someone like Zahir, a shining example of religious harmony, be safe within this country, the atmosphere of which has been vitiated by Hindutva? Or would he, too, find himself in custody for allegedly ‘desecrating’ a temple? Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta Sir — It pains me to say that the India of today is not the country I grew up in. We were taught that India’s beauty and uniqueness lay in its people’s love and acceptance of each other even if they belonged to different religions. In fact, we were taught to learn about other cultures and invite friends into our homes to share our own ways of living with them. These fundamental acts of humanity are now being treated as crimes. Faisal Khan, who visited and paid obeisance at a Mathura temple, asked for a suitable place to pray as it was time for his afternoon prayers. The people in the temple reportedly told him that he need not go anywhere else as he was already in the home of god. As a result, he performed his prayers there and later even had lunch at the temple. These are normal, ordinary actions in a nation that prides itself on its religious unity. Why are they being punished? Disha Batra,Delhi Well chosen Sir — New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, continues to serve as an example for world leaders. Women and members of the Maori community have found strong representation in her 20-member cabinet; her new foreign minister, Nanaia Mahuta, has a moko kauae — a traditional Maori tattoo — on the chin. In an ideal world, this detail would not even need to be pointed out; however, it bears mentioning because even now, in countries like India, women’s capabilities are heavily judged on the basis of their physical appearances. It would be hard to imagine women who do not fit a particular ‘mould’ being chosen for positions of political leadership here.Ishadrita Roy,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-121
07-11-2020||Opinion||Raise voices: Voting in the US elections||No matter which side you voted for, approximately 70 per cent of Americans felt pre-election jitters and considered the presidential election a source of stress and anxiety. Many celebrities emerged with endorsements, educational material and motivation to help ease these feelings. The web series called Stars in the House hosted a 10-hour marathon of conversations, videos and live performances featuring dozens of Broadway and television luminaries on November 3. Many celebrities, including Selena Gomez, Nick Jonas and Beyonce posted ‘ I Voted’ selfies on their social media accounts to encourage followers to do the same. Tom Hanks, Dwayne Johnson, Oprah Winfrey and LeBron James have the most trusted opinions on political and social issues, according to a new survey of American voters. According to the research, 12 per cent of voters reported that an entertainer or athlete influenced their thinking regarding the election. Moreover, 75 per cent of voters said they wanted to see entertainers use their platforms to address social and political issues, specifically the Covid-19 pandemic, voting and racial justice in the United States of America. Celebrities also used suggestive pictures of themselves to get people to click on and view their videos and images. The “Get Your Booty to the Poll” initiative features a montage of Atlanta strippers pole-dancing, followed by one of them asking, “Did we get your attention? Good.” Then the women list all the reasons to vote. During the Democratic primaries, a handful of supporters of Bernie Sanders launched the #HotGirlsForBernie campaign on Twitter, an inclusive movement where women and nonbinary people posted photos of themselves explaining why they were voting for Sanders. True icon This year the voter turnout hit record numbers in comparison to the 2016 elections. Millions of people tried to vote safely and early. Many restaurants and companies handed out free ‘Election Day’ goodies to people who showed their ‘I Voted’ stickers; many landmark locations doubled as polling stations. In Long Beach, California, a local ice cream parlour launched a new flavour in honour of Ruth Bader Ginsburg, with 100 per cent of the proceeds benefiting the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California. Long Beach Creamery’s new ‘Honor Ruth’ ice cream is inspired by the deceased Supreme Court justice’s favourite dessert — frozen lime soufflé — with scoops given away for free to those who show their ‘I Voted’ stickers. In addition, a new limited ‘In Ruth We Trust’ kit was launched to give people everything they would need for the tense election night. It was a Ginsburg-themed special Election Night package, with 100 per cent of proceeds benefiting Planned Parenthood. The kit includes a bottle of gin, baked goods, calming candles, an activity book and ‘Postcards for Progress’ to send to Congress, the city council and other leaders regarding changes their communities need to see. Fast food chains also geared up with election day deals. Boston Market offered a free slider after 9 pm knowing ‘Election Day could stretch well into the evening and beyond’. Other chains offered great discounts to help with the stress.Muted scares Americans celebrated Halloween to the extent possible with the pandemic on. Many joked that 2020 was terrifying enough. In Cleveland, a couple put up Covid-19-themed décor that included masked skeletons fleeing the coronavirus while armed with hand sanitizer, disinfectant and toilet paper. A giant skeleton was flinging the virus decor at other skeletons. In Tulsa, Oklahoma, a man did a visual depiction of the number of Covid-19 cases on his front yard by planting wooden crosses representing Oklahomans who have died from the virus, according to state health department data. Google just released its 2020 ‘most searched for Halloween costumes’. The top search was the witch costume, followed by dinosaur and Harley Quinn. In New York, a 400-person party in Brooklyn and later a 550-person party in the Bronx were broken up by the sheriffs. Those arrested included DJs, the organizers and security guards. Chicago also shut down multiple parties.Tell the truth Donald Trump finally got his wall, though not the way he was expecting. In Soho, a new art installation combined 20,000 of Trump’s false statements in a 100-feet-long mural. In October, Radio Free Brooklyn also installed a primary version of it that was 50 feet by 10 feet. It was eventually vandalized with messages such as ‘Vote Trump or Die’. The creators were not deterred. They launched a fundraiser to create the new mural, named ‘Wall of Lies’. The piece is a collaboration by the Bushwick artist, Phil Buehler, and the executive director of Radio Free Brooklyn, Tom Tenney. It was Tenney’s idea to just do a reading broadcast of all of Trump’s lies during the week before the election. But due to the pandemic, the event was paused and Buehler decided to turn the idea into a public display. The artwork touched on different subjects, the common ones being Russia, Ukraine, taxes, immigration and the coronavirus. In other cities, murals were painted all over public property encouraging people to vote. The American Civil Liberties Union of Michigan enlisted local artists for a public art campaign to paint murals in communities with disenfranchised voters. Footnote With restaurants trying to stay afloat, there is a new way to show support for chefs. The ‘Take Away’ book series is launching in Los Angeles; you can buy books written by chefs. Over $2,00,000 have been raised and 20 books — by chefs in fine dining restaurants, neighbourhood joints, a bakery, a farm and even a gelato cart — published. A book needs to sell a minimum of 100 preorders for it to go to print. If it doesn’t, all of the preorder funds are sent to the restaurant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-121
07-11-2020||Opinion||Father of journeys||I first met Enuga Sreenivasulu Reddy in New York in 1994. I was carrying an introduction from Gopalkrishna Gandhi, who had described him to me as a ‘great Gandhi-reservoir’. For the next twenty-five years I was witness to the truth of that appellation, some of the evidence contained in my desktop computer in Bengaluru, which has three large folders entitled: ‘E.S. Reddy Material, Instalment I, II and III’, respectively. These house hundreds of files, gifted to me over the years by Gopal Gandhi’s friend (now also mine), sometimes as attachments to emails, at other times through CDs sent by courier. The material my benefactor so generously shared includes newspaper and magazine articles in half-a-dozen languages, profiles of Gandhi’s associates in three countries, critical commentaries published after his death, and much more. Before he became the world’s greatest Gandhi scholar, E.S. Reddy had achieved distinction in another field. Born in 1924, raised in Southern India in a family of freedom fighters, he spent his professional life working in the United Nations headquarters in New York, much of it directing the UN’s Centre against Apartheid. In this capacity, Mr Reddy perhaps did more than anyone outside South Africa itself to undermine and eventually dismantle the racist regime in that country. It was only in his sixties, after his retirement, that he was able to devote himself to scholarship. He wrote or edited more than a dozen books on Gandhi, his influence and his legacy; two further books that he had completed are in the process of publication. But, unlike other scholars in this (or other fields), Mr Reddy had not a trace of possessiveness; the materials he had were made available to anyone who asked. Apart from aiding individual scholars, he donated thousands of rare documents to institutions such as the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library and Yale University. It was also Mr Reddy who paid for the first computer at the Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad, which enabled the digitization of the Ashram’s priceless collection of letters to Gandhi. After E.S. Reddy died on November 1, I wrote an obituary in the Financial Times, covering the major aspects of his life and work. In this column I offer a more personal tribute, of what he meant to me and to other scholars of Gandhi like myself. Apart from sending me a steady stream of primary materials, Mr Reddy offered book recommendations. He directed me, for example, to two rare eyewitness accounts of Gandhi’s South African satyagrahas, written by Bhawani Dayal and Raojibhai Patel respectively. When I embarked on a biography of Gandhi, Mr Reddy highlighted themes that needed careful attention. In one mail he wrote: ‘You will have to devote something like a chapter to Gandhi and Jews... Western scholars friendly to Gandhi do not want to touch this subject because of a quote in Louis Fischer’s book that Jews in Germany should commit mass suicide’. He continued: ‘I am attaching my compilation of documents on the subject. It has texts of letters to Gandhi by Martin Buber, as well as Judah L. Magnes, respected head of the Hebrew University, both of whom sought friendship with Arabs’. Gandhi’s own memoir of his struggle in the diaspora was called ‘Satyagraha in South Africa’. Mr Reddy urged me to go beyond what the leader had himself written. In a letter sent on October 2, 2009 — the one-hundred-and-fortieth birth anniversary of the Mahatma — he remarked: ‘I feel Gandhi does not give enough credit to Tamilians for the satyagraha and praises Gujaratis — Cachalia, Rustomjee, Adajania etc. — highly. That may be because his social life was with the Gujaratis. But it is the Tamils, led by Thambi Naidoo, who kept satyagraha alive when the [Gujarati] traders deserted it.’ Mr Reddy also reminded me that the enlargement of Gandhi’s social vision took place in the diaspora. As he put it: ‘Bringing in peasants, workers and women was because of his experience in South Africa. While many traders dropped out of [the] struggle despite their woes, the poor people rallied beyond anyone’s expectations, without much teaching by Gandhi. In 1913, Gandhi invited women to join and the response was great — not so much in numbers as in determination’. E.S. Reddy had an incredibly detailed knowledge of the minutiae of Gandhi’s life and campaigns, freely given to and eagerly drawn upon by scholars from across the world. But beyond this command over the facts, he also had a deep, indeed profound, understanding of Gandhi’s character and personality. This was illustrated in an exchange we had in June 2011, after a newspaper column where I had contrasted Gandhi with the publicity-crazy holy men of our own time. I had focused in particular on Baba Ramdev, who had recently gone on a hunger strike against corruption in New Delhi but fled when the police arrived at the venue. In my column, I said of Gandhi that he was a politician and social reformer to whom ‘the moral and spiritual life was equally important’. However, I added, unlike his political activism, his moral quest was undertaken not in public but in the privacy of his own ashram. For Gandhi, solitude and spirituality went hand in hand. Thus, in between his campaigns, he spent months at a stretch in Sabarmati or Sevagram, thinking, searching, spinning. On the other hand, I wrote, ‘our contemporary gurus cannot be by themselves for a single day. When the police forced him out of Delhi, Ramdev said he would resume his “satyagraha” (sic) at his ashram in Haridwar. But within twenty-hours he left Haridwar, in search of closer proximity to his brothers in the media. Externed from Delhi, Ramdev knew that many television channels were headquartered in NOIDA. So he would go to them, since he knew that, despite their national pretensions, these channels would not send their reporters, still less their anchors, to the benighted state of Uttarakhand’. Mr Reddy read the column after it appeared, and sent me a long note about it. He did not dispute my saying that people like Ramdev belonged to the history of publicity rather than the history of spirituality. But, he added, ‘I have difficulties with what you imply about Gandhi’. While, unlike Ramdev and his ilk, Gandhi did not pose for photographs or cultivate newshounds, Mr Reddy noted that Gandhi was nonetheless ‘anxious to communicate with the people. He communicated by person during his tours and through [his weekly] Harijan. He also gave interviews to the Indian and foreign press — on political matters related to the independence struggle. He did not seek publicity for himself — as he was not after honours, office, power or money — but for the “cause” which needed publicity. The result was publicity for both’. Mr Reddy’s mail continued: ‘Gandhi meditated in private (sadhana). But his religion was not private. His prayer sessions were public (demonstrating respect for all religions as different ways to God)... His spirituality required him to get involved in politics — to try to remove injustice. He did not confine himself to the Ashram like Aurobindo. But he did not ask people to follow him because of his spirituality. He did not wear saffron, but the clothes of a poor peasant. He rejected the title of Mahatma as he was aware of his failings. He tried to persuade people without using religion, as he did not seek blind followers.’ An important piece of advice Mr Reddy gave me was to examine Gandhi’s difficult relations with his children. As he remarked: ‘There is no doubt that Gandhi was unfeeling and insensitive in his dealings with Harilal. He always asks his sons to come and “serve” him — the patriarchal attitude’. He also urged me to pay ‘more attention to criticisms of Gandhi in South Africa’. One does not Google people one knows, and one does not rely on Wikipedia for information on one’s friends. Somehow, some two decades after I first met Enuga Reddy, I found myself on his Wikipedia page. There I discovered that he had been born on July 1, 1924. I wrote to Mr Reddy to ask whether this was indeed his date of birth, adding that if so, it was both lovely and curious, since my own father had been born on that very day, month, and year. He did not reply, either to confirm or to deny. No matter. He remains the ‘father’ of my own journey as a Gandhi scholar. And of the journeys of many other Gandhi scholars too. They include (among others) the American historians, Nico Slate, Dinyar Patel and Ian Desai, the South African historians, Uma Mesthrie, Goolam Vahed and Kalpana Hiralal, the Indian historians, Anil Nauriya, Venu Madhav Govindu, Gopalkrishna Gandhi and Tridip Suhrud. These individuals have all made significant contributions to Gandhi scholarship, aided, guided, advised and, occasionally, chastised by Mr Reddy. Activists are often self-righteous and judgmental; scholars so often selfish and secretive. This activist and scholar was neither. In his case, courage and wisdom went hand in hand with compassion and rectitude. E.S. Reddy was the most remarkable human being I knew. His legacy and example will live on through the work of the countless individuals he encouraged and inspired in South Africa, India and across the world. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-121
