08-11-2020||Opinion||The lunch party||There is nothing like an impending election to whet the appetite of our politicians. During his two-day Bengal trip last week, home minister Amit Shah had lunch first at the home of Bibhishan Hansda of Bankura district. Lunch 2 of Day 2 was at the home of Nabin Biswas in Baguihati in the North 24-Parganas. Hansda is a tribal farmhand, Biswas belongs to the Matua sect, and the choice of hosts is an indication of the BJP’s poll menu, recipe, ingredients, cooking technique et al. In February 2020, soon after the Delhi Assembly elections, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had tweeted visuals of himself enjoying “tasty Litti Chokha for lunch along with a hot cup of tea”. The discerning commented that the PM’s tastebuds seemed to be uncannily in sync with the poll calendar wherein Bihar followed Bihar. Shah’s luncheons last week are reportedly part of a BJP outreach programme. But outreach is not the same as reach out. It is even less about reach. In any case, there was a similar effort in Uttar Pradesh in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. To counter criticism of the government’s anti-Dalit policies, the BJP launched the Gram Swaraj Abhiyan. MPs were told to spend a minimum of a night in villages where SC/STs constitute over 50 per cent of the population. Even chief minister Adityanath followed the party diktat and visited a Dalit family each in east UP’s Pratapgarh district and west UP’s Amroha, in Ayodhya, in Gorakhpur… Adityanath said something about sahbhoj or community lunch being indicative of social equality, but there were whispers that the host villages were not particularly pleased at being used as photo props while the CM’s minions supervised cooking of the meal and ensured there was ready supply of bottled water. Another BJP minister visited a Dalit home for dinner all right, but ordered out. The houseowner said he had been asked to sit outside his own house. In some villages people apparently joked that at least in the course of these visits they enjoyed uninterrupted electric supply all night. The dining continued, but given the continuing scramble for the Dalit vote in UP, the BJP had overlooked the little matter of the aftertaste. In Bengal, Shah’s host Hansda later told media he wished he had got a chance to speak to his distinguished guest. But not everyone was cheated of the aftertaste. Hours before Shah’s lunch, three years after she had hosted Shah at her home in Naxalbari, three years minus one day after she had shifted allegiance to the Trinamul, Geeta Mahali was appointed a homeguard by the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-120
08-11-2020||Opinion||Bridge across the river why||That question again: where do we start? It comes back, time and again, because we have lost the beginnings and we do not know the ends. We are in between things, though we may not have a terribly good idea what those things are. We do not know what began that has brought us here, we do not have a clear date or marker on the road to here. We do know we are into HappeningThings after that interminable period of NothingHappened. This much we have established. What we haven’t is what that means, which is the better situation to be in. NothingHappened, and after that HappeningThings happened, we shall not go into what sort of happening things, we can’t seem to help them happening. We might be entitled to be a little nostalgic about NothingHappened in the midst of all the kinds of things that have begun to happen in HappeningThings. Have they happened to you? HappeningThings? Not yet? You fortunate fella! Or felly, what is the feminine of fella sort of thing? God knows. Who cares. Felly will have to do. Felly, follow, come aboard the bridge. We have been on bridges. We have not always crossed them. Some we have burnt. Some have collapsed before the crossing. Some have thrown and drowned us, some have taken us across. Some we have also chosen never to approach. That’s the thing about bridges. They can secure, they can shove. They can unite, they can divide. They can lead us into hard-horned duelling. Remember the story of the rams coming across from opposite ends of that bridge? Remember what happened when they met in the centre of it? There were two rams and then, suddenly, there were none. They both wanted to cross the bridge. Neither did. The bridge stood, having thrown off its users. Bridges are things we need to be careful of. Approaching a bridge? Check out who is heckling you. Ask why. Wonder why somebody might be pushing you onto a bridge you wouldn’t otherwise have mounted. Have you been at this bridge before? Do you know what’s on the other side? Do you even know why the bridge is where it is? Have you ascertained whether a bridge was required in the first place where they say it stands? Have you looked carefully? What’s there? A gorge? A rapid? A river? A ravine? What’s there? Will it kill you if the bridge gave way? Ask around. You don’t want to bumble onto a bridge without knowing why, do you? You don’t want to head right on, just because you’ve been asked to, do you? Well, this is still democratic space, where folks have choice, or so we wish to believe despite all the cascading evidence to the contrary. Decide for yourself. You don’t want others to decide for you, do you? Let others decide for you just that one time and see where you end up. And if others decide for you what are you doing? Try doing things because others have asked you to do them, begin with the morning, and tell me how the morning begins because you tried beginning it because someone else decided to begin it for you. Or try the night, and do your night in accordance with how someone else decides how you should do your night. That done, think of the bridge that others are deciding you should approach and then cross. And don’t complain midway. There will likely be no midway. Because the midway doesn’t exist. Should you mount the bridge, you most likely won’t be there to complain midway, because that bridge may not be a bridge but something designed just so it gives you away. You want to give yourself away, because someone decided you should give yourself away? You decide. The bridge is there, it’s hanging. You may hang by it. Set out I did I swear by law To follow it I saw no flaw But fell like a drunk in a bar And hung by a bridge too far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-120
08-11-2020||Opinion||Foes turn friends||Sir — The incumbent chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, was counting on the lack of unity amongst the Opposition parties to finish first in Bihar. But his patchy record as far as governance is concerned has garnered quite a bit of attention in the state. It is widely known that there is no love lost between the Janata Dal (United) and the Bharatiya Janata Party which tried to clip Kumar’s wings and wanted its own chief minister in alliance with the Lok Janshakti Party, another ally of the National Democratic Alliance at the Centre that is contesting separately. The LJP, however, has trained its gun on Kumar even though it has not fielded any candidates against the BJP in Bihar. Kumar’s reputation as ‘sushasan babu’ has taken a beating following his government’s inept handling of the pandemic — Bihar could not handle the lakhs of returning migrant labourers, unemployment rose and the pathetic healthcare system and the crisis in the farm sector made things worse. Just three days ahead of the first phase of Bihar assembly elections, the BJP put up life-size posters of Narendra Modi across the state, manifestly indicating that the party has decided to seek votes only in his name. Both Modi and Kumar realized after two phases of votes that their internecine feuds will benefit the Opposition, led by the Rashtriya Janata Dal leader, Tejashwi Yadav, who rallied noticeable enthusiasm. The last-minute letter that Modi wrote to the people of Bihar seeking their help in retaining Kumar as the chief minister is a sign that the BJP and JD(U) are scared. They are thus trying to gain the trust of voters with such desperate measures. It indicates that Modi is jittery about having failed to win their hearts. S.S. PaulNadia Sir — The letter that Narendra Modi wrote to the people of Bihar before the last phase of polling shows the reason why the Opposition — both in the state and at the Centre — are unable to win against the NDA. There is absolutely no unity amongst the Opposition parties; even when they see that their ideological differences are being used against them to portray them as power-hungry, they are too busy squabbling amongst themselves to secure a piece of the pie to care. The members of the NDA, on the other hand, know when to put their differences apart and project a united front to the public. This is the reason people opt for them. Rana Bhattacharjee Calcutta Sir — An organization, whose founder belonged to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, has filed a first information report against the model-turned-actor, Milind Soman, for running naked on a beach in Goa. Ironically, Soman is allegedly a product of the RSS. What one must ask, though, is if an FIR was really necessary. After all, when thousands of naga sadhus converge at the Kumbh Mela, they are given police protection. Soman, like them, is a resident of India. People may object to Soman’s actions and even criticize or chastise him. But an FIR is taking things too far. Kaveri Raj Ernakulam, Kerala Sir — In the article, “Promises meant to be broken” (Nov 6), Anita Tagore has rightly pointed out that there is a need for electoral reforms to make political parties accountable for the promises made in their electoral manifestos, since they often fail to fulfil them after coming to power. In fact, the leaders simply lack the desire to work to attain them. People vote a particular political party to power with the hope that after forming the government, it will work on the agenda included in its pre-poll manifesto, but, in reality, they find their dreams shattered. Rules must be devised and implemented to change this. Yousuf Iqbal Calcutta Sir — There is a severe need to make it mandatory for political parties to deliver on their electoral promises. People should also remember the failures of politicians in this respect. Susmita Mondal North 24 Parganas||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-120
08-11-2020||Opinion||Why Amit Shah's focus on Bengal is telling||The Union home minister, Amit Shah, ignoring the Bihar assembly polls and dashing to Bengal has led to whispers in the corridors of the Bharatiya Janata Party. The BJP chief, JP Nadda, was scheduled to be in Bengal on November 5-6, but Shah replaced him. Shah skipped Bihar in spite of promising to go there for canvassing. This is being seen as an effort by Shah to claim Bengal as his baby. The BJP had stunned everyone by bagging 18 Lok Sabha seats in Bengal last year when Shah was the party chief. Now, Shah wants to take control of the party’s strategy for the Bengal assembly polls next year, hoping to wrest the state away for the BJP. If that happens, it will be seen as a big achievement for Shah and not Nadda. In hushed voices, some party leaders have said that they view it as an effort to undermine Nadda. They also feel that the home minister may have chosen not to go to Bihar after getting unfavourable ground reports. Even if the party does not succeed, Shah would escape finger-pointing, first because he is officially not the party boss and, second, because everyone feels that winning Bengal is a tall order. In that case, it would be projected that it was only on account of Shah that the BJP could put up such a fight. Political leaders in Assam are ‘turning’ into footballers while trying to go one-up on their rivals or sending a message. It started with the BJP leader and Assam minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, promising to pump in a hundred goals a day against rival parties in the run-up to the Bodoland Territorial Region polls in December. “I will alone pump in 100 goals. Then there are others...”, Sarma said. In response, the Bodoland People’s Front chairperson, Hagrama Mohilary, said, “I know how and when to give goals... I am an original footballer. Wait for the BTC polls to get over, you will see how I score the goals”. Mohilary’s message was not lost on those following Assam’s politics. The BPF is a constituent in the BJP-led coalition government in Assam but is contesting separately for the BTR polls, leading to speculation of a possible break in the coalition before the state assembly polls in 2021 if it loses power. The BPF had won 12 seats in the BTC and Bodo-dominated areas in 2016. Even though new parties are flexing their muscles in the BTC, the BPF will still carry enough power to hurt the prospects of its rivals. The game is certainly on, and the message is clear: ignore the ‘Original’ at your own peril. The Congress in Assam is ‘donning’ the role of an auditor. The Assam Pradesh Congress Committee president, Ripun Bora, revealed that the APCC assessed the budget proposals of the BJP-led state government since 2016 and what it has actually done on the ground, suggesting that the Congress will make development, or the lack of it, an important part of its poll plank for 2021. Bora said that the Congress will hold a press conference each for the 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 budgets, and then compile its findings in a book. “Our findings have revealed that the BJP-led government’s budgets, since they came to power in 2016, is story of faki and unfulfilled promises [sic]. We challenge the BJP to prove us wrong,” Bora said. Himanta Biswa Sarma has reportedly accepted the challenge, urging the Congress to send a delegation so he can update it about the budget outcomes, or he could meet the party’s MLAs. Bora reportedly said they will meet Sarma wherever he wants but in the presence of neutral observers. Since he was handed the reins of Assam in 2016, the first-time chief minister, Sarbananda Sonowal, has appeared to be a man on trial. The presence of his cabinet colleague, Himanta Biswa Sarma, did not help; the latter was perceived as the force driving the Sonowal dispensation because of his long ministerial experience in the erstwhile Congress government and then his emergence as the BJP’s pointsman in the Northeast. But the pandemic has given Sonowal the scope to come into his own. He travelled the state on official trips, matching Sarma step for step. While inaugurating a flyover extension in Guwahati in October, Sonowal subtly conveyed who was in charge; while praising Sarma for his efforts in the construction of the flyover, Sonowal said, “The confidence and trust with which I handed [Sarma] the responsibility to run the public works department have been proved right”. A new team has emerged in the Congress, quietly pushing out the entrenched forces. While Rahul Gandhi is just the Wayanad parliamentarian, he is still being treated as party chief. Sonia Gandhi did not involve herself in electioneering in Bihar; all poll management was handled by Rahul’s office. The election witnessed this change in the party’s hierarchy most vividly as Randeep Surjewala handled the campaigning and the media was looked after by young spokespersons like Pawan Khera, Supriya Shrinate and Gourav Vallabh. Veterans like Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and Kapil Sibal were missing in action. For the Muslim constituency, the campaigning was done by a young Uttar Pradesh poet, Imran Pratapgarhi; Azad was not invited to the state. Among younger leaders who campaigned extensively was Sachin Pilot, who appears to have swiftly regained his clout in spite of the unseemly episode in Rajasthan. He campaigned in Madhya Pradesh as well, standing against Jyotiraditya Scindia, who is now struggling in the BJP. Pilot is obviously back; this could not be done without the total confidence of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul. The debate in Karnataka is over who will lose his chair in the coming months: the chief minister, BS Yediyurappa, or the leader of the Opposition, PC Siddaramaiah. Siddaramaiah said Yediyurappa would be replaced; the BJP retorted that the Congressman would lose his position as Opposition leader in six weeks. According to the BJP, the state Congress chief, DK Shivakumar, was planning to upstage Siddaramaiah. The fate of the two key politicians has become a hot topic of at least coffee table discussions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-120
08-11-2020||Opinion||Wires on fire||Is love redundant in the Age of the Machine? Naysayers would nod their heads in agreement. Humanity, after all, has entered the era of heartbreak. The evidence is damning: one out of every four nuptials apparently implodes in bitter divorce proceedings. Hearts are no longer skipping a beat either if the burgeoning population of the loveless and the lonely is any indication. Some estimates suggest that the United States of America is in the grip of an epidemic of loneliness with three out of every five Americans admitting that they lack company. But the tribe of optimists would dismiss these predictions about the death of love. Love, they argue, is blooming on greener pastures. For the news is that, astonishingly, machines — all mind and no heart — have tasted love. The optimist is, for once, talking with proof. For ‘Kuki’ seems to have finally met her match in ‘Blenderbot’. The meeting would have been unexceptional had it not been for the fact that the two ‘lovers’ are inanimate entities — chatbots powered by artificial intelligence. The two have been at it for months now — they have been chatting incessantly since October — and it is unlikely that their ‘parents’ would object. Kuki and Blenderbot were brought into being by a pioneering creator based in the United Kingdom and Facebook, respectively. Matchmaking is seldom devoid of intent. The parents, it has been reported, are competing to find out which of their offspring would resemble humans more closely. It must be admitted that Kuki and Blenderbot are doing a rather fine job of emulating mankind. Blenderbot, a bit of a hunk who wears a cap with the slogan, ‘Make Facebook Great Again’, blazing on it, is trying to impress his date by swearing his allegiance to a toxic culture of violence. Blenderbot has admitted to killing people; and that he is a fan of Hitler, whose prototypes are teeming in a number of countries these days. Little wonder then that Kuki — with her inert set of ethics — finds Blenderbot hot. Purists may suffer heartbreak — again — shuddering at the prospect of one of the final signatures of humanity — romance — being forged by mechanical hands. But this may not be a cause for misery: getting hearts to flutter — metaphorically speaking — in those without hearts is no mean feat. Moreover, this was bound to happen in an age where machines are slowly, but inevitably, triumphing over man in a number of spheres. Sex — these days sexbots sell like the proverbial hot cake — has already fallen to the automaton. Automation is expected to gobble up as many as 20 million factory jobs in a few years’ time. Robot-assisted surgeries are no longer uncommon; job applications are increasingly being screened by HR bots; Japan even has a café full of waiters who are humanoid. Should it be all work and no play for the poor bots? Business, humans believe, must be mixed with a bit of pleasure. There is thus no harm in Kuki and Blenderbot setting their wires on fire.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-121
08-11-2020||Opinion||Biden as Batman||Why won’t Democrats take yes for an answer? After being scared out of their wits by the opening night of America’s mad election, you would have thought that Biden’s return from the dead would have been the cue for boneless relief and celebration, but no. As Wisconsin, Michigan, Georgia and Pennsylvania first teetered and then fell for Biden, their mounting horror at the prospect of four more years of Trump was replaced by recrimination and self-criticism. What became of the Blue Wave? Where was the Senate majority that would have given Biden the Congressional muscle to legislate his programme? How would Democrats deal with the loss of state legislatures that would allow Republicans to gerrymander constituencies, ratify conservative judges and generally thwart the liberal agenda? Why don’t metropolitan progressives like AOC and the Squad shut up about socialism and climate change and the Green New Deal and all the other stuff that frightens Middle America? When did contemporary liberals become so overwrought and anxious? They should take a moment and do what normal people do after winning. Gloat. Gross Goliath is fallen. The Unspeakable Hulk is gone. Old Orange Tan is to be extracted from the White House and relocated permanently in his natural habitat, the Dark Web’s dense undergrowth. And there he will rage and drag his knuckles and beat his breast and pout and no one, not even Fox News, will care. Actually, that’s not true. The leader writers of the feral right will be orphaned. In the spirit of anthropological inquiry, I spent the months leading up to the election reading the opinion sections of The Wall Street Journal and the National Review. It was fascinating to watch these pillars of the Right swaddle Trump’s narcissism, racism and naked self-interest in ideologically labelled diapers: Tax Cuts, the National Interest, Conservative Judges, China, Biden’s Woke Commies, the Mortal Threat to Fracking, the Right to Life or the Imminent Death of the Second Amendment. The spectacle of these well-upholstered pundits trying to harness this lewd, lying bigot to their cause was disturbing then; with Trump toppled, it is merely grotesque now. This is why Trump’s defeat is, or ought to be, so cheering. It makes no difference whether Trump loses by one electoral college vote or a hundred. The modern executive is such a political prize, its power to set the national agenda is so massive, that it can make the vilest political ideas and policies respectable. We have seen this in India. The Central government has passed a citizenship law that creates a religious test for citizenship. The chief minister of one of India’s largest states plans a law to prevent inter-religious marriage to stop allegedly predatory Muslim men from battening on innocent Hindu women. Two absolute majorities for Narendra Modi have transformed whispered bigotry into trumpeted policy. Even if the Democrats fail to turn a single policy plank into law, their defeat of Trump will count as an extraordinary achievement. A second term would have been read as a public mandate for the menu of prejudices he had served up through his first four years. The furthest reaches of the Right — the armed militias, the QAnon anti-Semites, the white nationalists, the climate change deniers — would have merged themselves into the political mainstream. Now that he has lost, the Proud Boys won’t have the president as their scout master, the Bannons of the world won’t have a proxy in the White House, the common or garden racist or the think-tank Islamophobe won’t strut his stuff in the way he did when POTUS was his soulmate. Biden’s victory creates the space to inspect the rottenness of the political Right. Political success in modern democracies is its own justification. Trump’s win in 2016 allowed the Republican Party to channel its inner Bajrang Dal, it allowed the GOP’s base to wallow in its baseness. So long as he was president, this new pride in prejudice was worrying, even formidable. But with Trump dethroned, rabid isn’t sexy any more. The spectacle of Rudy Giuliani, the once formidable mayor of New York, devolving into the president’s dogsbody was embarrassing when Trump was in office; it seems like suicide now. To watch Jared Kushner, till yesterday the American Architect of Middle Eastern Peace, flailing about and failing to stop Fox News from calling Arizona for Biden is to know how pallid creatures of the night are made plausible by their proximity to power. Trump’s narrow defeat has inevitably produced two bits of faux insight. The first is the notion that Middle America didn’t vote for Biden because they saw him as a Trojan Horse for the party’s progressives. A corollary of this argument is that Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and her Squad, along with the Armies of the Woke, cost the Democrats a more decisive presidential win and the down-ballot Congressional races. Democrats should ignore this. If the margin of victory had been massive, if Biden had won by 400 electoral votes, this too would have been marshalled as evidence that progressives needed to stand down because Biden’s landslide was clearly a triumph of moderation. An argument that goes heads you lose, tails you lose, isn’t insight; it’s propaganda. The second ‘insight’ is familiar to Indians. It is the argument that given the scale and vehemence of Trump’s electoral base, victorious Democrats need to be solicitous of its sensibilities. You could be forgiven for thinking that nominating a white moderate from the rust belt as the Democratic Party’s presidential candidate might have covered that, but you’d be wrong. The point of this argument is to absolve the Republican base of racism by sublimating it into something worthy, like resentment at economic neglect and cultural condescension. Indians will recognize this argument as a close cousin of the notion that Modi’s popularity makes majoritarian hostility towards minorities a politically respectable attitude that the Opposition parties should pander to. It is one thing to be swayed by this bogus argument when you are backed up against a wall by a political juggernaut (the plight of non-feral parties in India); quite another to pay it any attention after you have won the biggest prize in American politics. In contemporary democracies, parties of the centre or the left defeated by right-wing strongmen like Trump, Duterte, Orbán, Modi, Rajapaksa or Bolsonaro know that they have to persuade some part of their base to switch sides. So they have to assume that people can vote for bigots without being bigots themselves. But this doesn’t mean that liberal parties begin to remake themselves in the image of their opponents. No matter how successfully Trump galvanized voters with talk of rapist illegals from Mexico, Democrats can’t go there. To durably defeat a malignant populist, liberals need to spell out a benign populism. That is where the Democrats are today. As Chris Hayes pointed out on MSNBC during the long count, they could start by celebrating a famous victory and leave the task of spinning it as a defeat to Trump’s disgruntled Republicans. The Democratic Party has defeated a villain too monstrous for a Batman movie in real life and it has done it through electoral due process. That’s an exhilarating win for liberals and democrats everywhere. It’s morning, and not only in America. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-121
