09-11-2020||Opinion||Speed up: Criminal cases against legislators||Nothing undermines society like lawlessness at the top. In the latest count, there are 4,400 criminal cases against sitting and former members of parliament and members of the legislative assembly pending before the courts. These have been hanging fire for years, some reportedly for decades. In December 2017, the Supreme Court had asked for designated courts in each state to expedite these cases; in September this year, it had asked that the chief justices of the respective high courts preside over special benches to the same end. It is a blatant display of political — governmental — unwillingness that the Supreme Court should repeatedly have to insist that legislators with criminal cases be tried in time. That is the basic duty of any State that wishes to appear lawful. Anything else is to set an example of lawlessness that suggests it is possible for anyone to get away with crime if they have the right connections — something that seems to have become part of common belief. Yet a rapid disposal of cases against politicians would identify those guilty while also weeding out politically motivated charges. Although 23 high courts agreed to set up designated courts, progress has not been satisfactory. The Supreme Court reportedly had occasion to admonish the governments of Kerala and West Bengal after the Kerala High Court complained that the nexus between politicians and police led to the state police’s reluctance to carry out arrest warrants on accused politicians. The situation was evidently similar in West Bengal. This complaint goes to the heart of the matter: the misuse of power. The delay in process at every level leads to cases taking years to come to trial, thus weakening evidence and thinning out witnesses. The need for speedy trial for accused lawmakers, who are elected to formulate policies for the welfare and progress of the country, is the argument offered against the Madras High Court’s recent scruples in creating a designated court. Legislators are meant to uphold constitutional morality; they cannot be allowed to enjoy protracted trials when they are under the shadow of criminal offences, some allegedly heinous ones. While it is encouraging that 23 high courts have endorsed the Supreme Court’s view on urgency, governments must cooperate too, in order to show their willingness to bring tainted legislators to justice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-120
09-11-2020||Opinion||The rising: Biden’s triumph over Trump||Joseph R. Biden’s triumph over Donald Trump need not be viewed as a political triumph only. It renews the faith that the people — be it in the United States of America or, hopefully, in India — have the ability to rise above division and antagonism to lend a healing touch to a fractured nation. Little wonder then that Mr Biden — the 46th president of the US — prioritized the importance of unity after winning the crown. Of course, the man he ousted from office can claim credit for deepening many of the existing fault lines. America was never free of social, economic and cultural chasms; Mr Trump exploited them to reach the White House. What was eerie about Mr Trump’s presidency was his cheerful endorsement of a culture that stoked toxicity and fears — more imagined than real — to consolidate his conservative political base. His views on race and ethnicity are a case in point. But this polarization was also a political necessity — as is always the case — to deflect public attention from monumental policy failures. The US has been ravaged by a virus under Mr Trump’s watch; the economy — apparently Mr Trump’s forte — lies in tatters; in foreign policy, the nation has been forced to return to isolationism, adversely affecting the momentum of global multilateralism. Mr Trump’s assault on institutional integrity was also unprecedented, as was evident from his demonization of a critical media. But it is to the US’s credit that unlike in India, institutions that are bulwarks of democracy stood firm. The people have spoken; it is now Mr Biden’s responsibility to wage battles on multiple fronts. A creaking healthcare system needs attention, as do such issues as race, immigration and a rudderless, quixotic foreign policy. He would have to work harder to return America on the multilateral road, not as a dominant force but as an equal partner. Simultaneously, he must pay attention to the principle of equality because it is embedded discriminations, and their resultant animosities, that lead to the emergence of leaders like Mr Trump. He must remember that Trumpism is yet to be repudiated completely. New Delhi, in spite of its prime minister’s endorsement of Mr Trump, would be fairly certain that the change of guard in the White House would not weaken the foundations of a robust Indo-US relationship. But it would be interesting to see how Mr Biden and his deputy, Kamala Harris — the first woman and the first woman of colour to become vice-president — respond to the situation in Kashmir as well as allegations of religious fundamentalism in India. Ms Harris’s opinion on these matters in the past has not been music to Narendra Modi’s ears.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-120
09-11-2020||Opinion||Burn out: Physicians in a pandemic||“Save this mail for my children in case I die.” Joshua Cohen, an American author, received this request from his usually unflappable physician brother separated from his family for Covid duty. It was still early days in the pandemic, but hospitals were already full of corpses, some of which were of their own men and women. If carefully noticed, hidden in the image of Cohen’s brother crouching with his notebook in between exhausting shifts to type out 7,000 words for two toddlers he might not see again is a warning about how the present war is increasingly becoming tougher for the warriors themselves. “My heart is heavy with fear/ Knowing that the enemy we’re fighting/ Can follow me home from here,” wrote a young nurse from Winnipeg. This possibility of unknowingly bringing a killer home, is what makes treatment during a pandemic different from other risky medical missions. What if, after some time, the nurse needs to choose family over profession or the physicians are forced to begin to think, as a well known physician once said, “We owe all our skills, all our time to the patients, but not our lives”? Countering such thoughts is the tradition of physicians sacrificing their lives, often willingly. Dr Stella Ameyo Adadevoh almost physically restrained an influential patient to save the lives of thousands of Nigerians from Ebola, but lost her own. Carlo Urbani stayed put in a Vietnamese hospital embracing death to thwart SARS. Dr Yasoywantrao died tending to plague victims in Pune, knowing that his mother, Savitribai Phule, died in the same way. The ongoing saga of Covid-19 itself started with Dr Li Wenliang of Wuhan and many thousands more since. The question is, how much personal sacrifice is obligatory for the medical profession? For a healthcare provider is an aggregation of multiple responsibilities, to patients, to community, to family, and above all to preserve self for future service.  It is a misconception that the Hippocratic oath binds all physicians to sacrifice their lives, if need be. Legally binding codes of ethics are all 19th-century creations. Till then it was not considered unethical for established physicians to run away from pestilence. Thomas Sydenham, the English Hippocrates, witnessed most of the Great Plague of London from the safe distance of a country home. The yellow fever outbreak in Philadelphia in 1793 and the 1994 plague outbreak in Surat, two centuries apart, both saw physicians bolting. The city-states of the 14th century realized early that to stop an epidemic, masters and servants need to be treated with equal deference. They started investing in public health by contracting doctors with incentives and offers of citizenship, a more pragmatic approach than to depend exclusively on physicians’ vow to sacrifice during pandemics. The fragility of this approach became evident during the AIDS pandemic when fear instigated many physicians to refuse treatment. Repeated pandemics since — Ebola, SARS, viral influenzas, MERS and now Covid-19 — have claimed the lives of physicians first and in disproportionately larger numbers. The experiences have forced the medical world to rethink its relationship with society during epidemics. The consensus is that it should be based on fair reciprocity: service in exchange for proper equipment, working conditions and due incentives. What we are witnessing in this country is quite the opposite. The continuing harassment of healthcare workers, non-payment of salaries, marking mandatory quarantine periods as unpaid leave, conscriptions without compensation have  prompted the Supreme Court to warn the government twice, “You do not want dissatisfied soldiers in the war”. The government says it is not counting, but tensed medics are continually getting messages of their colleagues dying. A burnout is inevitable: a very unwanted development if this pandemic proves to be a long haul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-120
09-11-2020||Opinion||Punjab’s fields are on fire||Although governmental procurement via minimum support price covers an average of 6 per cent farmers in India, paddy and wheat growers in Punjab take a disproportionate share of the same. The recent state farm law passed in the Punjab assembly to counter the Central farm legislation put a seal on the long-standing demand of guaranteeing MSP while ignoring producers of other crops. Crops like maize and cotton that are not procured by the Food Corporation of India are sold at a price much below the MSP in the state. The government-regulated Agricultural Produce Market Committee mandis are so well-structured in Punjab that they even obtain crops from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. In the previous kharif marketing season, which started from October 2019, the state could supply 16.38 million tonnes of rice to MSP-supported government procurement, more than its estimated production of 15.2 million tonnes. The demography of the farmers of Punjab is different from that of India. Semi-medium (2-4 hectares), medium(4-10 hectares) and large (above 10 hectares) farmers of the state together hold 90.31 per cent of the land area as per the agricultural census of 2015-16. The subsidized MSP to which small and marginal farmers should have greater and logical entitlement is thus swallowed up by the rich Sikh-Jat community comprising 21 per cent of the population. The ecological repercussions of high water consumption by the two traditional crops hardly matter to them. With the introduction of the 60-day paddy crop variety, ‘sathi’, from 1993-94, resulting in two crop cycles in a single kharif season, there was further deterioration of the water table. Punjab had to enact a law in 2009 to stipulate sowing time for the crop. A number of studies have recommended switching over to pulses, oilseeds, fruits and vegetables. The state ranks third both in paddy and wheat production in the country as per the last obtainable data in 2017 from the ministry of agriculture with the productions being 11.59 and 16.44 million tonnes, respectively. Because of high-yielding crops and high surplus production, Punjab has displayed its capability of being the highest supplier to the Central FCI pool and to that of other state agencies consistently. But while discharging its responsibility of recommending MSPs, the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices has been urging the state government to withdraw high state levies charged together in different components. Punjab is the only state which charges its fees even in private markets, having amended the state APMC Act in 2017, apart from charging 3 per cent each as mandi fees and rural development fees in its regulated markets. According to CACP, the levies on wheat and rice procurement during 2019 were as high as 8.50 and 14.50 per cent in the state. In October, the Centre communicated to the state government its decision of withholding the rural development fees on current paddy procurement. If the state doesn’t get the fees, it would cost the state exchequer about Rs 1,100 crore in the current season. Over time, the FCI may be forced to buy from outside the regulated mandis to escape the high levies. Punjab has become the epicentre of the anti-Central farm law protests. The politicians — they control the APMCs — are wooing the arhatiyas. The community comprising commission agents has a strong presence in the state. The arhatiyas, earning a commission of around 3 per cent on sales value in Punjab, are afraid of losing their share on account of the Central law. A pre-existing political tension has now been transformed into a conflict between the Centre and the farmers by clever politicians.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-120
09-11-2020||Opinion||Courageous thinking||Can a declining civilization be resuscitated? While some can, others — like the ancient Greek and Roman civilizations — cannot. Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak believed that the ‘restive’ Indians enslaved by the British could be ‘turned’ and inspired to resurrect the flagging Indian spirit and introduced the rousing call, “Swaraj is my birthright, and I shall have it.” I would like to use this as a frame to understand the recent developments in America and the other democracies in Europe. Take, for instance, the problems faced by the United States of America under Donald Trump, which I consider to be symptomatic of a deep-rooted, fundamental issue. The average American today thinks that the country can be ‘revived’ either by re-electing Trump or by replacing him with Joe Biden. However, I do not see the outcome of the November 2020 elections in the US having any significant long-term impact on the broader issues, such as racism, plaguing the country. I would, in fact, like to move the idea of resuscitation outside the realm of the political and into the arena of civilizations. To begin with, let us revisit the initial conditions that led to the development of modern democratic societies. Modern democracies are based on a close relationship between freedom and development — the basis of ‘laissez-faire economics’ propounded by Adam Smith. Limitless liberty in all spheres of social activity is necessary for ensuring progress. There was an intense push for freedom to produce, inquire, explore and experiment in different areas, simultaneously promoting freedom of thought as well as the freedom to access all commodities. Restrictions were seen as evil, or, at best, a necessary evil. This striving for unfettered freedom unlocked expansive horizons, encouraging radical, often risky, initiatives venturing into unexplored areas. The sky was the limit, both for individuals and for society as a whole. This attitude has been symbolically and poignantly portrayed in works such as Ernest Hemingway’s The Old Man and the Sea, Richard Bach’s Jonathan Livingston Seagull or David Lean’s film, Lawrence of Arabia, amongst others. This idea of freedom was predicated on freeing the individual from the bonds of family, allowing for the unrestrained pursuit of knowledge and wealth, which, in turn, paved the way for growth and development in different directions. Modern institutions were designed to encourage, nurture, and substantially reward the successful outcome of these explorations. While new ideas and creativity do exist even in societies that don’t have freedom, the necessary relationship between freedom and development is generally accepted as a successful formula. There are roughly three phases associated with this freedom: the first is providing conditions promoting freedom; second, using this freedom in different ways; and, finally, the outcome. In my reading, the problem lies in the third phase but is rooted in the second. There seems to be a sharp difference between present-day users and early users of this freedom and of the institutions and other facilities made available in democracies. The early users had high aspirations and relentlessly pursued new avenues for growth and discovery. An innovation could have a strong impact not only in North America but all over the world. This bold attitude, however, has seen a decline in the present times. The consumers of democratic facilities are overtaking the contributors. The courage to explore the unknown and to strive for excellence — the hallmarks of early modernity — has been replaced by the desire for comfort and aspirations of an easy life in the average modern individual. The recent rise of religiosity and the right-wing does not pose a real threat to modernity in my view. Historically, we know that during the Renaissance, modernity successfully took on the mighty Church and thrived thereafter. However, the rise of the right-wing in developed democratic societies was preceded by the decline of modernity. The latter, in fact, paved the way for the former. It is the lack of boldness and the will to adventure into unexplored areas that should be the real cause for concern. There is also a need to reflect on the disturbing disproportion between consumers of and contributors to freedom. The institutionalization of critical thinking and professional imparting of knowledge on their own is no longer enough. Any form of methodical critical analysis requires a steady supply of path-breaking revolutionary ideas to examine. Without this, there would not be much difference between intellectual practices in the top modern universities and theological scholarship during medieval times. The critical tradition in the current times seems to have become more complacent and less courageous. Looking for political or economic solutions is futile when the problem is at the civilizational level. Here, I am alluding not to significant, even radical, advancements in knowledge that can be routinely and regularly produced, but to the current absence of the mood of bravery that permeated the early days of modernity and modern science. While the originalist or textualist position in jurisprudence in recent debates is preferable to the contextualists, there is an urgent need to write a different grammar reverberating the ecosystem that inspired the Renaissance stalwarts. Sadly this is missing. The first indications surfaced with the rise of communism in countries like Soviet Russia when democracy was no longer viewed as a necessary condition for development. Following a brief lull after the collapse of Soviet Russia, developed democracies in the West started outsourcing their work, especially to Communist China. They initially envisaged this as a relation between unequals, without realizing how dependent they would subsequently become on China. This reminds me of the famous line from Rousseau, “One thinks himself the master of others, and remains a greater slave than they.” The vulnerabilities of this dependence became glaringly obvious during the pandemic. Given the current state of affairs, this is the time to deliberate whether this decline is merely a passing phase or a serious threat to modern democracy as we know it. If it is the latter, can the decline still be reversed and modern civilization revived by ‘turning’ the present generation? The author teaches philosophy at the Indian Institute of Technology, Tirupati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-120
