10-11-2020||Opinion||Did it again: BJP's arrogance & over-confidence||The combination of over-confidence and ignorance can have unfortunate effects. On one level, the fact that the Union home minister, Amit Shah, in his upbeat tour of Bankura ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections in 2021, paid tribute to the statue of a nameless tribal hunter under the impression that it was a statue of Birsa Munda, the anti-colonial leader, was simply comic. To be fair, the fault was not Mr Shah’s, but of the district leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party. They would be expected to know better, since a large slice of the BJP’s gains in West Bengal in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections came from the state’s tribal belt. One of the notable attributes of the party is its excess of confidence; Bankura’s BJP leaders obviously did not bother to acquaint themselves with the statue of the iconic leader. It was not comic at all that the people felt insulted at this show of disrespect; the BJP’s efforts to gloss over the gaffe by hurriedly placing a picture of the hero at the foot of the anonymous figure did not help — some considered it more disrespectful. But over-confidence is transgressive. The BJP chief in Bengal, Dilip Ghosh, has said that since the home minister believed the statue to be Birsa Munda’s, it will be so known from now on. That is paying tribute to Mr Shah, not Birsa Munda. It worsens the harm done by careless disrespect and is like history repeated. Mr Shah could not have been directly blamed either for the destruction of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar’s statue in a Calcutta college in 2019, allegedly by his party’s followers, during a BJP roadshow he was leading before the general elections. There does, however, appear to be a relationship between the aggressive rhetoric of the potential conqueror and ignorance of the culture and history of the state to be conquered. The BJP, of course, was not as careless while erecting Vallabhbhai Patel’s statue in Mr Shah’s home state. Mr Shah appears a little jinxed as far as Bengal’s iconic statues are concerned, thus offering on a platter meat for the West Bengal chief minister’s appellation of ‘outsider’. The idea of a cultural outsider could be a useful weapon in the Trinamul Congress’s favour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-119
10-11-2020||Opinion||Right and wrong: Arnab Goswami's arrest||Sir — The manner in which Arnab Goswami was arrested is shocking and condemnable (“Goswami arrested in suicide case”, Nov 5). Goswami is not above the law, but was due process followed while arresting him? Many will not agree with Goswami’s style of functioning, but like every other Indian citizen he is innocent until proven guilty and has the right to get justice. A video that went viral showed Goswami being unnecessarily harassed by the police. However, it is also undeniable that his hooliganism and his reckless undermining of others’ free speech and liberties are the reasons many people refuse to sympathize with him. Several Union ministers and Bharatiya Janata Party leaders compared the arrest of Goswami with the Emergency-era crackdown on press freedom and said that the abetment to suicide case had been raked up in order to harass Goswami. Unfortunately, such leaders kept quiet when thousands of journalists across the country were arrested and trumped-up charges under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act or of sedition were registered against them. It is also a little ironical that just as Goswami had acted as judge, jury and executioner in the Sunanda Pushkar and Sushant Singh Rajput suicide cases, so too are people now sitting in judgment of him even though the charges against him are inconclusive. The power of the State machinery must be unleashed with the greatest circumspection. Even if an arrest is made, custodial interrogation is seldom necessary. Thousands of people are languishing needlessly in Indian prisons, pending trial. More important, while people are quick to compare events to those that took place during the Emergency, none seems eager to revoke provisions that were used to tighten the grip of the State during that time. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — While people may not agree on the need for and the manner of the arrest of Arnab Goswami for alleged abetment to suicide, the expression of outrage by Union ministers including the home minister, Amit Shah, is not only hypocritical but also most inappropriate with the potential to unduly influence the judicial process. Goswami has not been arrested for his journalism, but for alleged defaults in business transactions that are said to have led to the suicide of two people. None of these leaders are concerned about the freedom of the media when journalists across India are arrested. These ministers have betrayed their duplicity. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Thy name is woman Sir — Better late than never — the Oxford Dictionary has finally removed some sexist synonyms for the word, woman, in its latest version. It is a shame that it took a petition in 2019 and large-scale public outrage for the dictionary to carry out this exercise. It should know better than anyone else the importance of words and how they can implant subconscious prejudices in the minds of users. Unlike the Bard’s opinion, a lot depends on what one is addressed as. Roshni Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-119
10-11-2020||Opinion||Dry days: India's water crisis||India’s water crisis is already serious; in the absence of decisive interventions, it is expected to get worse. This was one of the gravest takeaways from the World Wildlife Fund’s Water Risk Filter analysis. The prevailing situation in some Indian cities is a testament to the depth of the crisis. Jaipur and Indore are among the 100 cities in the world that are set to face the greatest of shortages in water by 2050. The list also includes 28 other Indian cities — Delhi, Calcutta, Mumbai and Bangalore are among them — that will be grappling with “increasing water risks in the next few decades”. A combination of factors has precipitated the crisis; they include climate change, rapid, unplanned urbanization, depletion of groundwater on account of extraction for industrial and agricultural use and the indifference among planners towards regenerating thinning reservoirs. That cities are parched is borne out by data. Chennai saw three out of four reservoirs run dry last year; Bangalore draws 1,450 million litres of water per day from the Cauvery, but a quarter of its population is forced to mine groundwater for survival as they remain cut off from the supply of river water. These inequalities are bound to lead to social strife in the near future. That groundwater — the main source of drinking water for rural India and an invaluable buffer between monsoons — has been depleted dangerously is evident from the Centre’s decision to tighten extraction norms. According to the new rules, no new major industries or mining projects will be allowed in ‘over-exploited’ assessment blocks, and existing commercial units will have to obtain no-objection certificates. Are there, however, checks and balances to ensure that the new regulations do not foster yet another bureaucratic system of ‘permits’ for groundwater usage for industrial purposes that could breed corruption? This is only one part of a hydra-headed problem. Policy falling prey to populism also aggravates water shortages. Calcutta, which wastes 30 per cent of the municipal corporation’s filtered water supply every day, does not pay a municipal water tax. South Africa’s Cape Town, which nearly ran out of water in 2018, reversed the crisis by involving residents and businesses in a host of water-saving initiatives. Such a participatory model must be adapted to the Indian context. The solution lies in tackling the problem holistically. Environment-based resolutions, such as reconnecting rivers to their floodplains and protecting vulnerable but critical resources — Calcutta’s disappearing wetlands are a case in point — must be accompanied by greater focus on improving replenishment of resources and, crucially, cutting public consumption by sensitizing citizens to the criminal wastage of water.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-119
10-11-2020||Opinion||US elections 2020: Time to rejoice||A pandemic. Postal delays. Legal challenges. Americans overcame these hurdles and more for a record-breaking turnout to elect their 46th president. November 3, 2020 will be remembered for unleashing five agonizing days of vote counting (in 2000 it took 35 days for Democratic presidential nominee, Al Gore, to concede defeat). To their credit, the volunteers, both Republican and Democrat, feeding in ballot papers for the counting were a picture of amity, unlike the incumbent president of the United States of America, Donald J. Trump, who continues to issue errant assaults on the integrity of the elections, alleging fraud and threatening to move courts. When television networks announced Joe Biden as the president-elect on Saturday, Trump claimed his rival was ‘falsely posing as winner’ and headed for the golf course. Trump’s supporters have flooded social media with querulous posts. “Democrats are not Americans. Republicans like me have fought and had buddies die for America,” read one. “The mail-in votes have been compromised. Democrats voted against abolishing slavery and supported the KKK,” said another. However, Biden’s supporters have opted for a more mature response. Pat Spencer from El Paso said, “When I cast my 2020 presidential vote I hoped it would contribute to restoring the soul of America as presidential candidate Joe Biden has emphatically promoted. As a daughter of a Mexican immigrant, having lived and worked as a former police officer less than two miles from the Mexican border, I view affordable healthcare, immigration and criminal justice reform, preserving freedom of the press and securing a living wage as the most important issues during this election. I am neither Republican, Democrat nor Libertarian. My hopes for our nation are to be united and solidly back in the worldview as leader in all things democratic. Today America deserves a day of jubilation and happiness. It was a sense of relief knowing that democracy still runs deep in the heart of our country.” Not too far away in Dallas, medical student, Avilasha Sinha, was relieved too. “To say that the 2020 United States presidential election was an emotional rollercoaster would be a gross understatement. On November 3, I went to bed with a feeling of despair. That night, Biden had tweeted: ‘Keep the faith, guys. We’re gonna win this’. Over the next few days, it felt as if not only the nation but the entire world was holding its breath. I woke up this morning to the news that Joe Biden had crossed the 270 electoral vote threshold. His victory not only buoyed our spirits, it highlighted the resilience of the American people. In the midst of a pandemic which has claimed over 236,000 lives, voter turnout was higher than in any election since 1908. I understand that this election is not a panacea for the problems affecting the United States, but it is a crucial and symbolic first step in the healing of this nation,” the young American-Indian said. Jayne Docherty, my former professor and director of the Center for Justice and Peacebuilding in Virginia and a Democrat, highlighted the non-partisan vigil being held every day in her town with a message that an election is not over until all the votes are counted. “We are hopeful that the power of citizens mobilizing non-violently can keep the process of counting votes on track. We still need all votes counted and every legal case decided or dismissed,” she cautioned. Across the miles in Arizona, the state which, along with Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania (worth a combined 57 electoral votes), flipped towards Biden, Rhoda Kraus, a champion of dignity and justice, summed up the electorate’s sentiments: “Going forward, I believe America will take up steady and patient negotiations on the local, national and global levels to repair damaged processes and restore human values”. Amen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-119
10-11-2020||Opinion||A fatwa on free speech||There is something frighteningly familiar in the unfortunate developments in France around free speech. The principles of the French Republic are invoked on the issue of free speech, quite often by emphasizing the cartoons of Prophet Muhammad, many of them going back to the their publication by the Danish newspaper, Jyllands-Posten. A disgruntled immigrant goes on the rampage, killing individuals as a protest against this assertion of free speech. The French establishment then rallies around the issue of free speech by saying that it is an indispensable and non-negotiable aspect of the Republic. French debates around free speech have acquired a character of almost cyclical repetitiveness. This prevents any possibility of the advancement of free speech, as the principle itself has become caught in an entrenched battle of attrition between the French Republic and its sullen, intractable immigrants. The expectation on the part of the French Republic is that the immigrants should fit in. What this presumes is that immigrants have nothing of value to offer to the host society and that their values corrode those of the French Republic. The speech by the French president, Emmanuel Macron, on the crisis of Islam, delivered a little before the slaying of Samuel Paty, is reflective of the tendency to mechanically reiterate liberal values as simple, standalone assertions that are at risk from radical Islam. Speeches such as Macron’s hardly help; there has been speculation that the speech was aimed at consolidating right-wing opinion. The immigrants, on the other hand, believe that the principle of free speech is used in an unprincipled manner to ‘pick on’ them and that the same principle is not asserted vigorously when it comes to other issues. The problem with many Western governments on the issue of free speech is that they do not seem to show the same level of urgency when it comes to issues aside from Islam. Take the case of the Rushdie affair which, in many ways, is the prototype of the now familiar stand-offs between Western governments and their Muslim immigrants. The Margaret Thatcher government in 1989 almost tried tutoring Muslim immigrants about how to conduct themselves in a free society like Britain. Yet the Thatcher government had gone to extraordinary lengths to prevent the publication of Peter Wright’s book, Spycatcher — the candid confessions of an intelligence officer — even in distant corners of the commonwealth such as Australia. The point is that free speech arguments made by Western governments seem to be fixated excessively on issues of Islam. The attitude of certain Muslims towards free speech and their support of Ayatollah Khomeini’s fatwa against Salman Rushdie was certainly problematic. But Western governments are equally complicit in the dominance that the media baron, Rupert Murdoch, exercises in their societies. There is as much danger to the cause of free speech there as there is in the problematic attitudes of Muslim immigrants. Furthermore, French and Western invocations of free speech tend to rest upon stereotypes of Islam. It is believed that there is an inherent incompatibility between Islamic values and the values of Western liberal democracies. This is not to, in any way, take the blame away from the degeneration of Muslim societies that is contributing in equal, if not greater, measure to these dénouements. Muslim societies tend to be mired in a malaise of immobility with ahistorical understandings of the shariah and the role of fatwas in Islamic jurisprudence. Both sides fail to see that it is only in the last two centuries that the fatwa has become frozen into a religious diktat. There is evidence to suggest that the fatwa, far from being a diktat, was a legal opinion proffered by a jurisconsult. The fatwa was mostly proffered when solicited by an individual trying to comprehend a way out of a problematic social and religious issue. A fatwa was more in the nature of a non-binding legal opinion; individuals could choose to overlook it and approach another religious authority for another fatwa. Western assertions of free speech are simply unable to understand this veritable free market of fatwas. Given that in the eyes of the Western establishments, the fatwa is the antithesis of free speech, what is proposed, perhaps in a truly dialectical spirit, is a fatwa for free speech. How about raising a metaphorical toast to such an idea?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-119
10-11-2020||Opinion||Donald’s trumped||And so it begins. With the days and nights flipped around because of the time zones, their mornings unfolding across our evenings, their days parading events in the wee hours of our nights. I check for when the first results will start solidifying on the networks and go to sleep, not daring to pray or allow myself too much hope. Sure enough, when I wake up and look, the polls have closed on most of the US east coast and the mid-west. For someone of my political leanings, the news is bad: there is no ‘blue wave’, there is no Democratic landslide, no liberal earthquake overturning the red-owned real estate in the Senate. Donald Trump and Joe Biden are running neck and neck, the usual suspect states at that point all falling neatly into familiar piles, the usually Democratic north-east and west coast going to Biden, the vast swathes in the centre of the United States of America painted red as if with a large roller. And then there is damage: Florida goes quickly to the owner of its Mar-a-Lago Club who’s been using it as a third presidential palace for the last four years; Biden hasn’t been able to mount much of a challenge in this key battleground state. Texas flipping to the Democrats? Forget it. Above Florida, Georgia is a deep pink, indicating a Republican lead. Slicing into the unevenly demarcated mess of blue states in the top right-hand corner, the rectangle of Pennsylvania, too, is the colour of raw meat. On the infographics pages, the House seats are about even as are the ones in the Senate. On the chart for the presidential election, the blue band is well short of the halfway point of 270 electoral votes while the red is moving in robustly from the right. And yet, the bloggers on the Dem-leaning newspaper sites of The Guardian and The New York Times and the anchors of the American networks critical of Trump show no outbreaks of sweat or despondency. ‘Wait, wait, wait!’ they all seem to be saying in a chorus, ‘these are still the walk-in votes from November 3, the postal ballots are still to be counted.’ At some point, Arizona and Nevada start to move in an unexpected direction, like a cricket ball reverse swinging at the last moment. Instead of the expected pink or red, the two western states develop a bluish tinge. Some pesky child with access to websites across the world picks up a deep blue crayon and clumsily colours in the blank chunks around the Great Lakes: Illinois, Wisconsin... and then Michigan too. Is it a mistake or has Wisconsin flipped back to the Dems? No, it’s correct. What about Michigan, with its armed militias parading around the State Capitol brandishing assault rifles, its extremist gangs planning to kidnap the governor? Well, they are who they are but Detroit, for instance, has voted 94 per cent for Biden; Michigan is blue. The jokes and arguments have all been made. Why bother so much about the American election? What great difference will it make to us in India? Do you really think if Biden wins it will make any great difference to the world? Americans can elect who they want as president, and these men can have slightly different policies at home, benign or injurious, but upon the rest of the world US presidents have mostly inflicted varying degrees of misery. You’re so caught up with the other side of the planet but you have no idea what is happening next door in Bihar! All valid points and questions, but still, the toxic orange hazardous waste has to be put in a bin and sealed before it causes more harm. On day 3, John King of CNN is showing incredible stamina; it’s a wonder his hand hasn’t fallen off from clawing at the huge touch screen to bring up the changing numbers. The names of obscure counties are now grooved into the ear: Maricopa, Elko, Allegheny, Lackawanna, Taliaferro. King’s repeated mantra plays in the dreams: ‘People have voted and we have to count those votes. That’s what we do. We count ’em.’ At some point, Georgia see-saws slowly to an even keel — the votes are tied. The lying complaints and whining have long started to emerge from Trump and his sycophants. Anderson Cooper has compared Trump to a fat turtle flailing on its back. At some point, Biden’s tortoise crawls past Trump’s supine hare in Pennsylvania, rolls past and keeps going. On day 4, even Fox News is obliged to call the election for Biden-Harris and dancing breaks out on the streets of America. Trump unleashes his legal war dogs and goes off to play golf. The dogs circle around, sniffing each other while the nation celebrates, or at least the record 75 million people who voted for Biden and Harris do. The Republicans, greedy and dishonest to the last, join Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping in maintaining a baleful silence while Trump’s legal hounds figure out how to convince the courts, the voting public, and the world that the Democrats have somehow stolen the presidential election, rigged it while sportingly neglecting to flush people like Lindsey Graham and Mitch McConnell down the gutter and capture majority in the Senate, or sweep the House. No doubt some narrative describing this laser-bomb-precise ballot heist will trickle out of the Orange Fake News HQ in the coming days. No doubt we will be told how this Great Ballot Robbery was conducted across several states ruled by both Democrats and Republican governors. Many of us here in India will know exactly where to put these whopping lies broadcast by a debased leadership: right next to the claims of the great benefits of demonetization, tales of bold retaliatory air-strikes that kill hundreds of jihadis and claims of how demonstrably non-violent activists started violent riots. We are used to being told in the middle of the darkest night that we are actually looking at a shining dawn. As we watch this sordid attempt at retaining power play out, we have to hope that it will be possible to limit the damage Trump and his coterie can add to the devastation they have already inflicted. That they are now quickly disconnected from the huge power they should never ever have wielded. One brick prised out of a wall loosens surrounding ones, and prising Trump out of the White House could well be a start to bringing down the wall of despotism that scars the planet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-120
