11-11-2020||Opinion||Move forward: Joseph Biden set to assume US presidency||Sir — Joseph Biden is set to assume presidency at a time when the United States of America is encumbered by three simultaneous crises (“The rising”, Nov 9). A brutal second wave of the coronavirus pandemic has reared its head, racking up more than 1,00,000 cases and 1,000 deaths per day. The US economy, too, cannot recover fully as long as the pandemic rages on unabated. But the third crisis, that of race relations, is the one that Biden and Kamala Harris will be under tremendous pressure to address expeditiously. In this regard, it must be noted that, in sharp contrast to Donald Trump’s actions as the president over the last four years, Biden has promised to unite all Americans. Biden’s victory is a mixed bag for the Narendra Modi-led government in India. While Modi has invested considerably in the Trump administration — he is even believed to have endorsed Trump for re-election — his government’s connection with Biden goes back to the Barack Obama regime when the incumbent external affairs minister, S. Jaishankar, was the Indian ambassador to the US and the present ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, was his deputy. Both of them have reportedly kept in touch with Biden’s advisers, ensuring that the US maintains its bi-partisan consensus towards India. Many in Delhi might be worried that the Biden administration may apply greater scrutiny to issues such as civil liberties and human rights. As such, India will indeed have to recalibrate its foreign policy with regard to the incoming Biden administration. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — The electoral victory of Joe Biden in the US has considerable implications for India. The Biden administration is likely to strengthen ties between India and the US. On the other hand, there could be disagreements between the two countries over contentious issues such as religious fundamentalism, India’s Kashmir policy, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the National Register of Citizens, Islamophobic politics, the plight of migrant labourers issue and so on. Being a Democrat, Biden may not be as aggressive as Donald Trump on the China front. However, the US is unlikely to reverse its China policy altogether. As for trade, negotiations that were underway for trade deals might have to be reworked to some extent, especially keeping in mind the need to revive both economies in view of the Covid-19 crisis. Revisiting the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action policy could also prove to be beneficial for India. Besides this, Biden’s take on the Paris accord could be of great importance in fighting the problem of climate change. Venu G.S.,Kollam, Kerala Sir — As expected, Joe Biden has won the US presidential election by defeating Donald Trump. Along with Americans, the entire world had been witnessing with anguish the erratic decisions taken by Trump in the last four years. His right-wing leanings — including his tacit support to white supremacists which led to a huge divide among the American people — were rather disturbing. Trump’s autocratic decisions on many issues, some of which had massive global ramifications, forced many people to long for his exit from the White House and wish for a less controversial and more unbiased leader who could set right the mess created by Trump and then find ways for the US to get back its former glory as the ‘oldest democracy of the world’. Trump has now become a good example of what a leader should not be. Tharcius S. Fernando,Chennai Sir — It is a relief to hear the change in tone coming from the corridors of power in the US. The remarks made by the president-elect, Joe Biden, in his first speech were soothing compared to the harshness with which Donald Trump concluded his term. Biden’s words of compassion, call for unity among people and expression of respect towards rival Republicans reveal his faith in democratic norms. The promise to form an expert committee immediately to look into matters related to the war against Covid-19 sends the right signal to the administration and displays his no-nonsense attitude. Trump should pave the way for the smooth transition of power, instead of crying foul over a clear mandate in favour of his opponent. The people of the US have minced no words in bidding Trump goodbye. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Think again Sir — Diwali is only days away, and several states in India are still doubtful about allowing the use of firecrackers, especially keeping in mind the plight of Covid-19 patients. Given the situation, should not citizens themselves resolve to celebrate Diwali without polluting the environment further? Diwali has traditionally been the festival of lights. What state governments should promote is for people to buy earthen lamps to decorate their homes and usher in positivity. This would also greatly help potters and other artisans who are already having to deal with a lack of business. Isha Agarwal,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-119
11-11-2020||Opinion||Breathless: Welcome ban on firecrackers||Amid the fear of the impending fury of sound and smoke that is integral to the festive season around this time of the year, the Calcutta High Court’s ban on the use of firecrackers has come as a welcome ray of light. Air pollution is one of India’s primary killers. India, it has been estimated, accounts for 60 per cent of the global deaths attributed to foul air; the country also has the dubious distinction of being home to 16 out of 20 of the world’s most polluted cities in the World Health Organization’s global PM2.5 database. There is no doubt that firecrackers are a major pollutant. Last year, air quality in New Delhi and other Indian cities had deteriorated to the worst recorded level a day after Diwali. The institutional response to the threat this year has been encouraging. Not just the Calcutta High Court but also the National Green Tribunal has prohibited the sale or purchase of firecrackers for the rest of the month in Indian cities and towns where the average ambient air quality for November fell under the ‘poor and above’ category. The Covid-19 pandemic has added to the concerns regarding public health. A connection between air pollution and Covid-19 mortality cannot be ruled out; a Harvard University study showed that an increase of only one microgramme per cubic metre in PM 2.5 is associated with an 8 per cent increase in the Covid-19 death rate. Several states — Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana, Maharashtra and others — have announced bans on firecrackers. It is shameful that the Calcutta High Court’s progressive stance has not been matched by an energetic response from the Bengal administration. Bengal seems to have opted for a conciliatory approach, merely appealing to the people to not burst crackers, in spite of environmental groups and medical practitioners having written to the chief minister asking for a complete ban. This reliance on public goodwill is yet to make a difference on the ground; crackers are still being sold in traditional hubs. The administrative apathy to the spectre of pollution has shown itself in other ways too. The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority had approached the Supreme Court to challenge the NGT’s rejection of its plea to use Rabindra Sarobar for Chhath Puja. It is a pity that environmental protection remains limited within the ambit of judicial intervention; is not people’s health the prerogative of the government? This administrative lethargy is instrumental in blunting the edge of targeted awareness initiatives and vigilant policing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-119
11-11-2020||Opinion||Close call: Bihar assembly polls||Of all the gladiators that had entered the electoral ring to win the crown in Bihar, there is conjecture that the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Rashtriya Janata Dal have left the arena as the most satisfied warriors. The RJD witnessed a late surge; but the people of Bihar have also gifted the BJP several aces. Its showing will assure it the status of the senior partner in its alliance with Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United). This could set the stage for the BJP to emerge — finally — from under Mr Kumar’s shadow and consolidate its position as the principal political force of the National Democratic Alliance in Bihar. This opening could give the party an opportunity to widen its electoral base in the state. The BJP would be hoping that its famed social re-engineering project would alter Bihar’s political landscape and make up for the ground lost by the NDA since 2019. The simultaneous — significant — weakening of Mr Kumar’s political position would also gladden the BJP’s heart. It is true that Mr Kumar was battling anti-incumbency. But it appears that the electorate seems have singled out Mr Kumar, not the BJP that was in power in partnership with the JD(U), for poor governance as well as the administrative failures to deal with the pandemic and its fallout on Bihar’s sizeable migrant constituency. There is reason to believe that the prime minister’s charismatic outreach helped the state BJP escape public disaffection. This election — it has kept political watchers on tenterhooks — will also be remembered for the spirited battle waged by Tejashwi Yadav, the principal lieutenant of the Mahagathbandhan. Mr Yadav’s challenge had been compounded by the absence of his father, Lalu Prasad, from the battleground. But Mr Yadav had soldiered on, infusing energy into the Grand Alliance’s campaign by keeping his focus on employment and social inclusion. Had the distribution of seats within the Mahagathbandhan been done wisely — the Congress has ended up punching way above its weight in terms of its strike rate — the RJD would have gained further. Mr Yadav has announced his arrival on Bihar’s political firmament. The photo-finish notwithstanding, the outcome in Bihar, when viewed along with the results of by-elections in several other states, including Madhya Pradesh where the BJP had toppled the Congress regime by encouraging defections, would not disappoint the saffron camp. The message would certainly spur the BJP on to newer conquests. Mission Bengal comes next.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-119
11-11-2020||Opinion||How ayushman is Bharat?||There has been an exorbitant rise in out-of-pocket expenditure and its subsequent impact on the consumption basket and intra-household allocation of resources has not gone unnoticed. In 2015, the World Bank and the World Health Organization had estimated that around 400 million people lack access to basic health services, and that 6 per cent of people in low and middle-income countries are being pushed further into extreme poverty because of increased spending on health. The Indian government attempted to tackle this issue by introducing the Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana in 2008; the RSBY covered hospitalization expenses up to Rs 30,000 for families below the poverty line. However, the scheme did not make any significant difference. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government launched the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana in 2018. Billed as the world’s largest publicly-funded health insurance scheme and designed in tandem with the sustainable development goals, the PM-JAY is an entitlement-based scheme, which provides an insurance coverage of five lakh to 100 million ‘poor and vulnerable’ households identified on the basis of the database of Socio-Economic Caste Census, 2011. Challenges of identification, sustainability, finance and synchronization had been highlighted on its completion of one year. Official records show that PM-JAY had facilitated over one crore treatments upon its completion of two years. Yet, narratives from the ground reveal glaring disparities. I recently undertook a study to understand the patterns of expenditure and savings among households headed by women in Lucknow district. I interacted with 60 such households, studying their spending on education, health and leisure. I will concentrate on my findings in health for this piece. PM-JAY extends its services to ‘female-headed households with no adult male member between age 16 to 59’. Such an analysis, therefore, merits scrutiny. My research findings show that low-income households prefer private hospitals because of their quality and quicker services. But they cannot afford the costs. Households engaged in daily wage work preferred prescriptions from pharmacies due to the paucity of time. Some households opted for homeopathic treatment on account of the tedious process of availing healthcare services. With the rise in income, households could afford private healthcare services. Most families with members employed with the government preferred public healthcare institutions since ‘connections’ facilitated quicker services. Out of the 50 households eligible for PM-JAY health cards, only two respondent families actually possessed it; of the two, one family did not plan on using it. The families complained of delays from the pradhan’s end and the lack of enthusiasm in the panchayat to procure the health cards for them. A number of eligible families — their names are on the official list of card recipients — had not received their cards. Upon questioning the local authorities, they were informed that there was no response from the higher authorities on the matter. Most families were unaware of the perks of the PM-JAY health card. Those who knew of the benefits said they were not enthused because of the lack of effective functioning of the initiative. One particular family revealed that they had been subject to stigma by the authorities on the production of the card. A report by UN Women and UNDP states that Indian women are 2.7 times more likely to die of Covid-19 death when compared to white women. Research has also drawn linkages between a robust health infrastructure and gender equity. A resilient and sustainable health network is a step towards attaining Sustainable Development Goal-5. The effective implementation of PM-JAY would be possible if we adopt an approach that tends to the community’s needs, is evidence-based and well-administered. Such a strategy will also ensure that the objective of PM-JAY — breaking the poverty cycle caused by exorbitant health spending — is met. Universal healthcare is based on the principle of equity. Equity in health is rooted in the paradigm of distributive justice. My recommendation to the government as a concerned citizen would be to conduct periodic gender-disaggregated analysis of PM-JAY to unlock its potential and improve its implementation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-119
11-11-2020||Opinion||A new deal||If the government spends a certain amount and raises it through taxes, the common understanding is that the real goods and services released by those who pay these taxes are then used by the government for its expenditure. But this understanding is wrong. A part of the tax comes out of savings and releases no goods and services whatsoever. Even the part that comes out of consumption releases goods and services that are quite different from what government expenditure requires. But then why is there this insistence that the government must finance its spending by raising an equal amount of revenue resources? In reality, the goods and services demanded by government expenditure come not from anyone releasing them but largely from using up the slack that exists in the economy in the form of unsold stocks of goods and unutilized capacity. Raising an equal amount of taxes to finance expenditure is simply to ensure that no claims against the government build up in private hands that can cause future problems through a liquidity overhang or debt-servicing (apart from increasing wealth inequality in society). Thus, the real question in raising government expenditure is whether there is enough slack in the economy. And the answer in a capitalist economy is usually yes, which is pertinent for the issue of economic rights in India. It has been estimated that instituting five basic economic rights - the right to affordable food, the right to employment (or full wages if employment is not provided), the right to free, publicly-provided, quality healthcare for all through a National Health Service, the right to free, publicly-provided, quality education for all up to university level and the right to an old-age pension and adequate disability benefit — would cost, in addition to what is currently spent under these heads, about 10 per cent of the gross domestic product. There is enough slack in the economy, even leaving aside the current pandemic period, to allow this additional expenditure. If this expenditure is not concentrated into one single year but staggered over a couple of years, during which capacity can be built up, then there is even less to worry about. Some recent data also remove all doubts about the availability of financial resources for instituting these rights. According to Credit Suisse, total private wealth in India in 2019 was $12.6 trillion (The Hindu, October 21, 2019), which has gone up further in 2020. An Oxfam report states that the top 1 per cent of the population owns 42.5 per cent of this total wealth (Mint, January 20). Thus, at the current exchange rate, the top 1 per cent owns wealth that exceeds Rs 400 lakh crore. Wealth estimates are notoriously unreliable as they are influenced by fluctuations in stock market prices. Even so, one can say with some certainty that the top 1 per cent of the population in 2020 held at least Rs 400 lakh crore of private wealth. If a wealth tax of 2 per cent is levied upon this, it would fetch Rs 8 lakh crore of tax revenue. A 2 per cent wealth tax rate is not unusually high. True, most European economies have either reduced wealth tax rates or abandoned it in recent years, but this has been done under the impact of the rightward shift in economic policy, which has also increased wealth inequality greatly. But two early candidates in the US presidential race, Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders, had proposed a progressive wealth tax. In Warren’s plan, 2 per cent was the minimum wealth tax rate on wealth starting from $50 million, and 3 per cent the maximum. Sanders too wanted a 2 per cent tax on wealth starting from $50m, although his minimum was 1 per cent on wealth between $32 and $50 million, and went up to 8 per cent for wealth over $10 billion. Interestingly, 18 super-rich Americans had come out strongly in support of the Warren plan (this was before Sanders unrolled his), wanting to be taxed more, and asking for a reduction in wealth inequality in that country. A wealth tax needs to be supplemented by an inheritance tax, because it is logically complementary (otherwise people would evade wealth tax by partitioning their wealth among children) and also because capitalist ethics demand it. These ethics suggest that capitalists’ earnings are justified because they have some special quality, such as entrepreneurship or risk-taking. But this does not justify their children inheriting wealth unless they show some such quality themselves; in fact, wealth through inheritance goes against the bourgeois justification for capitalists’ wealth. If we assume that one-twentieth of the wealth of the top 1 per cent of private wealth-owners — that is Rs 20 lakh crore — gets bequeathed to their progeny every year, then even a modest 25 per cent tax on the wealth so transferred should fetch the government a revenue of Rs 5 lakh crore. The word, ‘modest’, is apposite since Japan has an inheritance tax of 50 per cent, the United States of America 40 per cent, and most European countries also around 40 per cent. Just these two taxes — a 2 per cent wealth tax and a 25 per cent inheritance tax — levied only on the top 1 per cent of the population should, therefore, fetch Rs 13 lakh crore, or about 6.5 per cent of the GDP that would have been obtained in the absence of the pandemic. This is all the extra taxation that is needed to finance an additional 10 per cent of GDP as government expenditure. The reason is that when the government spends 10 per cent more of the GDP, this creates incomes in the hands of the people, whose demand then rises, creating further incomes and so on through various rounds of the ‘multiplier’. If we assume no import leakages and a multiplier value of 2.5, then the additional income that would be generated would be 25 per cent of the GDP. Even if 15 per cent of this accrues as tax revenue in the normal course to the government (the Centre and states taken together), it would amount to 3.75 per cent. The additional tax revenue required to finance an extra expenditure of 10 per cent of the GDP thus becomes only 6.25 per cent of GDP, which is more than covered by our two proposed taxes. Thus India can build a welfare State just by these two taxes levied on the top 1 per cent of the population. The figures presented above can be disputed. And there are issues of administration, including the division of tasks between the Centre and the states that we have not discussed. The point, however, is that the country can easily afford to build a welfare State with certain basic economic rights for every citizen. It is not resources but the lack of political will, or ruling class antagonism towards the working people, that explains why even after seven decades of Independence, the majority of the people live in abysmal poverty, with authoritarian-fascist elements whipping up prejudices to keep the poor from waging a united struggle against their material deprivation. The real antidote to the communalism and divisiveness currently being promoted is to invoke an inclusive notion of citizenship. The democratic forces in the country in their struggle against the divisive elements must work for a New Deal which, instead of offering a minimum basic income that smacks of largesse, institutes instead a regime of fundamental economic rights. The author is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-119
