12-11-2020||Opinion||Barriers broken: Kamala Harris to become US vice-president||Sir — While the victory of the Democratic candidate, Joe Biden, in the recently-concluded presidential elections in the United States of America was a relief — it means that Donald Trump shall no longer be the US president — more remarkable was the ascent of Biden’s running mate, Kamala Harris, to the post of vice-president (“Kamala crushes barriers”, Nov 8). She is not only the first woman to attain such a high position of leadership in the history of America, but is also the first Indian-origin and black vice-president. She was born to a Jamaican father and an Indian mother; she would be a perfect example of the diversity in leadership that American democracy has always claimed to uphold but never quite managed to put in practice. Throughout her campaign, Harris kept acknowledging her Indian heritage. She spoke of her mother, Shyamala Gopalan, who had taken Harris and her sister to India so that they could begin to understand their roots. Will her Indian heritage make her more sympathetic to the troubles of the South Asian community in the US, which has long borne the brunt of racism? Harris has been elected vice-president at a time when the question of race has become a significant one in America, with a primary focus on the plight of citizens of black origin. Her task, not only as vice-president but also as a leader of mixed heritage, will be to steer her nation, which has witnessed the bogey of white supremacism, towards a future that is free of prejudice towards minority communities. Most important, her victory could encourage more black women and women of colour to enter US politics. Anirban Lokesh,Delhi Sir — Kamala Harris being elected vice-president of the US is a significant moment in global politics. The US has long claimed to be the ‘leader of the free world’ but has never had a single woman as vice-president, let alone as president. In comparison, India, as a much younger democracy, has elected women to the highest offices in the country — Indira Gandhi held the post of prime minister, while Pratibha Patil was president from 2007 to 2012. In addition, several women have been chief ministers of various states in India. It was high time that this glass ceiling was broken in the US. It, however, remains to be seen whether Harris uses her power to work towards the uplift of marginalized women in her country. Her victory should not merely remain symbolic; one hopes that she will further the interests of women, especially those of black and South Asian origin, in a nation that has had a long, troubled history of violence and discrimination against both communities. Hearteningly, US politics has recently witnessed the rise of many young women leaders of colour who hold out a lot of hope for the future — the Congresswoman, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, is one of them. One hopes that Harris will work closely with such women leaders to bring about positive change in the general attitude of American society towards women from minority communities. It will also be interesting to see how the US’s foreign policy with regard to India shapes up during Harris’s term in office. Raina Mukherjee,Calcutta Silenced again Sir — It is disheartening that over-the-top platforms and video streaming service providers such as Netflix and Amazon Prime Video will now come under the Union information and broadcasting ministry. Under the current oppressive political and social climate in India, this only means that creativity and free expression will be stifled even further. Up till now, the video streaming platforms were the only places where creators and film-makers could release content that was even tangentially critical of the government. Now, under government regulation, heavy censorship will become the norm. Prakriti Basu,Calcutta Parting Shot Sir — The Mumbai Indians have emerged victorious in the 13th edition of the Indian Premier League. The skipper, Rohit Sharma, must be lauded for his brilliant captaincy throughout the tournament and for playing an exceptional knock in the final. By lifting the trophy for the fifth time, Sharma has proved why he is acknowledged as one of the most successful captains in the IPL. The team’s young talents, Ishan Kishan and Suryakumar Yadav, have also been impressive with their batting this year. The franchise has invested a lot in grooming these batsmen; it will be no surprise if they don the national jersey soon. Tushar Anand,Patna||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-118
12-11-2020||Opinion||Good wives: Culture ministry's Karwa Chauth craze||The Union ministry of culture’s enthusiasm for the ritual of karwa chauth seems a little puzzling at first sight. This time, the ministry sent out decorative messages by WhatsApp and Twitter wishing all women happiness for the occasion and lots of illumination by moonlight. The tweet explained that on karwa chauth women fast the whole day for the long life of their husbands and gaze on the risen moon through a sieve. What it missed mentioning was that this is a north Indian practice, not a countrywide one. But the present government in Delhi is least bothered by that. Everyone must enthuse over rituals in north India. So the ministry sent its WhatsApp wishes for karwa chauth happiness to institutions under it: evidently museums and libraries were expected to celebrate husbands too. This ritual is an example of the kind of items that the Narendra Modi government envisages including in the national list of intangible cultural heritage referred to in its vision document 2024. Intangible cultural heritage for the Bharatiya Janata Party must refer to occasions such as bhai dooj, raksha bandhan and karwa chauth that, according to the government that knows all, reaffirm familial relationships between men and women. The emphasis of karwa chauth is on treasuring the husband, clearly the superior in this relationship. The wife must fast for his welfare. The government website says that unmarried girls practise karwa chauth in the hope of good husbands. Numerous local rituals or vrats in different parts of India have similar goals, or allied ones, such as the welfare of children. The government’s endorsement of karwa chauth not only shows a north Indian bias, but, far more alarmingly, also glorifies at a national level a regressive ritual establishing gender inequality and destroying the notion of the independent woman. By implication, the details of the ritual prescribe the role of the wife and, thus, what an ideal marriage should be. It is based on the wife’s piety, self-effacement and worship of the spouse. The glosses on the website complete with two myths propagate marriage as the be-all and end-all of a woman’s life: she should start fasting as soon as possible for its sake. The ministry’s enthusiasm is not puzzling after all; it perfectly expresses the BJP’s values and culture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-118
12-11-2020||Opinion||Weak hand: Congress’s time for introspection||It is time, yet again, for a chintan baithak at 24 Akbar Road. The results of the Bihar assembly election as well as those of the by-elections in different parts of India should deepen the gloom at the Congress headquarters. In Madhya Pradesh, where the Bharatiya Janata Party had removed the rug from under the Congress’s feet by engineering defections in the latter’s rank and file, the Congress had banked on the conscience of the voter to avenge the loss of power. The people have spoken — but against the Congress. In Uttar Pradesh, where Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is said to be toiling to breathe life into a moribund Congress, the party lay at the bottom of the pile with only 7.5 per cent of the votes. This does not augur well for the Congress’s dreams — pipedreams? — of resurrection two years later. In Gujarat, the difference in vote share between the Congress and the BJP was 20 per cent: here too, the BJP triumphed in all eight seats. Two seats in Karnataka, where the Congress-Janata Dal (Secular) government was toppled unethically, were pocketed by the BJP. Only Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Haryana offered some solace to the party. In a vast, diverse and complex polity like India, electoral outcomes are decided by multiple factors. History has also shown that by-elections or assembly polls may not always be a reliable indicator of the national mood. But such inferences are not enough to conceal the Congress’s problems. India’s Grand Old Party resembles a rudderless ship on decidedly choppy political waters. The absence of a party president — Rahul Gandhi calls the shots but not officially — has introduced a dangerous rift, a point that had been raised by the ‘dissenters’ in their letter to the interim president. The vacuum at the top is matched by the dishevelled nature of the party organization. Bihar, where preparations for the elections started months before the polls, is a case in point. Compounding these limitations is an ideological affliction: amoral Congressmen think nothing of changing their stripes. Worse, there seems to be a perpetual sense of denial about these infirmities. The Congress remains frozen in inertia and, worryingly, in its sense of entitlement. The party seems to have forgotten one of the elementary lessons of democratic politics: power needs to be earned through energetic campaigns and imaginative policy that strikes a chord with the masses. The Congress’s irrelevance is likely to strengthen the BJP’s hegemonic grip. This could be ominous for the fate of democracy in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-118
12-11-2020||Opinion||Guardians of the environment||The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations has observed that supporting pastoralist systems would contribute directly to achieving several Sustainable Development Goals: elimination of poverty, achieving zero hunger, promoting good health and well-being, aiding economic growth, ensuring responsible consumption and production, and bolstering climate action and the biodiversity of life on land. In 2019, the government of Mongolia proposed to observe the International Year of Rangelands and Pastoralists in 2026. The international community is of the opinion that awareness of the importance of rangelands and pastoralists to livelihoods, healthy ecosystems and the adoption of climate change resilience strategies could be heightened by such an event. In a letter, T. Jambaltseren of the ministry of food, agriculture and light industry stated, “An [IYRP] could provide the impetus and momentum necessary for a worldwide understanding of the importance of these lands and people to global food security and environmental services.” Pastoralism has been the most sustainable form of production, livelihood, and land use in most of the world’s arid and semi-arid areas. Pastoralism, it is believed, is practised in more than 75 per cent of the world’s nations by around 500 million people. Pastoralists contribute massively to the preservation of biodiversity, improving soil quality and preventing desertification. Recent research has also shown that pastoral landscapes could have a neutral carbon balance as emissions from animals are offset by carbon sequestration in soils and plants. The community members could thus be described as stewards of the environment. However, their role in preserving the rich natural capital of arid regions with stressed resources is misunderstood and poorly documented. Ramzan Ali, a pastoralist from Kelan village, Bikaner district, owns a herd of 100 goats and sheep. On being asked whether he was aware of the demand for the IYRP globally and in India, he answered, “I am unaware of it. But, if it is being organized then it’s a piece of good news for our community. Hopefully, this should ensure our seamless access to the rangelands. For decades, these rangelands have proved to be a rich nutritious source of forage and we have conserved the biodiversity of these rangelands. The fodder insecurity is a critical challenge that threatens the well-being of our animals and disrupts the ecological balance.” By migrating to new pasturelands, pastoralists do not allow their animals to overgraze indigenous vegetation, ensuring the sustainable usage of these rangelands. A study by the International Union for Conservation of Nature and the United Nations Environment Programme argued that pastoralism could play a key role in the transition to a green, environmentally sustainable, global economy. Compared to agriculture, pastoralism is also better equipped to adapt to the changing resources and climate zones. In India, pastoralists are estimated to number 13 million, forming 1 per cent of the total population. There are some 46 castes or communities that have specialized pastoralist identities. The pastoralists chiefly rear cattle, buffalo, sheep, goats, camels, yak, ducks, guinea fowl, pigs, horses, and donkeys. For centuries, pastoralists’ knowledge of the management of natural resources has involved the adoption of practices that effectively conserve the diversity of vegetation, livestock species, vegetation cover, soil quality and water recycling. They have adopted selective breeding strategies so that indigenous livestock species can adapt to local climatic conditions and possess resistance to diseases, drought, and parasites. In India, pastoralists have been estimated to own 395.3 million livestock. The value of manure from their livestock as a source of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium is said to be a massive $45 billion a year. If it were not for their livestock recycling nutrients and clearing weeds from fields during the non-farming season, then India would have been forced to rely on synthetic fertilizers. The ecological and economical costs of these fertilizers would have been perilously high. Government data since 2012 suggest that the pastoralist sector produced milk worth $2.7 billion and meat worth $2.2 billion annually in the formal sector alone. Nomadic livestock is a major supplier of organic meat and milk. This is because the rangelands remain the primary source of nutrition and pastoralists choose not to add minerals, vitamins, pro-vitamins or genetically modified supplements to their animal feed. In the arid and the semi-arid regions with frequent droughts, these healthy animal-source foods have ensured food security to pastoral communities. Sumer Singh, a pastoralist from Jaisalmer who along with his joint family collectively owns around 1,200 goats and sheep, said, “For centuries, our ancestors have sustainably used rangelands. I did not know about IYRP. It does sound like a good initiative. But, 2026 does seem far away. We need to quickly start responding to the problem of declining rangelands.” The IYRP could put the concerns of pastoralists back on the policy agenda of the nation and the world. Climate change makes it even more important to acknowledge and encourage the environmental services of pastoralists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-118
12-11-2020||Opinion||Key lessons||In most democracies, whether in Nevada or Nawada, political assessments are invariably shaped by media narratives and, increasingly, opinion polls. Last Tuesday night, in a nail-biting finish around midnight, the Janata Dal (United)-Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance narrowly prevailed over the Rashtriya Janata Dal-Congress-Left parties’ Mahagathbandhan in Bihar. In political terms, the outcome of any state assembly election is significant. The Bihar election was additionally significant for two reasons. First, the performance of the BJP in nearly all the assembly elections since the general election of 2019 had been either poor or indifferent. It was conclusively defeated by the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha-Congress alliance in Jharkhand, with its sitting chief minister losing his own seat. It lost its majority in Haryana and had to cobble together a post-poll alliance with a regional party to stay in government. Its high-voltage campaign against the Aam Aadmi Party government secured it a higher vote share but yielded only a few additional seats. And, although it clearly won the Maharashtra assembly election in alliance with the Shiv Sena, it failed to accommodate the ambitions of Uddhav Thackeray and had to be content sitting in the Opposition. To compound its woes, the loss of its long-term ally in Maharashtra was followed by the desertion of the Shiromani Akali Dal in Punjab of the NDA over the reforms in agricultural marketing. In short, although there was no danger to the stability of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre, the impression that the BJP as a party was losing momentum had started gaining ground. Secondly, the Bihar poll was the first occasion after the Covid-19 pandemic that public opinion on the measures taken by both the Centre and the state were being tested. This test was extremely significant. Beginning with the 21-day national lockdown, the pandemic had resulted in a massive disruption in the lives of nearly every citizen. The loss of casual jobs in the cities resulting in the mass migration of labour had affected Bihar — a state where a disproportionate number of people earn their livelihood in other parts of India — significantly. The disruption of livelihood and the impact on rural communities were bound to have a larger political impact. Bihar was the first test of whether or not the disruption and the government’s handling of this crisis had triggered a fierce anti-government mood. Just as the 2017 assembly election in Uttar Pradesh was the big test of how people had responded to the unsettling effects of the November 2016 demonetization, the Bihar assembly poll became the crucial Covid-19 test. It was an election to elect a government in Patna, but it was simultaneously a parallel verdict on the quality of the Centre’s response to the pandemic. The expectations of the outcome of an assembly election are only nominally determined by comparisons with earlier electoral verdicts. In the case of Bihar, this assessment was further diluted by the fact that the alignments that contributed to the BJP’s defeat in 2015 had been turned upside down by events. Consequently, despite the facile use of the 2019 general election outcome as a point of reference, this was an election where expectations were based less on statistical data and more on subjective, anecdotal evidence culled through the media. A perusal of the media during the election campaign suggested a journalistic consensus on two points. There was, first, a broad agreement that the chief minister, Nitish Kumar, was becoming a drag on the NDA campaign for re-election. There were no substantial charges of corruption against the state administration in the matter of relief distribution during the pandemic. Rather, the disquiet seemed to centre on the chief minister’s aloofness — often contrasted with the personal presence of the UP chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, at problem points — and his steadfast refusal to interact with the media. The alleged disdain for the media was contrasted with Tejashwi Yadav’s open house, something he has inherited from his father, Lalu Prasad. Secondly, despite the fact that the RJD seemed to bank on its traditional Muslim-Yadav social alliance in the matter of ticket distribution, the media narrative suggested that the MY social base had been substantially enlarged to accommodate all castes. In particular, the Mahagathbandhan’s promise to deliver 10 lakh government jobs was said to have tipped the scales quite decisively against Nitish Kumar and crystallized the anti-incumbency. An associated feature of the election that warrants emphasis is the exit poll findings. The exit polls, released after the conclusion of the final round of polling on November 7, were heavily weighed against the NDA. The polls also contained the clear suggestion that counting day would see a clear and emphatic verdict in favour of the Mahagathbandhan. It was suggested that Nitish Kumar’s departure after some 15 years as chief minister was assured. On November 10, both pundits and politicians switched on their TV sets with the full expectation that the rout of the NDA in adjoining Jharkhand was going to be repeated in Bihar. With the benefit of hindsight, it would seem that the pollsters erred in assuming that those who spoke the loudest represented the feelings on the ground. The Mahagathbandhan was blessed with the support of the assertive MY combine, articulate sections of the Left that commands considerable influence in the media, and the Congress. On top of that, the NDA campaign lacked synergy and coordination, with the BJP and JD(U) fighting separate campaigns. Taken together, the assertiveness of the Mahagathbandhan camp ensured that the silence of many others was interpreted as acquiescence. In particular, the pollsters and the media appear to have seriously discounted the big support for the NDA among the extremely backward castes and women voters. The turnout figures suggested that women participation in the polls exceeded the male turnout by nearly five per cent. The result was that the NDA support was underestimated by the pollsters in a similar way as Donald Trump’s support base was insufficiently factored in during the presidential elections in the United States of America. There was another conceptual fallacy. The poll data indicated that the support for the BJP was holding in the constituencies it was contesting. This put a big question mark on the nature and extent of anti-incumbency. The BJP was an important partner in the Nitish Kumar government since the JD(U) reverted to the NDA in 2017. Therefore, it was inherently illogical to assume that popular resentment against the state government would be carefully selective in nature and leave the BJP unscathed. In the election, the final tally for the JD(U) showed a dip and the BJP emerged as the clear senior partner of the alliance. But this decline owed almost entirely to the votes taken away by Chirag Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party that played spoiler, taking away votes but not winning seats. It corresponded to the loss of RJD and Congress seats in the Seemanchal region thanks to the spectacular support secured by the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen among Muslim voters. The Bihar electorate gave a narrow verdict in favour of the NDA, defying the prevailing one-sided narrative. The outcome was riddled by many what-ifs — an inevitable consequence of the many spoilers in the race. Overall, however, the results indicated that the pandemic, while hugely disruptive in different spheres, hasn’t quite broken the mould of politics. Above all, the outcome pointed to the continuing relevance of the prime minister in national life and, through him, the unrelenting forward march of the BJP. Since 1990, regional parties have dominated Bihar. This is the first election where a national party has staged a comeback since the Congress decline three decades ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-118
