13-11-2020||Opinion||Preparing for long-lasting Covid ||While we worry about Covid-19 that has caused such disruption and tragedy for many people in India and globally, it’s useful to recall that the world has seen many pandemics. For instance, there was a time when tuberculosis was a pandemic, killing one in seven people. In Europe and in the US, 25 per cent of all deaths between 1600 and 1800 were due to TB. In 1953, when the first nationwide data was published the US had 84,304 cases. In 2016, that number had fallen to 9,272 cases. From one in four, the infection rate has plummeted to one in 100,000. How did this happen? No, the bacteria didn’t go anywhere, and it still infects people with low immunity. But the threat diminished drastically due to effective drugs and the creation of a number of care centres for patients. When a person was diagnosed with TB, family members and other people who came in close contact with the infected person were tested and then treated. These procedures are things of the past and only symptomatic patients are treated now. In countries where TB is endemic a quasi-effective strategy of universal vaccination is a norm and there’s variable evidence that it offers quite long immunity, at least for children. Because of vaccination at childhood and increased awareness amongst common people, it’s now moved from being known as the “Rajrog” (king of all diseases) for which there was no cure, to an infectious disease which can be treated. Still India has 25 per cent of all the world’s TB patients -- 2.15 million cases in 2018. We have a declared goal of eradicating this menace from the country by 2025. WHO has set a similar target for 2030 for the world. Tuberculosis is not the sole menace in this country. We have faced similar situations with illnesses kala-azar, cholera, malaria, plague, leprosy. Now let’s pause for a moment. Is there a similarity in the situation we’re facing now from coronavirus infections? Since the end of last year, we’ve been facing the coronavirus pandemic. Close to 40 million people worldwide have already contracted the infection, though the presumption is that documented cases are the tip of the iceberg. Close to 1.2 million people have died of Covid-19 worldwide, bringing the case fatality rate to around 2.8 percent. Of course, this is according to the number of people who have been identified as having contracted the infection. The real death rate among all people who have been infected must actually be much lower. According to an estimate by Stanford University’s John Ioannidis, published in the World Health Organization Bulletin, the death rate varies from location to location and must be between 0 and 1.54 per cent. If one takes the median value to project a global estimate, the chance of death in infected individuals aged below 70 is five in 10,000. Let’s also keep in mind the corresponding current numbers for tuberculosis. The mortality rate for tuberculosis cases, as per Global Health Observatory (GHO) data for 2017 from WHO, is around 10 per cent (an estimated 1.3 million people died of tuberculosis out of the close to 10 million new cases registered in 2017). Do you know how many children die within the first year of their life? In the US the estimate for 2018 was 0.5 per cent. For India the number is close to 3 per cent! So, it could be argued that we’ve overreacted to Covid-19. But that’s because of the sheer speed with which the contagion touched all seven continents (an Antarctic cruise ship had to cut short its trip because of cases on board). We still haven’t found any magic=bullet drugs to treat the infection and the virus is too random in its health impact for anyone to feel secure that they won’t be affected by it. Moreover, hospital systems are designed for average patient loads, not epidemics. So when containment fails, the exponential growth of cases can transform a public health emergency into an operational crisis. Patients with severe Covid-19 require an average of almost 15 days of respiratory support. Such lengthy treatment time will further stretch resources. There are also suggestions that the media has also fed the Covid-19 panic. The pandemic and its aftermath will be better solved by the application of proper scientific methods. Still, as Matt Ridley commented in a recent Wall Street Journal article, “Scientific method remains the best way to solve many problems but bias, overconfidence and politics can sometimes lead scientists astray.” We have seen this from the moment the pandemic broke out. There were esoteric models on the effects of countrywide lockdowns, disproportionate hype for potential drug treatments and over-optimistic projections about vaccine timelines. Now we’ve perhaps reached the peak of infection prevalence or are approaching it fast, the next phase of endemic management will benefit enormously from better planning. Is there a chance that this novel coronavirus will become endemic, like tuberculosis and many other infections? This depends on how the infection is handled by the body’s immune system when it first sees the virus, either through natural infection or on vaccination. If the immunity to infection is long-lasting, the chances of it being endemic will be low. But our experience with related viruses, like other respiratory infections including other human coronaviruses, makes this less likely. Thus, we should probably be proactive -- think ahead and chalk out plans for how to deal with Covid as an endemic disease. While planning this, the focus should be on saving people who are liable to get severe cases. Possibly, we will need to look at opening more COVID hospitals and care centres all over the country – maybe consider having one or two beds for a population of 10,000. These facilities would be dedicated to COVID-19 and should have at least one high-flow nasal oxygen supply system with small medical oxygen plants. If we plan ahead, and start building these small-scale peripheral COVID care centres in municipalities and panchayats all over the country, the lives of a big fraction of prospective severe COVID patients might be saved. On any estimate it will be worth the cost. Yes, the manpower to run such an enterprise will be lacking. But a technical training programme could be undertaken to build a battalion of paramedics who’ll work under the supervision of a centrally located core team of doctors. Here we should pay heed to interesting work done in West Bengal in the recent past by Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, the Nobel Laureate from Massachusetts Institute of Technology. This 2016 study published in Science showed that a short-term multi-topic training programme can significantly increase the efficiencies of informal healthcare providers without any formal medical training. A major instance of such innovative human resource mobilisation was recently seen in West Bengal. A large number of migrant workers, who recovered from Covid-19 were employed in hospitals after short training courses. The battalion was aptly named the Covid Warriors. For example, Sariful (name changed), who worked in a restaurant in Mumbai till March, was seen in a new avatar in June - donning a pristine white PPE suit he was busy measuring blood pressure and blood oxygen levels in patients admitted in a Calcutta ICU. This desperate time requires such out-of-the-box innovative ideas. In a hub-and-spoke model, more sophisticated tertiary centres would remain the hub with facilities for mechanical ventilation or other advanced facilities. Of course, this would not only serve the needs of Covid-19 patients. It would definitely prove to be a great investment into the country’s healthcare system. Major efforts towards developing easily deployable cheaper hospitals, by major research organisations like Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), could also prove to be useful for such community care centres. Another major problem faced in recent months has been the lack of access to molecular diagnostic laboratories. The only reliable test for SARS-CoV-2 is what’s called the RT-PCR. Most hospitals in the country did not have access to these machines or even the necessary expertise to use them. In an unprecedented move, major academic research institutes came forward to either open up testing laboratories within their premises or helped to set up satellite centres in hospitals by lending the necessary equipment and manpower. In a country like India, it will prove to be really difficult to provide access to such sophisticated laboratories everywhere if SARS-CoV-2 becomes endemic. Indian scientists have already taken up the challenge to develop cheaper and easier point-of-care diagnostics more suitable for India. The most prominent success story has been the FELUDA test developed by CSIR. Meanwhile, what can we, the citizens, do? We would perhaps help the situation a lot by not panicking, at the same time as not taking it lightly. Yes the festive season is on. Please keep yourself and others around you safe by avoiding crowded gatherings. And if you suspect infection, get tested. But don’t rush to get admitted in hospital unless you are among the very few patients requiring oxygen supplementation. Hospital beds and resources are scarce. Stay isolated at home and take the necessary medicines. Most of you will never experience any more discomfort than that associated with the common flu. Dipyaman Ganguly is an immunologist at CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, Calcutta, involved in clinical trials and research with COVID-19 patients. Supratik Gangopadhyay is a veteran software professional based in Chennai with expertise in healthcare systems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-117
13-11-2020||Opinion||Dark web: Cyber attacks on pharmaceuticals||Public health has been compromised by the pandemic. The health of pharmaceutical companies is under threat too, but from a different kind of source. The Indian pharmaceutical company, Lupin, is the latest victim of this ‘contagion’ — cyber attacks. This incident has been reported just a fortnight after Dr Reddy’s Laboratories isolated its data centre services after suffering a similar cyber strike. What is especially worrying is that the attack took place soon after the latter got the nod to conduct trials of Sputnik V, a vaccine for Covid-19 developed by a Russian research institute. During the period from July to September, India has allegedly witnessed 4.25 lakh cloud security breaches and the country, it has been reported, is the sixth most vulnerable nation when it comes to such depredations on pharmaceutical firms. A study by Deloitte has also revealed that the pharmaceutical industry is one of the principal targets of cybercriminals. Even though commercial and medical data are under serious threat, the discourse on data privacy in India is disproportionately tilted towards protecting personal data. The intellectual property of private companies such as research data belonging to pharmaceutical companies are incredibly valuable and, hence, vulnerable. If the integrity of research data is compromised, a medication may lose consumer trust or, worse, be rendered ineffective. In India, protecting such data remains the onus of the pharmaceutical companies themselves. Although the government introduced the personal data protection bill, 2019, it does not adequately address the vulnerabilities of India’s data economy. Instead, the bill proposes a preventive framework that is inclined towards excessive government intervention. This could lead to a significant increase in compliance costs for businesses and end up in a troubling dilution of privacy rights of companies vis-à-vis the State. This is not the only anomaly. The push towards a digital economy has not been accompanied by a simultaneous emphasis on online security. A legal framework for the future of health data privacy is, hearteningly, in the works. The draft digital information security in healthcare bill is being crafted to protect citizens’ health data as part of an ambitious health data digitization drive. Could the scope of this legislation be widened to include medical data of companies rather than just personal data of patients? What would be even better is to have one comprehensive law that covers all aspects of data. It should be drafted in consultation with the State, commercial firms and individuals — the critical stakeholders in the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-118
13-11-2020||Opinion||Greater good: How the poor live||The ministry of rural development has been considering the creation of a social registry — the Social Registry Information System — to track the living conditions of the poor on a real-time basis. The details recorded, such as special events or adverse shocks that affect the well-being of an individual or a family, would help the government design better interventions. It would also make redundant the periodic surveys conducted to gather data. This process not only takes time but also affects the accuracy of the data by the time they reach the tables of policymakers. In principle, the SRIS would appear to be a superior system. This idea evolved from the socio-economic caste census of 2011. Attractive as it may appear, the notion has conceptual as well as practical difficulties. Hence it seems to be stuck in a file without moving towards implementation. One complication relates to what precisely needs to be monitored and measured. There are many metrics that are important: consumption expenditures, savings, incomes, assets like land, uncertainties and insecurities faced from the primary source of livelihood, and the geographical location of the family. It is well-known that the fortunes of households living on the edge of poverty fluctuate a great deal, moving in and out of poverty. How would poverty be measured continuously if interventions are to be prompt and effective? Another difficulty pertains to the gathering and collation of the data for use. Would the data be left to the local government or should they be left to a specialized cadre of field workers trained to process data and do some basic analytics to glean patterns of change. In this case, the costs of gathering data would become significantly higher than those incurred for conducting the periodic surveys. It would be incorrect to claim that the lack of evidence is the main reason for the persistence of poverty. One way by which the distribution of benefits could be improved is by organizing it at the village level in the presence of a government functionary and a locally elected official. The actual distribution could be done equitably through a consensus of opinion. Local information is best known to the local people. Random checks could be carried out later as to how the actual distribution took place. Cash benefits could continue to be deposited directly to the Jan Dhan accounts. Where there is political will, there is usually a feasible way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-118
13-11-2020||Opinion||In a parallel universe||Money makes me uncomfortable. The less I have it, the more uncomfortable I become. Which is a universal phenomenon, but the roots of my discomfort are deep, personal and very boring, and not very clear even to me, but its manifestations are quite overpowering. For me, and others. I always remember Stephen Leacock’s story, “My Financial Career”, in which the narrator enters a bank to deposit a tiny sum of money and from sheer nervousness, conjures up a crisis that overwhelms not only him, but also the entire bank staff. During the lockdown I had not attended to money matters at all. It was imperative that I did and I needed help. On a friend’s recommendation I got in touch with an accountant. His name was Amit Shah. I looked forward to meeting him. When he arrived one morning, he turned out to be very unlike his famous namesake, which was not surprising. The young man who got out of the car was slim, bespectacled, wearing a neatly pressed shirt tucked into neatly pressed trousers; his hair, too, was neatly pressed on the left side of his head. He seemed to be in his thirties. In a few seconds, with a pleasant smile, he sized up all my problems — and my limitations — and assured me that everything would be taken care of. I felt great relief; the kind of relief that comes with the knowledge that someone else is there to actually solve your problems. I offered him a cup of tea and he agreed to it. I think he may have felt some pity for me. But I wanted to ask him the question. Sipping from the cup, I asked him: “So how does it feel to have a name like that?” He smiled and said he knew I was about to ask him that. He said that he was as different as possible from the home minister of India. He hated politics, because he grew up in the late Eighties and Nineties watching some of the biggest episodes of political violence in the country. But he likes number-crunching, likes to deal with money and wants a certain amount of material security — and his profession allows him all of this. He will be working, however, only till he can build a certain amount of capital, so that he can retire and do what he really wants to do. Which is music. He is a passionate singer, he said. He learnt Indian classical vocal from an early age and performs riyaz every evening, after work, at least for an hour. He trains with his guru every weekend. And, very tentatively, he added that he has started a YouTube channel where he posts recordings of his performances (mostly at home, very few in public) and told me what it was called, “Only if I had time and interest.” And one day, he said, he would build a school for training in classical music, because he is not comfortable sometimes with the way the music is being taught these days. Which made me wonder again about discomfort. Not tragedy, not devastation, but an unease with what you have, you inherit? And what can follow from it, like violence? The accountant did not say what he did not like about the teaching of some classical music now and looked into the middle distance so pointedly that I knew our conversation had come to an end. “So I tried to reply to your question,” he said, smiling, as he got up to go. I told him that I would like to see him again, which was true, because I was certain my financial career had not yet ended and I would need help again. But I would like to see him again. Just. Did all this really happen? Well, I made up the first name. I am given to fantasies. I like to think of alternatives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-118
13-11-2020||Opinion||An India in chains||Some attributes of freedom are the most precious of all human rights. The right of an individual to express himself freely, move freely throughout the territory of India, assemble peaceably and without arms, practise any profession subject to conditions uniformly applicable to all equally placed, reside and settle in any part of the territory of India, and to form associations as prescribed by law are individual human rights that need to be protected. What we have seen over the last six years is the State seeking freedom to curtail such rights instead of ensuring their free exercise subject to constitutional limitations. Posts on social media platforms critical of key personalities as well as actions and policies of the establishment are used as opportunities to diminish these freedoms. Till August 2019, of the 139 persons arrested in Uttar Pradesh, 76 had been detained under the National Security Act on alleged acts of cow slaughter. Cases of 11 more persons accused of cow slaughter were recommended for invocation of NSA in October. These detentions are premised on the claim that such acts may endanger State security. We have witnessed curtailment of free expression by prohibiting the flow of 2G, 3G and 4G networks in certain parts of the country on the assumption that use of such networks by some might endanger national security. On this pretext, entire populations are deprived of these networks. Significant political personalities have also been deprived of their personal liberty by invoking the Jammu and Kashmir Public Safety Act, 1978 after being kept under detention for a year under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 and renewing such orders every three months; the rationale being that if released, their activities might negatively impact public order. We have also witnessed the travails of young students carrying out legitimate protests being prosecuted for sedition. They are accused of being part of a larger conspiracy to spread disaffection within the public, thereby destabilizing the State. Such acts are also perceived to be legitimately prosecutable under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. Some JNU students also met the same fate for their disagreement with the State and its policies. Our inalienable constitutional freedoms can be restricted only under extreme circumstances since the restrictions themselves are required to be reasonable. That cow slaughter affects the sovereignty and integrity of India and the security of the State can never be justified by any standard of reasonableness. Restrictions can be put in place for maintaining public order. But that can be done only under the procedural law by issuing an order under Section 144 of the CrPC to ensure that no one violates the law and if one does, the consequences provided under the CrPC will follow. But such a consequence cannot include prosecutions based on a threat to the sovereignty and integrity of India and the security of the State. Can a small, peaceful gathering occupying part of a public road and shouting slogans in opposition to certain laws, which are likely to affect their lives and livelihoods, be perceived to be acts endangering the sovereignty and integrity of India, or for that matter, the security of the State? Even more serious is the fact that those charged with the responsibility of maintaining public order let loose their biases, which have been captured on screen, encouraging the perpetrators of violence. However, those who perpetrate such violence and those encouraging them are not considered to be threats to the security of the State. It is the victims, based on their alleged acts of conspiracy, who are deemed, in the eyes of law, to be endangering the security of the State and, therefore, charged with sedition under the Indian Penal Code. Ironically, it is the State which is now seeking the freedom to abuse the law and destroy the individuals’ constitutional protections under Article 19. It is possible to contend under the law that a particular individual has openly violated the law or is indulging in acts that are prosecutable under the UAPA or other penal statutes. But the denial of the right to freedom of expression en masse cannot have any legal basis since not all individuals residing in an area can be deemed to endanger the security of the State. Endangering the security of the State, as reflected in pronouncements of the Supreme Court, firstly requires a conspiracy to do so and, secondly, in furtherance thereof, collection and intended use of arms for the purposes of destabilizing the State. None of these acts is even attributed to individuals sought to be prosecuted under the UAPA or Section 124 of the IPC. None of the individuals detained under NSA can be charged on the presumption or fear that they might endanger the security of the State and, therefore, are required to be preventively detained. Courts, unfortunately, have not come to terms with the desire of the State as evidenced by their mindless application of laws that endanger an individual’s constitutional rights. In fact, the acts of the State itself endanger the constitutional values enshrined under Article 19. Freedoms are meant to be nurtured, not diminished. However, we are also witnessing on our television screens a cacophonous, senseless display of verbal ‘to and fro’ seeking to destroy peace and harmony, with anchors openly targeting communities and attributing motives to create a sense of fear. Such voices, by the same yardstick, are prejudicial to the security of the State. Yet, these voices are tacitly endorsed by the State since they are not proceeded against. It is time for courts to wake up to the State’s silent support of the brewing culture of violence and the brazen misuse of laws. What needs to be curbed is the freedom with which the State seeks to legitimize the misuse of draconian laws that impinge upon the freedom of individuals in exercising their constitutional rights. Giving legitimacy to the State to freely misapply such laws to persecute individuals will only lead to an unfree India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-118
13-11-2020||Opinion|| Forces of nature||The outcome of the presidential election in the United States of America has thrown into sharp relief the fault lines of the US’s federal structure. Federalism and states’ rights have been at the heart of the American journey, from 1776 to the Civil War to the demands for civil rights to positions on abortion and creationism. The build-up and the election itself have also been a history tutorial for the uninitiated — a journey through the tortured history of slavery and race relations and radically different memories of the US Civil War. That all this was in the midst of a pandemic gave to events a distinct quality. Federal tensions are not, of course, the monopoly of America even when they surface in the midst of a black swan event like a pandemic or a natural calamity. Almost exactly 50 years ago to this day in November 1970, Cyclone Bhola unleashed itself on the Bengal delta, with particular intensity on what was then East Pakistan. The meagre relief response of the government of Pakistan was possibly also a tipping point in a chain of events that finally ended on December 16 of the following year with the surrender of the Pakistan military in Dacca to the combined Indian and Bangladesh forces. In this chain, the next link was a general election held within a month of ‘Bhola’ in December 1970: Pakistan’s first nationwide election since its independence. Ultimately it proved to be the only general election of a united Pakistan. The results brought to the surface all the latent contradictions between Pakistan’s eastern and western wings. The former formed the demographic majority and thus had 162 out of the total 300 constituencies in Pakistan. When the Awami League surprisingly won 161 out of the 300 seats it meant that political power had to shift to the east. The military power brokers in Islamabad had banked on a split mandate that would leave them space to be kingmakers. The postponement of the convening of the newly elected National Assembly was followed by a major military crackdown on March 25 — beginning with Dacca, then extending to the rest of the province. A refugee influx into India was the result and by mid-1971, nearly 7-8 million refugees were in India. A major India-Pakistan row was clearly brewing, but for the crisis to mature the regional had to acquire an international dimension. This happened in July 1971 with the secret visit of the US national security adviser, Henry Kissinger, to Beijing from Pakistan, heralding a US-China thaw as also a concert against the Soviet Union. For India, the implications of this US-China-Pakistan compact were even more direct. The India-USSR Treaty of Peace, Friendship and Cooperation followed on August 9, 1971. The rest as they say is history — both on the ground and finally in the United Nations security council chamber. Did Cyclone Bhola lead to the Awami League’s clean sweep to be able to form a government in Pakistan on its own? Possibly, because for many in East Bengal, the State’s tepid response to the cyclone’s devastation exemplified the systemic negligence, exploitation and cultural arrogance they had been subjected to since 1947. What is clearer is that Pakistan’s ruling elite could not, and would not, accommodate the electoral result and that made its break-up likely. A demographic majority without political power and the underdog in all economic and social indicators summed up the pre-1971 East-West contrast in Pakistan, quite apart from cultural, linguistic and ethnic divides. When we look at Bangladesh and Pakistan today, we get a measure of how much things change. From being the demographic minority in a united Pakistan, by the late 1980s (West) Pakistan’s population had surpassed that of Bangladesh. Today Pakistan has roughly some 20 per cent more people than Bangladesh. The past, in this perspective, was very obviously a different country, but the contrasts extend across the full spectrum of economic and social change and the different indicators used to measure these. For instance, take the different trajectories of the Bangladeshi taka and Pakistani rupee. The taka was introduced as legal tender in Bangladesh in 1972 and replaced the Pakistani rupee at par. Today one Bangladeshi taka equals 1.8 Pakistani rupees and the movement of both currencies in the past 50 years sums up two different histories. If East Bengal had still formed part of a united Pakistan today it may still have had good reason to have chartered an independent course. But the reasons for doing so would be different since West Pakistan would have a demographic majority and the eastern wing would have been the economic sprinter. Pakistan’s polity has also changed in its federal character. The numerical majority of East Pakistan had consumed much of Pakistan’s constitutional attention almost from the time of its creation. The improvisation resorted to was the ‘One Unit Scheme’ whereby Punjab, Sindh, the North West Frontier Province and Balochistan were merged into a single province in 1955. In part this was a bureaucratic and military response to prevent the smaller provinces — the North West Frontier Province in particular — from siding with Bengal on federal issues. It also created a superficial unity by papering over West Pakistan’s own considerable ethnic and linguistic diversity. The end of the One Unit polity was also part of the endgame of a united Pakistan and the scheme was dissolved in the run-up to the historic 1970 election. While the old provinces came back in the new Pakistan post 1972, what remained unchanged was the domination of what was now the largest province in the country — Punjab. The next major change in Pakistan’s federal structure took place some four decades later with the 18th amendment to the Pakistan Constitution devolving substantial powers to the provincial governments. This was a principal achievement of a brief period of political assertion in Pakistan post Pervez Musharraf. That period has now ended and sniping has begun against the devolution of power to provinces. In some influential quarters the tardy implementation of some China-Pakistan Economic Corridor projects is also ascribed to the structural problems created by more powerful provinces. In brief, an older, less federal Pakistan is seeking to assert itself. The outcome is unclear but a contest is certainly underway. The author is a retired diplomat and a Director General of the Indian Council of World Affairs||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-118
