14-11-2020||Opinion||Suffer slowly: Varavara Rao's plight||Sir — The aged poet-activist, Varavara Rao, who has been jailed under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the Bhima-Koregaon case, was denied bail by the Bombay High Court even though his health is deteriorating. Rao’s family had approached the court for him to be granted bail urgently on health grounds. The court has directed the Maharashtra government and the National Investigation Agency to arrange a medical consultation over video, and for doctors to visit him if need be. But can critics of the government expect fair treatment in New India? Shyamal Mitra,Calcutta For shame Sir — It was shocking to learn of the gruesome murder in Madurai of a 75-year-old woman by her sons and grandsons because she wanted her daughters to have a share in her property. It is difficult to fathom the ruthlessness and heartlessness of the woman’s male descendants, that too over a property dispute. The woman, M. Pappa, owned 2.75 acres of land, which she wanted to divide equally among her five surviving children. The sons and grandsons, however, wanted all the land to themselves. They objected to their mother’s decision and, in a fit of rage, attacked the old woman with a weapon, killing her instantly. They even assaulted Pappa’s husband — their father and grandfather — when he tried to stop the attack. The culprits of this heinous crime, which is symbolic of so many things that are wrong with our society, should be brought to justice at the earliest. They must not be allowed to take over their mother’s property. Ibne Giasuddin,Mumbai Sir — The murder of an old woman by her own sons and grandsons just because she wanted her daughters to have a share of her property drives home the fact that Indian men will stop at nothing to deprive women of their rights, even those women who are closely related to them. It is hard to believe that such a brutal crime can be committed in a major Indian district over such deeply regressive beliefs. In India, Hindu women are legally entitled to their parents’ parental property; these are rights that they have managed to win only after many years of struggle and suffering. But legal victories rarely translate into social change unless the mindset of the people also evolves. Even though the deceased woman’s daughters are as entitled to her property as her sons are, the prevailing mindset within the family — one which is reflected in the beliefs of society at large as well — is that women are not worthy of the kind of inheritance that sons should get, especially in terms of property. It has been reported that the victim’s sons, Kannan and Ponram, told her that she should only leave her land to them and they would give their sisters some money as a settlement. But why should their sisters only get some money when the brothers get all that land? Are they not equals in a democratic country? It is shameful that the men in the family wanted to deprive their own sisters and aunts of their rightful claims and, worse, murdered the old woman over it. One hopes that justice delivery in this case is expedited and the perpetrators are given the strictest punishment. Adil Hossain,Calcutta Sir — The adage, ‘family is everything’, is propagated with great gusto in our society; and yet, it is often family members who inflict the most damage on their closest relatives and are the source of deep injustice. This is borne out regularly in the form of honour killings and the sexual and physical abuse of women and girls by their own fathers, brothers and husbands. Hatred for women, coupled with greed and a sense of entitlement, is an even more potent mix for such violence; it can cause sons to murder their mother, which is what happened in Madurai recently when two men and their sons murdered their aged mother because she wanted to divide her land equally among her five children, three of whom are daughters. Will the accused be brought to justice swiftly and, more important, will the old woman’s wishes be honoured? Anita Kundu,Chennai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-117
14-11-2020||Opinion||Lockdown: The year in a word||The realm of language need not be democratic. Thousands of new words are added to, say, English each year: as many as 1,100 were incorporated by the Oxford English Dictionary two years ago. But there is a pecking order among words. Some words and phrases occupy a higher perch in language and in the dictionary — a textual alignment of truth in the alphabetical order — because they are mirrors of the times. The hierarchy, even though it seems anti-democratic, is thus a necessity. Collins Dictionary has adjudged ‘Lockdown’ to be its Word of the Year. Very few would contest the wisdom behind its choice. Countries around the world locked themselves up in a bid to gain protection from the dreaded coronavirus pandemic, lending the word immediacy, context, even poignancy. It has been estimated that by April this year, citizens of more than 90 countries — around half the population of the world — had been ordered by their governments to stay indoors. Little wonder then that lexicographers found a corresponding, exponential rise in the use of the word, lockdown: there were over 250,000 registered instances of usage of ‘lockdown’ this year, up from 4,000 in 2019. ‘Lockdown’, more than any other word in a list that also includes such words as ‘furlough’, ‘social distancing’ and ‘self-isolate’, has bound the global community in a shared embrace. But then language is also a bit of a trickster. Linguists may insist that language and words are the proverbial measuring rods of reality. This proposition has some truth in it. But while pointing to the universality of a phenomenon — lockdown is one notable example — language may not always be mindful of the variations — creases — within a shared experience. Consider the experience of India’s lockdown — the most stringent and, arguably, the most chaotic — from the perspective of the country’s informal workforce. The lockdown coincided with unprecedented disruptions in their lives and livelihoods. The economic distress brought about by the loss of jobs was compounded by the horror of physical displacement: India’s highways were dotted with migrants undertaking perilous journeys home. Those who managed to make it had to battle the stigma of contagion, competition — welfare initiatives, such as the MGNREGA, were not robust enough to accommodate the sudden surge in hands — as well as renewed unemployment, forcing many to return to their migratory routes. Their sufferings were amplified by an insensitive, parsimonious government that relied on credit-based stimulus instead of cash transfers to assist the needy. Does language’s responsibility then end with merely identifying a word that has acquired currency across cultures? Certainly not. The challenge for language is to communicate, seamlessly and effectively, the layers of experience — lived and imagined — that such a word entails. Only then will words acquire a mnemonic edge, a kind of immortality. At a time when public sensibility is turning drowsy under the spell of false consciousness, words, especially the Word of the Year, need to be read like ciphers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-117
14-11-2020||Opinion||Many insights: Lionel Barber's memoirs||In his just-published memoirs, Lionel Barber, who was editor of the Financial Times from 2005 to 2020, has written about three trips to India and interviews with Narendra Modi, Manmohan Singh (“softly spoken Sikh”), P Chidambaram (“bumptious”), Rahul Gandhi (“Modi is a lot sharper”), the “feuding” Mukesh and Anil Ambani, Raghuram Rajan (“a brilliant academic”) and MK Narayanan (“formerly India’s chief spook”) at Raj Bhavan in Calcutta. In some ways, I find that FT — which Barber is proud of having transformed into a ‘global news organization’ with a million paid subscribers, is the best newspaper in London. Which is why I spent much of Tuesday reading The Powerful and the Damned: Private Diaries in Turbulent Times. Barber has had a lot of lunches with a lot of important people but he told the Foreign Press Association in London on Monday: “Remember when you’re the editor you’re not friends with these people — there has to be some distance. And the reporters would confirm that I never sought to suppress a story or interfere where I knew the people.” His book reveals he set “a new rule for reporters: in future, all FT stories must be based on two independent sources. I want to be first with the news, but it’s more important to be right rather than first.” In the ‘dramatis personae’ in politics, he lists 13 world leaders, including Modi, whom he interviewed first as “the firebrand chief minister of Gujarat” and subsequently as prime minister. “People are afraid, I tell Modi. He smiles grimly. ‘If the sun rises over darkness and people are afraid, it is not the fault of the sun’.” Barber, a cricket fan, ends one trip to India by witnessing “Sachin Tendulkar, India’s greatest ever batsman, in his 200th and final Test match. Everyone... wants the Little Master, now 40, to make a century against the West Indies. Alas, it was not to be. Tendulkar fell at 74 to a sharp slip catch. The groans turned into a standing ovation as he made his way off the pitch — a memorable end to a memorable trip to the subcontinent.” Help the world The late Lieutenant-General Faridoon Noshir Bilimoria (“General Billy”) would have been very proud of his son, Lord Karan Bilimoria, who presided over the annual conference of the Confederation of British Industry last week as the organization’s first Indian head. Afterwards, when we talked of the small but influential Parsi network, Karan mentioned that his close friend, Cyrus S Poonawalla, the founder of the Serum Institute of India, was contracted to manufacture a billion doses of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University in conjunction with AstraZeneca. “I am so proud of him,” said Karan, the founder of Cobra Beer and chancellor of Birmingham University. “Cyrus Poonawalla, in many ways, deserves a Nobel Prize because of the tens of millions of lives that he has saved over the decades. He had a stud farm and is producing equine vaccines. And from nothing, he’s built this multi-billion dollar business... and is now the largest vaccine manufacturer in the world. But most importantly, he has produced vaccines at an affordable rate and they have been exported all over the world.”Time together It was sad to read that Robert Fisk, with whom I shared taxis in Tehran, had died, aged 74, at a hospital in Dublin, apparently from a severe stroke, according to The New York Times. I remember he enjoyed sticking his head out of the window and waving traffic out of the way with shouts of, “Press patrol! Press patrol!” On one occasion, an Iranian helicopter took us near Basra during the Iran-Iraq War and dropped us recklessly between the lines. We escaped only because both sides were terrible shots. On another, he accompanied me to see Ayatollah Sadegh Khalkhali, who expected me to ring him daily at 4 pm so that he could say gruffly/amicably: “Why are you bothering me — don’t you know I sign execution orders just now?” At Qasr prison, Khalkhali would not talk to me until we had finished ice cream. Then he offered to hang a prisoner of our choosing “so you can have a good story”. By now I had learnt revolutionary lingo: “Agha, your hospitality knows no bounds... perhaps another day...” In the taxi ride back to our hotel, Fisk appeared to be not entirely happy with me. He was then the star correspondent of The Times, and later moved to The Independent. He made enemies only because he was vehemently opposed to the policy of the United States of America in Iraq, Iran and West Asia generally. Fisk, who was named international journalist of the year a record seven times, once said: “You cannot get near the truth without being there.” Michael D Higgins, the president of Ireland, said in his tribute: “With his passing, the world of journalism and informed commentary on the Middle East has lost one of its finest commentators.”Closer than before Will Donald Trump merit big, fat books many decades from now? John F Kennedy was assassinated in 1963 but the passing decades have not dimmed the lure of ‘Camelot’. I have just started reading the 792-page JFK by the Pulitzer Prize-winning Harvard historian, Fredrik Logevall. This “takes us as close as we have ever been to the real John F Kennedy in this revelatory biography of the iconic, yet still elusive, thirty-fifth president”. And this is only Volume One. Footnote Memo to Flurys on Park Street: Ravneet Gill tells me she is very keen to visit you. Ravneet is the 29-year-old star pastry chef in London who has written The Pastry Chef’s Guide: The Secret to Successful Baking Every Time, and just started as The Daily Telegraph’s new baking columnist with a recipe for “crème fraiche breakfast loaf with jam and pistachio cream”. She says: “I’ve been to India a few times and... was in Mumbai in July last year, teaching how to bake pastry... it was so much fun.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-117
14-11-2020||Opinion||Light in the dark||The symbolism with which Kamala Harris’s election has been invested recalls Jawaharlal Nehru’s bitter analysis of the global pecking order around the time of the 1927 International Congress against Colonial Oppression and Imperialism at Brussels. Placing white Anglo-Saxons at the pinnacle, he worked down the ladder of race and colour to the then unempowered multitude of Negroes at the base. The jubilation over the new vice-president-elect of the United States of America suggests two conclusions. First, an acute awareness of the fact that to be born below the white Anglo-Saxon pinnacle is to start life with a handicap. Second, that millions of Afro-Asians, especially Afro-Asian women, feel that a glass ceiling has at last been shattered. Of course, some have been able through the ages to overcome the twin disadvantages of sex and race; but most have not. The social, political and economic disparity between North and South and the waves of Third World migrants constantly battering the walls of the West testify to that. The powerful personal dimension to the imbalance is evident in the ancient term, varna (colour), for caste, in the equation of pallor with beauty, and the no less revealing phrases that have replaced the supposedly abandoned ‘fair and lovely’ slogan in ads for cosmetics. One problem with all such dissections is that they rest on a simplistic black:white divide. Another is that the author’s immunity from his own findings is often assumed. There is, too, a plethora of overlapping and contradictory claims. Bhagat Singh Thind, the Sikh who entered the US in 1913 and made history by petitioning (unsuccessfully) for citizenship, was not alone in believing he was “a descendant of the Aryans of India, belonging to the Caucasian race (and, therefore) white...” Consciously or not, many Indians see themselves as white, like the “Reds” and “Whites” who are both black in Evelyn Waugh’s hilarious novel, Scoop. No wonder race and colour inspire endless posturing, public protestation and private anguish. The last two are sometimes in conflict. Remembering Rabindranath Tagore’s brush with immigration officials at San Francisco and his angry outburst that Christ himself would be refused admission to the US “because, first of all, He would not have the necessary money and secondly He would be an Asiatic”, I was surprised to read that when on his riverine travels in East Bengal, the poet sent his card across to another barge with an unknown young English officer on board. It was even more surprising that Tagore later complained to his niece about having to entertain the Englishman as a result of his gratuitous overture. National and international relations are often individual interactions writ large. Here in London as no doubt in Thulasendrapuram, Tam-Brams (as they are called) see the Harris triumph as an exclusive achievement. The Tamil Nadu minister who recorded his pride in “a woman from this small village” rising so high ignored 50 per cent of her ethnicity which is Jamaican, in itself a rich mix of indigenous and imported cultures. That sounded clumsy in patriarchal India where fathers determine identity (otherwise Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi would be Italians) and can only reinforce African perceptions of Asian prejudice. However, the euphoria among swathes of African women that their time has come may not be shared by Indian women outside the dwija ranks at home or in the diaspora. Harris’s own tribute to “the generations of women, black women, Asian, white, Latina, native American women who throughout our nation’s history have paved the way for this moment” was wisely sweeping yet tactfully restricted. The Western media carefully call her “black” and “South Asian”, never “black South Asian”. Presumably being from her father’s side, Harris’s niece, Meena, cannot have grasped how profoundly she may have wounded conventional Indian sensibilities by tweeting, “My four-year-old just yelled ‘BLACK GIRLS ARE WELCOME TO BE PRESIDENT’”. Loy Henderson, an early US ambassador to India who rather fancied himself, knew no better than to cable Washington in 1948 warning that Nehru was “constitutionally unhappy” unless he was leading a global union of coloured peoples. A few months later, a conference of American diplomats, held in New Delhi, demonstrated even greater insensitivity by recommending that as many black diplomats as possible should be poured into India. Americans jumped to the opposite extreme when Narasimha Rao visited the US in 1994. Khalistani, rebel Kashmiri and Tamil Tiger terrorists being on the rampage, the prime minister’s security chief asked the hotel management not to allow any South Asian near him. The manager, poor man, being American, didn’t know one non-white from another and ordered, according to The New York Times, that “no African-American could carry his bags, no Asian could clean his room, no Latinos could serve him his food.” Narasimha Rao “had to be served by whites only, American or European.” The paper moralized that “the US government has an interest in knowing whether a foreign head of state has been fostering racial discrimination here” while the chairman of the Massachusetts Commission against Discrimination condemned the episode as “too outrageous to be true” at a time when the US was celebrating the 40th anniversary of the Supreme Court ruling that dismantled segregation. I have recounted that storm in a teacup to show how easily victim can be seen as offender. The slow and sadistic suffocation outside a shop in Minneapolis, Minnesota, of a 46-year-old black man by a white police officer which galvanized the Black Lives Matter movement and contributed to Donald Trump’s downfall was certainly horrendous. But it was no more so than Tamil Nadu’s 1968 Kilvenmani massacre when upper caste landlords burnt alive 44 Harijan men, women and children. The perpetrators got off scot free. If memory serves right, the appeal court held that landlords of their status did not themselves commit such crimes; they engaged agents for the purpose. Many more such atrocities can be described. They add little to our knowledge of human depravity. What lightens the darkness a little in London are small cameos to suggest that even before she acquired a black granddaughter-in-law, Queen Elizabeth was about as colour-blind as her great great grandmother with her Munshi. Badar Azim, the footman who put up the birth notice at Buckingham Palace for Prince George, third in line to the throne, reportedly grew up in a Calcutta slum. Television coverage shows a black courtier in a frock coat receiving the prime minister when he calls on the queen. Another black officer in dress uniform placed her wreath on the tomb of the Unknown Warrior after she had touched it symbolically at last Sunday’s Remembrance Day ceremony in Westminster Abbey. These might be artfully prearranged gestures, but the signal they send to bigots is no less compelling than the ‘Black is Beautiful’ campaign. Also present in Westminster Abbey was the resplendent Colour Sgt Johnson Beharry, born in Grenada and famous as the first living recipient of the Victoria Cross in about 40 years. His second name and ambiguous appearance have long intrigued me. Then, some years ago, I read his autobiography, Barefoot Soldier, and all was clear. “My father’s family are all of Indian descent; my mother is half-Indian, half-Negro,” Beharry explains. Racial admixture can have its pitfalls. The results may not be guaranteed to be aesthetically pleasing or free of other complexes. But it offers a chance of escape from known evils. Like Kamala Harris, Johnson Beharry, too, could be the face of a more inclusive future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-117
