15-11-2020||Opinion||Power and Play||The US presidential elections had the world riveted last week. And then came Bihar and by-polls in a dozen states across India. In a seamless world proven by the coronavirus to be linked more closely together than imagined, these were not the only elections of the year. The African nation of Burundi went to polls in May. The governing party candidate was declared victorious amidst allegations of fraud and the outgoing president, Pierre Nkurunziza retired after 15 years in power with the title Supreme Guide, a luxury villa and a settlement of over USD 5,00,000. Foreign observers were reportedly not allowed citing Covid-19 norms. There were echoes and there were echoes. Resonances and resonances. Guinea in West Africa had its elections too. Despite a two-term limit, the incumbent president, octogenarian Alpha Conde, won a third term in office this October. It was a bitter and bloody poll and the results have been contested by the Opposition. Soon after, Tanzania went to polls and here too the incumbent John Magufuli won. A devout Christian, Magufuli kept churches open even as the coronavirus raged. He said, “Coronavirus, which is a devil, cannot survive in the body of Christ... It will burn instantly.” Not long ago, Tanzanian comedian Idris Sultan was arrested for cyber-bullying the President --- in a video he was seen laughing at the Magufuli’s photograph. And last week, Tundu Lissu, the head of Tanzania's largest Opposition party, Chadema, fled the country amidst reports of the government crackdown on politicians of opposition parties.) There are patterns in there, if you care to look. In Central Asia’s Tajikistan, President Emomali Rahmon was re-elected for the fifth term. (A single presidential term lasts seven years.) In South Asia, months after Gotabaya Rajapaksa won Sri Lanka’s presidential elections, his Sri Lanka People’s Front and allies won the general elections. Mr President named big brother Mahinda Rajapaksa the prime minister. The press called it a “landslide victory”. Myanmar too witnessed a “landslide victory” for the ruling National League for Democracy and second term for Nobel Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi. Rohingyas couldn’t contest. Rogingyas couldn’t vote. There were mass cancellations of votes in Rakhine, Shan and Kachin. But it is a landslide and the party has since announced that it will invite ethnic minority parties to work with it. Greece elected the country’s first female president, Katerina Sakellaropoulou. Leftist leader Luis Arce won in Bolivia. And though buzz is that Jacinda Ardern’s policies are not so red anymore, the New Zealand Parliament blushed a deep Red post last month’s Labour win. In Seychelles, where a single party has been in power since 1977, Anglican priest Wavel Ramkalawan defeated incumbent Danny Faure in the presidential elections. It seems the new Indian-origin president’s grandfather emigrated to Seychelles from Bihar many years ago. It is one seamless world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-116
15-11-2020||Opinion||Future of history||In 1992, a provocative thesis was put forward by the Japanese-American political scientist, Yoshihiro Francis Fukuyama. The book in which it was published had an enigmatic title: The End of History and the Last Man. It argued that having won the struggle for a liberal democratic State, humans may not want to go further. They may end up just producing banality rather than ideas to transform civilizations in the future. This was one part of Fukuyama’s argument. The other part was that atavistic tendencies may resurface and negate the gains made. The heroic struggles for claiming equality and freedom may no longer interest the world. The two together may make the 21st-century world come to the very end of a unidimensional progression of history. Fukuyama’s grand curiosity about the future of civilizations led him to speculate whether the progression from barbarism to liberal democracy leaves humans marooned in banality, instability, atavism and a modern-primitivism. In the same year as Fukuyama’s phenomenal work was published in the United States of America, I was working on a book on literary history in India. My objective was to examine how India has conceptualized its history over the last two millennia. The material collected over a decade towards this book made it amply clear to me that in Indian intellectual traditions — Sanskrit, Tamil, Pali, Prakrit and modern Indian languages — there had not been any one way of recollecting the past, which is the appointed business of history. The diversity of perspectives was so striking that I felt compelled to title my work, Of Many Heroes. This I had partially drawn from the 10th-century theorist, Rajasekhara. He considered the Ramayana as a work with a single hero and the Mahabharata as the work with many heroes, a distinction that was used by him for classifying histories. Moreover, determining any single beginning for Indian civilization is too difficult a task. I had forgotten these intense debates within my mind about the exact origin. I was reminded of them recently when the Central government’s ministry of culture announced that a committee had been set up to reconstruct the history of India over the last twelve thousand years. The committee was appointed during the last tenure of the National Democratic Alliance government by the minister, Mahesh Sharma. Its details were presented in Parliament in response to a question this year. A sharp reaction to this disclosure came from the Janata Dal (Secular)’s H.D. Kumaraswamy and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s Kanimozhi Karunanidhi; but whatever criticism came in response was about the committee being entirely made up of men and mainly from the north. The basic premise leading to instituting the committee has, however, not received due attention. The premise that leads to the formation of such a committee is at the heart of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s view of India as a nation, which holds the sanatan Vedic tradition of knowledge as non-negotiable. Every tradition of knowledge has some profound wisdom and tenable theories. But everything in a given knowledge tradition cannot be said to have eternal validity. Concepts and theories forming a knowledge tradition need to be modified, supplemented, and even discarded by future generations in the light of fresh evidence and new discoveries. But the advocates of sanatan knowledge do not like questions being asked of ancient Indian texts in the light of modern knowledge. They do not accept the fact that during medieval times, many significant saint-poets and thinkers had already gone past the Vedic texts and started modifying the ‘sacred knowledge’ by locating it within the human sphere, which the English language describes as ‘secular’. Such questioning is dismissed by equating it with ‘colonialism and Western’ and, therefore, a defilement of the ancient wisdom. Since the Vedas were composed in an early variety of the Sanskrit language, this perspective tends to propose an ancestry for the Sanskrit language, which is difficult to sustain in the light of the known linguistic evidence. The source of the misconception is in one esoteric strand of 19th-century European Linguistics. Initially, Sir William Jones had put forward a hypothesis, going by the known similarities between some of the ancient languages, about their origin in a ‘proto’ Indo-European language. In Jones’s hypothesis, ‘Indo-Aryan’ was used as the name for a language precisely because he wanted to mark it out as distinct from the later day ‘classical’ Sanskrit. In an esoteric strand of 19th-century European Linguistics, the term, arya, was interpreted as the name-tag for a people, which it never was. That term, arya — ‘gentleman’ or a ‘respected man’ — used in Sanskrit was picked up as the slender thread by some Indian scholars inclined towards the Hindu-nation idea. Upon this coincidence was built the idea that Sanskrit-speaking ancient Indian people traversed the north and went up to Europe in some prehistoric times. None of the studies based on the scientific study of ancient migrations, archaeology, ancient metallurgy, literary texts, comparative mythology and folklore provides grounds to validate this theory. However, in order to establish the prehistoric and widespread presence of the Sanskrit language, particularly during the third millennium before the Christian era, it becomes necessary to sort out the unresolved mysteries surrounding the Indus Valley civilization. Its advanced phase is dated with a fair degree of precision as belonging to the period 2600 BC to 1900 BC. And the date of the composition of the Vedas is widely accepted among serious scholars to be between 1400 BC and 900 BC. These dates established through elaborate research and a careful examination of evidence are not acceptable to Hindutva nationalists. There is a mythological genealogy, a long chain of names of mythical kings, given in the Mahabharata which the nationalist view of the past accepts as factual ‘history’. This leads them to hold that the imagined ‘history’ of the last 10 or more millennia is the factual history of India. Given the ideological moorings of the present government and how keen it is to translate its ideas of what India is as a nation, it would not be far off the mark to expect that the committee on Indian history has a predetermined mission at hand. For several millennia, Indians have learnt to live with the idea that there is no single point of origin for the vast diversity of peoples in this subcontinent. We can conceptualize the history of the Indian peoples properly only if we accept the idea of many origins. Let us hope that the government committee on history and culture is not designed to merely endorse what the RSS projects as an incontrovertible historical truth. But if this turns out to be the case, the future of the history of India may, alas, prove Fukuyama’s atavism thesis right. The author is a literary scholar and cultural activist ganesh_devy@yahoo.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-117
15-11-2020||Opinion||Oh Duck! We thought you to be chicken||Oh, Donald! Was it you? The duck? That got roasted? Rest a bit. In peace. We do ducks, but not the way you think. What the duck, don’t get us wrong, come to the party. We do chickens, we do t do ducks. But chickens, even roasted, are winners. The chicken, however deeply broiled, is a winner. It needs a roasting. And once the roasting is done, you may sing paeans to what the chicken was before it got roasted. Lovely chicken. Clucking chicken. Roosting chicken, queen of the coop. Everything that happened, the chicken did. Even all the shit it shat. It was the shit that the chicken shat, you see. So what if it has gotten a bit roasted now? And even so, look how tasty it is. Call my chicken chicken? Oh, how could you? It was my chicken, I loved it, and therefore don’t say poor things of my chicken. No, that’s not on. It wandered? Yes, it did. But perhaps. It strayed? Yes, it did. But perhaps. It laid dodgy eggs? Yes, it did. But perhaps. And so? It was my chicken. Mine. I wouldn’t hear a thing about it, not a poor word, you don’t know, I do, and of course I do, it was my chicken. That chicken was a chicken, no more. It pecked beyond its need, it clucked beyond its worth, it fluttered beyond its wings. Came a day, it got caught. A fringe of its feather, a part of its wing. It got caught. While it preened, while it clucked and paraded. A chicken, an entitled one, spreading a bit beyond its allowance. Lo! Caught! Now? Duck! Look for ducks. Where are the ducks? Are there any ducks? Is there a duck I can duck into? Not easy. Oh no! Do not misunderstand. It cannot be easy. Turning ducks to chickens. BlondieDucks to chickens, no less. But it happens. Trust me. Flock. Flock. My eggs, my beloved eggs, don’t poach me now, or boil me. I am your chicken. Remember? You are mine, more than I could ever be yours. The thing about chickens is, you have them, or they have you. They make you slave to what they lay. What you love to boil, or poach, or fry, or beat and make an omelette of. You had the eggs? Really? The chicken had you. And it is going to keep on having you. Teasing you around the barn, luring it to what it lays in the hay, stuffing you with the gifts of what it can only reject and clucking away around the place, laughing at you. Look at you! You filled out fool, you thought you had me? You only had what I no longer had any use for, what I needed desperately to eject. Eggs, you stupid egghead! You don’t know what l’m talking about? Well, cluck-cluck, why am I not surprised? You’ve been looking, I know. You’ve been gobbling my eggs and you’ve been looking. At my legs. At my stride. At my pride. At my thighs. At my breasts. You have been, haven’t you? You’ve been eyeing my neck as well, my long neck, my neck that turns this way and that, my neck that swivels all the degrees that you can count, this way and that and all the way round. You have been, haven’t you? You’ve been lusting after me, your appetite fed by my eggs. What the duck! The truth is, I am an imitation of who you think I am. I am not what you believe me to be, hah-haaaah, cluckettty-cluck. Don’t get me? Even having got me? My eggs and my every part other than my feathers that are soaked in my blood because they were used to wipe it? Well, well, cluck-cluck, what the duck, and just as well. I am not chicken, I am flesh and bone and tendon and feather. When I become what I am to you, I am no longer chicken. Do look for a word. I am the sum of my parts to you, measured, weighed and paid for. But I am forever more; I am the imagination of your appetite, I am the one whose appetite will not end. In you. Get that? My chicken, mine.  Mine to gobble, yours to admire and lust after, chicken all the same. Skewered. Or baked. Or roasted. Or strung and quartered and had, any which way. What’s a chicken, even mine, to say or do? What the duck? Oh my diddledee hen Here I come and my men I’ll count from one to ten To have you, do tell me when.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-117
15-11-2020||Opinion||Code of discontent||A nanny State simply cannot get enough of treating its citizens like children. It does not want them to grow up and learn to make adult choices. The Narendra Modi government is at grave risk of turning into one and the latest evidence of this became apparent when it amended its allocation of business rules and decided almost overnight to bring digital and online media — films and other audio visual programmes as well as news and current affairs — within the ambit of the information and broadcasting ministry instead of the ministry of electronics and information technology where it originally resided. The move has already sparked howls of protest from free speech advocates amid fears that this marks the first step towards an oppressive regulation of the digital space. There are, of course, a number people who believe that some sort of regulation is necessary. They contend that if print and television media are subject to oversight, then there ought to be similar restrictions on digital content providers as well. The internet has evolved in a different era from the two traditional forms of media that have been subject to regulations distilled from colonial-era legislation. The internet was conceived in an almost utopian dream and its early evangelists had passionately hoped that it would stay outside the scope of governmental oversight. The original dream has long since evaporated but the fight against regulation of any kind continues with varying degrees of success depending on the level of personal freedoms that the authorities in different jurisdictions are willing to concede. The big worry is that India is getting ready to regulate the internet in a tyrannical fashion, mimicking countries like China as well as the Arab world by devising regulations founded on an adamantine code of morality and a desire to muzzle free speech on the basis of elastic definitions of national security and public interest and a whimsical determination of what is considered odious. Barely two months ago, the telecom regulator, which comes under the MeITY, had recommended that OTT services ought not to be regulated after a five-year long debate on the subject. Some countries like Singapore, for instance, have developed a digital content code that requires programmes to be secular and specifies a six-rating classification for films on the web with an age verification mechanism for content deemed to be appropriate for those above 21. No one will argue against the spirit of such a code if India were to adopt it. But one suspects it will go beyond movies and creative expression and enter the realm of news and commentary. News in the digital world is seen very differently from the structured framework of traditional news publications and the regulations, if and when they are framed, will need to define it. It is not clear whether these rules will cover influencers, bloggers and anyone ranting on Twitter and Facebook. The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, and the Information Technology Act, 2004 have sufficient provisions to ensure that OTT providers do not step out of line. The latest move also signals that Mr Modi’s government has no faith in the code of self regulation that 15 OTT platforms had agreed to sign in September. There is a lack of trust on both sides — and this will raise deeper questions about the intent behind any regulatory code that the government devises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-117
15-11-2020||Opinion||BJP's win in Bihar, Nadda's moment of glory||The Bharatiya Janata Party president, JP Nadda, finally got to savour his moment of glory. Although the National Democratic Alliance just about managed to scrape past the halfway mark, the emergence of the BJP as a dominant force in the Bihar polls was cause for a big celebration. This was the first significant achievement since Nadda took charge of the party from Amit Shah earlier this year. Nadda drove to the party headquarters in an open vehicle and rose petals were showered on him. It was a replay of the kind of welcome Shah used to get when the BJP won election after election. Even the prime minister, Narendra Modi, hailed the leadership of Nadda in his victory speech. Modi even raised the slogan, “Naddaji aap aage badho, hum aapke saath hai”. All this may have appeared to be too much for the otherwise low-profile leader, but whispers in the party corridors suggest that Shah’s gesture held more significance for Nadda than Modi’s pat. Much before Modi’s speech in the evening, Shah had reached Nadda’s residence to greet him with a bouquet for the party’s performance in Bihar. The big question on the minds of many people now is whether Naddaji, as the BJP chief is fondly addressed, can finally emerge from the shadow of the Modi-Shah duopoly. The BJP-led government in Assam has been facing flak for its inability to contain the prices of essential commodities. Prasanta Phukan, a BJP member of the legislative assembly, who was a vocal critic of price rise when he was in the Opposition, added to the discomfiture of the government in the poll-bound state with his ‘solution’ to cope with price rise. “You can go to any shop and exchange your free rice for onions. You can also use paanchphoron in place of onions,” he said. His suggestion of barter sparked anger against him and the government. Television channels started futile visits to the markets to look for shops/vendors who were giving onions in exchange for free rice. Buyers gave vent to their anger by reminding Phukan how he used to hit the street with a garland of onions to protest against price rise when he was in the Opposition. But then times have changed for Phukan, if not for the common person. So far, the BJP has fallen under the ‘also-ran’ category in Kerala. The party has always been plagued by factionalism in the southern state. To make things worse for the party — it is desperate to put up a decent show in the upcoming assembly polls — a senior leader, Shobha Surendran, who was ‘demoted’ from the national executive to the state unit as one of the vice presidents, has started rebelling. The stage is now set for a bigger drama with Shobha threatening to go public with how old-timers were being sidelined. The myth that Chirag Paswan’s gamble to go it alone hurt the Janata Dal (United) and helped the BJP can be busted. The devil is in the detail. In reality, the Lok Janshakti Party’s solitary foray helped the Rashtriya Janata Dal the most and the BJP the least. While data show that the BJP got barely one extra seat because of LJP, it helped the RJD wrest at least 22 seats that the latter would not have otherwise won. Even the Congress has won at least six seats more than it would have because the LJP cut into the JD(U)’s and the BJP’s votes. The Congress tally would have been 13, not 19, had the LJP contested together with the BJP-JD(U). Although statistics alone do not decide the fate of the elections, the LJP helped the RJD-Congress more even in terms of atmospherics. So the Congress managers should thank Chirag Paswan for salvaging its prestige as 19 looks better than 13 or even less. This shows the pitiable state of affairs for the Congress. Insiders believe that the Congress would have been whittled down to three-four seats if it were not for the support of the RJD. What the party did in five years is known to the gods alone. The Aam Aadmi Party has roped in the former Tamil Nadu chief secretary, PC Cyriac, who hails from Kochi, to steer the party’s foray in the upcoming local body polls in Kerala. In 2014, the AAP made headlines in the state when it fielded eminent candidates like the author, Sara Joseph, the journalist, Anita Pratap, and the former IPS officer, Ajit Joy — all of whom lost but garnered a large chunk of votes. However, the party sacked its convener, CR Neelakandan — a Gandhian activist — for declaring his support for select candidates of the Congress-led United Democratic Front, and the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Left Democratic Front in last year’s Lok Sabha polls. The AAP declared its support for the LDF after its alliance talks with the Congress failed in Delhi. The septuagenarian Cyriac, who unsuccessfully contested the municipal polls in 2019 and assembly polls in 2016 as an independent, will lead a corporate style selection of professionals as candidates in the upcoming polls. Luck and BS Yediyurappa have always been housemates. Just when BJP hardliners were mobilizing to unseat the 77-year-old leader, who is considered ‘too soft’ by some, came the twin successes in the bypolls. The fact that his younger son, BY Vijayendra, helmed the campaign in the Sira constituency to give a debut win for the BJP has strengthened Yediyurappa’s hands. For now, at least, even the hardliners have begun singing hosannas to the chief minister who has otherwise crossed the age after which one is consigned to the dreaded margdarshak mandal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-117
15-11-2020||Opinion||Taxing work: Deutsche Bank's proposal for ‘privilege tax’ for employees||Sir — As if the stress of working from home were not enough, Deutsche Bank has proposed a ‘privilege tax’ for employees who can earn a living without being physically present in office. Why, one must ask, do employees have to bear the burden of taxation? Are not the companies saving establishment costs with people working from home? Moreover, at a time when working from home can mean the difference between life and death for not just oneself but also others, how can it be called a ‘privilege’? Work from home involves longer hours; an added tax will break the employees’ morale. Ravi Marik, Pune Sir — In a democratic country, no institution, no public office and no person can be above scrutiny, or even criticism. People have the right to express displeasure even if it is against the Supreme Court. This cannot be tantamount to contempt of court. The attorney-general, K.K. Venugopal, has initiated contempt of court proceedings against the stand-up comedian, Kunal Kamra, for his criticism of the Supreme Court in the promptness shown in granting bail to the Republic TV journalist, Arnab Goswami (“AG’s consent against Kamra”, Nov 13). This is ironical when one considers what the judge, D.Y. Chandrachud, said while granting bail to Goswami: “If we as a constitutional court do not lay down law and protect personal liberty, then who will?” Does this tenet then hold true only for a handful of individuals? One hopes that the Supreme Court will in its astuteness reject the petition against Kamra. If it does not, it will only be giving more ground to the allegations of bias that are being levelled against it. More important, steps must be taken to reconsider the matter of contempt of court. The concept is centuries out of time. In England, it is a common law principle that seeks to protect the judicial power of the monarch, initially exercised by the monarch, and later by a panel of judges who acted in his or her name. Violation of the judges’ orders was considered an affront to the monarch. Over time, any kind of disobedience to judges, or obstruction to the implementation of their directives, or comments and actions that showed disrespect towards them came to be punishable. Making allegations against the judiciary or individual judges, attributing motives to judgments and judicial functioning and any scurrilous attack on the conduct of judges are normally considered matters that scandalize the judiciary. The rationale for this provision is that courts must be protected from tendentious attacks that lower its authority, defame its public image and make the people lose faith in its impartiality. But, in effect, this law has been turned into a weapon to silence doubts against the judiciary. This is an unhealthy practice. Airing and addressing of grievances is how a democracy functions. Suppressing discontent will only make matters worse. Pradipta Sen, Calcutta Sir — The Supreme Court should set a precedent by refusing to entertain contempt of court proceedings against Kunal Kamra. This will be the best response to Kamra’s allegations against the top court of the country. A recent chain of events has led many to question the motivations behind some of the apex court’s judgments. Contempt of court is meant to keep the judiciary and its judgments above doubt. But in present times it has served quite the opposite function. The judges must ask themselves whether punishing Kamra will eradicate the seeds of doubt in the minds of people or only help them gain root. J. Akshobhya,Hyderabad Sir — It was encouraging to learn that villagers in Matiagacha stood guard around a 5 feet-long Russell’s viper for hours to protect it from people who wanted to kill it (“Villagers save Russell’s viper”, Nov 14). Although it is a crime, killing snakes is, unfortunately, common in our country. Mostly, people kill snakes out of fear. Regular awareness programmes about snakes by the forest department could decrease the number of such incidents. Sourish Misra, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-117
