16-11-2020||Opinion||Press play: Sports-related subjects for students||All work and no play has, for long, had a detrimental effect on the mind and body of young Indians. But it seems that the government is waking up to the problem — at last. The announcement that an expert committee of the Union ministry of youth affairs and sports is ready with the blueprint of a National Sports Education Board, which will offer students sports-related subjects apart from the regular curriculum, comes as a ray of hope. There are a number of reasons to be optimistic about the possibilities of such a development. For one, children in India are traditionally discouraged by their families — social pressure plays its role too — from pursuing sports as a career even if they excel in it. This tendency to view sports as a non-lucrative professional prospect might be remedied by the NSEB proposal. The latter will enable students to be tested on sports-related subjects along with conventional ones in their board examinations; crucially, they will be offered a chance to defer their exams, a privilege that was hitherto only granted to established athletes, not aspiring ones. Given that sport is largely viewed as an extra-curricular activity to be eventually given up in favour of ‘serious’ subjects, these elements in the NSEB plan might open up avenues for students to pursue a multidisciplinary approach, a trait that is encouraged by most institutions of excellence. Achieving sporting excellence has been a dream for India. The country’s consistent abysmal showing at the Olympics — it has the worst record in terms of medals per head — is rightly attributed, among other things, to a lack of funding, modern infrastructure and training, bureaucratic meddling as well as — this should not be ignored — unimaginative policy. Arming students interested in sports with intellectual rigour could be beneficial. It would not only offer students a diverse set of disciplines to choose from but also aid the athlete in the application of strategy learnt in the classroom on to the field. If the NSEB succeeds in delivering its goals, it will facilitate a crucial transition, transforming India’s youth into a constituency with able bodies and agile minds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-116
16-11-2020||Opinion||Liberty first: SC justifies Arnab bail||A constitutional court is concerned with an individual’s fundamental right to liberty. This principle, reportedly enunciated by the Supreme Court while granting interim bail to the managing director of a television channel, is of overwhelming importance. There are numerous individuals whose applications for bail are either not being heard or being rejected by the courts. The principle that bail is the rule, not the exception, seems to have been forgotten. Incarceration without trial or even charge-sheets for months or years is a violation of personal liberty and of the principles of justness understood in the widest sense. The Supreme Court set aside the Bombay High Court’s dismissal of the television channel’s managing director’s interim bail plea as an error, and reportedly directed high courts to exercise their jurisdiction to protect human liberty, which is why constitutional courts exist. It also said that state governments should refrain from going after persons who do not agree with them. The ruling strikes at the culture of detaining people by refusing bail, even when the application is made after more than a year of waiting for charge-sheet or trial. Sudha Bhardwaj, arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case, for example, was reportedly advised by the Supreme Court to withdraw her bail application made on grounds of ill health, and apply instead ‘on merit’. In recent times, others arrested in relation to the Bhima Koregaon violence and that in East Delhi have often found bail to be elusive in different courts. Yet the Supreme Court has emphasized the importance of personal liberty more than once. In 2011, for example, it said that since personal liberty is precious, the remedy of the writ of habeas corpus cannot be hindered by technical objections. Of the 554 habeas corpus cases filed when Article 370 was revoked in Kashmir on August 5, 2019, the Jammu and Kashmir High Court has reportedly decided 29. The latest ruling by the Supreme Court also suggests that such cases should be heard with the same punctuality as that of the managing director. That may help undertrial prisoners who, on December 31, 2017, made up 68.50 per cent of prison inmates. Many of them are too poor to afford the bail fee. Maybe the State should look into this, too, in order to honour the Supreme Court’s ruling on personal liberty?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-116
16-11-2020||Opinion||Hurdles ahead for the Unites States||The presidential election of the United States of America has been won by Joe Biden. There have been celebrations in the US and in other parts of the world. Donald Trump’s presidency is widely viewed as a highly disruptive one, making him a rather unpopular figure globally. But in the US his popularity does not seem to have declined, even though he could not muster enough electoral college votes. Since he refuses to concede, words like ‘coup’ are being bandied about. It is highly unusual to hear such words in the context of the American democracy, but the extreme polarization of the body politic has brought to the fore the infirmities of its political system at a time when it was least desired. We were being told that there would be a Democratic wave on November 3. Instead, the performance of the Democrats has been below par. Not only is the US Senate likely to remain under Republican control, but the Democrats also lost seats in the House of Representatives. Democrats did not pick up a single state legislative chamber, and their majority in the House of Representatives has narrowed, sparking calls for a change in leadership. This success will give Republicans substantial control over congressional redistricting as states redraw electoral maps for congressional and state legislative districts next year, putting Democrats on a weak wicket in the long term. Even Biden has managed to scrape through to the presidency by winning with slim margins in the key battleground states. It is this fractured mandate that Trump is seeking to exploit further by throwing in multiple legal challenges in the way of Biden. While the Trump versus Biden saga will continue to attract a lot of attention, what is equally, if not more, interesting is the intra-Democratic Party turmoil that this mandate has begun to produce. The moderate and centrist Democrats are worried that the so-called ‘progressives’ tried to provide an agenda for the party which was viewed as out of the mainstream, making it difficult for the Democrats to win seats in the hinterland. Several centrist Democrats have complained about calls by their colleagues on the left of the party to defund the police and law enforcement. As one moderate Democrat, Abigail Spanberger, said, “We lost races we shouldn’t have lost... ‘Defund the police’ almost cost me my race because of an attack ad... Don’t say socialism ever again... We need to get back to basics.” This has resulted in a strong pushback from the progressives. The Michigan representative, Rashida Tlaib, part of a liberal congressional clique known as “the Squad”, targeted the centrist Democrats for blaming the far-left for hurting the party. She, along with other progressives, has warned, “If we abandon our core progressive base and agenda, Democrats will not hold onto the House majority in the 2022 midterms and will have no hope of gaining grounds in the Senate.” This group remains concerned about the prospect of President Joe Biden engaging with moderate Republicans as he tries to play the role of a unifier. Tlaib has made it clear, “We are not interested in unity that asks people to sacrifice their freedom and their rights any longer.” The senator, Bernie Sanders, is an important player in this dynamic. Sanders, who caucuses with Senate Democrats, has been floated by the progressives as a potential candidate for the labour secretary position in the incoming Biden-Harris administration and he has suggested that he would introduce a 100-day agenda of his own. As Biden tries to make his way to consolidating his governance agenda, he will find that the challenges within his own party might be far more difficult to tackle than he would have imagined. The fault lines within the US and the Democratic Party are likely to ensure that governance will not be easy. This will be the single-most important issue facing the Biden administration at a time when the allure of the American democracy is already being questioned in parts of the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-116
16-11-2020||Opinion|| A big bang forever: Penrose's beautiful idea||I have known Roger Penrose closely for quite some time. He has been visiting Calcutta for more than 25 years. His involvement with Albert Einstein’s general theory of relativity is intense; his other abiding passion is with black holes. In some way, black holes come out of Einstein’s equation, but Einstein refused to believe in their existence. The idea of a massive cosmic body from where light could not escape was first suggested by the English clergyman, John Michell, way back in 1784; he assumed — erroneously — the density of the massive body to be the same as that of the sun. In 1931, the great Indian astrophysicist, Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar, calculated using the special theory of relativity, that a non-rotating body of electron-degenerate matter above a certain limiting mass — now called Chandrasekhar Limit — at 1.4 solar mass, has no stable solution and thus turns gravitationally unstable. The outstanding Russian physicist, Lev Landau, and the famous Cambridge astronomer, Arthur Eddington, disagreed; in their creative space, there was no room for the black hole. In the 1960s, in a ‘global’ approach using Quantum Field Theory in curved space time, Penrose’s Cambridge colleague, Stephen Hawking, was looking for a generic solution. Eventually, he discovered the Hawking-Penrose singularity, which led to the Nobel prize this year for Penrose. This was the inception of Black hole thermodynamics and the most spectacular outcome of this theory was the Hawking radiation. The temperature of the Hawking radiation is inversely proportional to the mass of the black hole; with the Hawking radiation, the mass of the black hole goes down and, eventually, it would evaporate completely. In December 1967, a student suggested the phrase, ‘black hole’, at a lecture by John Wheeler, the science adviser to the president of the United States of America and a front-runner in modern cosmology. The name caught on quickly. The first ‘real’ picture of black holes colliding, leading to the discovery of gravitational waves, showed up last year when Luciano Rezzolla showed it at a Bari Conference in July 2019. On one occasion, Penrose had explained to me a rudimentary version of his idea of ‘Conformal cyclic cosmology’. It goes as follows: our universe is the universe of this aeon. There existed another aeon before this when there existed another universe. After expanding through space and time for billions of years, the universe cooled off sufficiently and turned into a cosmic grave the size of the entire universe. It turned so cold that the black holes had an intrinsic temperature higher than the ambient universe. The second law of thermodynamics dictates that with the entropy stored within the black holes, the universe’s billions of black holes would burst at once. And that is the ‘big bang’, creating the next universe. The process goes on, destruction followed by creation, from one aeon to another, with no beginning or end. Is there any proof of such fantastic ideas? I have invited Penrose to a conference that I am organizing in March 2021. The abstract of the talk is, “Are we Seeing Hawking Points in the Microwave Sky?” What is it that observers have seen? Penrose says in that abstract, “Hawking points represent the conformably compressed Hawking radiation from supermassive black holes in the previous aeon; supermassive black hole is a million / billion times the solar mass, resides usually at the centre of a galaxy, with voracious gravitational appetite. Each such black hole would have devoured an entire galactic cluster, before finally decaying in the form of Hawking radiation, squashed into a single ‘Hawking point’, 8 times the diameter of the full moon.” Then he goes on to add, “an effect that we appear to be actually observing.” Fred Hoyle and Jayant Narlikar toyed with the idea of a steady-state theory of the universe: destruction, immediately or almost immediately, followed by creation filling up the void. Penrose’s supervisor at Cambridge, Dennis Sciama — my mathematics teacher during my Cambridge undergraduate days —was a champion of the steady-state theory. That got demolished with the experimental discovery of the ‘big bang’ and the associated ‘hiss’ of the expanding universe. Sciama acknowledged his mistake publicly. Penrose has now come up with the brilliant and beautiful idea that there isn’t one ‘big bang’ but a ‘big bang forever’, from one aeon to another to another, making ‘time’ a redundant variable. Our present universe, the product of the ‘big bang’ in this aeon, is, in a sense, the product of the idea of the new steady-state theory of the universe. I end with one of the most penetrating and profound quotes of Einstein who started it all: “One of the strongest motives leading to art and science is a flight from everyday life with its painful coarseness and bleak tediousness, from the chains of ever changing personal wish.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-116
16-11-2020||Opinion||The other Nehru ||India and the world of the 21st century have moved beyond the ideas of Jawaharlal Nehru. Environmental writers and activists have been prominent critics of his development model. More than any other speech, the one on big dams extolling them as ‘temples of modern India’ stand out in public memory. Critics of big dams point to the displacement and the loss of ecological amenity that have so often plagued large river valley schemes in India, Asia, and, indeed, much of the world. The loss of forest cover due to submergence and ecological degradation in the catchment areas became a major concern. Part of the problem with these criticisms is the absence of context. The world in which Nehru served as prime minister was very different from our own. The early part of the century had seen major hydel projects that were of great symbolic importance and also held the promise of great public benefit. The United States of America was admired the world over for the Tennessee Valley Authority that included a series of dams aimed at putting an end to floods in a key part of the Deep South of that country. It also generated hydropower and facilitated development in the wake of the Depression. Nehru was not alone in this. B.R. Ambedkar explicitly evoked this as a model for the Damodar valley in eastern India. The other major power to emerge on the world stage, the Soviet Union, also advertised its mega engineering scheme with a great dam in 1937 on the river, Volga. For Stalin, such dams were a sign that socialism had come of age and could promise greater gains than anything the West had to offer. His successors expanded such works on the Don, the Dnieper and the Volga. In the Indian case, the dams of Bhakra and Nangal were among the prized projects of the Nehru era. But there was a significant difference with the American and Soviet cases. India was not only a newly independent nation: it also had a broad consensus among its leaders that modern industry was imperative to defend its new-found freedoms. By undertaking such projects as the dams on the Sutlej, Nehru and the Punjab government of Partap Singh Kairon were also conveying that Indians were capable of large civilian engineering projects. Begun in 1954, the scheme was completed by October 1963. These were dams built by the state electricity board just as the new planned city of Chandigarh was a project of the public works department. The reference to the dam being equal to ‘a temple, a mosque or a gurudwara’ and the admiration it evokes had a subliminal message. Punjab had been torn apart in the carnage of Partition and this marked a new beginning. The evocation of religious places was to evoke a sense of reverence for a common project for the public good. Quite apart from the symbolic as well as substantive gains of big dams, including irrigation water and power, there were signs of early debate about their ill effects. There had been a black flag demonstration by evacuees at the Hirakud dam site when Nehru visited it in 1946. In Bengal, the engineer-author, Kapil Dev Bhattacharya, had argued that the gains of the Damodar valley schemes were overstated. He further wrote that the silt load was far greater than estimated and that the dams would wreak havoc on the fisheries downstream. Large river valley projects were central to the project of nation-building in more than one country at the time. Work on Gamal Abdel Nasser’s Aswan dam commenced in 1960 and was the symbol of Egyptian pride. The Turks went ahead with the Atatürk dam on the Euphrates. The historian, John R. McNeill, shows how the high point globally was in 1968 when a dam was being commissioned somewhere on earth every day. Yet, there was another Jawaharlal Nehru, not the ardent champion of big projects but the healthy sceptic. The Discovery of India, written in Ahmednagar Fort during his three-year-long detention, offers a clue. Published in 1946, the book has a section where he crucially assesses the impact of modern engineering structures on river valleys. Embankments on river basins blocked the flow of waters and worsened floods. These prevented the natural flow of water in the monsoon and exposed more villagers and townspeople to floods. These were a new feature of the era of British rule. Nehru was thus conscious of the double-edged effect of new technologies. Most revealing are two letters he wrote to chief ministers in August and September 1957, respectively. This was just over three years after his speeches at the Bhakra and the Nangal dam sites in August 1954. Both are in Volume Four of Letters to Chief Ministers, 1954-57, published long ago in 1988. Interestingly, neither his admirers nor his critics seem to have paid much attention to these communications. The first letter dated August 15, 1957, the tenth anniversary of India’s Independence, could have been penned by one of today’s critics and a paragraph deserves to be cited in extenso. “We have many large-scale river valley projects,” he wrote, “which are carefully worked out by our engineers. I wonder, however, how much thought is given before the project is launched, to having an ecological survey of the area and to find out what the effect would be on the drainage system or to the flora and fauna of that area. It would be desirable to have such an ecological survey of these areas before the project is launched and thus to avoid an imbalance of nature.” Emphasis is added here and not in the original but it is notable that he was talking of ecological studies at the planning stage as part of a project, an idea that was to take shape only in the 1970s in the developed world and in India in the next decade. These words were penned in August of 1957. The next letter of September 3 returned to the same theme of bunds and embankments on the flood plains he had taken up in his writings as early as 1946. There was a widespread demand for structures to avert floods but “every embankment or bund, while protecting one area, might lead to greater danger to another area”. Drainage was the key to flood control. Interventions were often a must but they ought to proceed “paying any attention to their effect on nature’s economy”. Nehru favoured large projects as did all his successors as prime minister no matter of what political affiliation. Their gains are seen as outweighing costs. The first instances of ecological considerations leading to rethinking and scrapping of projects were in the 1970s and in 1980s — Silent Valley, Kerala or Bedthi Varahi, Karnataka. Nehru was engaging with these ideas long before any of this. What is important was his willingness to engage and rethink design features. Some of his comments ring true to this day. He was not a heedless advocate of mega dams. On the contrary, he would be not out of place in the world of today. The author teaches History and Environmental Studies at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-116
