17-11-2020||Opinion||Clear the air: Quiet Diwali in Calcutta||Good sense is seldom evident when celebrations are at hand. But this year’s Kali Puja and Diwali in Calcutta seemed to have bucked the trend — to some extent. The city remained unexpectedly quiet. The particulate matter count indicated improvement in air quality with regard to Diwali in other years, although its rise compared to the day before showed that the celebrations had not been entirely without crackers. That was particularly true of the city’s fringes and the districts. A girl died of burns caused while bursting crackers with her family in Malda, while the city of Howrah apparently could not tear itself away from celebratory noise and smoke. In spite of these aberrations, suggest reports, there was a will to comply with the Calcutta High Court’s order banning the sale and bursting of crackers. Neither the fine nor the length of imprisonment laid down for violations could be taken lightly. The alarming spread of the Covid-19 infection and its effect on the lungs lay behind the blanket ban on crackers. The court’s strictness and the experience of the illness offered a conjuncture of circumstances that seemed to have compelled a sobriety that had remained unattainable in spite of environmentalists’ warnings and rulings about decibel levels in recent years. Fear works. That seems to be the chief lesson of the unusual quietness. The police did their job energetically, and were seen to do so, while the possibility of a spell in jail was clearly uninviting. But there was also the powerful fear of an illness that isolates and inconveniences, and can even maim and kill, while still remaining out of reach of full comprehension. Besides, numerous households are mourning their loss, or trying to save a loved one. Fear springing from many sources rather than a sudden growth in civic sense is possibly the reason behind the compliance. The police with their best efforts could not have achieved this without the conscious cooperation of the public. It is hoped that the virus will leave, or be controlled. One source of fear would disappear. Would society then show its civic sense by keeping Kali Puja and Diwali decently quiet and air pollution free?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-116
17-11-2020||Opinion||Gloom deepens: India in recession||India is in the midst of a serious health crisis not only in society but also in the economy. The widespread pandemic has aggravated the decline of the economy, which was already discernible before the arrival of Covid-19. Now the Reserve Bank of India has announced that India is in the midst of a technical recession, experienced for the first time ever in the country. A technical recession is said to occur when there is a contraction of the gross domestic product for two consecutive quarters. In the first quarter of this financial year, the GDP fell by a massive 23.9 per cent. The quick estimate by the RBI for the second quarter indicates a further fall of 8.6 per cent. On top of this, retail inflation hit a 77-month high of 7.61 per cent in October 2020, even higher than the September rate of 7.27 per cent. This inflation is sustained by a marked rise in the prices of food items. The consumer food price inflation was 11.07 per cent in October this year. Meat and fish prices rose by 18.70 per cent, eggs by 21.81 per cent, and vegetables by 22.51 per cent. The RBI has the target of keeping the retail inflation range bound between 2 per cent and 6 per cent. This means that the economy is in a phase of stagflation, and this will make an accommodative monetary policy more difficult in the near future. Hence interest rates may be on pause for some time to come. With monetary policy kept in check to curb inflationary expectations, the policy-based stimulus has to come from the ministry of finance. The finance minister recently announced a third stimulus package — Atmanirbhar Bharat 3.0 — worth Rs 2.65 lakh crore. Like the previous two packages, a lot is notionally allocated as additional credit for willing borrowers (and lenders). These transactions are not under the direct control of North Block. They do not constitute direct benefits to consumers to boost demand. In the schemes announced, apart from the effects of a larger fertilizer subsidy to farmers and income-tax relief to homebuyers, the only direct benefit to households is worth Rs 10,000 crore in the form of additional allocation for the MGNREGA job creation scheme and the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana programme. The Centre’s approach has been to continue to depend on credit availability to drive recovery and growth. However, credit off-take from the banking system was poor last year and this has dropped further in the first half of the current year to 5.1 per cent compared to 8.6 per cent in the first half of 2019-20. Fresh credit was mainly allocated for personal loans and agriculture. Non-food credit growth was alarmingly low. The government has to understand that demand creates additional output and employment. It is not the other way round.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-116
17-11-2020||Opinion||Economic parity: A goal worth fighting for||Over the last couple of months, as India began to gradually open up the economy, regional newspapers in the hinterland have been aflush with a certain kind of notice every day, issued by banks and other lending institutions, listing out possessions, seizures and e-auctions of assets mortgaged as collaterals against loans. These are defunct loans people are apparently unable to repay following job losses and/or a crash in incomes in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic that, in turn, came on the heels of an economy in recession. Some of it can be traced back to the decision of demonetization in 2016. The notices, which make for curious reading, list out properties or vehicles that people bought before the pandemic hit our shores in March 2020. Then there are notices of auctions of gold, used in some cases as security against debt. You find the seemingly rich and middle classes all sailing in the same boat, struggling to repay their outstanding loans. It is apparent that lending institutions are equally desperate, given the fact that some of this retail debt would turn into bad assets unless recovered in full or part. Properties and vehicles bought on loans are increasingly being seized and e-auctioned by lending institutions if the borrowers have defaulted on their equated monthly instalments and are unable to recast their loans. School buses, one can see, are being e-auctioned in the hundreds. What were functional accounts in March 2020 have gone either defunct or red. The spectre of a sure reversal of the economic strides that some lower to middle-income Indians made over two decades looms. The farming classes are in even more of a quandary. In this context, the political narrative of the Rashtriya Janata Dal leader, Tejashwi Yadav, around economic justice in the run-up to the potboiler of the recently-concluded Bihar assembly elections was a refreshing new battle cry that the Opposition so desperately needed to rally against as well as to reverse the sectarian narrative that the Bharatiya Janata Party has woven over the last few years. The backward classes that have fought for social justice since Independence now seek economic and pay parity that this kind of economic justice shall dovetail. However, jobs — both private and under the government — will merely be one promise to ensure economic justice for the marginalized sections or for the regions lagging behind. India needs to look at its disparities that are both structural as well as policy-driven. Some of this disparity is also driven by caste and religion-based discrimination, particularly in this region where gaining access to even basic amenities is challenging. Look at healthcare, for instance. Apart from jobs, education — basic and technical — has not been an easy deal for a majority of Indians, mainly the backward classes as well as minority, Dalit and tribal communities, among others. The idea of socio-economic justice will need to include making education accessible and an equal opportunity goal. It is unlikely that the Narendra Modi regime — rather, the entire sangh parivar — will wean away from a majoritarian path, given the hefty returns it is reaping for them. It is for the Opposition to take what the RJD scion attempted to revitalize in the Bihar election to the next level. After all, the notion of social and economic justice would need to be explained in a comprehensible language for the masses. It would also entail an earnest sharing of political power with the marginalized sections, combined with course correction for policies. Yadav’s efforts did not materialize this time around, but the Opposition, including the beleaguered Congress, has a chance to unite itself and vast sections of Indians seeking economic parity in a highly unequal land. It may take time, but it is a goal worth persisting for.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-116
17-11-2020||Opinion||Spot the difference||Last week, India expanded its production-linked incentive scheme to 10 manufacturing sectors to a total of 13. The aim is to spur manufacturing, investment and employment through targeted State support (around Rs 2 trillion) to domestic and foreign firms for local production, build global hubs and champions, and integrate into global value chains. This complements a swath of previous initiatives and trade policy shifts in recent months and from 2018. These include, inter alia, labour and agriculture market reforms, import tariffs and restrictions, lower corporate taxes, wooing foreign firms to relocate to India and seeking long-term foreign capital. The strategy pivots on manufacturing-led growth with an export bias through market protection, subsidies and other interventions, several of which are part of the pandemic package under the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ rubric. It would be fair to describe it as protectionist, export-seeking through manufacturing self-reliance, coupled with openness to foreign capital in order to attract large-scale firms relocating from China. By happenstance, China formalized its growth strategy for 2021-25 about a fortnight ago (14th Five Year Plan). Briefly, it will accord a central role to innovation and technological self-reliance, modernize traditional industries and supply chains, build a sturdy domestic market (called ‘internal circulation’), increase openness (‘international circulation’), balance market forces with a socialist economic system and synchronize national defence with economic progress. Future plans aside, China has escalated import restrictions on one ground or another — Australian farm products are an example; whether these are punitive, retaliatory or simply import-substituting will be clear over time. China’s economic proposals have attracted a lot of scrutiny and commentary. Its concurrence with post-pandemic circumstances and growth environment and with India’s aforementioned shift in trade-industrial policies has been noted. In particular, the common inward turn to domestic demand for future growth by two of Asia’s largest economies, neighbours both, has prompted comment. It is interesting that both countries are responding within vastly different contexts, have different motivations and compulsions, even though the growth objective may be shared. Even the self-reliance mechanisms are quite dissimilar in several aspects. What are these? As most commentaries note, the background to China seeking self-reliance in technology and innovation is defined by its deep divide and competition with the United States of America — the US firewalling technological access and alerting other countries in the process due to suspected high-tech theft by Chinese firms, compulsion to safeguard and reduce leverage in semi-conductor imports where the US leads core applied sciences, an ambition to occupy the global technology frontier that has been long held by the US and from which it derives the edge in productivity and substantial economic lead. The Covid-19 pandemic has also altered the external environment: there are efforts by several countries to build alternative supply chains to secure essential supplies and lower Chinese dependency; impending revisions to multilateral trade rules in the future; geopolitical changes and reconfiguration of global alliances, some in response to the escalating military aggression of China. China has proposed a new economic model — dual circulation, a unique composite comprising ‘internal circulation’ — development and leveraging of domestic demand — and ‘international circulation’ — continued expansion of domestic production for exports. This is a continuation of attempts to rebalance domestic demand from investment to consumption dating back to 2007. The rebalancing towards domestic consumption has been unsatisfactory. China’s consumption share in GDP rose just two percentage points from then to 2019, points out Michael Pettis (Financial Times, August 2020), adding that the debt-to-GDP ratio doubled; the pandemic will further lower domestic consumption and increase debt burden and, therefore, dual circulation implies a rebalancing attempt through fundamental redistributions in income and wealth. Other interpretations uphold this perspective on domestic demand, suggesting that the plan may not represent an inward turn for growth but possible qualitative improvements by enhancing productivity, competition, better business environment and adjustments to a bleaker overseas setting (Damien Ma, Houze Song, MacroPolo). Detailed plans ahead will clear the ambiguities. India’s backdrop is very different in comparison. This, in fact, is restricted to growth and predates Covid-19. It is marked by a three-year-long slowdown that ended with growth sliding to 4.2 per cent, which Covid-19 will push into negative trough this year. The other markers are as follows: persistent decline in manufacturing growth, slow rise in output share, capacity slack, failure to attract greenfield foreign direct investments and slower trend export growth. On the demand side, a near-decade-long investment slowdown and the inability to reverse it is alarming; consumption-driven growth, which cannot sustain itself unless investment picks up the baton, has run out of steam. The stretched slowdown, regarded cyclical, has been immune to macro policy stimulation where space has run out. It has been unresponsive to numerous reforms such as the goods and services tax, corporate tax cuts, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, easier conduct of business, amongst others. India’s overall milieu is, therefore, one of exhausted sources of growth: the turn to import-substitution, backed by targeted, State-led support to domestic manufacturing for home and foreign demand — but mainly the latter — can be interpreted as a last resort to revive investment and employment. It can also be perceived as recognition of unmet expectations from reform dividends of increased efficiency and productivity. Or perhaps their slow-paced gains as producers’ input costs have not lowered as much; hence the fiscal bridge of the competitiveness gap vis-à-vis international competitors, bolstered by other missing pieces (for instance, labour reforms). It remains unclear as to how import-substitution fits into the macroeconomic framework. Evaluated from the respective contexts, motivations and objectives, there are significant dissimilarities. If China’s turn to domestic demand represents increasing household consumption share in growth, India’s objective is diametrically opposite — to rekindle and raise investment. If China seeks to achieve innovation and technological self-sufficiency due to tensions and competitions with another superpower, the US, India’s goal is far humbler and narrow — a route to revive growth. China is foreseeing a different global environment and adjusting to new realities that extend beyond the economic ones. India’s interventionist trade and industry policies, mimicking East Asian economies in the 1960s and China from the 1970s, are seeking opportunities provided by large-scale global producers relocating from China, but reflect the long gap in the two countries’ stages of development. Although the two countries are responding from vastly different standpoints and pressures, the growth objective is common. China has no specific growth target for the first time, seeking instead structural adjustment, efficiency and quality. India, on the other hand, seeks growth per se. There is scepticism whether self-reliance will deliver or whether either or both countries would accomplish the objectives sought. These will unfold in the medium-term. There is also the post-pandemic world to be reckoned with where structural and other changes remain unknown at this point. The author is a macroeconomist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-116
