18-11-2020||Opinion||Will India lose out for not joining world’s largest trading bloc?||It was Asia’s big party but India stayed away. It was only a virtual bash but all the big names were there – Japan, China, South Korea and Australia and the like. And what was the occasion? Well, last Sunday, 15 nations with a combined population of 2.2 billion, signed into being the world’s largest trading bloc, the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP). The emergence of this new free-trade pact flags the key question of whether India was right to walk away from the trade bloc, literally at the 11th hour. The bloc binds the regional powerhouse China with advanced economies like Japan, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand and Singapore plus a handful of countries with a distinctly poorer, Third World flavour like Cambodia, Laos and the Philippines. China, the aspiring superpower, is the moving force behind RCEP and the bloc’s other countries are already watching nervously, worried about being bullied by it. India shocked everyone last year when it suddenly declared it wouldn’t join RCEP as it was unhappy with the terms offered. Among India’s demands were more protection from cheap Chinese goods that might flood our country, a better deal for service-sector industries (where we have greater muscle) and freer movement for professionals. Certainly, everyone wanted us to join. The Chinese were hoping to get easier access for its products to India’s 1.4-billion strong market. The other countries, especially Japan, Australia and New Zealand wanted us as a counterweight to the Chinese mega-giant that threatens to totally dominate RCEP. In fact, members are so keen to bring India into the fold that a special fast-track procedure has been outlined in the agreement should we wish to sign up. Despite all that, it doesn’t look likely that we will join RCEP anytime in the near future. Apart from the scores of Indian industries that were terrified about facing a gigantic wave of competition, there was political opposition from the RSS which still espouses an ultra-nationalistic philosophy that wants to block as many imports as possible. Also, the military standoff in Ladakh makes it even more unlikely that India would sign a trade deal in which China was the largest and most muscular player. Keeping the Chinese out is one of the unspoken aims of India’s atmanirbhar programme. The government defends its position by arguing that it prefers bilateral free trade agreements with individual countries and trade groupings – but it says even these haven’t brought huge benefits. We have trade agreements with Asean and with individual countries like Malaysia and Indonesia and we have a mammoth $48-billion trade deficit with China. Foreign Minister S. Jaishankar said Monday that the effect of some trade agreements had “been to de-industrialise some sectors.” India had allowed other countries “unfair” trade and manufacturing advantages “in the name of openness” and a globalised economy, Jaishankar said. Former Congress finance minister P. Chidambaram said Jaishankar was turning back the clock. He’s “speaking in the language and in the words that I heard in the 1970s and 1980s,” Chidamabaram said. India could end up being the long-term loser if it turns its face against ever joining the trade grouping. Many global corporations are now moving out of China and looking for new production bases. It would make sense for many to put up factories in an RCEP country and be part of the grouping’s global supply chain so their products could move smoothly tariff-free to other countries. Look at Vietnam, for instance, which is part of RCEP and also has a free trade agreement with the European Union (it also has one with India). Also, modern trans-national corporations have streamlined production and reduced costs by creating multi-country value chains (China, for instance, produces 80 per cent of the world’s ballpoint pens but imports the pen tips from Japan, Germany and Switzerland). Says Santosh Pai, Link Legal Law Services: “India needs to be part of global value chains. Domestic consumption alone is not enough to attract foreign direct investment (FDI). And if we want to attract export-oriented FDI, then such free trade agreements are essential.” Were Indian companies right to oppose joining RCEP? India’s giant and politically powerful dairy industry is worried, for instance, that it might lose out to skimmed milk imports from New Zealand. In a bid to win over India, the New Zealand agriculture and food safety minister visited the Amul plant in Anand. The New Zealanders were even willing to agree to tariffs and quotas on skimmed milk imports. Then, India’s pharmaceutical sector, one of our few globally recognised industries, also protested about joining RCEP because the agreement wanted Indian companies to accept tougher patent rules. In the medium-scale sector, many companies feared they would be steamrollered out of existence by cheap Chinese products. “We cannot join because we are not competitive. And we are not competitive because policy limits us and folks are risk averse,” says Manoj Kewalramani, a China Studies fellow at Takshashila Institution. Turning our face against competition, though, cannot be a long-term solution, experts say. “The political economy is such that you cannot enact changes. Then how does one ever get competitive? RCEP could have created a shock to the system, an impetus to change,” says Kewalramani. Also, there are other possible consequences of staying out of RCEP. For India, a particular worry is that China will be able to create standards for products and impose them in the RCEP region, leaving us in the cold. Looking beyond trade and the economy, the other Asean countries, Australia and Japan want India as a check on China. There are a rising number of conflict flashpoints across Asia – and almost all involve the Chinese and the region would like India to serve as a counterweight. For instance, Japan and China are tussling over the Senkaku Islands, a group of uninhabited islets and rocks. Though Japan has extensive business links with China, the two countries do not have a trade agreement– and that’s despite the fact that around 35,000 Japanese companies have plants in China. That compares with only 1,500 firms in India. (Incidentally, Japan and Australia on Tuesday signed a military pact allowing reciprocal visits for training and operations. Japan has only one other military pact with the US signed in 1960 allowing foreign troops on its soil). Similarly, China has disputes with most of the countries in the South China Sea over its Nine Dash Line. Chinese belligerence is one reason why the Quad grouping of India, the US, Japan and Australia are currently holding exercises in the Arabian Sea. The Quad held exercises in the Bay of Bengal in early November. For the time being, it looks like India won’t take part in RCEP or any other agreement like it as it says it won’t join any group that has China as a member. But then we need to fashion an alternate strategy to boost exports. Says Pai: “Not joining is not the end of the world but the key question is whether India is conscious of the need to make up for not joining RCEP.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-115
18-11-2020||Opinion||Single aim: CPM thinks BJP no threat in Bengal||For a party that headed a ruling coalition in a state for 34 years, advice is unnecessary. Leaders of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), including its general secretary, Sitaram Yechury, and the West Bengal Left Front chairman, Biman Bose, together with others, have rejected the perception of the general secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist), Dipankar Bhattacharya, that the Bharatiya Janata Party would be the chief challenge in the 2021 West Bengal assembly elections. Mr Bhattacharya felt that the Left’s resurgence in Bihar as part of an alliance against the BJP could inspire the CPI(M) in Bengal. The CPI(M), however, sees the BJP as the political opponent nationally, and the Trinamul Congress as the chief rival in West Bengal. So it has decided on the Congress as its ally to defeat the TMC in the state. Its logic is mysterious. Apparently, if the CPI(M) is seen to be ‘soft’ on the TMC in order to fight the BJP, the anti-incumbency vote will go to the BJP. The argument loses its feet if it is recalled that Mr Yechury, speaking after the Left’s drubbing in West Bengal in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections — no seats — and the BJP’s dramatic rise, admitted that the Left supporters’ vote had gone to the BJP. The Left had opposed the TMC even then. Myopia is a stubborn disease. It may masquerade as ideological firmness and concern for a TMC-oppressed people to disguise an enduring hostility towards the TMC and its leader for overturning Left rule in 2011. At the moment, the CPI(M) has 26 seats in the 294-seat state assembly. The CPI(M) is either unaware of or not bothered by the rising BJP in Bengal; it wants the TMC to go. Since it is a stretch to imagine a Left-Congress government in Bengal should the TMC be ousted — it may divide the vote, of course — the nasty-minded may argue that the CPI(M) prefers the BJP to the TMC. Indian communists always had a strange sense of priorities — beginning with their opposition to the Quit India movement and condemnation of Independence as false. The BJP’s threat to democracy is unconcealed. It takes extreme myopia to believe that the TMC, which is fighting the BJP, is the bigger peril at any level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-115
18-11-2020||Opinion||Grey theory: Ideology and national interest||Ideology, it is believed, is the elixir that sustains political parties in a democracy. But can ideology also sound the death knell of democracy and national interest? This intriguing query was raised by the prime minister recently while unveiling a statue of Swami Vivekananda at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, a campus that has, over the years, witnessed intense clashes between adherents of contesting ideologies. Narendra Modi, it may be argued, suggested the need for balance, saying that the tendency to prioritize political ideology over the interest of the nation has corroded India’s democratic experience. The prime minister also referred to two shining instances where political opponents managed to build a bridge over this frightening ideological chasm: the first was the national mobilization under M.K. Gandhi; the other, Mr Modi said, was the united battle by the Left and the Right against the spectre of Emergency. Mr Modi’s concern for India’s deepening ideological fault lines is touching. But is it sincere? There is indisputable evidence to suggest that the divisions in contemporary India are the outcome of contentious efforts by the Bharatiya Janata Party — New India’s principal political force — to herd a pluralist republic towards a hegemonic, allegedly majoritarian, nationhood. That the BJP’s ascendancy has corresponded with explicit and furtive assaults on the inclusive, federal character of Indian democracy is not a coincidence. The worrying metamorphosis is linked to the BJP’s core ideological agenda — the facilitation of the Hindu rashtra. Of course, the collateral damage —the systematic discrimination and violence against minorities, the incarceration of dissidents, the bulldozing of states — must all count as the BJP’s way of upholding national interest. Mr Modi, surprisingly, did not elaborate on what constitutes national interest. Perhaps that is because the polarizing ethic of Hindutva — the BJP’s ideological engine — is inimical to it. National interest can only be served by a political commitment to honour public welfare, unity and diversity, three elements integral to the nation-building project. The problem for Mr Modi and his party is that their ideological blinkers prevent them from seeing that India derives its strength from the very multiplicity that the BJP, wedded to the principle of unilateralism, finds unpalatable. The myopic vision — the fruit of a toxic ideology — is truly antithetical to India’s interests. The prime minister, it must be admitted, is not wrong.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-115
18-11-2020||Opinion||Formula for disempowerment of persons with disabilities||The department of empowerment of persons with disabilities deals with three legislations governing different aspects of disability, welfare and empowerment of the persons with disabilities. These are — The Rehabilitation Council of India Act, 1992, The National Trust for the Welfare of Persons with Autism, Cerebral Palsy, Mental Retardation and Multiple Disabilities Act, 1999, and The Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPwD) Act, 2016. Recently, the last two legislations were in the news, inviting criticism for the government for shaving down the rights of the PwDs. The journey of the NDA-I government started on a positive note with the launching of the Accessible India Campaign, 2015 and the enactment of the RPwD Act, 2016. The Act is considered as a ‘game changer’ as it provides a framework for defining the rights to equality and a life with dignity for the 2.68 crore PwDs in India. The focus of the disability movement has always been on shifting the welfare approach to a rights-based approach. The enactment of the RPwD Act by the Government of India was, therefore, aligned with the demands of the movement. However, in late June 2020, the ministry of social justice and empowerment proposed to amend the grievance redressal mechanism under the RPwD Act “For Improving Business Sentiment and Unclogging Court Processes”. After widespread protests, the government withdrew the amendment to the Act and restored the status quo. Surprisingly, this pro-corporate move to promote ease of doing business was not a demand from the industrial lobby. In fact, the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting in Davos in 2019 had led to the launching of an initiative to close the disability inclusion gap in shaping the future economy. With the introduction of the RPwD Act, the disabled people got legal rights against discrimination for the first time in India’s history. The dilution of the grievance redressal mechanism by decriminalizing minor offences could potentially weaken the effectiveness of the RPwD Act. The Act, while being hailed as a ‘landmark’, is not a perfect piece of legislation for a number of reasons. Firstly, the minimum 40 per cent disability criteria in defining PwDs excludes persons who suffer less than 40 per cent of disabilities from receiving any of its benefits. Its anti-discrimination clause is subject to legitimate aims that have not been defined. Neither are there any penalties for the dereliction of duties by State officials responsible for implementing the Act, nor is there a time limit within which grievances are to be redressed. These are the main causes for the poor implementation of the Act. Moreover, the realization that the rights are subject to the normative gaps under the law has further compounded the lack of implementation of even the diluted form of rights assured by the Act. The department’s attempt to dilute it further through decriminalization of minor offences instead of strengthening its provisions is indicative of an ulterior motive. The Union ministry of finance is now planning to repeal the National Trust Act, 1999 and bring all disabilities under the umbrella RPwD Act. This is being cited as an austerity measure. The NTA is another important legislation, which complements the RPwD Act. Under the Act, the National Trust, a statutory body, was formed for the welfare of people with autism, cerebral palsy, mental retardation, and multiple disabilities. The trust, even though it is part of the MSJE, has independent powers to implement schemes pertaining to healthcare, insurance and shelter homes for persons with intellectual and developmental disabilities. Therefore, the role of the NT is enormous for the parents with intellectual and developmentally disabled children. These parents now fear that in the absence of the statutory body, their children, who need special care, will not get enough attention under the RPwD Act. The RPwD Act did away with the welfare approach normatively, but the poor implementation of the legislation is deterring the realization of the rights of the disabled. Welfare schemes under the NTA are, therefore, more important in the interim till the rights under 2016 are realized. The full utilization of the Rs 20 crore allocated to support the National Trust in the 2019-20 Union budget indicates its resource needs. The DEPwDs acknowledged that the National Trust has been receiving less grants against actual requirement. As a result, the trust not only had to reduce the funding pattern under different schemes but also had to meet much of its requirements from the interest of a one-time corpus fund available with it. Repealing the Act would certainly not help improve India’s economic situation. The community is in dire need of a rights-based budget and higher allocation for health, employment, nutrition, shelter and education during and beyond the Covid-19 pandemic. Instead of increasing budgetary outlays crucial to fulfil the mandates of the PwDs, the government seems inclined towards the dilution of disability laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-115
18-11-2020||Opinion||A permanent presence||The starting point of the camel safari at Sam outside Jaisalmer could easily have been the space immediately outside the gates of any primary school in Calcutta at the end of the last school day before the summer holidays. Excited children running around, mothers scrambling, drivers revving their charges, and Bengali in the air, not soft or gentle as it often can be but closer, instead, to the sounds of clanging utensils as children made the most of their new-found freedom and mothers raised their voices more out of habit than need. I was about 11 then and like most young girls and boys that evening, I was there for only one reason: to follow in the footsteps of Feluda. Like many others, my first brush with Feluda was with the films, Sonar Kella and Joy Baba Felunath. The books came immediately thereafter. So Feluda was Soumitra Chatterjee and Soumitra Chatterjee was Feluda. A fearless detective, with superhuman intelligence, astute observation, who operated in worlds beyond my own. Soumitra embodied Feluda, and I for one longed to be his sidekick, Topshe, setting out on adventures to nab Bengali dacoits in Rajasthan and smugglers in Kashi. “Chaliye ji Ram Deora,” I said to the camel driver, much to his bemusement. Feluda was the first chapter of my growing up with Soumitra Chatterjee. When in high school, the adventure of Feluda gave way to the reticence of Amitabha Roy, aka kapurush (the coward). Being in a Jesuit all boys’ school, I often found myself tongue-tied when it came to speaking to girls (something that didn’t have a similar effect on everyone studying there), let alone expressing something more intimate. Soumitra as Ami provided the archetype. When Ami fails to persuade Karuna to come away with him a second time, Soumitra’s expression, the last shot of the film, conveys dread, self-pity and an intense longing in one fleeting frame. As his face progressively blurs and the film ends with a gently ominous background score, Soumitra transforms from the kapurush Amitabha to just another ordinary man who comes up short. It was this extraordinary description of ordinariness that was the highlight of Soumitra’s performance as the adult Apu. In reverse chronology of the dates of their release, I came to Apur Sansar after watching the Feluda films and understood it fully only as a grown man. Adulthood came with its ebbs and flows, of great despair one moment turning to hope soon after. Apu manifested this rhythm of life — a chance meeting, fledgling love, ordinary struggles, terrible tragedy and, ultimately, hope of redemption. But more than its depiction of the cadences of life, Apur Sansar was about small moments — the conversation between Apu and Aparna when he asks her longingly, “tell me, what do I see in your eyes?” and she playfully replies “kajol”, his description of the painful ambivalence that stops him from loving his son fully and the last scene of Apu carrying his son, Kajol, on his shoulders towards the unknown, leaving tragedy, sadness and loss behind. Unlike Amitabha whom I could identify with and Feluda whom I could idolize, I did not feel any obvious identification with Apu. I did not share his experiences, face his difficulties, live his struggles. Yet, it was perhaps Apu who left the deepest impression. To make the audience feel for someone on screen with whom they feel no obvious connection is perhaps the greatest testament to both an actor and a film-maker. Soumitra evoked this sentiment through the minutest of expressions — a subtle hand movement indicating that he hadn’t shaved and wasn’t quite ready for marriage, a wistful smile held for a second longer than necessary when looking at his young bride, the childlike delivery of the words, “chole esho”, addressed to his son, washing away the grief that had hitherto engulfed their lives. Soumitra has been called an actor’s actor, his subtleties often eluding the ordinary observer. I am no actor, but Soumitra’s touches guided by his Master’s instinct made me feel for Apu, mourn with him, pity him and wish him all the best, sometimes all at the same time. I haven’t found a truer definition of art than this. As a legal scholar whose daily work is far away from the world of art, I have never found myself far away from Soumitra and Feluda. The law, contrary to its popular perception of being ensconced in its impenetrable ivory tower is, in fact, a simple confluence of logic and experience, marred chiefly by the claptrap legalese employed by lawyers. It requires attention to detail, a calm head, and quick thinking. All these were in evidence in the circuit house in Jodhpur when Soumitra drumming his fingers on his forehead noticed that the real Dr Hajra, rather atypically, spelt his surname with a ‘j’ and not the more usual ‘z’. He was quick to tally this against the visitor’s book in the circuit house, note the discrepancy calmly, and call for a taxi to the Sonar Kella in Jaisalmer to nab the charlatan Dr Hazra. Every lawyer worth his/her salt would do well to imbibe these traits of hard-nosed observation and logical connecting of the dots. But a trait transcending these, necessary for every citizen but in short supply today, was Feluda’s sense of responsibility. In Joy Baba Felunath, Feluda’s misjudgment leads to a near-death moment for Jatayu, his comrade-in-arms. Soumitra breaks an extended sequence of silence saying that he would either take revenge or give up his career as a detective. As a statement taken out of context, it appears over-the-top, disproportionate and impulsive. But Soumitra delivered this line without histrionics, only with steely determination. A viewer can sense his hurt at having bungled, with near-fatal consequences not for himself but for others reliant on him. At a time when indulging in loose talk is a national pastime and taking responsibility for one’s actions is the stuff of scripture alone, Feluda epitomizes a world where responsibility trumps convenience and actions speak louder than words. Perhaps taking a cue from this, though equally bringing such a world alive on screen, Soumitra exemplified these traits in his own life like no other. Today Soumitra Chatterjee is no more. But he has not left me, or any of us. In the words of Konstantin Stanislavski, a copy of whose book, An Actor Prepares, was given by Satyajit Ray to Soumitra, he has travelled to the “region of the sub-conscious”. This is what six decades of acting had primed him to do — to reach his inner creative state from where he could deliver performances straight into our sub-conscious. And that is where he will permanently reside — in the Ram Deora of my mind, atop a camel, ready for his next adventure. The author is Research Director, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy. Views are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-115
