19-11-2020||Opinion||Biden-Harris win not as close as it is made out to be||When I arrived in New York from Delhi on March 21, 2020, JFK airport wore a deserted and forlorn look. All of three other passengers joined me on the flight from New York to Boston. In the months that followed the most scientifically and medically advanced country in the world was brought to its knees by the utter mishandling of the pandemic by an inept and insensitive administration in Washington. Systemic racism ensured that vulnerable minorities suffered and died in disproportionate numbers. In such a situation of unprecedented social stress a white police officer’s knee on a helpless black man’s neck triggered a wave of protests across US cities by a rainbow coalition of idealistic youth. By the time I was ready to board my flight in New York back to Delhi on November 6, 2020, the television screens brought the reassuring news that Biden was poised to overtake Trump in the crucial state of Pennsylvania and thereby win the Presidency of the United States. The catastrophe of a second term for Trump had been averted. Like so many of my faculty colleagues and students, I felt a sense of relief, but no euphoria. The pandemic continued unabated. The color line still divided America down the middle. Yet the victory of Joe Biden-Kamala Harris over Donald Trump-Mike Pence still holds meaning in America and for the world. It showed that democratic mobilization could halt and turn back the triumphant march of majoritarian tyranny. And it raised a glimmer of hope that xenophobic anti-immigrant nationalism could perhaps be transcended by an openness to global exchanges and invocations of a shared humanity. The result of the American election is not as close as it is being made out to be. In a two-party system a margin of well over 5 million in the popular vote and a nearly 4 percentage point difference must be regarded as a clear and decisive win. It is America’s weird and outmoded electoral college system that has created the optical illusion of a narrow victory. In the rust-belt states of Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania the turnout of Democratic voters who had stayed home in 2016 made the crucial difference. In Georgia and Arizona, the civil rights icon John Lewis and the war hero John McCain took their revenge from their graves against a boorish Trump who had disparaged and disrespected them in life and in death. Stacy Abrams galvanized the African-American electorate in Atlanta and the young Latino vote around Phoenix struck a punishing blow against Trump’s unbridled racist rhetoric and cruel immigration policy. Only in Florida did the Republicans successfully paint Biden and Harris as radical leftists among the Cuban-American community in Miami-Dade. Faced with barely disguised racist and gendered attacks at Trump’s rallies, Kamala Harris was a model of grace and dignity. Indian and Jamaican by heritage, she is African-American by upbringing, education and choice. The Biden-Harris ticket won well over 90% of the Black female vote. Domestic racial and gender justice will have to be high on the new administration’s agenda. Yet the fact that both Biden and Harris trace their roots to British colonies – Ireland, India and the Caribbean – does matter in shaping their outlook on the world. Biden’s tepid slogan “Buy American” is far removed from Trump’s strident “America First”. Having served as Chair of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and as Vice-President, Joe Biden will re-engage with the wider world. The first steps of his administration will be to rejoin the World Health Organization and the Paris climate accord. What might Trump’s defeat portend for other democratically elected authoritarian leaders. Majoritarianism masquerading as democracy undergirds the authoritarian turn in contemporary global politics. Trump is not unique and is of a piece with Modi, Erdogan, Johnson and Bolsonaro in the manipulation of religion or race-based majorities by whipping up ultra-nationalist protests against globalization. Narendra Modi precedes and rivals Trump in the use of the language of citizenship and illegal immigration to mask virulent anti-minority prejudice. While I was campaigning in the 2014 elections, I heard with great consternation Modi’s proclamation that on the day the results were to be announced he would drive all “illegal immigrants” across the border of Bangladesh. The citizenship crisis that erupted in December 2019 could be traced back to the tenor of the election campaign in 2014. Trump adopted that rhetoric in 2016 as did Boris Johnson in his Brexit campaign. Across the pond from the United States it will be Boris Johnson’s far-right Brexiteer government that will be the first domino to fall in the wake of Trump’s defeat. Dominic Cummings is to Boris Johnson what Steve Bannon was to Donald Trump in the early phase of his Presidency. The impending departure from 10 Downing Street of Dominic Cummings, the diabolical author of the “Get Brexit Done” and “Take Back Control” campaigns, does not bode well for Johnson’s prospects of serving a full term. Labor under Keir Starmer is well-poised to win a future election. Also, mainstream Conservatives in the UK are less supine than Republican Senators in the US when it comes to the government’s violation of law. It will be a harder struggle for the opposition in India, partly because it is still early in Modi’s unfortunate second term and partly due to the challenges of building a credible federal front against him. However, Trump’s discomfiture will rattle other authoritarians of his ilk, including the one who fawned on him in Houston and Ahmedabad. This is not to under-estimate the poisoned legacy of Trumpism that Trump will leave behind. The Yale historian Tim Snyder has warned in a recent article in the Boston Globe to take seriously the threat Trump represents even during the transition as he spreads disinformation and goes about undermining the legitimacy of American democracy. “Constitutions break,” Snyder had written in his New York Times review of Benjamin Hett’s The Death of Democracy, “when ill-motivated leaders deliberately expose their vulnerabilities.” His worries are not entirely unfounded. However, come January 20, 2021, a demagogue refusing to concede defeat will be deprived of the use of the instruments of state power. That moment will demoralize the votaries of white supremacy in America as well as Trumpian leaders preaching political chauvinism and economic autarky in other parts of the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-114
19-11-2020||Opinion||Be responsible: Elon Musk contracts Covid-19||Sir — The tech entrepreneur, Elon Musk, has recently stated that he “most likely” has a moderate case of Covid-19 but has been getting varying results from different labs. Musk had initially played down the seriousness of the contagion. While it is understandable that Musk might be frustrated that the tests are yielding different results, to call the procedure “bogus” in the midst of a pandemic is irresponsible. Opinions of public figures hold disproportionate weight and such statements will only enable those denying the seriousness of Covid-19 to further flout precautionary measures. Anamika Sharma,Gwalior Endless fight Sir — The political situation in the United States of America continues to be turbulent even after the results of the historic election, held earlier this month, had decisively declared the Democratic candidate, Joe Biden, as the 46th president of the country. But there is still some time before the Biden administration takes over the reins in the White House, and the charges of fraudulent elections — the outgoing president, Donald Trump, continues to allege that the 2020 election was “stolen” from him — have made the transition incredibly challenging. The clashes between Democratic and Republican voters that had erupted on the streets of the US during the counting was unimaginable. This really has dented the democratic credentials of the country. Although this election was challenging in many ways — a record number of mail-in ballots were cast in view of the pandemic — it is hoped that future elections will be conducted smoothly. Recently, thousands of Trump supporters marched  in Washington, DC to back the president’s unsubstantiated claims of voter fraud. Reportedly violent skirmishes broke out as well. It seems that there is little chance of a peaceful transition. Like many countries around the world, America, too, is facing an unprecedented political crisis. It is now up to progressive and liberal individuals to remedy the situation. P. Senthil Saravana Durai,Mumbai Sir — It is a matter of great concern that the outgoing president of the US, Donald Trump, is refusing to admit defeat in the 2020 presidential elections and extend cooperation to the president-elect, Joe Biden, and his staff. Biden is right to say that Trump’s behaviour is an “embarrassment”. He is not only further damaging his legacy but has also torn America’s vibrant democratic traditions to shreds. The people of America have clearly shown through the ballot who they want to lead the country in these turbulent times. Trump continued to make false claims throughout the counting process and is now alleging “voter fraud” without any evidence. Now the administration is doing all it can to prevent Biden from assuming office in January. In spite of that, Biden has shown that he is up for the challenge and has already announced a coronavirus task force to combat the worsening situation. His transition team has continued to work in spite of the hurdles. It is this dedication to the service of the nation that sets this administration apart from its predecessor. It is time for Trump to gracefully bow out without causing any further damage to the dignity of the office he held for the last four years. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu On time Sir — The decision of the Supreme Court to grant interim bail to Arnab Goswami rightly holds up the principle that bail is the rule, not the exception (“Liberty first”, Nov 16). The speed with which the hearing was conducted must be lauded. However, we also need to remember that several students, activists, lawyers and teachers, many of whom have been incarcerated without sufficient cause, continue to languish in jail for years. Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj and Stan Swamy — all suffering from ill health — have found bail to be elusive even when applied for on medical grounds. It is time that these cases, too, are heard urgently. It is only now that Rao will be shifted to Mumbai’s Nanavati Hospital for 15 days. The judicial system in India has long suffered from a backlog and postponements in hearings. Along with that, in recent times, questions have been raised regarding the increasing invocation of the principle of scandalizing the court, which many believe can be detrimental to free speech. At a time when many countries around the world have done away with the provision, perhaps India should consider doing the same. The Supreme Court’s fast handling of the case must act as an example of how the judicial system is expected to function at all levels. The courts must ensure that the personal liberty of citizens is ensured at all times without exception. S.S. Paul,Nadia||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-115
19-11-2020||Opinion||Greener pasture: India's 'brain drain'||India, data suggest, is second only to China when it comes to contributing to the international students’ population in the United States of America. This, interestingly, is a poorer showing from previous years; the cumulative number of 1,93,124 Indians pursuing higher studies in the US has fallen by 4.4 per cent compared to 2018-19. Indians pursuing an overseas education is encouraging; educated citizens can bolster cultural and economic capital. But it must also be kept in mind that a vast section of Indians are unable to afford such opportunities and, often, even basic education. There is an additional concern. With the exodus of meritorious students, India is losing much of its skilled human capital, a phenomenon known as the ‘brain drain’. According to the United Nations, India had the largest diaspora in the world, with the US being the second biggest host of migrants from India. It is clear that the brightest minds desire the West’s greener pastures. The formidable challenge lies in reversing this ‘migration’. Higher education in India is an unattractive prospect for a number of reasons. Diminishing research opportunities, impossible cut-offs at top universities and falling standards of university education are among them. Indian universities consistently score low in global rankings; the QS World University Rankings 2021 did not feature an Indian institute among the world’s top 100 universities. The anomaly between education and employment is also a factor; even before Covid-19, job creation did not match the numbers looking for employment. This has led to the creation of a sizeable constituency of educated citizens who are unemployed. The National Education Policy says it seeks to arrest brain drain by encouraging “knowledge exchange” with top international universities and making Indian institutes an international brand under the ‘study in India’ campaign. If India were to become a destination for foreign students, it could certainly consolidate the reach of its soft power. Only a radical overhaul in funding, infrastructure and institutional autonomy can guarantee excellence in higher education that can hold Indian students back while attracting foreign scholars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-115
19-11-2020||Opinion||Missed chance: India not part of RCEP||The world’s biggest regional trading forum has just been created — and India is not a part of it. The 15 nations that signed up as members of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership account for nearly 40 per cent of global commerce and 35 per cent of its gross domestic product. India chose to opt out of the trading forum last year since its concerns over the terms of market access were not adequately addressed. The Centre had badgered hard for a protected list of goods mainly to shield its domestic market. It harboured fears that India could be flooded with cheap Chinese agricultural and industrial products once it signed the deal. The big sticking point was over inadequate safeguards to stop an industrial powerhouse like China from circumventing the Rules of Origin guidelines in the agreement. Companies use a multi-stage production process to manufacture goods through plants spread over several countries. This creates a situation where Chinese companies could set up final assembly plants in Vietnam and Thailand and push cheap products into India without identifying themselves as the real beneficiaries. India had also insisted on a tariff safeguard mechanism that would bump up duties automatically whenever there was an alarming surge in imports from one of the RCEP nations. The forum shot down the idea. India also baulked at the idea of providing most favoured nation status for investments to all RCEP members, including China. Over the past two decades, nations have squabbled so much over tariffs, investment, market access and free movement of goods, services and people that the World Trade Organization has failed to deliver a fair, equitable rules-based system for global trade. That has led to a surge in regional trade agreements: from around 50 in 1990 to almost 300 today. There are many pundits who believe that India ought to have joined the RCEP simply because trade ought not to be seen through a narrow prism. They believe that a deep and wide regional trading forum like the RCEP provides negotiating heft to all its members on issues that go beyond markets and tariffs. In a rapidly evolving world — albeit one teetering on the brink of a deep recession because of the pandemic — such a forum provides the scope for discussion on multiple policy areas like competition policy, government procurement rules and intellectual property rights. When Atal Bihari Vajpayee articulated the Look East policy, he had signaled a major change in India’s outlook as he sought to build trade and cultural ties in the region in the hope that they would benefit collectively. The RCEP is keeping the door open for India. The success of this trading forum depends on China and India being part of it. Without either of the two regional giants, the gains from the arrangement will be extremely limited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-115
19-11-2020||Opinion||A muscular triumph for Aung San Suu Kyi's NLD in Myanmar||Beyond a point, nationalism does not have any use for any standard scale of universal moral rectitude. For those convinced that humanism informs all moral judgment of humans, the ways of nationalism can often be counter-intuitive. Nowhere was this starker than in the results of the November 8 elections to Myanmar’s bicameral national assemblies as well as its 14 state assemblies. The ruling National League for Democracy, led by the de facto head of government and the state chancellor, Aung San Suu Kyi — the Nobel peace laureate much vilified in the Western world now for her defence of the military action against Rohingyas — returned with a landslide larger than the historic victory in 2015. The NLD now commands absolute majority in the bicameral national assembly, together known as the Pyidaungsu Hluttaw. The two Houses are the Pyithu Hluttaw (lower House) and the Amyotha Hluttaw (upper House). Then there are the 14 sub-national Hluttaws, corresponding to the country’s seven ethnic states and seven regions. By the 2008 Constitution, 25 per cent of seats in all the Hluttaws are reserved for the military. The NLD’s main opponent, the Union Solidarity and Development Party, together with its 23 allies in the 93-party fray, has been pushed further to the margins from the roughly 10 per cent representation won in 2015. Few ever doubted that the NLD would be coming out on top. However, the cautious popular prepoll verdict was that the NLD would emerge as single largest party but would have to seek alliance partners to form the next government, and that the pound of flesh for such a compromise would be expensive. These predictions are now in history’s dustbin. Obviously, nationalism cannot be read on a conventional moral scale, and is also generally a majoritarian enterprise. When Suu Kyi formally defended Myanmar military’s alleged genocidal campaign against the Rohingyas at the International Court of Justice in December 2019, she was treated as a pariah by much of the Western world but in her own country, especially amongst the majority Bamar population, under a sense of siege from international scrutiny, respect for her only deepened. The failure of most to see this is despite the emerging pattern of ultranationalism all over the world, including India. At all these places, conventional morality is being thrown to the wind not just by political parties but also by larger sections of their populations. Indeed, Myanmar’s Rohingya problem should remind India of its own painful tussle over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The November 2020 elections also belied another expectation. The ethnic states were predicted to drift further away from the mainstream and ethnic political parties, it was believed, would consolidate as a block, or blocks, outside of the NLD to become kingmakers. Quite to the contrary, the NLD has made inroads into the states as well, and if the NLD wishes, it can foist its own governments given the fact that the 2008 Constitution leaves it to the national government, and not the winners of contests in the local arenas, to form state governments. Many think this victory by the first-past-the-post system may be deceptive, for though losing out on the number of seats, support bases of these bested ethnic parties can still be very large. Therefore, their alienation can still mean big trouble for the militancy-torn country. The challenge before Suu Kyi is to acknowledge this and go for what peace scholars like John Paul Lederach have called the “Moral Imagination”, which rests on the belief that a sincere handshake can often resolve conflicts better than legal treaties or victories. Despite its super majority, the hope among many then is that the NLD would still strive to partner with ethnic parties. How did Myanmar come to be in this state of chaos? The jurist, A.G. Noorani, in his India-China Boundary Problem, may have provided an answer by differentiating between the nature of decolonization of India and Myanmar. In the case of India, it was a transfer of power, and India retained all existing institutions of governance to maintain continuity and then modify at will and leisure. In Myanmar, it was simply an end of the paramountcy of the British, leaving the country to begin institution-building from scratch, throwing it into turmoil. Shelby Tucker’s profile of this chaos in Burma: The Curse of Independence is convincing. Apart from radical ethnic unrests and a plummeting economy, the country was also being taken for granted by foreign powers. With CIA patronage, two army divisions of the Chinese nationalist, Koumintang, had even retreated into Myanmar in their fight against Mao’s communist regime. The apprehension of the nation falling apart was so intense that even the 1962 military coup was welcomed by the people, thinking it would be temporary. Power, however, works differently, and those who wield it have seldom relinquished it willingly, and Myanmar’s military regime lasted five decades. Myanmar’s struggle then is still about building trusted institutions of governance. The author is editor, Imphal Review of Arts and Politics||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-115
19-11-2020||Opinion||Telling tales||One of the things I love about old cities like Calcutta or Chennai is what I call the availability of eccentrics. These are outstanding, outspoken people who have lived a full life and now play philosophers in retirement. Unlike retired bureaucrats, they rarely invoke nostalgia. There is an openness to their conversations and questions. I especially love their questions because they raise issues I have not thought clearly of. Whenever I am a bit depressed, which is often in Covid-19 time, I call one of them. My favourite is an old scientist, a student of my father, who still goes to the laboratory regularly. I asked him what he thought of the Covid crisis and he answered, “Covid is a failure of storytelling and ethics.” The crisis stems from that. I was surprised, I asked him to explain. He smiled wryly; at least one could sense it. Science often becomes barren in these moments. It gives you facts, but facts without perspectives do not tell you much. One needs literature, the texture of a fable or a parable, to tell you that. He added, “Look at the way the government is pushing all the mush about the new normal, as if it is a mini-utopia. A Kafka could have squashed it in a minute.” He paused and said, “I know I have told this story often but it still has insight. It is, I believe, the only story Kafka wrote about India.” A group of forest people decide to hold a sacrifice. On the day of the full moon, they invite the high priest to perform the ceremony but a tiger comes and eats him up. Undeterred, they wait a fortnight and hold the ceremony and the tiger comes and eats the priest again. The village goes into a crisis and summons a meeting. One of the people attending it is the village idiot. He raised his hand and offered a suggestion. He said, ‘Why not make the tiger that is eating the priest part of the ritual?’ The old scientist said the idiot understood the new normal. No logic of numbers can capture that. In fact, numbers as narrative have been one of the first casualties of Covid. He explained, “It is not just a question of statistics being value loaded, it is the way numbers let you look at an event. When you talk about an exponential rise of casualties, talk of body counts, the fact of death acquires an indifference. You lose your sense of mourning and the sacred. Death acquires an inevitability. You begin saying, 45,000 deaths are tolerable, normal for a population like ours.” Numbers destroy the potency of storytelling where every individual counts. Even science, he said, “has lost its sense of storytelling. People talk about science as problem-solving. The philosopher, Thomas Kuhn, immortalized it in his work. Problem-solving banalizes and routinizes science. You invoke the same method, the same predictable pattern of discovery. Talking normal science, you lose your sense that science today is about risk, uncertainty, an adventure of the unanticipated. You lose your sense of exemplars like Alexander Fleming and Louis Pasteur or Robert Koch. Science as method, reiterating a normal science, loses its sense of fable.” It is the same with policy where the expert pretends to know what he does not. He loses the humility before nature and the life that science demands. But the worst casualty of Covid, he claimed, is social science. In describing Covid, social sciences lost their sense of the social, a sense of norm, of altruism. Economists forgot about the informal economy, of thousands of migrants who became visible. The State destroyed the sense of old age by treating it as a form of obsolescence. The idea of the social, which forms a grand frame of understanding in Marx, Weber, Durkheim, just disappears. “Covid becomes an abstract story of vectors without community. The social scientist had almost nothing to say about Covid, apart from playing second fiddle to the State. This is why policy is such a second-rate, voyeuristic form of narrative. Policy is not even a third-person narrative. In fact, it lacks a sense of the person and sounds like a pathologist’s report.” I told him, “For a scientist you tend to be sceptical of science.” He smiled and said, “It is my scepticism that makes me a scientist. Scepticism and faith go together. Science gives me a sense of the sacred, of the sense of the limits of a science, which still sustains a sense of mystery.” He paused and then continued. “In this age where people fetishize the scientific temper as if it is another vaccine, this might sound unfashionable. This much is clear. Method alone does not make science in this age of uncertainty. Science needs judgment, it needs a sense of character. Science without ethics is incomplete today. This ethics is more than table manners. Yet ethics can be as experimental as any science.” The sad thing is that debates on Covid rarely mention ethics. Ethics is not a catechism of dos and don’ts. “Look at it when the migrants were waiting at the bus stations, you sprayed them with chemicals with an objectivity that was frightening. It was as if you were spraying a troublesome crop. When death is treated with indifference, all you see is a corpse. Human rights should begin in an anatomy class.” He stopped, was silent, and then said, “When you managerialize a crisis, you banalize even spirituality. You create handbooks of spirituality as if it is another technology. In Covid, psychology, management and spirituality continued to create a feel-good feeling. You sensed it in the colourful succulent supplements newspapers produced. You have a science of well-being for the middle class and the affluent but you had no language of suffering, no sensitivity to pain.” Cost-benefit analysis has no sense of pain. This is the first time there was no Mother Teresa, no religious group talk of sacrifice. Stories of heroism are few and far between. Science without altruism does not go far. He then explained problem-solving. The idea is touted as activist but the concepts are routine. Problem-solving alone cannot resolve a crisis. “Any epidemic is also a crisis of values. It involves choices. The fact-value distinction breaks down in these moments where game theory does not work.” He added, “It is at this time you need storytelling, method and discourse to intersect.” He claimed the philosophy of science we read in India does not go beyond Popper, Kuhn. They are textbook science, but textbook science is too insulated to handle a crisis in all its complexity. The idea of the new normal is scientifically flawed and ethically illiterate. Yet our leaders spout it like god’s truth. The new normal reflects the mediocrity of ideas in India. He stopped, then said, “The trouble is Covid should have been a graphic novel, a moral fable, a new kind of case study like the neurobiologist, Oliver Sacks, would write. It should bring out the choices we need to face. Sadly, we operate in the new flatland called policy. We need a return to storytelling. Science and society have their roots, their creative myths, there.” I listened, spellbound. It was a fine assessment of a crisis. I merely waited to write it out as the work of an exemplar, as the articulation of a different paradigm. I felt grateful. The author is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-115
