20-11-2020||Opinion||Two faces: Manipulating press freedom||When the Supreme Court nudged the Centre to exercise its powers under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act to rein in rogue television channels disseminating objectionable content, it appeared that the apex court — it has a long and honourable tradition of upholding freedoms — was apparently endorsing a culture of regulation. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government, a dispensation known to be allergic to media with a spine, seemed — inexplicably — to be speaking up in support of an unfettered press. But appearances in New India are inevitably deceptive. This reversal of roles is a case in point. The highest court’s endorsement of regulatory oversight had a context. The Supreme Court was expressing its displeasure at the Centre’s response to a petition that alleged — not without reason — that precious little had been done to stop a section of the media’s sustained vilification of the Tablighi Jamaat during the early part of the pandemic. The court’s unhappiness may have something to do with the Centre’s cherry-picking of facts. In its response, the Union government stated that newspaper and web portals had reported the chain of events in a responsible manner, without conceding that it had done nothing to stop the witch hunt against a particular community that was unfolding on television screens. It is this chicanery — a case of selective anguish — that lies at the heart of the BJP’s rhetoric on the freedom of the media. On the one hand, the government has no moral qualms about mouthing homilies on press freedom even when some television channels — Sudarshan News’s content on ‘UPSC jihad’ is an example — it is evident, are misusing their powers. On the other hand, the government conveniently forgets its own commitment to the cause of freedom when it orders crackdowns against journalists and media houses challenging, or critical of, the official narrative. Two of the most common weapons employed to this end are the archaic law of sedition and arrests; both phenomena, worryingly, are on the rise. It is not a coincidence that India’s poor ranking in the Press Freedom Index has corresponded with the political ascendancy of the BJP. The glaring gap between what the BJP says and what it does on the matter of press freedom is unlikely to make the party get hot under the collar. Muzzling comes naturally to muscular ideologies. Surprisingly, the nation’s sole ‘patriotic’ party remains equally blasé about the concomitant erosion in India’s democratic credentials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-114
20-11-2020||Opinion||Right way: Article 32 petitions||When the Chief Justice of India expresses the Supreme Court’s decision to discourage petitions under Article 32, the reason must be weighty. For Article 32, which B.R. Ambedkar felt was the Constitution’s ‘soul’ and ‘heart’, allows citizens to approach the Supreme Court with appropriate proceedings in order to have enforced the fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution. This Article, ensuring the right to constitutional remedies, enshrines a fundamental right too, like the right to life and personal liberty. Its importance cannot be emphasized enough at a time when dissidents and protesters are being arrested and bail is rare. The Supreme Court can always ask why petitioners should approach it under Article 32 without going first to high courts for the enforcement of rights under Article 226, a constitutional right. The managing director of a television channel who was given interim bail was an Article 32 petitioner; he had approached the high court first. The Supreme Court reportedly said in an allied context that deterring a citizen from approaching it under Article 32 was a serious interference in the administration of justice. It is in response to the petitions of a journalist arrested on his way to report on the Hathras rape and another person arrested for alleged defamation of the Maharashtra chief minister that the Supreme Court expressed its wish to discourage Article 32 petitions. If everyone went to the Supreme Court under Article 32 in this season of continuing arrests, the court would be hard pressed for time to hear other cases. Yet it is also true that in high courts hearings are delayed because of piles of waiting cases. When the issue is of a violation of the right to personal liberty, the importance of which the Supreme Court reiterated recently, delay makes the petition meaningless. That the Supreme Court has found a spate of Article 32 petitions lately is, perhaps, a sign of the times. It would be reassuring to know that the Supreme Court, the supreme guarantor of fundamental rights, would consider each case in order to decide which needs to be heard directly, and that not all Article 32 petitions would be discouraged. The right under that Article cannot be suspended unless there is an Emergency or “except as otherwise provided for” by the Constitution. Neither has happened yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-114
20-11-2020||Opinion||How ideas are born through research||When Socrates starts questioning you in the middle of a busy Athenian street, you wouldn’t generally turn to him and say that whatever he is trying to teach through his dialectical method is all but a waste. It would be anything but a waste. On the other hand, Sophist schools and teachers would try to teach in a method that is almost the same, even today: teaching what needs to be learnt in order to be skilled, to grab a good position in society. The long-drawn debate about these methods is still pertinent when it comes to higher education or research. So, while we try to answer which is more important or whether we were wrong to judge the Sophists too soon, we have to understand the nuances of both a Socratic dialectic or pursuing research and a Sophist-like training equivalent to pursuing education just to be skilled enough for a job. As a philosopher once said, do not presume that you have ten fingers, perceive it, check it and then testify. Similarly, we need to ask ourselves why we go for research? This question can be answered in a sentence or two. While newspapers are often flooded with interviews and ideas of Nobel laureates, what is forgotten is the research that they have done. Research would help the nation and society, but does it really fare well in the life of an individual? Although it is difficult to speak for everyone without generalizing, there seems to be a steady trend of young employees opting out of decently-paying jobs and going back to the classroom to do research. It is the quest of an otherwise unsatisfied intellect. That is what higher education can do: allow one to delve deeper. Dialogue and debate When one chooses to take up research, one takes up the process of asking questions and seeking answers, leading to new discoveries and inventions. Contrary to public opinion, in Indian philosophy, debate has played a very important role. This is not just theorized in Charaka Samhita but in almost every Indian philosophical school. In Charaka Samhita, it has been argued that debate has two forms: constructive and destructive. This was later on developed and enhanced by Debiprasad Chattopadhyaya in What is Living and What is Dead in Indian Philosophy. ‘Constructive’ in a debate not only deals with clarification and a good understanding of knowledge, but it also questions our presumptions and removes existing doubt. This is just on the Indian front. On the other side of the globe, we have people like René Descartes who have taught us that even to know ourselves, we have to first know that we can doubt or we have the capacity to think (Cogito, ergo sum). Such is the primacy of our thinking and reasoning abilities. Descartes believed in learning from “the great book of the world”. A conversation overheard at the local chaiwala’s shop will seem ordinary to one at first. But if we listen carefully, we realize that these conversations may contain in them the seeds of major academic research projects (largely pertaining to social science). Does this not imply that research is something we all do in our everyday lives? Research acts as a dialogue which happens between public spaces and academic discourses. We think, we come up with hypotheses, we deliberate and discuss and then conclude with new theories. Most social research, taking shape in this manner only reiterates our claim that research is a necessary part of our lives, a part that does not limit itself to gaining knowledge and learning a skill. In his text, The Myth of Sisyphus, Albert Camus talks about how The Rebel could be a way of understanding the absurdity of the world. Research acts as a ‘dent’ in the feudal understanding of the world. We need research precisely because we have the social and moral imperative of sustaining ideas and giving them life. We need research to get rid of errors and omissions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-114
20-11-2020||Opinion||Faith matters||Twelve days ago, a sixty-six-year-old man died in Birmingham, the United Kingdom. He had been raised in the picturesque hill town of Kalimpong, where, when still a student at the Scottish Universities Mission Institution (typically abbreviated to SUMI), he had had the temerity to approach one of the giants of Indian Nepali literature, Parasmani Pradhan (1898-1986), with a rather strange request. Would the great man consider translating a scholarly Urdu book on the fundamentals of Islam into Nepali for the benefit of those who wanted to know about the faith but lacked Urdu? Not surprisingly, the busy scholar did not take the uniformed schoolboy seriously, and sent him away. But the lad was not to be discouraged so easily. He kept coming back day after day until Dr Pradhan finally gave in, agreed to read an English translation of the text, and then took on the task of translating it into Nepali; which he did with a little help from the boy’s father, the imam of the only mosque in town, Maulana Muhammad Sibghatullah Siddiqui. The book was published in 1974, in Nepali, as Islam Darshan, and Dr Pradhan would later confess that it wasn’t until he had undertaken the project of translating it that he discovered just how many words of Urdu, Farsi and Arabic origin had entered the everyday vocabulary of Nepali speakers. This incident — narrated to me by his nephew, Professor Rafat Ali, a friend and colleague — sums up the qualities that went into the making of Professor Ataullah Siddiqui, a remarkable man who passed away in his prime, with his life’s mission of bringing about inter-faith understanding and harmony still incomplete. These qualities, recognized by students, colleagues and friends across several continents, included doggedness, strength of conviction, an ability to bring others around to his way of looking at the world, creating bonds through accepting diversity and difference; and an unflinching faith in the essential goodness of human beings. From the time he left for the UK in the early 1980s as a Research Fellow in the Islamic Foundation, till his death, when he was Professor of Christian-Muslim Relations and Inter-Faith Understanding at the Markfield Institute of Higher Education in Leicestershire, having picked up numerous awards and accolades along the way (including an honorary doctorate from the University of Gloucestershire), Professor Siddiqui remained both a devout Muslim as well as a person who believed in logic, reason, compassion and understanding to build a world where all faiths could exist in harmony. His 2007 report to the British Parliament, Islam at Universities in England: Meeting the Needs and Investing in the Future, better known as the Siddiqui Report, begins by invoking “the changed dynamics of relations between Muslims and policymakers in Western countries” post 9/11 and 7/7 (the July 2005 bombings in London), then bluntly stating that “it is now equally important that different experiences and expressions of Islam are explored outside the needs of diplomacy and the exigencies of the situation in the Middle East”, before going on to make a set of ten policy recommendations which have unfortunately, as far as I am aware, still not been implemented in full within the British higher education system. But that did not deter Professor Siddiqui from his task of trying to bring about dialogue among individuals from different faiths (or of no faith). In a 2019 talk at the conference on “Leadership, Authority and Representation in British Muslim Communities” at Cardiff University, Professor Siddiqui had asserted that since it was enjoined that a mufti (an Islamic jurist) needed to know the urf and adat, that is the customs and practices of the people, this meant knowing about the Enlightenment, European history, as well as the religious beliefs and practices of Judeo-Christian traditions “as part of Islamic Studies” in Europe. Translated into the Indian context, this would require students of Islam to know about Indian history, Hinduism, Christianity and other local traditions to become true alims (scholars) — a point echoed by the imam of Calcutta’s Nakhoda Masjid, Maulana Shafique Qasmi, at a memorial meeting held for Professor Siddiqui a few days ago, where he asserted that only people who have not read their scriptures properly fight over religion and that, in his opinion, the Gita and the Bible, along with the Quran, ought to be read by madrasa students as part of their curriculum. Such has been Professor Ataullah Siddiqui’s influence. Yet I was unable to find mention of the man and his work in any major newspaper of the state where he had been raised and educated. Which is a pity for through his life and work — and I do not have the space to write about his many books and articles here — Ataullah Siddiqui had demonstrated that a devout Muslim was not only not an enemy of other faiths, but rather that it is part of a true Muslim’s calling to understand, respect, and cooperate with members of the nation/region/community/locality who hold beliefs that differ from her/his own. As we seem to sink ever deeper into bubbles inhabited exclusively by those who think and act and react like us — a process accelerated by the ongoing pandemic — it is perhaps even more vital to remember the likes of Ataullah Siddiqui; or, for that matter, his fellow travellers in faith like Swami Agnivesh and the shamefully still-imprisoned 83-year-old Father Stan Swamy: three individuals whose deeply-held religious beliefs encouraged them to fight — in very different ways — on behalf of precisely those individuals whose beliefs did not match their own. Their journeys tell us that one can be a true believer without necessarily demonizing others who are not; that one can pray to a particular god or gods and still respect those who pray to others or none; that all of us are, beneath our superficial differences, human beings after all. In so doing, they encourage us to hold on to that fast-depleting commodity, without which it is difficult to imagine a civilization worth the name — hope. The author is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-114
