21-11-2020||Opinion||Cows first: Madhya Pradesh 'gau cabinet'||Sir — Sometimes one wonders whether the news one is reading is nothing more than a prank in poor taste; but then, if it involves the actions and decisions of the Bharatiya Janata Party, then it is far more likely to be a real event. This is especially true where cows are involved. As such, the announcement by the Madhya Pradesh chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, that his government has decided to set up a “gau cabinet” for the protection of cows, ought not to be surprising (“MP to set up a ‘cow cabinet’”, Nov 19). This must, however, serve as cause for great alarm among reasonable, forward-thinking citizens. The formation of a ‘cow cabinet’ will involve the needless diversion of funds that should otherwise have been used for the uplift of the people. How is the government planning to justify the money that will be used for the ‘protection’ of cows? Where will funds for education, housing and healthcare — especially in the middle of a raging pandemic — come from? More important, will the cabinet actually work for the welfare and protection of cows? Is it going to scrutinize the cruel practices of the dairy industry, where cows are impregnated and forced to give birth year after year and regularly injected with harmful hormones for milk production, only to have their calves taken away from them? Or will its job be to look the other way when cow vigilantes go about lynching members of minority communities on the suspicion that they consumed beef? Koyel Mukherjee,Calcutta Sir — I am amazed at the state of affairs in the country at present. It seems that the BJP government — at the Centre as well as in the states  — is more worried about cows than it is about people. The bizarre consequences of fallacious beliefs and superstitions are there for all to see: instead of a state cabinet focusing on the needs of citizens, a cabinet for the welfare of cows is being formed in Madhya Pradesh. The level of the political discourse in India has truly hit rock bottom if these are the concerns that politicians and leaders are focusing on. We are only pushing India back into the Middle Ages. How will the people themselves react to such a move? Moreover, I have not seen any Opposition party comment on the matter yet, perhaps because they think that opposing such a decision may alienate a crucial chunk of their vote bank. But it is in our interest to raise our voices against such travesties of justice. Otherwise the welfare of the people will truly become secondary to that of cows in our country.  Abhijit Chakraborty,Howrah Sir — The proposed formation of the ‘cow cabinet’ in MP is just another way for the government to divert public attention away from its own failures. The saffron party has no real intention of taking care of cows. Rega Kamath,Bhubaneswar Lost cause Sir — Is the Bharatiya Janata Party out to destroy every last vestige of India’s democracy? It was appalling to read that the Madhya Pradesh home minister is planning to introduce a ‘love jihad’ bill in the state assembly. It will include five years of rigorous imprisonment for ‘violators’, if passed. The BJP governments in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh are also said to be mulling similar provisions. It is the BJP that is in violation of the Constitution. How can elected representatives be allowed to disrespect individual freedoms in such a blatant manner? Indians have the freedom to marry whoever they wish. No government should be allowed to take that right away from the people. Divya Chaudhary,Calcutta Parting Shot Sir — Delhi is in the middle of a serious public health crisis. The recent period of festivities has enhanced mass interactions, and there has been reckless behaviour on the part of citizens, either on account of complacency or because of the fatigue brought about by isolation. The Centre and the Delhi government have worked well in dealing with the pandemic in the past. They have to ensure greater testing and infrastructure, but it is also the responsibility of citizens to reform their behaviour. B. Ahsanullah,New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-114
21-11-2020||Opinion||Good riddance: Donald Trump defeated||With Donald Trump defeated in the 2020 presidential elections, joyous parades spread on to the streets across the United States of America. Happiness and the sense of a burden being lifted were felt strongly, less because of the Biden-Harris victory and more because Trump was finally going to be out. In Washington DC, people flocked to the Black Lives Matter Plaza across from the White House as soon as news networks called the race for Joe Biden. People were banging pots and pans in joy while the crowds sang the song, “YMCA” — previously danced to by Trump in one of his closing campaign rallies (he was ridiculed for it by liberal media outlets). In Philadelphia people cheered from streets, cars and fist-bumped through their windows. There was a popular ‘Good Things Happen in Philadelphia’ sign that people posed with — a jab at Trump’s statement from the presidential debate where he stated that “bad things happen in Philadelphia”, alluding to baseless claims of election fraud. In Trump’s home town, New York City, a crowd gathered outside the Trump International Hotel and Tower chanting: “No More Trump!” In Times Square, a man was playing “Hail to the Chief” on the trombone. Hundreds of people (mostly in masks) cheered on the streets with Biden-Harris signs, American flags, and homemade signs with slogans like ‘Best Break Up Ever’. While champagne was popped in Biden’s name, last week thousands of Trump supporters showed up in DC for the ‘Million Maga March’ to support Trump’s unproven claims of voter fraud. Members of the far-right white supremacist group, Proud Boys, and the Oath Keepers militia group were among the marchers. Supporters carried placards which read ‘Stop the Steal’ and ‘Trump 2020’. They were also mostly mask-less, garnering immediate criticism. Remember them November is Native American Heritage Month, now in its 30th year in the US. Different states use this time to celebrate the historical and cultural achievements and contributions of the Native American community, a minority group in the US that faces discrimination and hardship. This year has seen the greatest sensitivity to their issues manifested in the form of much-needed changes. After years of petitions and activism calling for change, the Washington, DC NFL football team chose to stop using a racial epithet as their mascot and team name. Last year, the District of Columbia adopted Indigenous People’s Day, replacing Columbus Day. The governor of Arizona set forth a proclamation declaring November to be Native American Heritage Month for the state. Arizona is home to 22 tribal nations and communities, including the Navajo Nation, which is the largest Native American reservation in the US. Tribal lands make up 28 per cent of Arizona’s land base. In DC, the Smithsonian’s National Museum of the American Indian unveiled a new memorial honouring the military service of Native Americans on Veteran’s Day. The National Native American Veterans Memorial opened with virtual programming, including a tour and video tribute, on November 11. It honours American Indians, Alaska Natives and Native Hawaiians who have served in the armed forces at a higher rate per capita than any other ethnic group and in every major conflict since the American Revolution.Time to be mindful Holiday shopping season has kicked off online and in retail stores far earlier than usual this year. Given the struggle of business owners on account of Covid-19 as well as the Black Lives Matter movement, businesses and individuals are finding ways to show their support for black- and minority-owned ventures in this holiday season. Many big brand retailers have taken the pledge to allocate 15 per cent of shelf space to products bought from black-owned businesses. This ‘15 Percent Pledge’ grass roots initiative is aiming to lobby major retailers in the US on the ground that black people make up 15 per cent of the country’s population and yet are under-represented in the retail sector. The make-up giant, Sephora, revealed that only seven of their 290 products are black-owned. Other retailers that have adopted the pledge include Vogue, West Elm and Rent the Runway. Macy’s also revealed it is taking steps to collaborate with black designers for its private labels. Yelp! has also added a new black-owned business attribute, making it easy to find and share such businesses with one’s community so that support can be extended to them.Chart toppers November 3 was Election Day, but this year it changed to Election Week. Most Americans were glued to CNN, ABC, Fox and other major cable news channels. By the end everyone had the US map memorized, demarcated by red and blue, as news anchors dexterously manoeuvred touch screen maps and ended up winning the hearts of Americans. As major states were waiting to be called, the big names such as CNN’s Anderson Cooper and MSNBC’s Rachel Maddow had their moments, but those who really stole the show were the “chartthrobs” tirelessly offering analyses of electoral maps. The chief national correspondent for CNN, John King, and a national political correspondent for MSNBC and NBC News, Steve Kornacki, were constants during the election coverage and were lauded as the real winners of the election. Social media was flooded with tweets of people’s admissions of having crushes on anchors such as Kornacki, Chris Cuomo, Jake Tapper and Don Lemon. By Friday of Election Week, #SteveKornacki had more than 6,60,000 views and #JohnKing had 4.3 million views on TikTok. Footnote Transgender Awareness Week is a celebration leading up to Transgender Day of Remembrance, which memorializes victims of transphobic violence. Human Rights Campaign hold events such as film screenings and panel discussions to raise awareness of the abuse faced by transgender and non-conforming folk. This year at least eight transgender, non-binary and gender-non-conforming state candidates were voted into power, including the US’s first-ever openly transgender state senator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-114
21-11-2020||Opinion||Sacred and profane: SC upholds Rabindra Sarobar ritual ban||Keeping order and implementing the rule of law was once the responsibility of the administration. But this is an outdated idea in New India. This administrative indifference has forced courts and tribunals to redress issues — the environment, public health, humane treatment of species and so on — that should be integral to the public consciousness in any civilized order. The Supreme Court has lived up to its reputation of being the guardian of the environment, rejecting pleas by the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to interfere with the directives passed by Calcutta High Court and the National Green Tribunal banning festive rituals at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar while imposing restrictions on the congregation of people. The signal from the highest court has come as a relief. Last year, in flagrant violation of the ban by the NGT, devotees thronged these premises under the very nose of the police and the CMDA. This collective defiance would not have been possible without tacit support from the powers that be. Institutional lethargy is the fruit of a populism that is inimical to the health of both citizens and their environment. India, thanks to its politicians, is well versed in the chapter of toxic populism. A relevant, curious anomaly, one that is often ignored by policy and public discourse, is the blurring of the lines between the sacred and the profane. Some of India’s most consecrated entities are also the most defiled, often beyond redemption. Consider the Ganges, India’s holiest river. In spite of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s repeated pledges to cleanse the river — an entire ministry has been at work for years now — the Ganges, on many stretches, is being choked with industrial effluents, excrement, and several other kinds of pollutants. Countless devotees remain indifferent to its fate. Ironically, any attempt to stop the contamination — rituals are not known to be environment-friendly — elicits loud protests about the violation of rights. Inventive interventions — the courts have, in the past, declared rivers to be living entities, investing them with the same legal rights as people — have not made a difference. This kind of desecration of not just rivers but also nearly every element of the wilderness seldom evokes a massive public response even though academic curricula have accommodated environmental sciences as a discipline. There is no dearth of awareness campaigns either. The environmental challenges confronting India are manifold. The administration, reading the political tea leaves, is often complicit in this destruction. Agencies tasked with environmental protection — the CMDA is an example — become violators. There is also a sustained attempt to weaken the legislative edifice that acts as a bulwark against transgressions. All of these must be addressed. What must change additionally is the public attitude towards polluting rituals. Such a transition is not impossible. In Calcutta, water bodies are increasingly being earmarked and cordoned off with synthetic lining to allow de-sludging and treatment during immersions to arrest pollution. Such inventiveness must be encouraged. Reason and faith must coexist to save the environment and lead towards an ecological renaissance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-114
21-11-2020||Opinion||Adani after Gandhi||A recent article in the Financial Times narrates, with scrupulous detail and objectivity, the astonishing surge in fortunes of a businessman from Gujarat in the years and months since Narendra Modi became prime minister in May 2014. One paragraph in the article runs: “When Mr Modi took office, he flew from Gujarat to the capital New Delhi in Mr Adani’s private jet — an open display of friendship that symbolised their concurrent rise to power. Since Mr Modi came into office, Mr Adani’s net worth has increased by about 230 per cent to more than $26bn as he won government tenders and built infrastructure projects across the country." While I have never met Mr Modi, reading this article brought back memories of when — had I so wished — I could have met and even worked with Mr Adani. The background was as follows. In September 2013, I published a book called Gandhi Before India, which dealt with Gandhi’s upbringing in princely Kathiawar, his education in imperial London, and his career as a lawyer and activist in South Africa. In December of that year I spoke about my new book at a literary festival in Mumbai. After my talk, a young man came up and introduced himself as an aspiring writer. He said he wanted to discuss something important. However, I had to leave immediately for the airport to take a flight back to Bangalore. Since I couldn’t stay back to chat, I gave the young man my email address so that he could write to me about whatever it was that he wanted to talk about. A few days later the young man mailed me, saying he was working with a consultancy firm “to put together a project — Biography of Gautam Adani”. His firm, he said, “has been in discussion with Mr. Adani on the biography”. He added that “a well-known literary agent has indicated that multiple top publishers are keen on the project”. My correspondent told me that since both his firm and the Adani Group were “very keen on a high-quality, in-depth exercise, we have been looking for someone who could be a mentor and an advisor on the project”. They hoped that this ‘mentor’ and ‘advisor’ would be me. So my correspondent now proposed a meeting between a representative of the firm, “Mr. Gautam Adani and yourself”. Since I visited Gujarat often (to do research on Mahatma Gandhi), even back in December 2013 I had some idea who Gautam Adani was. I knew him to be a businessman very close to the man who had been chief minister of Gujarat since 2001, Narendra Modi. Even back then, Mr Modi sometimes flew in Mr Adani’s private plane. Friends in Ahmedabad had told me of how the Gujarat government had fast-tracked approvals for Adani projects along the coast, which had displaced fisherfolk and destroyed mangrove forests. By December 2013, it was overwhelmingly likely that Mr Modi would become the next prime minister of India. When that happened, Gautam Adani would perhaps be bestowed with more favours still. Sensing that he would grow more influential and important, he was now contemplating having a Life published of himself, in whose writing (or ghost-writing) his advisers thought this biographer of Gandhi should play a key role. The offer to write a Life of Gautam Adani was by no means the only unsolicited commission that I had received. Many years before I began working on Gandhi, I wrote a biography of Verrier Elwin, the British-born anthropologist who was the foremost authority on India’s tribal peoples. Published in March 1999 by Oxford University Press, under the title, Savaging the Civilized, my biography of Verrier Elwin got decent reviews and sold moderately well for a work of scholarship. A month or two after the book appeared in print, I got a telephone call from a senior and well-respected librarian in New Delhi, whom I knew slightly. Would I, said the librarian, be interested in writing a Life of the prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee? Mr Vajpayee’s family had asked him for names, and the librarian, seeing notices of my Elwin book, had thought of me. He had already spoken to OUP, and they were keen on the project. The librarian told me that apart from the wide general interest in a book on the prime minister, no doubt every government department and sub-department would buy multiple copies as well. It would be translated into Hindi for many state governments and all the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh shakhas to order copies. The (financial) rewards would be substantial. But I was not persuaded. For one thing, a ‘commissioned’ biographer would not be able to write frankly and freely about a politician in power. For another, although Mr Vajpayee himself was a man of intelligence and charm, I intensely disliked his party, the Bharatiya Janata Party, whose brand of Hindu majoritarianism was so radically opposed to Gandhi’s own pluralistic and inclusive form of Hinduism. I did not know the librarian well enough to tell him my frankest feelings, so I instead muttered something about Verrier Elwin being essentially a minor figure, an ex-missionary turned amateur scholar. While I could perhaps write on Elwin, I did not, I said, consider myself qualified to write on such an esteemed personage as our honourable prime minister. The offer to write a Life of Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the first time I was asked to write a ‘commissioned’ biography. It would not be the last. After I published a book on cricket in 2002, two cricketers, one still playing, the other recently retired, asked whether I would collaborate with them on telling their life stories. After I published a history of independent India in 2007, the son of a recently deceased Congress politician asked me to help with a book about his father, while a still-serving Congress politician asked me to write a book about himself. Along the way, the acolytes of one of India’s most famous scientists asked me to write a book on their living hero for his 80th birthday, while the family of one of India’s most respected economist-administrators asked me to write a biography of their recently deceased patriarch. There were unsolicited offers to write lives of other famous, powerful or wealthy Indians as well. I refused all these commissions. Some I turned down because I had writing commitments of my own; others because I knew I was not qualified for the task. I had no desire to help in massaging a retired cricketer’s ego; and absolutely no competence or credibility to write about the research interests or intellectual achievements of a distinguished scientist. In any case I had an aesthetic aversion to the idea of a ‘commissioned’ or ‘authorized’ biography. I would want to write a Life of an individual because of my own inner urges, my own interest in that person, not because someone with deep pockets had asked me to. I wrote a book on Verrier Elwin because it was Elwin who changed my life. I was an indifferent student of economics when I came across his work; it was reading Elwin that inspired me to do further studies in sociology and social history. I wrote on Gandhi because I had been interested in his life and legacy from the time I was a student. Later, as a working historian, I had found masses of rare materials on Gandhi in archives around the world, and this inspired me to embark on a two-volume biography of the man. By the time the offer to work on a biography of Gautam Adani arrived in my inbox in December 2013, I was a practised hand in turning down such assignments. So I sent off a reply to the young man and his consultancy firm saying that I couldn’t be ‘a mentor and an advisor’ on their Adani project since I was busy working on the second volume of my Gandhi biography. I shared the original letter of solicitation with some friends, adding: “I suppose the only reason to accept would be so that I could title my memoirs: ‘A Biographer’s Journey: From Gandhi to Adani’.” One friend suggested a crisper and better title for that prospective (but happily never to be written) book: ‘Adani After Gandhi’. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-114
