22-11-2020||Opinion||Oh, go speak to your fat books||And don’t tell me what is and how it is. And what should be and how it all should be. Enough. Who are you? You read books, right. You have books to read. And that means a whole lot many things. Many more things that you have than just books. Having books, keeping books, reading books, all of that comes from having much else. It means you have shelves in a house. It means you have a house on a plot. It means that plot came from having more than just books. That’s where you come from. I shall not give it a name. But it has a name. We all know it. We know who has it. We know who does not. It is all a cycle of things. You have books, you must come from more things. You will probably go on to even more things. You don’t have books. Well. You haven’t made a start, have you? You know this from that, right? You know why this is this and that is that, right? You know things, right? I do not know things. That too is right. But I know things you do not know. But you will tell me what you know is the thing to know and what I know may also be a thing but not such a thing of significance at all. I could have told you what you tell me. Maybe I could have told you more things than you tell me. Perhaps in different and contrary ways too. But you never allowed me things. Your books. And the things that come with having books, all those things. You told me books are not for you. And now you blame me for not having read. And you fling things on me that you tell me are good things but I have no way of knowing. Your volumes and your verses, your phrases and your platitudes, your language and your literature, your definitions and deductions, your concepts and criticisms. Your ideas. Your ideologies. Your cleaving of virtue from vice. Your meditations on right and righteous things. Your inventories of wrong and wrongdoing. Your elaborate philosophies, your rousing perorations. What do I know of them? What do I understand? Big words. And the bigger stuff they might contain. I don’t understand them. Maybe they made sense to you, they don’t make sense to me. Kaala akshar bhains baraabar. There, I flung a buffalo at you, did my bit. I took one of your fat tomes and copied the biggest and most confounding words I could randomly find and wrote them down above in the short time I have for all or any of this, in the little space I have been given. Thank you for this space. Thank you for allowing me to explain to you that I do not understand a syllable of the aforesaid, and all that it might mean. You never told me how to. And therefore you cannot hope for me to understand and to emulate you. Or even to articulate why I will not. I do not have the means. I was never given the means. And now you blame me. You call me illiterate. Unable to understand. Your higher things, which you always kept higher than my reach. Don’t get at me. I do things. Things maybe you cannot do. Things you may look down upon as low and unworthy. Things that you will quote as reason for why you must lead and I must follow. You milk the cow, I’ll read your books, any that you ask me to, Maa kasam. Even if I do not know how to read, I will sit down with your book and read, while you milk my cow. We shall see. First milk my cow. And take a lash of its tail on your face. And smell what it gives, from its udders and from that other orifice not far to reach. Fill a pail between your legs, then go deliver it. And we shall see. Then count your pennies, and if you save any — pennies or time — go then buy a book. We shall see.What you read
And all you fed
That’s all well and high brow
But what good is that to my cow?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-113
22-11-2020||Opinion||Man and Superman||There have always been two camps among lovers of Bengali cinema — the Uttam Kumar camp and the Soumitra Chatterjee camp. These have little to do with film appreciation or keen artistic sensibility. In fact, it would not be such a terrible exaggeration to say that for years people just crawl out of the womb programmed one way or the other. Matinee idol Uttam Kumar’s untimely death in 1980 did not make a dent in his fan-following nor did it weaken his camp strength. And by the time Soumitra Chatterjee died last week after several weeks in hospital, he had acquired legions of new admirers — some from the opposite camp as well. Old comparisons The bulletins about Soumitra kept flashing for 40 days. Corona positive, Corona negative, now stable, now critical, now responding to music therapy, now on dialysis, now responding to blood transfusion… In a non-corona situation, routine life pours out and on like a steady stream; anxiety and grief can thicken only so much. But in a corona stricken world, anxiety is contagious and grief too. As Soumitra fought for life, a larger community lived the ebb and flow. In the meantime, all spaces brimmed with the actor's works, new and old; discussions around them, new and old. Old comparisons raised their head, but obviously. Hoyto tomari jonno… Only, with one star long gone, and the second obviously poised for the skies, the contest seemed to have evaporated. What remained was a sense of difference. Uttam Kumar had mostly played the hero. Soumitra, come to think of it, had played the Other more than once. Uttam Kumar was swagger and smile and charm. Soumitra’s sabre-sharp mind shone through his works. One embodied romance. The other, reality. And then came the final news flash --- The End. Most of the tributes to Soumitra contained a reference to Uttam Kumar. And so the camps endure --- the Uttam Kumar camp and the Soumitra camp --- more distinctive than rival, and with the added provision of dual membership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-113
22-11-2020||Opinion||This Ram has been grounded, but why? ||During the organizational reshuffle in the Bharatiya Janata Party in September, two significant leaders were dropped as general secretaries by the BJP chief, JP Nadda. One of them was the high-profile leader, Ram Madhav, and the other was P Muralidhar Rao. Both had moved from the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh to the BJP and were aiming high. However, in a sudden move last week, Nadda appointed Rao as chief minder of party affairs of the politically significant Madhya Pradesh. Madhav, on the other hand, continues to be left high and dry. The unexpected elevation of Rao while ignoring Madhav completely has become an issue of keen discussion in the corridors of the BJP. In fact, many are trying to find out the reason behind the dropping of the two at first and then rehabilitating just one. The choice, too, is curious. “A grand temple for Lord Ram is being built in Ayodhya and here Ram appears to have been sent into exile,” one leader was heard saying. One informed leader, however, claimed that Madhav had been flying too high and it was therefore that he had to be grounded first before he could be considered for a decent position. With every passing day it is becoming increasingly clear that in the current regime, nobody is allowed to soar too high. Nobody is sure why the BJP kept its senior leader, Sushil Kumar Modi, out of the new National Democratic Alliance government in Bihar instead of repeating him as deputy chief minister. Several conspiracy theories are doing the rounds. A veteran politician said that this was because the prime minister, Narendra Modi, never forgives. The story goes back to around 2013, when he was the Gujarat chief minister and working hard to get anointed as the BJP’s prime ministerial candidate. Nitish Kumar, chief minister of Bihar and considered a close friend of Sushil Modi, was a rival. In fact, he had just severed ties with the NDA. At that point, in response to some journalists, Sushil Modi had reportedly said that Kumar was ‘prime minister material’. “See the fate of all those who did not support Narendra Modi wholeheartedly at that time, whether he was Lal Krishna Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi or anybody else. Sushil has joined their league,” the veteran leader said. Even veteran politicians slip, fumble and stumble at the doorstep of power. Nitish Kumar made this evident while taking oath as the chief minister of Bihar for the seventh time. He took the oath of office at the Raj Bhavan and then went to put his signature on it in front of the governor, Phagu Chauhan. By then everybody had sensed that something was amiss. Kumar had forgotten to take the oath of secrecy. It is unclear if anyone pointed this out to him, but he went back to the lectern and completed the ceremony. Clearly, everyone present lacked a sense of humour; nobody even sniggered at this. However, people close to Kumar said that it was an outcome of the stress of becoming ‘chhota bhai’ to ally BJP after the Janata Dal (United) won just 43 seats as opposed to the BJP’s 74. One cannot be sure whether the stress is gone or has just started. It is six versus 55 in Assam, a one-sided battle by any account. In Assam, the Congress is taking the heat from the ruling BJP after the chief minister of Assam, Sarbananda Sonowal, reportedly claimed at a rally that people will vote overwhelmingly for the continuity of his government in next year’s assembly polls. Why? For all the good that the BJP has done for the state in its six years in power at the Centre, and four in the state, compared to the Congress’s 55 years. The Assam Pradesh Congress Committee chief, Ripun Bora, however, is not taking any of this lying down. A combative Bora reportedly deployed sarcasm: people of Assam will vote overwhelmingly for the BJP because it rid the state of illegal foreigners; because it has given away the Guwahati airport to a private party; because it has completed the National Register of Citizens; because people have got the Rs 15 lakh in their accounts; because two crore people across India, including 26 lakh in Assam, have got jobs. Another reason, he said, will be the contentious and anti-Assam Citizenship (Amendment) Act. In short, Bora accused the BJP of peddling lies and doing the opposite of what it had promised before storming to power with its allies in 2016: protect jati (community), mati (land) and bheti (base). Bora has managed to hold the mirror up to the BJP. But the question, a seasoned Congress hand asked, was whether it would oblige by looking at it. Loyalists in the Congress are still not sure about the timing and process of Rahul Gandhi’s return as party president. Many feel that he should take over before the plenary. Advisers reportedly want him to take over in December itself by acceding to the Congress Working Committee request instead of waiting for the All India Congress Committee meeting in January-February. But this option could have lesser legitimacy than the regular process, preferably an election. The fear is that an election without Rahul’s control over the party will allow dissenters to make the election of most of the younger leaders difficult, as they are in no mood to surrender. Sidelining them completely will be a difficult task. Sonia Gandhi, too, is said to favour a balanced approach. Further, there could be a formidable challenge if Rahul were to appoint a president of his choice and run the party from behind the scenes. Senior leaders are convinced there are barely a few talented youths who deserve key organizational roles, as most of them lack the vision and dynamism. The younger lot, however, suspect most of the senior leaders are reluctant to fight Narendra Modi with full force. If Sonia and Rahul do not address the problem before the AICC meeting, the party is in for a hard time ahead. Mallikarjun Kharge has accused party leaders of forgetting the ideology that helped the Congress grow; the Karnataka veteran reportedly wants young party workers to be taught about the Congress’s ideology by the seniors through the narration of stories of sacrifices made by its founding fathers. But those who disagreed with Kharge’s chiding allegedly questioned his absence from campaigns for the recent bypolls that the Congress lost. They say he could have made a difference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-113
22-11-2020||Opinion||Fiction as fact||By 2025, if not earlier, I expect five major titles dominating the world of books. Coming under the category of fiction, they will all be products of the pandemic and its biggest fallout — fear. Let me visualize them. The first, titled 2025, is a political masterpiece of the calibre of Orwell’s 1984. Written by an Australian of Chinese descent, it is about a tyrant from the Far East who establishes a four-nation Axis with one country in North Africa, one in Europe, and one in South America. On Christmas eve, 2025, the Axis Powers launch a global assault on democracies through a cyber invasion that completely cripples the digital handles the world knows today, causing its banking portals to collapse, its security sites to crumble, its governance to come to a standstill. Airlines grind down, railways hiss to a halt, internet activity stops, mobile telephony ceases to operate in country after country. The Axis offers a restoration of ‘order’ under a new cyber system, which it controls exclusively, rigidly. One signal comes through: COMPLY WITH NEW ORDER. Twenty-four hours are given for compliance, else bombs will shower disease. Stunned, the United States of America moves to put a firewall in place to protect its digital systems. The president of the US — a gutsy woman — seeks to call the heads of the world’s democracies but can reach only a few. In the place of the voice of those she cannot get through to, she hears a short laugh with the following voice message: ‘Smart, eh? Too late.’ She does get through to New Delhi. ‘We have to join up,’ she is told by her equally strong counterpart, ‘but how?’ The second work of fiction, perhaps titled Zero Hour, is a science thriller but also high literature of the style of Aldous Huxley’s Brave New World. Written by a Brazilian, it is about a cabal of five theoretical physicists who have retired from their countries’ defence laboratories, but are led by an electronic wizard who has moved from physics to digital technology out of what he calls ‘plain mad love’ of that expertise. They have known each other from conferences and have exchanged personal contact lines in addition to their official ones. They have an encrypted code that is so protected within its folds as to be impermeable, unstoppable, incorruptible and — unintelligible to all but the five. It has been refined as to be un-hackable, un-destroyable by man or virus or a combination of the two. The five have a macabre sense of humour. They want to paralyze the world, not to control it but to chastise it. They loathe humanity. For its cunning destructiveness, its bizarre hatred of life, its perverse lust for murder. They believe, with no evidence but just a hunch, that the virus that gripped the world in 2020 was a man-made affair, like the atom bomb. They loathe humanity for doing that. They choose countries by the first letters of their names and, starting on July 16, 2025, immobilize their electronics one by one. Afghanistan cannot figure out what is happening to it. It cannot connect to what happens next to Albania. And then Algeria... Why on July 16? They have a God — J.R. Oppenheimer, leader of the Trinity test in New Mexico where the first atomic bomb was test-detonated on that date. They have not read the Bhagavad Gita but know Oppenheimer’s quote from it: “I am become Death.” They see themselves as that ‘I’. And they want to enact “I am become Death.” They have decided to die with the dying. Die laughing. They are brave. They are mad. And they know their way to what they want to achieve. The third best-selling work of the imagination is titled The Return of the Species. It is the audacious work of a zoologist, a young Ethiopian, who knows Darwin’s work as closely as a palmist knows the lines on his own hand’s inside. She has followed the natural history of Planet Earth with the zeal of a lioness beholding prey for her hungry young. She has been thrilled by the few weeks, soon after ‘Wuhan’, when the human world went into lockdown and the animal world came out into unlock. She writes with unconcealed relish of an ‘ecologically ideal’ scene when the virus spreads and the lockdown cannot ever be lifted, of hippopotami walking into city centres, nilgais roaming in the Taj Mahal’s now wild lawn, snakes sliding over Cecil Rhodes’s statue atop Table Mountain, kangaroo strolling in the La Trobe campus, of the air over Lahore and Tokyo becoming so clean, so pure, that the spangled stars overhead can be seen piercingly bright. And in an Animal Farm replay, she has a she-elephant wandering into a zoo and getting so enraged seeing other elephants inside it that leading a charge into the zoo she sets the captives free. The fourth nugget of fiction is called The Waft. Written originally in Bangla, it has been translated into English by the writer’s divorced wife, an Irishwoman living by herself in Dublin. The author is a forty-five-year-old flautist, trained in Santiniketan’s Sangit Bhavana, but unemployed and un-employable. He is a genius with the flute, a waif without it. He has been teaching his music to students in Calcutta. But they are few and very often unable to pay him anything more than his bus fare. Ever since the pandemic, he is unable to go to them. His meagre earning has stopped. He manages to come to his village in Khatra, the most beautiful part of West Bengal’s stunning district of Bankura. Sitting day after day in his childless aunt’s home, fed by her, he stares at the mind-boggling sky in all its hues, plays on his flute and composes lyrics to ragas he loves. When she calls him Kalidas, he simply smiles. His lyrics are about the seasons. He plays, writes, plays, writes. Playing the Megha Malhar, gliding from komal nishad to pancham, he writes, “The cloud... wafts... with the panic of a veil... flying after the girl who has dropped it, running...” He writes about all the six seasons and, one evening, after playing Hamir centred around shuddha dhaivat with a downward glide from nishad, writes about a seventh season... Akaala... the ‘unseasonal...’ This Akaala can come now any time anywhere... unwanted but undeflectable... wafting... The fifth is a slim, 50-page work, which its publisher has titled The End. It has been written — in just one evening — by a half-Myanmarese, half-Israeli virologist in Boston who has been working on the vaccine. The vaccine. Its last sentence is incomplete. The writer knows all that there is to know about the virus, the vaccine. He knows how vital it is, how fragile. He knows the world’s need for it, its hopes for it. He has taken it from stage to stage with his team. They are all skilled, sincere, just as he is. But he is also — as only Louise, his fiancée, knows — given to depression. On the evening he is to write this, just as he is leaving the lab, getting out of his ‘space-suit’ as he calls it, a colleague says, “It may not really work... You know... the chances are... fifty-fifty... It may cover only fifty per cent of the world... And that also for just fifty per cent of the risk...” Back in his flat, he writes the fifty pages about his fear of the vaccine’s failure... Louise calls later that night as she does each night. There is no answer. She goes across, nervous. She has spare keys to the flat. The laptop is open, lit. He is slumped over it. She takes the manuscript some days later to its publisher. It appears the day the vaccine is placed in the market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-113
22-11-2020||Opinion||Daddy's turn: a case for paternity leave||No man, they say, is a hero to his butler. But men like to be heroes to everyone else. India breeds them in the hundreds: as the mommy’s darling, with all the women in the household rushing to fulfil his slightest wish, as the ‘jewel’ of a boy in the classroom who rises through life as smoothly as a glittering knife through butter, as the undaunted leader who takes his country to victory against huge odds on the pitch to the roar of thousands of fans. Not for him the unpaid, unseen labour of looking after bawling, incontinent, ravenous babies, or cooking and cleaning when the exhausted mother wants to doze off for a minute. This role is so much a part of Indian expectation and practice that when the captain of the Indian men’s cricket team requests — and gets — a couple of weeks off from an important overseas tour to be with his wife during the delivery of their child, it is seen by many as ‘dereliction of duty’. But should the work-life balance for men be so skewed that the home must remain invisible, its practical and emotional support forever under wraps? Which way will an Indian man lean in this day and time — the time is crucial — between ‘patriot’ and daddy for his preferred label (or epitaph)? A bill for paternity leave made a hesitant appearance in 2017, when the law for maternity leave was amended. Paternity leave never became law, which not only left pregnant women and new mothers high and dry at home as usual, but also continued to diminish their chances at work. How many employers will recruit a woman who must be given maternity leave by law when a man in her place can continue being the ‘breadwinner’ while making babies at home? But convention can be as oppressive for men as it is for women. Some men may feel that they are missing something, that paternity leave is not for lazing but for sharing their partner’s workload. When not just traditional expectation but also policy emphasizes gender roles, equality becomes an empty word. The public sector nowadays does allow the father — or the father-to-be — 15 days off while maternity leave has been extended to 26 weeks. But 15 days are better than zero days in most of the United States of America, where men can take sick leave to be fatherly. That is telling. A study in Spain, which now gives 12 weeks of paternity leave, had found that it has lowered the fertility rate, as though fathers have realized what it takes to look after a baby and responded with compassion — and self-preservation? The private sector in India is free not to offer paternity leave, but many large organizations are formulating their own policies. Equality as well as higher productivity resulting from the security and contentment of a better work-life balance may be their aim. Daddy’s turn has come.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-114
