23-11-2020||Opinion||Law of hate: The love jihad lie||When a lie has been promoted loudly and frequently enough, it can become material for law. That is the trajectory of the ‘love jihad’ narrative, which claims that men from India’s largest minority community lure women of the majority community into marriage in order to have them convert to Islam as part of a conspiracy to change the country’s demographic balance. The chief minister of Uttar Pradesh must be given the credit for leading other Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states, such as Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Haryana and Assam, in the decision to promulgate a law against love jihad. Bihar is inclining that way too. Predictably, Opposition states have strongly criticized the decision in terms that emphasize its unconstitutionality, barbarity and sheer effrontery in projecting a myth as a real-life evil to be tackled by law. The chief minister of Rajasthan, Ashok Gehlot, for example, has said that love jihad is a manufactured phrase intended to divide the country and disturb communal harmony. Mr Gehlot, along with other Opposition chief ministers and leaders, has pointed to the fact that personal freedoms are guaranteed by the Constitution and that marriage is a matter of personal choice. Faith and caste are immaterial. Marriage between two consenting adults cannot be interfered with, not even with the excuse of objecting to conversion solely for the purpose of marriage. The Constitution guarantees the freedom of religion too. Opposition leaders have not only said that the proposed laws against interfaith unions in BJP-ruled states are unconstitutional — perverse and uncivilized as well — but have also underlined their inherent communal hostility. Although such laws, paradoxically, would not stand the test of constitutional legality, BJP-ruled governments would still try to use them to discriminate against and harass members of the minority community. There is another target: women. Such laws assume women’s helplessness, passivity and folly, as though constitutional guarantees do not apply to them; they do not know what is best for them. Women are being viewed here purely as vehicles of reproduction — the community’s property that it should ‘protect’ and keep ‘secure’. Laws against the lie of love jihad represent the BJP’s gendered agenda as much as its community-based one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-113
23-11-2020||Opinion||Long road: War on climate change||Strides on the path of survival come with additional responsibility. India, reportedly the only country among the G20 nations to be on track towards fulfilling the climate change mitigation commitments it made in 2015 under the Paris pact, seems to be responding well to its climate responsibilities. According to the 2020 Climate Transparency report, India has been doing its “fair share”; actions taken by the country since 2015 make it “compatible” with the upper goal of curbing global warming by 2 degrees Celsius by the end of the century. This is an achievement, not least because countries and regions with deeper pockets and greater resources, such as the United States of America, China and the European Union — the top three polluters — are nowhere close to achieving their professed climate goals. India’s success can be attributed to, among other factors, the increase in its solar energy capacity by more than 12-fold since 2014. Pertinently, the prime minister reminded the forum of the importance of green policies at the 15th G20 summit. But the outcome of the war against climate change depends on the fate of battles on multiple fronts. Worse, in spite of its current efforts, India is still slated to fall short of the Paris agreement’s long-term goal of limiting global warming by 1.5 degrees Celsius. This shortfall could portend an environmental, social and economic Armageddon. A 2 degrees Celsius rise in temperature is expected to bring about extreme heatwaves, severe droughts, rise in sea-levels, crop failure, accentuated hunger, mass displacements, especially from coastal habitations of which there are several in India. The scale of the crisis would be far bigger for India’s mitigatory interventions to be effective. Paucity of funds, a burgeoning population and a limited inventory of greening technology make India far more vulnerable to the vagaries of an inclement climate. India’s survival strategy must thus hinge on two thrusts. First, it should invest greater energy, political and public will and its available resources in the creation of an ecological enterprise spanning every sphere of its flawed development enterprise. This would mean not only the greening of energy sources, public transport and urban planning but also harnessing agriculture and consumption to the needs of a fragile environment. It would also mean taking on the mantle of the leadership of developing economies to demand the transfer of technology and funds from affluent countries. Collaboration, not individual enterprise, is necessary to secure the future of the planet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-113
23-11-2020||Opinion||Ask first: CBI, a 'caged parrot'||Seven years ago, the Central Bureau of Investigation had earned the label of “caged parrot”, which executes the agenda of its political masters. The United Progressive Alliance sat in Delhi at the time. Little has changed since; the CBI’s activities since the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government came to power are being perceived as more ‘parrot’-like than ever. The Supreme Court has now said that the CBI cannot conduct an investigation within the jurisdiction of a state without permission from the state government. The CBI is a Central agency, created in 1963 under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946. The court pointed to the federal principle underlying its recent ruling that had been inscribed into the rules governing the CBI at the time of its formation. The investigative agency is free to operate in Delhi and the Union territories but, being at basis Delhi special police, needs permission from the states to carry out its work within state boundaries. This is also because ‘police’ is part of the state list in the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. Only the Supreme Court and high courts can order the CBI to operate within a state without its government’s consent. The Supreme Court’s ruling in response to a petition by certain officers from Uttar Pradesh endorses the stand taken by eight Opposition-ruled states which have withdrawn the general consent given to the CBI to operate within their jurisdictions. This option is given by Section 6 of the DPSE Act and means that the CBI must ask for the state government’s consent for each case separately: blanket permission has been withdrawn. As the earlier “caged parrot” appellation indicates, ruling Central governments have quite often used the CBI against their political opponents. The withdrawal of general consent by Opposition-ruled states, including West Bengal, not only brings this out into the open but also suggests that the CBI is being perceived as being more assiduous than usual in carrying out the ‘master’s’ orders. More ominous still is the distrust towards the Centre that these state governments feel, evidence of the divisiveness that is causing untold damage to India’s democratic edifice. The Supreme Court’s endorsement of a federal principle at this moment gains importance in this context. It is a thrust towards balance in an increasingly uneven power structure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-113
23-11-2020||Opinion||Delicate truce: Armenia and Azerbaijan||This time, the truce will last. The 2,000 Russian troops flying into Armenia and fanning out to police the ceasefire lines in Nagorno-Karabakh are being sent there for five years renewable, and neither Armenia nor Azerbaijan will challenge them. Armenia is in shock, but what remains of the Armenian enclave in western Azerbaijan would quickly be overrun if the Russian troops were not there. Azerbaijanis are jubilant about their victory, but they will abide by this ceasefire. It’s enough: about three-quarters of the Armenian-occupied territory in Azerbaijan has fallen into their hands already, or will be handed over by Armenian forces by the end of this month. Besides, the Russians would be very cross if they broke their word. Armenia won all that territory in a war that was almost inevitable after the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991. Both Armenia and Azerbaijan were ‘republics’ during the Soviet era, but the borders that Stalin had drawn for them left a significant ethnic Armenian population inside the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic. The Armenians living in the ‘Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast (Province)’ accounted for about four-fifths of the local population. They declared their independence in 1991, and when fighting broke out between them and the Azerbaijanis, Armenia proper, also newly independent, sent troops and weapons to help them. That war ended in an Armenian victory in 1994, after Armenian troops drove all the Azerbaijanis not only out of Nagorno-Karabakh but also out of three times as much territory to the north, south and west of it. Armenia wound up with a large territory extending about 50 kilometres east from its own eastern border. The analogy with Israel’s situation immediately after the independence war in 1948-49 is irresistible. There were only 8,00,000 Jewish Israelis in former Palestine in 1949, surrounded not only by a million Palestinian Arabs but also by another 50-100 million Arabs in other countries within military reach of them. There were 3.3 million people in the Republic of Armenia in 1994, and another 1,45,000 Armenians in Nagorno-Karabakh. There were no Azerbaijani minorities left in Nagorno-Karabakh nor in the large occupied territories around it, but there were about 75 million Turkish-speaking Muslims in Azerbaijan and Turkey who saw the outcome as an outrage. However, both Armenia and Israel are supported by very large ‘connected’ diasporas: around seven million people in each case, the great majority living in relatively prosperous countries like the United States of America, France, Canada and Russia. The ceasefire lines will probably become de facto borders. All the formerly occupied territories around Nagorno-Karabakh will be repopulated by Azerbaijani refugees, including the one road linking it to Armenia proper (but Russian peace-keeping troops will hold it open). About a quarter of Nagorno-Karabakh itself was also captured by Azerbaijani forces, and will stay in their hands. Most Armenians have already fled the enclave, and only a minority are likely to return given the precarious lifeline through the Lachin corridor and the fact that Azerbaijani troops will remain within five kms of Stepanakert, the capital. Why such dramatically different outcomes? The obvious answer is that Azerbaijan is oil-rich and was spending nine times as much as Armenia on ‘defence’. But the Arab world is oil-rich too. How did Israel manage it? By mobilizing the support of its diaspora a great deal better. Immigration has grown Israel’s Jewish population from 8,00,000 to seven million since independence. In contrast, the population of the Republic of Armenia has actually fallen by a quarter-million, and there was no big influx of Armenians from overseas. As with immigrants, so also with money for defence. Why Armenia couldn’t exploit its diaspora more effectively is a mystery, but that’s the difference. The military defeat was the eventual, inevitable result of a long-running political failure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-113
23-11-2020||Opinion||Influential player||In the US the elections are as much about the media as they are about politics.  The American media’s conduct becomes a story every four years when the country elects a president, whereas  the media as an institution is never considered central to  determining election outcomes here in India, in quite the same way. The reasons have to do with how the two countries run their elections, the extent to which the media in each country becomes the news during the polling process, and the ideological leaning of  major mainstream media outlets which are more pronounced in the US than is the case here. The United States holds what has been described as a locally-run national election, fifty one separate elections in the states and Washington DC. That became evident to the rest of the world this time as it watched the fate of the two presidential candidates being decided state by state, at very different speeds of vote counting.  There is no central election commission such as ours, conducting the election and declaring seat counts in states across  the country. When the process is disaggregated,  the role of the media  in calling the election in each state (declaring the winner) and counting the totals becomes far more central, and has been so since 1848 when the Associated Press declared Zachary Taylor the president.  The New York Times  for instance published a statement this year detailing the process it would employ in calling this election.  But it is the TV networks that first break the news, state by state and then declare the president elect. Which is why there was so much focus on Fox News, still controlled by Rupert Murdoch after his company’s sale of stake  to Disney, and run by a high-powered Republican lawyer.   Fox News was to Donald Trump what Zee News is to Narendra Modi. A committed network, to put it mildly. In a closely-fought election there was expected to be pressure on Fox to call the election for the Republican candidate. Fox News was a cheerleader for the  Trump Presidency for pretty much  its entire tenure.  And when it decided to suddenly turn professional and let him down, it became one of the big stories of these elections.  Apart from giving Donald Trump the idea for he could do next: launch a competitor to Fox! As for the media writing about its own conduct in an election year, there is no self imposed bar in the profession of the kind seen in India until digital media came along.  It is a beat, and there was lively reporting  ahead of election day on how the “decision desk” at Fox was being set up. The New York Times profiled  the man in charge, Arnon Mishkin,  a registered Democrat who had to ensure that the network’s inherent bias would not distort its reporting of the outcomes in each state.  And that Fox News would not succumb to pressure from the White House to call the election for Trump before all the votes were counted. In the event, the opposite happened, with the network incurring the Trump campaign’s wrath by calling Arizona, a key battleground state,  for Joe Biden with just 73 per cent of the votes counted, and declining White House  calls to retract.  A week later a Fox News anchor added insult to injury by cutting away from a press conference by the White House press secretary as she accused the Democrats of voter fraud and illegal voting.  The anchor said he could not continue showing that until she brought evidence. The media became the story in a big way because what it did mattered even more during a narrow contest conducted in the midst of a pandemic. And because of a healthy tradition of self-criticism that stretches to   journalists critiquing  their own outlets for bias. News network NBC was roundly criticized including by its own staff and talent when it scheduled a town hall with President Trump to clash with an earlier scheduled town hall with candidate Biden on rival network ABC.  Same day, same time.  This was right after  the President withdrew from the second debate.  NBC was accused of either trying to grab ratings or curry favour with the Republicans. And at  the New York Times it has been a year of taking frequent criticism from its staff. A newsroom feedback channel was created in June after the paper carried an op-ed by a Republican senator arguing for calling out the military to quell the unrest following the killing of George Floyd. Many staffers used the feedback channel to denounce the decision to carry the op-ed. Others have asked why the opinion pages could not carry opinions that go against the grain for those who work at the paper. In July an opinion page editor resigned, calling out the paper’s excessive liberal bias, and noting that the 2016 election outcome should have made the NYT realize that it was out of touch with many Americans. Books have been written about how media bias shapes election narratives in the US. When broadcast journalist Bernard Goldberg published his 2009 critique of how hard the liberal press worked to get Barack Obama elected in 2008,  he called it “A Slobbering Love Affair.”  And described how the liberal press made it their mission to give America its first Black president. The third reason why the media becomes a player in every election is because news source choices reflect political polarisation.  A Pew Research Center study found that when it comes to getting news about politics and government, liberals and conservatives inhabit different worlds.  People prefer an echo chamber that tells them what they want to hear.  Consistent liberals went to CNN, MSNBC, NPR and NYT. Consistent conservatives clustered around Fox News. With Fox News having let down the President--as many viewers saw it--they are now turning to another conservative channel called Newsmax television which gives them the kind of news they tune it for, according to Goldberg  writing in thehill.com. Until late last week this channel had still not called Biden the winner of the election.  And it   saw a ratings boost of 183 percent around the election as President Trump encouraged viewers to defect from Fox News. The author is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-113
