24-11-2020||Opinion||Timely decision: No Chhath Puja at Rabindra and Subhas Sarobar||Sir — The decision by the Supreme Court last Thursday to uphold the directives by the Calcutta High Court and the National Green Tribunal banning Chhath Puja rituals in Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar must be lauded (“Sacred and profane”, Nov 21). Rabindra Sarobar, known as ‘lake’ to the locals, is home to three species of turtles, common toads, bullfrogs, cricket frogs, squirrels and several species of butterflies, dragonflies and snakes, among others. Every year after the festivities, the water bodies at Rabindra Sarobar are extremely polluted, causing immeasurable harm to the environment. The NGT’s order was grossly violated in 2018 and 2019 when scores of devotees broke the gates of Rabindra Sarobar to perform Chhath Puja rituals with loud music and firecrackers. In those instances, the government had looked the other way. The petition of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation urging the apex court to interfere with the directions of the Calcutta High Court and the NGT proves that the authorities continue to opt for populist tactics to appease the people to the detriment of the environment. It is time that the administration sets its priorities right. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — Perhaps the best way to arrest pollution would be to reform festive rituals, especially those that lead to the desecration of natural resources. The Supreme Court has rightly upheld the Calcutta High Court’s ban on Chhath Puja rituals at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar. The appeal by the CMDA and the CMC to the Supreme Court to review the high court and the NGT’s directives, however, reeks of populism. It is unfortunate that the lackadaisical attitude of the administration in protecting the environment has forced the courts to intervene in such matters. While it is the responsibility of the government to protect the environment, nothing can change without a conscious effort on the part of the people. It is necessary to update traditions in keeping with the needs of the time. Rituals and customs, while important, must not become a cause for environmental degradation. Hopefully people will soon see the merit in this decision and find alternative ways of celebrating the festival. Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — We live in strange times. As a custodian of the Rabindra Sarobar, the CMDA is expected to protect the water body. Instead, to everyone’s surprise, the CMDA along with the CMC had questioned the directives by the Calcutta High Court and the NGT to ban Chhath Puja festivities at the site. Last year, too, in spite of a court ban, devotees had thronged to the lake and conducted puja rituals, all with the passive support of administrative bodies. The water bodies remained polluted for months. This year, the West Bengal government had sought permission from the NGT to facilitate Chhath Puja at the eco-sensitive Rabindra Sarobar. To its consternation, the NGT had turned down the plea. It is a relief that the Supreme Court upheld the directives of the NGT and the Calcutta High Court. The government’s lack of commitment towards environmental issues is alarming. It is time the government introspects on its actions. Sanjit Ghatak,Calcutta Sir — As the Supreme Court upheld the ban on Chhath Puja festivities at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar, last Friday many people gathered at the lake to protest against the decision for nearly four hours. However, the deployment of police personnel and setting up of barricades in anticipation of the violation of court orders prevented the situation from getting out of hand. It seems that the administration in spite of its reservations had upheld the direction of the courts to the best of its abilities. Apart from environmental concerns, the celebration of Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar this year would have posed immense health risks to the public. It is surprising that in spite of the threat posed by Covid-19, people are still keen to gather in large numbers. The celebration of Onam in Kerala and Durga Puja in Bengal had led to a huge spike in Covid-19 infections in both states. It is high time that we learn from these instances and refrain from gathering in large groups. The public has been warned time and again to celebrate all festive occasions at home or in intimate gatherings. The protest gathering at the lake is a glaring example of the kind of behaviour that must be avoided at all costs. It is time we pay heed to the warning of medical professionals and ensure that public health is prioritized over religion. Arunabha Sinha,Calcutta Hollow silence Sir — The pandemic has brought to a halt the musical evenings synonymous with the festive season in Calcutta. This has led to the loss of livelihood for hundreds of musicians who are now struggling to get by. With no means of income, many have been forced to sell their prized instruments to sustain themselves. Live performances with curtailed audiences have resumed recently but they are few and far between. It is likely to be months, if not years, before the situation goes back to that of the pre-Covid days. Till then it will be a battle for survival. Bani Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-112
24-11-2020||Opinion||Get ready: India to receive Oxford vaccine||In a world ravaged by the virus, hope, unsurprisingly, comes in the shape of a vial. The news that India is likely to receive the first contingent of Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca in the first few months of the new year is certainly encouraging. This development has come among other welcome bulletins: the drugs developed by two other pharmaceutical firms, Pfizer and Moderna, have demonstrated an acceptable degree of efficacy against the coronavirus; the phase three trials of Covaxin, an indigenous drug, is also expected to begin soon. But optimism cannot lead to complacency. The challenges that confront a country like India — burdened with a high, impoverished population and a rickety healthcare network — remain steep with respect to the Covid-19 vaccination programme. There are several areas of concern that the Centre must focus on with immediate effect. The first would be the choice of the vaccine, given the possibility that not every medication is expected to provide the same kind of immunity. The selection of the vaccine must adhere to standards of effectiveness that have been substantiated by scientific trials. It makes sense for India to opt for multiple sources while taking care to weed out spurious medication. The second — interconnected — challenge concerns the pricing of the vaccines. India’s wobbly economy — it has been dealt debilitating blows by the pandemic as well as by its ruling dispensation — dents New Delhi’s purchasing powers considerably, and it is likely that India would have to depend on collaborations with its international partners to make vaccines accessible and affordable for its large population. The G20’s recent pledge to make Covid-19 medication and testing universal and uniform must be followed up with firm, affirmative action. The other, equally formidable, obstacle relates to the scale of immunization in India. The Centre may stagger the distribution of the available vaccines with priority sectors — front-line workers and vulnerable citizens — receiving the early doses. But the cleavages in India’s social fabric and the limited reach of healthcare are likely to lead to substantial exclusions. The government must be mindful of ensuring that the vaccines eventually reach the most marginalized segments of society. These must include socially disadvantaged groups as well as minorities. India’s experiences of indigenous vaccination programmes for polio and tuberculosis could be beneficial in addressing possible gaps in this context. Finally, India must undertake the modernization of its drug storage and supply chain. Covid-19 is unlikely to be the last of the pandemics India and the world would see.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-112
24-11-2020||Opinion||Rights over prejudice: MTP amendment bill||A 15-year-old survivor of sexual assault by an acquaintance discovers that she is pregnant. When she complains of severe stomach ache, her parents come to know of the trauma that she has been undergoing. A decision is taken to terminate the pregnancy. The police are informed and an FIR is registered. However, the pregnancy has crossed the 20-week mark and as per the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971, permission for the termination of the pregnancy can only be obtained from the high court. The girl is able to access legal assistance with the help of an organization working with survivors of violence and her case is filed immediately. The court directs that the girl be examined by a medical board of experts set up in a government hospital and a report be placed before it. The minor and her parents report to the hospital and are made to wait for almost the entire day. But she is finally admitted to the hospital. The medical board files a report but it is inconclusive. It refers to general contentions without giving a specific opinion on whether the termination of pregnancy at this stage is medically appropriate. The court directs it to place another opinion, specifically answering the above question. The girl continues to be in the hospital. The second opinion is also inconclusive. Based on legal precedents and the submissions made on behalf of the minor girl, the court permits the termination of pregnancy in the same hospital where she is admitted. The procedure is carried out. By this time, she is 25 weeks into her pregnancy. The hospital refuses to discharge her till she takes responsibility for the disposal of the foetus even though the order is clear on this being the State’s responsibility. Only after intervention by the police and considerable pressure from the organization is the girl discharged. All this when the Covid-19 pandemic is in full swing and the city is seeing the highest number of cases every day. The hospital where the girl was examined and admitted is a Covid centre. The law is one of criminalization as a rule and medical opinion as an exception. Causing miscarriage is an offence under the criminal law, which makes both the service provider and the pregnant woman an offender. The exception to this is the MTP Act, which was enacted in 1971 and has been amended once since. The law, while making access to abortion legal in specified circumstances, does not make it a right. It is entirely based on the opinion of one registered medical practitioner for up to 12 weeks and two from 12 to 20 weeks. After 20 weeks, the pregnancy can be terminated only if it is necessary to save the life of the woman. This was the limit set out in 1971 and continues to stand even though technological and medical advancements make these procedures safe much beyond the 20-week limit. During the last four years, close to 400 cases of pregnant women seeking permission for the termination of pregnancy have been examined by various high courts. The move to amend the MTP Act has been in operation for more than a decade. The MTP amendment bill, 2020 was passed by the Lok Sabha in March and is now before the Rajya Sabha. The law must acknowledge the right to privacy and the bodily autonomy of a pregnant person and must provide for abortion at will at least till the first trimester. The increase in gestational age for seeking termination must be uniform and not restricted to only a certain undefined category of women. The decision about this should rest with the pregnant person and her service provider and should not include any other third-party authorization like the medical board and/or courts. The law must consider the expansion of the provider base and not restrict the provision of this service to only allopathic doctors. However, the bill does not address these concerns. The bill must ensure that it is in harmony with other existing laws and judicial pronouncements and should additionally recognize that a change in circumstances for a pregnant person is also a key factor in deciding whether to continue a pregnancy or not, including, but not limited to, aspects like desertion by the spouse/partner, change in financial circumstances and so on. It is imperative that the law on abortion keeps the pregnant person at its centre. It must not uphold the point of view of the service provider.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-112
24-11-2020||Opinion||Stress test||There is a horrible fascination in watching the post-election drama playing out in the United States of America. For many people across the world, it’s a bit like watching domestic mayhem explode in a rich man’s house just down the street. Horror mingles with cheap schadenfreude as you hear sounds of furniture smashing and glass breaking from the mansion of the family that has always held itself to be superior to all the lowly neighbours and — if democracy was money — to have the oldest reservoir of wealth in the city; a pool so deep and vast that the family has always sneered at any comparison with the nouveau riche wannabe democracies that line the street on either side of their estate. Old-timers would remember that things haven’t always been hunky-dory at the mansion: just fifty years ago, there was the scandal of Grandpa Nixon and his sleaze and corruption; as if that wasn’t bad enough, that was soon followed by Grandpa Reagan depriving most of the family a fair share of the money; then came Uncle Bush with his dirty dealings with the Contras and drug cartels; then, after Uncle Clinton and his sexcapades, came Uncle Bush’s son, Brother Dubya, who, while being surrounded by a cabal of family retainers who actually ran the show, managed to spread mass death and misery far beyond the estate, even more widely than Nixon, Reagan and Daddy Bush. And, now, here we all are, peering in over the boundary wall as this patriarch to top all patriarchs, Agent Orange, flails around in (perhaps) his final throes, trying to burn down the house from inside. Twenty-odd days after the American elections, in the whirlpool of political uncertainty, a few solid artefacts keep bobbing up and circling past: after four years of naked Trumpism, almost 74 million Americans still voted for the man to have a second term; about 77 per cent of these Trump voters — roughly 57 million people — seem to believe that the elections were fraudulent, that the nearly 80 million who voted for Joe Biden didn’t actually do so, that the actual number was far lower and their man actually won; after four years of Donald Trump and in the throes of the worst (and disastrously mismanaged) pandemic their country has ever undergone, the electorate still made sure that the House and Senate are almost equally divided between Democrats and Republicans; Trump will most likely have to relinquish the White House but he will probably try and take it back in 2024; Trump may or may not go to jail in the many cases prosecutors are waiting to lay against him, but the creed of Trumpism isn’t going anywhere anytime soon. In a column in The Guardian, the Berkeley professor, Robert Reich, points out that American institutions and public figures are being subjected to a “stress test” by Trump’s shameless attempts to hijack the election he has lost. While some institutions and individuals have come out of the test with flying colours, others, according to Reich, have failed abysmally. “Trump will lose because there’s no evidence of fraud. But the integrity of thousands of people responsible for maintaining American democracy is being tested as never before,” says Reich, before going on to put the spotlight on the failure of “most elected Republicans” who are staying silent and avoiding demanding that Trump acknowledge his defeat and participate in an orderly transition. However, for every unprincipled, dishonest politico such as Mitch McConnell and Lindsey Graham, in counter-balance to what Reich memorably calls “a Star wars cantina of lackeys, grifters, sycophants and fruitcakes”, there are people in positions of responsibility who’ve stood up to Trump and publicly drawn their lines in the sand. There is the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff who has publicly instructed his soldiers that their primary duty is not to the president but to the Constitution of the US; he has unambiguously stated that no soldier is obliged to follow illegal orders no matter from how high up they come. There is Anthony Fauci, who, despite gross insults and undermining from Trump, has stood his ground vis-à-vis what needs to be done about the pandemic. Then there is Chris Krebs, the former director of the cybersecurity agency, a Trump appointee, who let it be known that this was one of the safest elections in the history of the US. Krebs was fired for his statement but went out with a defiant and brilliantly succinct tweet: “Honored to serve. We did it right. Defend Today, Secure Tomorrow.” Besides these men, we are now seeing a whole host of Republican government officials and Republican-appointed judges who are throwing Trump’s crazy election accusations out of the window. Clearly they understand the need to defend the truth of today in order to secure the truths of tomorrow. Sometimes, the dramas in the big house next to yours can allow you to forget all that is wrong in your own dwelling. Sooner or later though, the neighbour’s political jatra ends and you are brought back to confronting your own challenges. In India, too, our democracy, our Constitution, and our Republic have been put on the rack of a massive and unrelenting stress test over the last six and a half years. Our bureaucracy and security agencies have been pushed further into the servantship of the Central government than ever before. Top figures from our military have brazenly abandoned political neutrality and enthusiastically joined the regime in Delhi. The independence of the Indian Council of Medical Research and the Reserve Bank of India has been badly compromised, to mention just two examples. Large sections of our media have verged on the nauseous support of the BJP-RSS and its subsidiaries. It is being alleged that one of the most critical failures of the stress test, if it can still be called that, has been seen in the higher echelons of the judiciary. We, too, have our crews of lackeys, grifters and sycophants. If we imagine the stress test as being conducted on a structure, the bridge is still standing, although sections of it are dangerously fragile. The American Republic may come through its current challenges bearing scars and deep damage but our own Republic is struggling to find its responses to the huge pressures being put upon it. Even as smoke billows from the mansion down the road, our own house is fighting to ward off a very possible disintegration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-113
