25-11-2020||Opinion||Goodbye Donald, hello Joe||The US president, Donald Trump, still hasn’t conceded the 2020 election — even though on Monday night he did give a go-ahead for a transition to President-elect Joe Biden. But his self-described “good friend”, Narendra Modi, India’s prime minister, was much quicker to jump ship. Hours after Associated Press called the election for Biden on November 7, Modi tweeted a congratulatory note to the former vice-president for a “spectacular victory”. If that was a little over the top — Biden’s win, while clear, was far narrower than what the polls had predicted — it was justified. Modi has serenaded Trump for the past four years, seemingly even helping the outgoing US president woo Indian American voters through two joint rallies. The exaggerated reference to a “spectacular victory” was an important message to Biden: the prime minister’s no-holds-barred hyperbole and attempts to charm American presidents are not reserved for any one leader. That’s particularly critical for the incoming Biden administration to know because while New Delhi would work with any occupant of the White House, the former vice-president’s win is good news for India. Like many other nations, India has suffered from Trump’s volatile, unpredictable and transactional behaviour since 2016. Trump might call the president-elect “sleepy Joe”, but India will settle for ‘steady Joe’. On the foreign policy front, Biden has affirmed that he will bring the United States of America back into the fold of the Paris climate change agreement. That’s important for New Delhi because one of America’s commitments under that pact involves the US helping finance the transition of emerging economies like India to cleaner technologies. More broadly, the US under Biden is expected to return to global institutions like the WHO that Trump had withdrawn from. Without the US, such multilateral institutions are dominated by China, which is not in India’s interests. Biden is also expected to review — if not reverse — the Trump administration’s controversial peace agreement with the Taliban. It’s unclear whether Trump will follow through on his threat to further cut US troop presence in Afghanistan and Iraq in January and whether Biden will send American soldiers back to those war zones. What is known is that Biden’s administration, staffed and advised by traditional foreign policy experts and diplomats from the Barack Obama era, will be less willing than Trump to leave Afghanistan in the hands of the Taliban. Again, that’s good for India, which would like the US troops to stay in that nation as a buffer against the Taliban and their backers in Pakistan’s military. With Iran, too, Biden’s win could mean better days for India. A raft of rigid economic sanctions imposed on Iran by Trump have meant that India has effectively had to stall its promised development of the Chabahar port — a strategic investment by New Delhi to outflank China’s Gwadar port in Pakistan. With India unable to pursue the port project, Iran had over the past year turned to China for help, much to New Delhi’s chagrin. Biden’s expected to return to negotiations with Iran, and potentially lift some of the sanctions imposed by Trump. Sure, New Delhi will need to win back Tehran’s trust but that possibility at least exists. India-US economic relations could also improve. Biden’s unlikely to whimsically impose higher tariffs on Indian goods and New Delhi is hopeful that he will bring India back within the ambit of the Generalized System of Preferences. Under that system, India had benefited from preferential tariffs until Trump withdrew that protection. But let’s be clear: much of India’s expectations are based on Biden’s past positions. It’s vital for New Delhi to remember that Biden will try and escape the shadow of Obama and carve out his own legacy. The deeply divided nature of American politics — a record 73 million people voted for Trump — means Biden will not be able to reverse all of the outgoing president’s policies, and certainly not anytime soon. Some of that could work to India’s advantage. With Trump and Biden trying to outdo each other in recent months in showing who’s tougher on China, it’s unlikely that the president-elect will walk back on America’s recent steps to strengthen strategic relations with India, Australia and Japan under their Quadrilateral partnership. There will be speed bumps. For one, expect Biden to gently raise Washington’s concerns over India’s crackdown in Kashmir with Modi. Vice-President-elect Kamala Harris has likewise critiqued the Indian government’s positions on human rights in the past. But those will not be too difficult to navigate unless the Modi government lets political ego interfere with the shared interests that bind India and America. Just as mistaking Trump for America was always an error, India’s interests aren’t identical to the political agenda of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. New Delhi knows Biden and needs to cultivate Harris — who might be the front runner for the Democratic Party nomination four years from now. Trump made the mistake of thinking he’s bigger than the system that brought him to power. Modi’s unlikely to repeat that error.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-112
25-11-2020||Opinion||Magic mountain||The Dzö-nga has been in a benevolent mood. Kanchenjunga, the home of the mountain deity, Dzö-nga, held in reverence by Lepchas, Nimbus, Tibetans and other ethnic groups, condescended to offer majestic glimpses to its devotees in late October and early November this year. Sightings were reported not only from Darjeeling, Sikkim, Kurseong, Kalimpong and Siliguri but also — somewhat unexpectedly — from Raiganj and Islampur in North Dinajpur. The descriptions of these sightings have been as diverse as the settings. One excited viewer — a celebrity — presumably seated on the rooftop of Darjeeling’s famous eatery, insisted that the Kanchenjunga resembles a giant ice cream. Another visitor, spellbound by the glistening mountain in the silvery light of a full moon, was convinced that the Kanchenjunga looked like a ‘gigantic white elephant’. ‘Raibahadur’ Indranath Roy Chaudhuri — he had waited 17 days for a peek of the peak in Satyajit Ray’s Kanchenjungha — would have snorted at the crudeness of the popular imagination. The Raibahadur’s rage has context. The Himalayas — the Kanchenjunga is a Himalayan range — Raghab Bandopadhyay had observed cheekily in his introduction to Upendrakishore Ray Chowdhury’s wonderful, concise book, Darjeeling, transcend geography, casting their long shadow on the realms of Bengali philosophy and aesthetics. Imagining the mountain as an ice cream or a pachyderm can assault refined senses nourished by, say, Upendrakishore’s enchanting sketch of the Kanchenjunga in ruby tones or by literary passages — Mohanlal Gangopadhyay’s Dakshiner Baranda being the text cited here — that describe, poignantly, Abanindranath Tagore, a burning cheroot on his lips, gazing, as if in a trance, at the mountain on a wintry morning as the Kanchenjunga changed colour in waves of light. The brilliance of Satyajit’s Kanchenjungha lay in girding aesthetics with a moral fence. In the film, the mountain —  a pristine entity — seems to reflect the failings of puny humans in pairs: an anachronistic patriarch and his docile, suffering wife; an adulterous woman and her gambling husband; a bachelor pursuing a young woman, Monisha, who is, in a manner of speaking, the proverbial chalk to his cheese. The cinematic plot is made to defer to the moods of the mountain; light bringing in ephemeral moments of tranquility in the lives of these flawed men and women while shadows and mist — the Kanchenjunga is a notoriously fickle deity — portend disruptions. But Ray’s moral enquiry is not limited to the tides of men. It embraces contemporary ecological crises, transforming the film into an environmental treatise. Roy Chaudhuri’s brother-in-law, an amateur ornithologist, confesses to lying awake at night, thinking of migratory birds dropping dead — like rain — from radioactive skies; Monika’s suitor can barely repress his excitement as he rants about dams — an image integral to the enduring iconography of industry taming nature in post-colonial India — even as the young woman looks away, towards the mountain. Kanchenjungha, made in 1962, is thus invested with a distinct, profound — and prescient — environmental consciousness, communicating a vision that echoes the conviction of the soldiers of ecological romanticism, from William Wordsworth, John Ruskin — the man who shaped M.K. Gandhi’s life, philosophy and politics — and Edward Carpenter to, most notably, Verrier Elwin. These thinkers, apart from being trenchant critics of capitalist expansionism, unabated consumption and the deleterious effects of industrial production on the ecology, upheld the idealization of the environment as well as of primitivism, even endorsing, in Elwin’s case, the confinement of indigenous people and cultures within ‘reserves’ to avoid their contamination by modernity. In spite of having their hearts in the right place, Elwin and Co. have been criticized for not applying their minds. Archana Prasad demolished some of Elwin’s precepts sharply and convincingly in Against Ecological Romanticism, arguing that the location of indigenous people within forests — Elwin’s seal of authenticity of the purity of their environmental ethics — is problematic since there is anthropological evidence to suggest that the retreat of the tribes into forested territory was brought about by encroachment on their non-forested land. In other words, Prasad locates India’s tribal people and their environmentalism within — albeit on the margins of — the political economy as opposed to being removed from it. The distancing that held the key to Elwin’s understanding of the untaintedness of indigenous environmentalism was, Prasad writes, the result of an eye blinkered by romanticism. But one philosophical pillar of ecological romanticism stands firm, defiant, like the Kanchenjunga. Rabindranath, Elwin, Gandhi, Ray —  Aranyer Din Ratri (1970) and his last film, Agantuk (1991), were infused with this spirit — posited their faith in the transformative, mystical power of nature. In Kanchenjungha, Ashoke, the young man who slights the Raibahadur but is befriended by his younger daughter, Monica, is made to voice this belief, an opinion shared by Ray argues the commentator, Bhaskar Chattopadhyay, who has translated Ashoke’s dialogue in the following words: “Maybe it is this place that has got something to do with it… I have never seen anything like this before. The majestic Himalayas, these silent pine-trees, this strange play of sunlight, clouds and mist. It’s so unreal, almost like a dream state. My head was in a whirl, and everything seemed to change before my eyes. As if I wasn’t myself anymore, as if I was someone special. A hero! A giant! As if I was full of courage… careless… undaunted… as if no one could stop me anymore.” Tellingly, as the mists lift and the light returns, Ray’s characters emerge from the shadows within, fatigued, not triumphant, but neither broken by the battles they have waged. The question is this: does Kanchenjunga’s rare, spectral appearance remain an occasion for moral replenishment, for an invigoration of the spirit to mend what is broken, for the kindling of unredeemed possibilities in cultures steadily losing their organic relationships with the natural world? At a time when the human imprint is polluting the final, thinning stretches of wilderness — tourism and mountaineering are turning the Himalayas into a colossal trash bin — the Kanchenjunga must remain as a mirror of the fraying, human morality. Else, it could well resemble an ice cream —but one that is melting on account of the fires lit by mankind.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-112
25-11-2020||Opinion||Cheque mate: corporates and banking||Corporate houses may get a shot at banking, once again. An internal working group of the Reserve Bank of India has recommended that large industrial houses should be permitted to set up banks, potentially opening the doors to an arena from where they have been kept out for close to five decades. The move has sparked a buzz of excitement in corporate boardrooms. But it has also drawn sharp criticism from former Mint Street regulators like Raghuram Rajan and Viral Acharya, who have termed it a bombshell that could undermine years of carefully crafted good practices that have been designed to minimize the risks of bank failure. The panel, headed by the RBI director, P.K. Mohanty, has also recommended a couple of other measures which, when seen in totality, can give cause for alarm. Current regulations stipulate that new private banks must operate within a well-defined corporate structure with investments routed through a non-operative financial holding company. The holding company contains within its ambit all the financial services entities of the group. The idea behind this measure is to ring fence the regulated financial services entities from the other commercial enterprises of the group. The Mohanty panel now says that while this will remain the preferred structure for the new universal banks, they may opt out of it if there are no other group entities within the fold. The panel suggests that the minimum initial investment in the bank will be 40 per cent but the promoters’ stake must come down to 26 per cent within 15 years. Current regulations cap the promoters’ stake at 15 per cent after that period. The reason for raising it to 26 per cent — a key threshold under company law with major implications on ownership and control of the bank — has not been adequately explained. At present, banks are not allowed to have any exposure to the promoter or the promoter group entities. The panel has suggested that banks may be allowed to invest up to 20 per cent of its paid-up share capital and reserves in financial or non-financial services companies if the entity is not a subsidiary, joint venture or associate. The corporate world is full of artifice and is adept at creating elaborate structures that can defeat the intent behind the proposed regulation. The biggest concern is that it will lead to the concentration of economic power in a few handpicked industrial houses that are close to the Narendra Modi regime. Mr Rajan and Mr Acharya have evocatively termed it as the rise of “authoritarian cronyism”. The panel’s reason for making the widespread changes to bank ownership guidelines is that prudential regulation around the world has started shifting towards “a widespread disaggregated shareholding structure for banks... (under) the Basel guidelines.” This is pure hocus-pocus as well as a very flimsy excuse to potentially arm some industrial houses that have thrived on crony capitalism and dubious business practices with banking licences. The caveats that the Mohanty panel has tried to worm into its report will count for nothing when these new banking players gain access to vast depositor funds and start to manipulate the financial system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-112
25-11-2020||Opinion||New formula: inducting the 'hijab' ||Giant strides are often taken by smaller nations. New Zealand recently announced that it would induct the hijab as part of its police uniform. The nation is led by a feisty woman prime minister who had sent out a refreshing signal of empathy and solidarity towards a besieged Muslim population by donning the hijab after the horrific attack in Christchurch in 2019. The spirit of accommodation has been central to New Zealand’s policymaking: the turban made it to the uniform way back in 2008, four years before Britain, the mother of democracies, accepted a turbaned guardsman at Buckingham Palace. The power of such symbolism should not be underestimated. Wellington believes that the police-hijab will encourage greater participation from Muslim women into a force that considers diversity — this must not be ignored either — as one of its core values. What makes New Zealand’s gesture striking is the current global political climate that is afflicted with a potent strain of Islamophobia. With this outreach, New Zealand has given the liberal world much to ponder too. The hijab has a contentious legacy across cultures. It has been banned under the French model of secularism that endorses the principle of neutrality. Jacinda Ardern’s country seems to be challenging discrimination not through cold impartiality but by encouraging, as a matter of policy, a warmer, humane co-existence among faiths. The conflation of secularism with the anti-faith rhetoric has been exploited by nationalist political forces; the rise of Hindutva in India is a case in point. New Zealand, arguably, is experimenting with a new form of secular ethic that seeks to articulate the rightful co-existence of all faiths without condescendingly dismissing public sentiments attached to them and their associated symbols. The resurgence of secularism, an element integral to the edifice of equality, may well begin with this formula.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-112
