26-11-2020||Opinion||Dig deep: 'Safai karmacharis' need more||Laws cannot be effective if they fail to help the very people whose rights and, indeed, lives they are designed to safeguard. As such, it is heartening that the Centre has decided to make the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013 more stringent. Among some of the key reform measures to be implemented with the goal of eliminating manual scavenging is a move to make the mechanization of the cleaning of sewers and septic tanks mandatory. Official records — these are usually conservative estimates — show that the hazardous job done by sewage workers has led to 376 deaths over the past five years, including 110 in 2019 alone, a jump of 61 per cent from the previous year. This in spite of the slew of preventive policies that have been enacted over the past 27 years: manual scavenging was outlawed as far back as 1993. Given these worrying figures, the move towards mandatory automated cleaning must also include methods to make the machinery easily available in municipalities in cities and, equally important, in the hinterland. Incentivizing their purchase may encourage municipal authorities to induct them quickly. Automated cleaning holds out the hope of efficiency, but the idea of mechanization must be examined more closely. Last year, an urban affairs ministry official made a telling statement, suggesting that the primary reason why no law against manual scavenging had been effective was because “no alternative” had ever been “made available”. This is a damning indictment of the nation’s troubling endorsement of the unshakeable hold of caste identities on the division of labour. Deeply entrenched and disempowering ideas concerning purity and pollution are upheld to trap underprivileged communities in dehumanizing labour practices. Shockingly, the new amendments are not free of tokenism: one of the new changes in the law proposes to replace the word, ‘manhole’, with ‘machine-hole’. A change in term is unlikely to challenge caste differentiation. There is also the possibility of unscrupulous agencies using mechanization to deny employment. Are there plans to rehabilitate safai karmacharis and equip them with skills to pursue other, hazard-free work? Moreover, mandatory automation must be accompanied by a change in the institutional approach towards urban waste management, a transformation that will be thwarted unless it embraces the wider community. Mechanization may lead to welcome cultural shifts, particularly with regard to caste, but that cannot be the only means of erasing social marginalization.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-111
26-11-2020||Opinion||Rub it out: Right to be forgotten||Privacy has more than one aspect. Circulating sexually explicit images of women when a relationship has soured, or of acts of sexual violence against them, on the internet —  specifically on social media — destroys privacy. More, the images endure in online memory. It is then not enough to penalize the person who has uploaded the images; the subject must be recompensed too. The Orissa High Court recently underlined the need to enforce ‘the right to be forgotten’ as part of the fundamental right to life and liberty. It is a corollary to the right to privacy that the Supreme Court had established as a fundamental right deriving from the right to life in 2017. In the General Data Protection Regulation of Europe, the right to be forgotten is allied to the right to erasure. Data must be erased as soon as the need for their processing has ended or when the subject has withdrawn consent from their publication and there is no legal need for processing. A society in which exploitation and blackmailing of women and violence against them are part of daily practice, online routes of shaming, harassment and revenge can shatter privacy, dignity and even the expected course of life. In the West, the right to be forgotten emerged from the need of each person not to be stigmatized as a result of an action in the past. Not a criminal act, of course. Besides, documenting and uploading acts of rape can be devastating for the survivor. India is a country where shame can kill. While the need for the right to be forgotten is undeniable, its use has to be carefully worked out. It is a weapon against revenge porn and upholds the subject’s right over private data. But it must also be seen — and measured — in each individual application against the right to freedom of expression and the possibilities of undesirable censorship. Abused, as many laws often are, it could be used to distort narratives by erasing necessary facts. The internet and social media have changed the contours of the world in which Constitutional rights and legal codes were formulated. So it would not be enough to extend the principles and create new rights and laws; the methods and spheres of application must be considered too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-112
26-11-2020||Opinion||Conservation should take wings||Small, tired birds are arriving from colder countries to India’s coastlines and shores. The onset of autumn and winter in India is synonymous with local wetlands, rivers and sea-fronts filling up with birds which weren’t there even a few weeks ago. Birds are possibly a person’s first sighting of a wild creature: they are on balconies and beaches, favouring both cities and secluded areas. Yet, till recently, we have not had a fair assessment of how birds in India are doing. Indian wildlife is protected through the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, which divides wildlife into Schedules. India has over 1,300 bird species, and they do not have adequate representation in these decades-old Schedules. This year, we moved a step closer to understanding how birds are doing on a national scale. The first State of India’s Birds report, created through a coalition of organizations, studied abundance trends of 867 bird species. 101 species were found to be of High Conservation Concern. Hitherto common species — the Yellow-fronted Pied Woodpecker, the Common Woodshrike, the Indian Thick-knee and the Short-toed Snake Eagle — have shown alarming declines over the last 25 years. Birds of prey are doing badly; so are coastal birds. For instance, the population of the Pacific Golden Plover — found on shorelines, turning bright spotted gold-and-black during its breeding season — has declined steeply. The common migratory bird, the Common Greenshank, is now no longer common and, like the Pacific Golden Plover, is of High Conservation Concern today. But both are classified as ‘Least Concern’ on the International Red List, which ranks species for endangerment. This highlights the importance of having nationally relevant assessments. India has recently launched its first National Action Plan for the Central Asian Flyway, which seeks to conserve key migratory sites for birds that winter in this country. This includes conserving a mosaic of wetlands and wetland complexes that are awash with birds looking to rest or feed in. The plan could not have come sooner: studies show that because of a warming Arctic, migration timings are changing, resulting in birds undertaking longer migratory journeys. For this, they will require more stopover sites. Yet, migratory bird sites are under great stress, including those identified as being of global importance by the Ramsar Convention. Last year, around 20,000 migratory birds died in Sambhar lake of suspected botulism; the lake’s premises are used for salt production. The National Green Tribunal then called for the creation of a management plan, which considers conservation, not just salt-making. In October, the Manipur High Court gave a go-ahead for tenders for turning Loktak lake into a site for inland waterways and to build eco-tourism. As per a meeting held this April by the state tourism department, the latter includes a complete gentrification of the area that is opposed to any ecological consideration: water sports, helicopter landing, rope ways, resorts, and, incredibly, a golf course. The SOIB report’s findings imply the need to rethink conservation planning strategies. Apart from certain common birds becoming rarer, restricted range birds — with small ranges in India — will be squeezed between changing climates and human activities. This year was devastating for avians in Northeast India on two counts. Oil India Limited secured permissions for oil exploration in the Dibru Saikhowa National Park in Assam. This park and its surroundings are full of restricted range birds found in just a few places on earth. Explorations for oil in a national park — with the realistic premise that oil will be extracted if found — is new for India and akin to breaking up pristine Alaskan areas for dirty fuels. The dust had not settled on the clearance when an oil well next to Dibru blew up, and has been burning since May. Maguri Beel, a wetland in the area next to the Baghjan oil spill, is gutted. It was one of the few places where two birds of High Conservation Concern — the Swamp Prinia and the Marsh Babbler — were found. These are not random events. They result from a studied neglect of conservation of smaller creatures. It is hard to call for protection of endangered birds when there seem to be so many of them. But we must better conserve the habitats of the 101 bird species precisely because of this complexity. The next SOIB report should look at all bird species, along with the drivers of endangerment. More conservation concerns may emerge then. We must become a State that thinks twice before opening up national parks for oil extraction, and considers the presence of dwindling birds in commonly used areas. These need not be through the institution of new protected areas, but in regulation and monitoring of current habitats by a network of scientists and citizens. This report used 10 million bird records uploaded by birdwatchers. It has already harnessed the power of citizen science. This is the power that may ensure that words like chorai (Sparrow), shalik (Myna) and toontooni (Sunbird) never leave our lexicon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-112
26-11-2020||Opinion||Learning from the past||Those of us old enough to remember 1970 will recall the wall writings and agitprop that defined the political turbulence of Calcutta. The one I remember most vividly was a gigantic drawing of Mao Zedong that decorated the façade of a faculty building of Jadavpur University. Clearly visible from the main road, it showcased the millenarianism of a restless and disoriented generation: “China’s Chairman is our Chairman.” Outside, on the streets of a city approaching the dawn of decline, young men and women waved red flags and chanted, “Amar naam, tomar naam, Vietnam Vietnam.” Depending on your inclination, the mood was either heady or defined by rank insanity. The inclination of the Bengali Hindu bhadralok to be swayed by global fashion has been a feature since the early 19th century. A defining feature of what is presently called the Bengal Renaissance was the absorption of Western thought, including Christian theology, into the bloodstream of intellectualism. For many stalwarts of this ‘awakening’, the exposure to Western ideas also involved a corresponding rejection of almost everything associated with Bengal’s traditional Hindu inheritance. Although there were others, notably Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar, Bhudeb Mukherjee and Bankim Chandra Chatterjee, who refused to be blown off their feet by this onrush of cosmopolitanism, there were many others who were not so steadfast. It took Swami Vivekananda’s journey to the West and his incorporation of nation-building into Hindu devotionalism to correct the huge loss of self-esteem that had engulfed a section of educated Bengali Hindus. Following Independence, there was a second wave of regressive disorientation, which was inextricably linked to the steady growth of the communist movement in the post-Partition state. The new ‘progressivism’ which had its impact on politics, the arts and culture, combined disdain for traditionalism with an internationalism that, in effect, boiled down to endorsing one side in the Cold War. It is significant that there was a loose convergence between the emerging communist mindset in Bengal and the socialism that came to be associated with the camp followers of Jawaharlal Nehru. Yet, it is also a fact that in West Bengal at least, the influence of the Left in the Congress was tenuous. In the first two decades after Independence, the state Congress encapsulated traditionalist impulses in society. This meant that a part of the political world in the state was spared contamination. Although a more rounded assessment of the social and intellectual history of West Bengal since its creation in 1947 is awaited, certain broad features may be identified. First, there was a close and, sometimes, inextricable link between cultural and political life in a section of bhadralok society. This became more marked after the defeat of the Congress and the forward march of the Communist Party of India (Marxist). The CPI(M) may have claimed to represent the ‘toiling masses’ but its leadership was drawn almost exclusively from middle and lower middle class Bengali society. During the three decades of Left Front rule in West Bengal, the hegemonic position of the Bengali bhadralok wasn’t ever disturbed. The language of politics changed but the messengers of the new ideas remained the same. Secondly, ‘progressive’ impulses in West Bengal comprised a curious mixture of Bengali asmita and intellectual cosmopolitanism. There was, of course, the spirited adulation of the great heroes of the Left — from Lenin, Stalin and Mao to Ho Chi Minh and Fidel Castro. To this was added a curious preference for the avant garde that included subtitled films, the poetry of Mayakovsky and Pablo Neruda and Russian classics, courtesy cheap editions imported from Moscow. However, unlike the colonial-era Renaissance where the English language played an important role, the dissemination of the Left Front’s progressivism was almost through Bangla. While this ensured that the impulses were more deeply rooted than was the case in pre-Independence Bengal, it also ensured that West Bengal was largely insulated from influences that prevailed in the outside world. The steady brain drain from the state — a process that went hand in hand with the flight of capital and the de-industrialization of the region — also aided West Bengal’s new exceptionalism. Finally, the hold of this exceptionalism in defining political attitudes and policies was considerable. From the 1920s, after Mahatma Gandhi assumed control of the main body of the Indian national movement, Bengali Hindu society charted its own path — not in opposition, but distinctly apart. This was as true for Deshbandhu Chittaranjan Das as it was for his foremost disciple, Subhas Chandra Bose, and those idealists who flocked to the revolutionary organizations. The Left movement that began flowering after Independence also incorporated this belief in the uniqueness of the Bengali path. After 1967, even those battling the Left on the streets used the proverbial red flag to attack the red flag. Indira Gandhi’s socialist turn from 1969 attracted many followers all over India. However, the reforging of the Congress in West Bengal assumed a distinct character, different from the rest of India. This inheritance was absorbed by Mamata Banerjee’s breakaway movement, at least before it assumed power in 2011. The Trinamul Congress’ successful movement against land acquisition for industry which broke the back of the Left Front and secured support from Bengali intellectuals was, in essence, a movement that incorporated all the Left’s traditional impulses. The exceptionalism of the state’s politics was maintained, even while there was a transfer of power from Jyoti Basu’s successor to Mamata Banerjee. In the past year, particularly after the TMC was jolted by the rise of the Bharatiya Janata Party in the 2019 general election, the invocation of regional Bengali pride has been a feature of the West Bengal chief minister’s spirited political response. A part of this has incorporated the Left Front’s familiar gripe against the Centre’s alleged neglect of West Bengal. However, unlike the Left which stressed the unity of the ‘toiling masses’ in the fight for ‘people’s democracy’ — a struggle that, in theory at least, incorporated all the peoples of India and even the world — Mamata Banerjee appears to have taken a leaf from the identity-based movements that have made headway in the West. Her assertion that West Bengal cannot be run from Gujarat and by a party of ‘outsiders’ preys, quite predictably, on the old stereotype of the state BJP being a party of Hindi-speakers. There is also some evidence to suggest that a section of the TMC has encouraged — on social media at least — organizations that have combined Bengali pride with a message to kick Hindi-speakers out of the state. The electoral calculations behind this discernible shift from regional pride — incorporating the exceptionalism of the past — to Bengali exclusivism are quite obvious. In the 2019 general election — if surveys are any guide — the BJP secured the support of more than 55 per cent of the state’s Hindu population. The TMC could save face by winning an overwhelming majority of Muslim votes. Assuming that this Muslim support will be intact in 2021, the idea is to divide the Hindu vote, in the urban and semi-urban areas at least, by creating a schism between Bengali-speakers and Hindi-speakers. The approach builds on pre-existing political impulses of the Hindu bhadralok but complements it with the simmering resentment of those who feel left behind economically. It is unlikely that the disdain for Hindi-speakers will dominate the TMC campaign. It will, at best, be a proverbial dog’s whistle. What could be more ominous for the future of politics in West Bengal is if this caricature of cultural pride with a garnishing of Left rhetoric actually sways a section of voters. From solidarity with Vietnam to booting out Hindi-speakers, West Bengal politics would have travelled a long way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-112
