27-11-2020||Opinion||Word war: AIMIM choose 'Bharat' over 'Hindustan'||The choice of words can mirror the times, but not necessarily their own histories. The wisdom of this inference was brought to light, once again, in the course of a fractious exchange in the Bihar assembly. The elected members of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen refused to utter the word, ‘Hindustan’, voicing their preference for ‘Bharat’, while taking their oaths as legislators. The Bharatiya Janata Party, characteristically, responded to the AIMIM’s demand by thundering that any Indian allergic to the term, ‘Hindustan’, should leave the country and seek shelter in Pakistan. The banter between the AIMIM and the BJP would have been comic had it not been for the fact that the exchange, sadly, exposes the extent of the distortion that history has undergone with the ascendancy of a shrill religious ethic in the Indian polity. Their sparring notwithstanding, the AIMIM and the BJP legislators exhibited a common, dangerous strain; the lack of erudition. The AIMIM, which seldom shies away from claiming to represent the interests of India’s Muslim community, was expressing its reservations against a word with a distinct root in Persian and Urdu, languages that are synonymous with the Islamic world. The BJP, arguably, turned up its nose at ‘Bharat’, a word rooted in Sanskrit, the prized vocabulary of ancient India. It rooted, instead, for ‘Hindustan’, oblivious to its Islamic lineage. Erudite politicians are a rarity in India. But that is the lesser of the two evils in this context. What is chilling is how commonplace the spectre of sectarian ethic is in New India. States — is it a coincidence that the BJP is in power in each of these? — are blatantly undermining their constitutional imperatives by framing legislations that seek to demonize inter-faith union and harmony. The frightening consequences of this sustained poisoning of India’s collective fraternity are now glaringly evident; public representatives think nothing of pandering to such divisiveness, lowering the dignity of an august House and its proceedings. The taint was mitigated somewhat when a Congress legislator, a Muslim, chose to take his oath in Sanskrit. This kind of intervention is a stark reminder of the urgent need to replenish the spirit of syncretism and plurality. But such a sensibility, even though it is courageous, is now rare — as rare as politicians committed to protecting India’s secular edifice from calculated bigotry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-111
27-11-2020||Opinion||Act fast: How can corrupt politicians run for office?||Sir — The newly sworn-in education minister of Bihar, Mewalal Choudhary, was forced to resign only hours after his appointment, owing to severe criticism regarding the pending cases against him. This raises the question: why are allegedly corrupt politicians — some of whom face charges for serious crimes — allowed to run for office or be appointed as ministers in the first place? The chief minister, Nitish Kumar, surely cannot claim that he is oblivious to the charges against his colleagues. Suravi Ghoshal,North 24 Parganas Sir — Mewalal Choudhary resigned within three hours of assuming charge as Bihar’s newly appointed education minister, earning the dubious distinction of being the shortest-serving minister in the state. He is an accused in a recruitment scandal during his tenure as vice-chancellor of a university. According to records, eight of the 14 new ministers in Bihar have declared criminal cases against them and six of them are accused of non-bailable offences. Indian law dictates that no person is guilty till proven so. An accused can hold an office until convicted. The chief minister, Nitish Kumar, claims to be committed to maintaining a corruption-free government. Kumar had previously snapped ties with his political allies over alleged corruption charges. Taking a stronger stand, Kumar should also remove the other ministers who are accused of serious crimes. Opposition parties that won over a hundred seats in the 243-member Bihar assembly should monitor the cases as they did for the education minister’s removal. Khokan Das,Calcutta Stop now Sir — It seems that no number of deaths on account of the coronavirus crisis can deter the people of India from celebrating weddings and other occasions with great pomp. Why do people not realize that each such congregation undermines the efforts made by all our front-line workers? Nandini Pal,New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-111
27-11-2020||Opinion||Love in law: Allahabad HC negates love jihad||It is puzzling when courts and state governments go in opposite directions. The Allahabad High Court has reportedly asserted that no individual, family or State can interfere in the decision of two consenting adults, irrespective of their religion, to marry or live together. This opposes the Uttar Pradesh chief minister’s decision to formulate a law against interfaith marriages. The law would prevent love jihad, in which a woman from the majority community changes her faith to marry a man from the largest minority community as part of the latter’s conspiracy to increase the minority population. No proof of this has been found in UP or in any of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led states planning to follow UP’s lead. The UP chief minister had set store by two earlier single-bench rulings of the Allahabad High Court — the second last September — stating that conversion solely for marriage was unacceptable. Establishing the primacy of the right to life and personal liberty of two mature individuals, the latest two-judge bench of the high court pronounced the earlier judgments “bad in law”. The court found the first information report filed by the father of a woman who had converted and married a Muslim prompted by malice and mischief, describing such moves as a serious encroachment on the right to personal liberty. The Delhi High Court, too, responding to a habeas corpus petition by a 20-year-old woman’s family, said that an adult woman was free to live wherever she wished with whoever she wished. The Allahabad High Court made an outstandingly important point at a time when the dominant regime is encouraging a divisive approach to religion. The court does not see the man and woman in the interfaith union as Hindu and Muslim, but as two grown-up individuals who had married of their own free will. Interference in such a relationship was not only a violation of rights but also a threat to the concept of unity in diversity. Without mentioning the myth of love jihad, the Allahabad High Court struck at its root from every angle, underlining its lawlessness — as did the Delhi High Court’s insistence on freedom of personal choice — and pointing directly to the Constitutional ethos of secularism and equality of all religions. This is deeply reassuring for all those fighting discrimination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-111
27-11-2020||Opinion||Crowd versus mob in socio-political history||This year, Durga Puja was under judicial scrutiny perhaps because the Calcutta High Court was mindful of the excellent treatise by Charles Mackay titled Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds: “Men, it has been well said, think in herds; it will be seen that they go mad in herds, while they only recover their senses slowly, and one by one.” Hujoog, manifest in our collective behaviour during a pandemic, borders on madness. Mackay’s book is a testimony to the fascination with the idea of the madness of crowds. “The destinies of nations are elaborated at present in the heart of the masses, and no longer in the councils of princes”, wrote Gustave Le Bon in The Crowd: A Study of the Popular Mind. Democracy is mob rule that degenerates into tyranny, if we go by Plato’s account in the Republic. Images of the crowd have corresponded with the notion of the barbaric. They range from the crowd hounding Christ to death, bawling for blood in the Roman circus, lustily cheering public executions. But the crowd can signify change as well: the peasants rising in revolt in 1381, causing disturbances in London; the crowd storming the Bastille in 1789. One of the goals of the French Revolution was to achieve social and political change on a monumental scale. The Bolshevik Revolution in Russia strove to replace the capitalist grip with communist dictatorship. The echoes of the past resonate in the calls to ‘drain the swamp’ of political elites in Washington, to ‘Occupy Wall Street’ — demanding accountability from banks — to re-empower the middle class as evident in the ‘Yellow Vests’ protests in France, revealing an enduring undercurrent of distrust of the financial and political elites. Opposed to the vignettes of the crowd as an agent of change are the images of the mob killing people or destroying cultural artefacts and religious symbols. Kar sevaks destroying the Babri Masjid or faceless rioters killing and looting in 1984 (anti-Sikh riots), 1992-93 (Bombay riots), 2002 (Gujarat riots) and 2020 (Delhi riots), to name only a few transgressions. Not that crowd behaviour is accepted when it marches against ruling juntas. The Chinese government used troops and tanks to crush the Tiananmen Square movement. The Narendra Modi government vilified Muslim women and men protesting against a controversial citizenship law at Shaheen Bagh. But all the crowd images listed by J.S. McClelland in The Crowd and the Mob: From Plato to Canetti pale in terms of numerical scale when it comes to the gatherings at the Kumbh Mela or the haj in Mecca. Epidemiologists, however, fear that these spectacles are a public health hazard: a cholera outbreak took place during the Kumbh Mela of 1783. Little wonder then that the prime minister has warned against complacency in the fight against Covid-19 during the festive season. But he forgot to warn against election fever: in an election rally in Ramgarh, Bihar, the crowd made light work of the Election Commission’s guidelines on social distancing. Governments are known to have gone the extra mile to harness the power of the collective. Pakistan and, now, China are baits dangled by the current government to mobilize public opinion. If these fail, there is the time-tested fault line of caste. When all else fails, majoritarianism can always be trusted to turn a crowd into a mob.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-111
27-11-2020||Opinion||The match that changes the ISL||During the first week of the Indian Super League, TV commentators alerted us about an impending ‘Monster Match’. It was billed as the biggest derby in Indian — Asian — football, which is true. A first-time ISL watcher encountering such relentless promotion could well imagine that East Bengal vs Mohun Bagan was what the League had been yearning for from day one but had somehow been blindsided when an outfit called Atlético de Kolkata turned up and magically fitted into the ISL’s one-city, one-team franchise model. And any chatter about Mohun Bagan and East Bengal playing ISL from Siliguri and Durgapur was just slanderous gossip. Okay, no need to be churlish now. Bygones. When SC East Bengal and ATK Mohun Bagan face off at the Tilak Maidan, Vasco today, it is going to be a monster match. Not from what transpires on the field — it could be a nil-nil skirmish — but what lies beneath and ahead. The ATK and SC that prefix the two Calcutta giants belong to their ISL fund managers, for which their fans are grateful. It is their resources that have got the clubs into the league attracting the biggest money and names in Indian football. What the suffixes to ATK and SC could do for the ISL cannot be quantified. Despite its initial euphoria, the ISL had struggled with its cellophane wrapping and plastic container. This is not to deride everyone working on the ground around ISL. It is just what the ISL represented, even after the meaningless ‘marquee’ names were done away with and the status of being India’s highest football league obtained from the Asian Football Confederation. On the current season’s first Monday, Odisha played Hyderabad: two years ago, the ISL had featured Delhi Dynamos and FC Pune City, except FC Pune City disbanded and Delhi became Odisha. Into this spotty roster over a six-year lifespan come Mohun Bagan (est. 1889) and East Bengal (est. 1920) bringing with them history, folklore, blood and tears. The ISL’s owners, Football Sport Development Limited (est. 2014), will deny that their league needed validation, but the Calcutta derby’s hardsell on TV speaks another language. On the flipside, the two ‘legacy’ clubs should have their medieval management put under the examination and overhaul as their fans have always wanted. Matching the ISL’s basic shade of professionalism is the least they could be made to do. The induction of Mohun Bagan and East Bengal into the ISL becomes a worry for India’s other, older, non-fabricated community clubs and their leagues; but that is another topic for deeper analysis. Neither the owners nor the financiers of the Calcutta giants will give the ISL its much-needed oxygen: the fans will. In the tradition of football clubs worldwide, Mohun Bagan and East Bengal fans will bring the street and its mood into the ISL. The first sign of influence? The takedown of a cringeworthy advertisement featuring the ATK and Mohun Bagan colours being fused together via a washing machine soak. Angry fans were having none of that nonsense. Fans from other ISL teams are delighted. Among them, Kerala Blasters’ Manjappada (Yellow Army) are the most visible. Their 2018-19 boycott in protest against management and team was visible on TV with reduced crowd numbers. The Mohun Bagan and East Bengal fans will bring a dimension of public participation in the ISL where opinion can’t be whitewashed, muted or silenced. Where management of either club or league can be challenged, questioned, even hectored. The ISL has never had anything like it. Finally, the plastic wrapping could come off. With fans attending matches hopefully in the 2021-22 season, as airline safety instructions say, brace for impact. When the first ISL season was kicking off in October 2014, Naomi Klein released her book on capitalism and climate change with its powerful, resonant title, This Changes Everything. When the Calcutta derby begins in Goa, that title will loom in the imagination. Indian football’s fledgling free market will be shaking hands with its oldest, passionately-followed, chaotically-run community enterprises. This had better change everything.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-111
27-11-2020||Opinion||Network problem||This article is about educational deprivation owing to the digital divide. It is emphatically not an attack on digital instruction as such. The digital medium is an invaluable pedagogic asset. It can endlessly store and convey knowledge material, present it in innovative ways, transform the world of learning for student and teacher alike. It has been the readiest recourse for remote learning during the Covid lockdown. Hence students deprived of it have taken their own lives: most recently, an undergraduate at an elite Delhi college. Earlier victims include young schoolchildren. Digital access might be impaired by many factors, such as lack of connectivity; but the most basic reason is sheer lack of a device. Only 8 per cent of India’s students have a laptop with internet connection. The rest cannot look beyond a smartphone — a clumsy means of accessing study material, let alone writing exam answers. In the state government schools attended by the mass of students, even this support is enjoyed by only 56 per cent, according to the Annual Status of Education Report. The supply of all learning material, online or offline, during lockdown has been inadequate and irregular, more so in some states than in others. Nearly two-thirds of rural schoolchildren received no material whatsoever. Many even lacked textbooks: 65 per cent in Andhra Pradesh, 40 per cent in Rajasthan. As adult incomes plummet, more and more children are leaving school to earn a living. (At least in some states, nearly half did not even receive midday meal rations.) One estimate pegs likely permanent dropouts at 20 per cent of enrolment, reverting to the level of 2004. Juvenile girls are being married off or even trafficked. The gap in fresh enrolments in rural primary schools has increased threefold. States like Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have launched programmes to tackle dropouts. The silence of the Union government is deafening. Yet this is an India-sized challenge calling for federal funding and execution, perhaps on the lines of Bengal’s Unicef-acclaimed Kanyashree programme. The school sector has at least seen some action during the pandemic. The NCERT has published an excellent survey-cum-manual. Many states are running continuity programmes, Karnataka’s Vidyagama scheme perhaps the most elaborate. These efforts utilize printed material like study sheets, even controlled physical meetings. But electronic instruction remains the default mode, effectively ignoring the yawning digital divide. It is silently assumed that unequipped students will fall by the wayside. A study by the Azim Premji University found their proportion to be over 60 per cent in state schools. The assumption is pervasive in higher education. Unlike the NCERT, the UGC has conducted no survey, issued no pedagogic guidelines. It has merely publicized the learning material already available on its websites, without suggesting how students of limited means or at remote locations might access it. Digital instruction is showcased in a vacuum, with no concession to ground realities. An influential vice-chancellor assumes that India’s 500 million smartphones necessarily cover each of our 34 million students. Every student suicide cruelly refutes this claim. At the University of Hyderabad, over 10 per cent of students were found to lack smartphones, and 18 per cent proper connectivity. A handful of colleges have ensured online access for every student. Within my imperfect knowledge, only one university, Jadavpur, has done so. We thus have a conflicting scenario. On the one hand, digital education is advocated more stridently than ever. By a naïve fascination with technology, it is seen as an absolute advance over “age-old classroom teaching”, to quote the same vice-chancellor. I began by stressing the real benefits of digital learning. But this total and uncritical immersion in the mode, rather than a nuanced use of digital resources by the human teacher, makes for a reductive and mechanistic programme of learning. Yet it is touted as the strategy of choice for the future, beyond the short-term imperatives of the pandemic. This reductive policy will save the authorities money. Online courses on shared platforms would cost a small fraction of teachers’ salaries. (It would also ensure mental regimentation of the academic community.) However, costs would rise if course production is outsourced to the corporate online-learning lobby for whom the pandemic has been a bonanza. And the individual student would spend substantially more on devices and connectivity, given our policy-makers’ assumption that education, especially higher education, is a private not a public good. Poorer students may thus be excluded from even high-school education, or confined to its deprived levels. Such stratification has long been entrenched at the school level and is fast pervading higher education. It need not be so. It is abundantly possible to bridge the digital divide. In its intrinsic technology, the digital platform is socially neutral. Artificial intelligence even allows a measure of personalized learning, though never by eliminating the human teacher. It is an exciting prospect of immense promise, provided it is not implemented in a vacuum, ignoring the profound disparities of access. Some hard facts must be admitted. A productive and equitable model of digital learning for the entire nation would involve more expenditure, not less. It would not materially reduce the human workforce. These non-negotiable needs clash with the syndrome behind our current educational planning. The planners’ dream seems confined to a spruce, secure, formalized network with impressive buildings and gleaming infrastructure — a desirable but inadequate scenario, producing amenable students and faculty, customized workers for an approved economic and social order. True intellectual endeavour prompts questions and breaches barriers: it progresses by probing, unsettling, redefining. Instead, this limited pre-ordered goal will foster an undemanding management-friendly system, its curricular structure bounded by the current job market, shunning the disruptive innovations of an active knowledge economy. However brilliant its students and faculty — indeed, the more so — such a system cannot harvest their full creative potential. At the same time, it is expensive to set up and run. India can afford only a limited network, even by intensively deploying private capital. A restricted, formalized order simultaneously creates informal, intractable growth in the excluded territory beyond it. The showpiece high-rise and the neglected slum have always been the twin coordinates of the Indian polity. Our current rulers seem bent on maximizing this wasteful, underproductive, binary model: bullet trains and a parliamentary complex before an adequate public distribution and nutritional system to tackle suppressed hunger, a packaged insurance deal rather than hands-on engagement with the messy issues of public health. Our desired economic order would be structured, corporatized, and intensively digitized. The unorganized sector must fend for itself, its fit symbol the plight of migrant labourers during the pandemic. So too the new National Education Policy seems to include the excluded sector, so to speak, by relegating it to subaltern status. The initial draft NEP was of wide and multiple scope. It has been scaled down to the above template, insidiously reducing funds and lowering benefits for the unprivileged. Higher education will be split into three tiers (besides the ever-widening gaps between public and private, Central and state-run institutions), the lowest confined to bare-bones teaching without any leavening research environment. Most crucially, schoolchildren from the social margins, explicitly including tribal forest communities, will be fobbed off with ‘less emphasis on input and greater emphasis on output’ — to translate, limited underfunded facilities, not excluding the Open School system devised for child labourers and dropouts. In a word, the growing inequality of our economic life will be perpetuated by human resource management for the future. In a recent article, the Union education minister talks of “several pathways”, including “non-formal education modes” with minimal “[r]egulations on inputs”, invoking the “Right to Education” but not the Right to Education Act, with which such provisions are incompatible. Far from being integrated, the ‘several pathways’ will serve as division markers. The digital divide will inevitably widen. It will be the most visible symptom of a fundamentally divisive educational order that squanders and undersells the greater part of India’s human resources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-111
