28-11-2020||Opinion||2020: A year against women||One slot on the ‘BBC 100 Women 2020’ list has been left blank. This is not because there are not enough women in the world who have made a positive difference in one way or another. On the contrary, it is because the 100th place has been reserved as a tribute to the countless, nameless women who have made selfless sacrifices to help others during the past year. This is but one of many testaments to the idea that the experience of a year — especially 2020 that has tested mankind in unprecedented ways — can be starkly different for women and men. Indeed, the year, 2020, has shown why a separate list for women, such as this one, is warranted. Defined as it was by Covid-19, 2020 amplified pre-existing inequalities — from the economy and the healthcare sector to personal safety and social security — and witnessed women bearing the maximum brunt of challenges within and outside their homes. Some of the adversities are new; but others are persistent ills that have been aggravated by the lockdowns and the resultant isolation necessitated by the contagion. An example of the former would be the entrapment of women at home with abusive family members: the United Nations was forced to describe the exponential rise in cases of domestic violence as a “shadow pandemic” alongside Covid-19. Older, ugly issues raised their heads too. The already-precarious nature of employment for women in India’s informal sector has been rendered even more uncertain; trafficking networks have thrived, profiting off vulnerable girls and women. Mercifully, the list brings some cheer, enumerating the courage and the spirit of women who have fought to overcome such odds. Four Indian women have found themselves in this shining fraternity; each of them has broken barriers and effected change. The oldest among these women is the octogenarian, Bilkis Bano, who earned respect and recognition as an enduring presence in the peaceful, democratic protest against the divisive Citizenship (Amendment) Act at Shaheen Bagh. Ms Bano dismantled a number of stereotypes associated with age and gender. What was also demolished was the myth of the domestic space being ideal for women. When women like Ms Bano cross the threshold of home to protest against a regressive legislation or other forms of more personal discrimination, it exposes the wickedness of the patriarchal design that idealizes domestic responsibilities and the home as a means of silencing women who are exploited in a myriad ways. It is not enough to celebrate this list of experiences that has been curated by the BBC. Care must be taken to ‘liberate’ this archive of women’s battles against entrenched discrimination from the trap of benign recognition; the list should be a signal for action to alleviate suffering that is primitive and enduring. The unequal lives of women need to be examined, disseminated in the public discourse and taken into account for emancipatory policy interventions. This would not only throw light on the long road that lies ahead before gender equality can be achieved, but also inspire innumerable, struggling women who have not had the opportunity to share their woes with the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-110
28-11-2020||Opinion||Game changer: Tarun Gogoi no more||Sir — It was saddening to read about the demise of the former chief minister of Assam, Tarun Gogoi (“CM who made Assam ‘breathe’ after militancy”, Nov 24). Gogoi held office for three consecutive terms and changed the face and reputation of Assam. Under him, the state went from being a hotbed of insurgency to a land of opportunities. A six-time member of parliament from Assam and twice a Union minister, Gogoi returned from Delhi to politics in his home state in 2001 when he was charged with leading the Congress in the assembly polls against the powerful Asom Gana Parishad-led government under Prafulla Kumar Mahanta. At the time, no one really believed in Gogoi’s abilities. But he led the Congress to a victory. Gogoi made significant changes during the 15 years he was in power, crushing insurgency and putting the wheels of the economy back on track. There were occasional spots of trouble during his tenure, such as the ethnic clashes in Kokrajhar between the Bodo people and the Bengali-speaking Muslim community in 2012. But Gogoi dealt firmly with the situations. With his demise, the Congress has lost a loyal and valuable soldier. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — Tarun Gogoi died recently in Guwahati at the age of 86, and the Congress lost a senior leader at a crucial time. As the head of the Congress unit in Assam for over 50 years, Gogoi was first elected joint secretary of the All India Congress Committee in 1976 under the then prime minister, Indira Gandhi. He later served as general-secretary of the AICC from 1985 to 1990 under Rajiv Gandhi, who was prime minister at that time. Gogoi served six terms as a Lok Sabha MP from Assam. He first represented Jorhat for three terms between 1971 and 1985. He was later elected from Kaliabor in 1991-96 and then 1998-2002. The Kaliabor seat is currently held by his son, Gaur. Gogoi’s demise came at a time when the party is facing an internal crisis; the presence of the stalwart could have done a world of good for the resurgence of the Congress. This is why it is not unreasonable to say that the Grand Old Party has lost a tall leader. Gundu K. Maniam,CalcuttaMen down Sir — Indian cricket has reeled under the burden of injury problems in the past, and the trend seems set to continue in the series Down Under. Team India are down from the word ‘go’; both Ishant Sharma and Rohit Sharma are injured and, therefore, are unable to play till the end of the year. Their replacements are nowhere near as good as they are. By playing in the Indian Premier League, these talented cricketers sustain injuries. With the skipper, Virat Kohli, bowing out of three of the four scheduled Test matches on account of a paternity leave, the men’s team looks rather weak in both batting and bowling. Ishant Sharma’s rich experience in bowling with the new ball has been an advantage for Team India over the years. Moreover, Rohit Sharma’s new-found form in opening the batting has been giving the Indian squad a head start. His absence in New Zealand was felt very strongly; India lost the Test series 0-2 to the Kiwis in the latter’s backyard. The fitness of Indian players during overseas tours has often been found wanting; this has cost us many Test match victories in the past. Is it possible for Team India’s fortunes to be reversed this time? C.K. Ramanath,Ghaziabad No contact Sir — Given that nations around the world are facing new waves of Covid-19 infections, any kind of contact between human beings is becoming riskier by the day. In the light of this, it was heartening to read that an inventor in Egypt, Mahmoud el-Komy, is testing a remote-controlled robot that can test patients for Covid-19, take their temperature and warn them to wear masks. The fact that the robot has a human-like face might even put patients at ease, given that the presence of machines in hospital environments can be unnerving for many people. This is a great way to conduct testing without healthcare workers having to come into direct contact with patients. Priyanka Surka,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-111
28-11-2020||Opinion||Rare friendships: Lord Desai's autobiography||Reading Lord Meghnad Desai’s just published autobiography, I laughed out loud as though I was reading a PG Wodehouse novel when he described his “fruitful collaboration and lifelong friendship” with fellow economist, Dipak Mazumdar: “He was a rare specimen of a Bengali economist who was not left-wing.” Meghnad, my near neighbour in London, had taken me into confidence before formally announcing he was leaving the “anti-Semitic” Labour Party at the age of 80 after being a member for 49 years. We also talked about Rebellious Lord, in which he writes about his first meeting with Amartya Sen in 1964 : “One friendship I made at Berkeley which has been a great joy to me was with Amartya Sen. Amartya was visiting Berkeley in my second year. I was thrilled when I heard him speak at a seminar. We met up afterwards and then many times during the year he was there. I was 24, he was 31.We got on very well and have done so ever since.” Meghnad tells me: “Amartya is a great person. He is my longest acquaintance among Indian economists. Very nice man. I think he’s slightly cross with me because I’m much softer on Modi than he is. But then you know, I’m me. And he is him. But I don’t think those things are serious for either.” Amartya’s Nobel Prize in 1998 did not surprise him. “No, not at all.” Meghnad’s own lectures have taken him to 50 countries. “There are three countries I consider my own — the US, UK and India. I belong to all three in some form or another. In America, I could have earned much more money, but being at the LSE was much more fun. Because I’m interested in many things I can talk to people about what they are interested in. I have had a lovely life.” Skeletons in the closet The knives are out for the BBC’s religion editor, Martin Bashir, aged 57, who was born in London to Christian parents from Pakistan. He secured an exclusive interview with Diana, Princess of Wales, in 1995, but it is now alleged he used forged documents to get around her brother, Charles, the ninth Earl of Spencer. The latter is leading the charge against Bashir, who is off sick after heart surgery and post-Covid complications. Charles has been accused of “hypocrisy” because he refused to provide shelter to Diana in 1996 when the distressed princess sought his help. Timeless tonic Talking of PG Wodehouse, a friend drew my attention to “A Plum & Tonic”, a session on the author at the Mumbai Litfest. Thanks to Zoom four people from the UK could participate — the BBC journalist, James Naughtie, who presents Bookclub on BBC radio; Hal Cazalet, Wodehouse’s step great grandson; the actor, Robert Goodale; and the comedian, Sindhu Vee. All this was before the Tata sponsored festival became embroiled in controversy after withdrawing its invitations to Noam Chomsky and the journalist, Vijay Prashad. Naughtie referred to familiar characters — Bertie Wooster and Jeeves, obviously, plus Madeline Bassett, Gussie Fink-Nottle and his beloved newts, Lady Florence Craye, Lord Emsworth and his prize pig, the Empress of Blandings, and assorted aunts. Naughtie invited his audience to “cast reality aside as gently as you can, shelve all the cares of the world as we take you on an escape to the sunlit haven of that great writer”. After an hour he concluded: “There’s an obvious way to end which is to quote the immortal words of another great comic novelist, Evelyn Waugh, who summed up the credo of PG Wodehouse as an admirer with great affection and hitting the spot. 'Mr Wodehouse’s world,’ he said, ‘can never stale. He will continue to release future generations from captivity that may be more irksome than our own. He has made a world for us to live in and delight in’ — and so say all of us.” Being human The journalist, Farrukh Dhondy, has passed to me an email he has received from the fellow Parsi, Cyrus Poonawalla, after mentioning the founder of the Serum Institute of India in a newspaper. The two were “schoolmates” in Poona. “It could be a scoop for you,” was Farrukh’s helpful tip. Cyrus told Farrukh that he had read his article with interest, “especially the last para about your association with me”. He added: “I just wanted to share with you that, apart from partnering with US Codagenix (which will take time to develop and launch a vaccine) we are the front-runners for the Oxford vaccine, i.e. the so-called Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, and have already manufactured 100 million doses as a humanitarian gesture in advance of licencing, at risk. We hope to get a pre-licensure for the product as an Epidemiological Emergency Use; the good news should follow in maximum two months. Don’t be surprised if our vaccine will be licenced in emergency use in the UK in case they run short of the product.” All this is useful intelligence from the vaccine oracle. The president of the Confederation of British Industry, Karan Bilimoria, who is proud to be the first Parsi in the House of Lords, has said Cyrus deserves the Nobel Peace Prize because his vaccines have helped poor people across the world. Footnote Anoushka Shankar admits that being Ravi Shankar’s daughter has certainly helped her career as a sitar player. But she now intends to promote other women as inaugural president of the “F-List”, a website directory of female artists. “The F-List is the first initiative of its kind to give female artists and musicians a platform where they can be discovered,” she said. I thought she stepped out of her father’s shadow when I heard her play live music at the screening of the silent film, Shiraz: A Romance of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-111
28-11-2020||Opinion||Freedom fighter||The discussion around the new US president’s policy towards human rights concerns in India has been marked by two extreme poles. One is the woozily idealistic idea of an activist Biden administration actively meddling in Indian political affairs. The other is the coldly realist idea that the new administration in the United States of America, guided by material interests, would be as blithely unconcerned with the growing authoritarianism in India as the Trump administration. In reality, the Biden administration possesses a range of options to gently nudge India towards democracy without risking a diplomatic fall out. A carefully calibrated policy in this regard is not just realistically possible, it would be in America’s own long-term interest. On the campaign trail, Joe Biden had promised to put strengthening global democracy back at the core of American foreign policy agenda. In an article for Foreign Affairs, Biden vowed to organize a Global Summit for Democracy during his first year in office. He stated that the summit would aim to “bring together the world’s democracies to strengthen our democratic institutions” and “honestly confront nations that are backsliding”. No democracy is backsliding as rapidly, and with as grave consequences, as the world’s largest one. The latest Freedom House report revealed that India had registered the steepest yearly fall in its Freedom Index among 25 large democracies. If India’s democratic institutions keep declining at the present rate, by the end of Biden’s first term, India’s liberal democratic fate may well be sealed. Ultimately, the burden of protecting India’s democratic institutions lies with Indian Opposition leaders and Indian citizens. They could, however, do with a helpful external environment. In the current form, Indian institutions pose little substantial check to Narendra Modi: a Parliament that has been reduced to a rubber stamp, a media that has been largely muzzled or co-opted, and a Supreme Court that was recently described by the eminent intellectual, Pratap Bhanu Mehta, as “slipping into judicial barbarism”. A well-thought-out US strategy can help meaningfully constrain Modi’s room for authoritarian manoeuvre without provoking any fractious clashes in public. It would also make Biden’s democratic promotion talk more credible, and not just a convenient cudgel against rivals such as China and Russia. Soft power, after all, depends on credibility. To understand how, one must try to comprehend Modi’s Jekyll and Hyde persona on the global and domestic stage, respectively, and how that fits into his political calculations. Unlike Hungary’s Viktor Orbán, Modi does not embrace the label of ‘illiberal democracy’. Neither does he clash with Western nations to accentuate his nationalist image, unlike Philippines’ Rodrigo Duterte or Turkey’s Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Modi, in contrast, presents himself on the international stage as a responsible global statesman. He never tires of quoting Mahatma Gandhi and evangelizing India’s liberal and secular values. In other words, Modi seamlessly presents himself as the embodiment of India’s democracy on the global stage while constantly threatening it at home. This well-respected global statesman image is crucial to Modi’s domestic appeal. Unlike many other global strongmen, Modi’s craves international and, in particular, Western acceptance and acclaim. This is the reason why he holds enormously hyped and personalized events with Western leaders such as Donald Trump and David Cameron. He invariably refers to global leaders as his friends — “my friend Donald” or “my friend Barack” — and ostentatiously hugs them in public to highlight their mutual affection and admiration. These moves are meant to pique the nationalistic pride of Indians and increase Modi’s domestic stature. On the flip side, this makes Modi particularly vulnerable to official statements of disapproval from Western governments. For Modi’s well-crafted illusion to work, Western leaders must go with it. It is likely that Modi gamed the silence of an apathetic Trump administration before carrying out certain contentious moves, such as curtailing the autonomy of Kashmir or passing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Biden specifically criticized both these actions in a campaign document along with the implementation of the National Register of Citizens in Assam. In fact, the line expressing “disappointment” at the “restrictions on dissent” and “preventing peaceful protests” in Kashmir follows the line condemning “atrocities against Burma’s Rohingya Muslims”. It is thus likely that Modi will closely observe Biden in the first year of his presidency and gauge whether Biden’s concern for human rights and democracy was just uplifting campaign rhetoric or part of a serious agenda. Modi’s judgment of Biden’s credibility on this front will probably be part of the calculations that decide whether he goes ahead with his next high profile moves that erode India’s democracy. Therefore, it is not necessary for Biden to take an activist stance to act as a moderating influence on Modi. He just needs to show that, unlike Trump, he is serious about human rights protection. No one expects a high-pitched condemnation from a president who would vitally need the support of Modi on a variety of foreign-policy fronts — from containing China, to combating climate change, to strengthening global institutions. Moreover, the need to deepen ties with India on defence and trade would likely be prioritized over human rights, as has been the case with every previous president. Yet, given Modi’s sensitivity over his international image, all Biden needs to do is impress upon Modi that he would be willing to, whether subtly or bluntly, call him out. Biden possesses many points of leverage. He can follow Obama’s lead in “privately” urging Modi that India should not be divided along religious lines. His addresses to Indian delegations must underline the importance of protecting minorities, and how that forms an important part of the “shared values between the two countries”. The state department, whose human rights reports have catalogued serious human rights abuses by the Indian government in recent years, must not shy away from expressing its concern or disappointment at key moments. Biden can even depute his progressive vice-president, Kamala Harris, to occasionally deliver some honest chastisement to the country from where she traces her roots. The US Congress, which, to its credit, held hearings on the human rights situation in Kashmir last year, must also continue to closely monitor the situation of minorities in India. It can be pushed in this endeavour by the Progressive House Caucus — leaders such as Pramila Jayapal, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ilhan Omar and Rashida Tlaib — who hold advancement of human rights as central to their politics. For decades, US presidents have claimed that the growth of American power is inextricably linked to the global advancement of democracy and liberal values. The reign of Trump, the only notable exception, is over. The sincerity of this conviction, often compromised in practice, will again be put to the test as the democracy representing a sixth of humanity drifts steadily into the grip of authoritarianism. In the coming decades, India will either be seen as a poster boy for ‘illiberal democracy’ or for the survival of liberal democracy in a challenging terrain. It is in America’s own self-interest that the latter vision prevails. Much will depend on whether Biden turns a blind eye as India slips off the democratic guardrails, or prods and coaxes India back towards them. The author is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-111
