29-11-2020||Opinion||Bolega to bologe ki boltaa hai||Learn not to say things as they are. It does not do to call a spade a spade. That might, as a matter of fact, mean your undoing. It isn’t an easy or simple proposition any longer, calling things what they are, but that is how it seems things will be. Don’t call a darkened sky a darkened sky, the clouds may scream, “Racist!” Come winter and it begins to feel cold. Whereas in summer it feels hot. Winters are cold. Summers are hot. That is why one is called that and the other this. You call winters, winter. You call summers, summer. Like you call a liar, a liar. And a fool a fool. Or a thief a thief and a charlatan a charlatan. They are words, they fit descriptions. Like a flower is called a flower, and a thorn a thorn and one cannot or should not be called the other. Some flowers are fragrant. Some flowers are foul. A cauliflower, for instance, especially when stuffed into a paratha. A foul thing is a foul thing. And the thing about a cauliflower grated into flour and served — baked, roasted, pan fried, deep fried, drizzled in oil or butter or in ghee, whatever — leads to fouler things. Try it out if you wouldn’t believe me. The season now is winter, there will be occasion to partake of cauliflower, and there will be occasion to slip under a quilt. Tell me about it sometime. You don’t have to take offence. Although you very well may, seeing which way the drift of things is; you may take more than offence. You may take umbrage, cabbage, all manner of things. All of it over a cauliflower being called a cauliflower that smells foul, or quite unlike a narcissus or a lily drenched in the effusive intoxications of monsoon rain. But a lily may not be called a lily, who knows, and narcissus no longer a narcissus. Trouble these days is, you call a thing a thing, and nothing but the right thing, and you are likely to get blamed, even punished, for calling a thing a thing that it is. What do you call something or someone short? Short. But folks don’t understand. Understanding is no longer the thing to do; misunderstanding is the preferred thing. You call a place to get drunk a bar, and the eminences of the bar take exception. You calling a bar a bar? How dare you? Tomorrow you’ll insist on calling a dog a dog and an ass an ass. An ass might take offence, and a dog might turn to say, well mind you, Sir, but do you mind calling me by my name? It’s Marmaduke, sired by Montmorency. And the one that you call a bitch, well, she’s not a bitch, excuse me, she goes by the name Gwendolyn, begotten by Gerda. Understood? Women won’t be called female, well, isn’t that just a derivative of male? And men might someday turn up their noses at being labelled male — isn’t that just a truncated form of female? Leh! Learn not to call a thing because it is just that. A rascal may not be called a rascal, or a goon, a goon. Black is not a colour to be identified as black or called that, nor white, white. That won’t do any longer. The rules have changed. Rules are actually not rules, and the law, well, well, the law is a work in progress and may temporarily be masquerading in high places under the alias of flaw. A court is liable to be called a court. And a kangaroo, a kangaroo. Now you could blame me for calling a kangaroo, a kangaroo, or a court, a court, but enlighten me what else may they be called. It’s even been said, on good authority, to no more call a joke, a joke. That’s not funny, and certainly no laughing matter. Call a joke, a joke and see what happens. Blame me not, beware you My patience do not tempt You’ll be rubbed under my shoe For all you’ve just said is contempt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-110
29-11-2020||Opinion||Unparalleled high: The ever-illusive Kanchenjunga||Sir — The article, “Magic mountain” (Nov 25), by Uddalak Mukherjee evoked a wonderful personal memory in connection with the Kanchenjunga. On my first visit to Darjeeling as a school student I clearly remember, we went to one of the several view-points in the hill station early in the morning to get a glimpse of the Kanchenjunga at sunrise. We were really lucky that day, since not only did we get a mesmerizing view of the Kanchenjunga without any cloud cover, but we also got to see it in the company of the legendary Bengali actor, Rabi Ghosh, who, too, had come to see the sun rise on the mountain. Although decades have passed since then, this incident is still clearly etched in my mind. Sourish Misra, Calcutta Sir — The name Darjeeling has become synonymous with that of the Kanchenjunga. My first visit to Darjeeling and Sikkim in the same year had been with just one aim in mind, seeing the third-highest peak in the world. Incidentally, it was perhaps at the same eatery that Uddalak Mukherjee mentions in his piece that I had first seen that majestic snow covered mountain peak. I saw it again from Gangtok — the Kanchenjunga makes one feel as if it is travelling with you. Even then, it appeared to me as no less than a vanilla ice cream. Bengalis are after all mad when it comes to the Kanchenjunga. The hujuge Bengali will do anything to get a glimpse of the Kanchenjunga, some even rush to Darjeeling when they hear of snowfall there. Although I spent my childhood in Kashmir, the so-called paradise on earth, where I have seen the snow covered peaks of Pir Panjal and Karakoram, none of these I feel can match the beauty and the majesty of the Kanchenjunga. Watching the peak in the month of April or May from Tonglu, en route the rhododendron filled Singalila National Park is simply incomparable. Alok Ganguly, Kalyani Sir — The ever-illusive Kanchenjunga seems almost like a grim reminder of how tiny and insignificant we are in the greater scope of the universe. Seeing the peak reveal itself, bit by bit, changing colour from grey to pink, orange and then glistening silver in the freezing air of dawn can be a deeply spiritual experience. Generations of Bengalis, monkey-capped and muffler-ed, have gone in the dead of night to Tiger Hill near Darjeeling in the hope of seeing the sun rise over that peak. In Satyajit Ray’s film, Kanchenjungha, the Roy Chaudhuri family spends its whole vacation denied a glimpse of the peak. When the mist finally lifts, they are too preoccupied to notice the dazzling sight. We have all grown up hearing Kanchenjunga-miss stories all our lives. “The day after we left, we heard it was completely clear,” is the most common refrain. That frustration is part of the allure of the peak. There is some strange pleasure in being repeatedly thwarted in that endeavour, a peculiarly Bengali pleasure in disappointment, like that of a rebuffed lover returning repeatedly in plaintive courtship. A.K. Sen, Calcutta Sir — Uddalak Mukherjee’s parallel between the reel and real lives of the Kanchenjunga repeats a well-known tale. These facts are known to all who are conversant with Satyajit Ray’s oeuvre. Besides, he has named the heroine of the film, Kanchenjungha, played so memorably by Alokananda Ray, as Monica when her name was Monisha. Haimanti Dutta Ray, Calcutta Hell in a handbag Sir — An Italian designer brand has launched the world’s most expensive bag priced at six million euros (more than 52 crore rupees). The diamond-encrusted bag is meant to raise awareness about the damage caused to oceans by non-biodegradable plastic with 800,000 euros per bag being donated to this cause. It is ironic then that the bag is made from alligator skin and has diamonds, sapphires and other precious stones which have been mined at great ecological and socio-economic cost to the planet. Will those buying such a product care about what is happening to the ocean?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-110
29-11-2020||Opinion||A quack-quack here. A quack-quack there||“I WON THIS ELECTION, BY A LOT! (sic)” tweeted Donald Trump on November 7. No one can blame the Twitter handle @realDonaldTrump of maintaining presidential gravitas the last four years. But ever since the vote counting for the United States presidential polls got underway, it has shivered away into one neurotic chatter. For someone who foregrounded an all-cap-victory, the Republican continued to protest too much.  November 8. “Bad things happened which our observers were not allowed to see.” November 9. He shifts to blaming the media for calling out the elections in Joe Biden’s favour. November 10 tweets constitute updates from Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Georgia, Nevada, with a fair bit of name-calling. Then suddenly, there is talk of vaccines. Ouch! It turns out that a vaccine for Covid-19 is peg to hang more accusations from. Potus blames vaccine makers for lacking the “courage” to announce vaccines before the elections. He warns citizens of the United States of Twitter, “If Joe Biden were President, you wouldn’t have the vaccine for another four years…” And to think some people in India were cringing at the BJP’s very conditional promise of free vaccines in Bihar post an NDA win. In any case, Trump’s all-caps tweets keep coming at intervals. Sample this one: “WE ARE MAKING BIG PROGRESS… MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! WE WILL WIN!” November 11 to 14. Continuing talk of rigged elections. He says, “This election was rigged, from Dominion all the way up and down!”  And on November 15, he first concedes --- albeit tangentially --- that Biden has won. He tweets, “He won because the election was rigged.” Goo Goo Gaga November 16. He is still eddying in contradictions. He is crying himself hoarse saying the elections were “most fraudulent” and “dead people voted”. He is also saying in a loop “We will win”. One tweet that is sure to have got Hillary Clinton’s goat is this: “…The only thing secure about our 2020 Election was that it was virtually impenetrable by foreign powers.” By this time, what with the bawling and blabber --- “Vaccines are coming fast” and “Joe Biden was a total disaster in handling the H1N1 Swine Flu…” --- one can no longer tell if this is the handle of the 45th President of United States or an infant scorned. Out of somewhere, the hashtag DiaperDon starts to trend and almost every other tweet now comes pinned with a Twitter disclaimer about veracity, etc. But Earth hath no fury like a presidential crybaby and when his favourite rattle cannot produce the desired effect, he will junk it, of course. After a couple of messages about Twitter sending out “totally false trends”, @realDonaldTrump tweets on Thanksgiving Day, “For purposes of National Security, Section 230 must be immediately terminated!!!” Suffice to say, Section 230 protects social media companies from liability for content posted by users. Now, now, babies will be babies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-110
29-11-2020||Opinion||Ram Madhav let's it rip while rivals go gaga over Gogoi||Ram Madhav’s apparent anger over being sidelined seems to be oozing out. Possibly because he has sensed that there is no hope of rehabilitation, at least in the near future. For the second time since he was dropped as party general-secretary, the well-networked leader has written an article that has raised eyebrows both within the party and in the corridors of the government. The articles have been viewed as an oblique attack on the current regime. Since both the articles have appeared in a prominent Delhi newspaper, they have been widely noticed. “India’s democracy, as envisaged by the makers of its Constitution, thrived essentially because of the respect of the leaders for ethical constitutionalism and moral activism of the grassroots activists,” Madhav wrote in his latest article. “Neither should see the other as an enemy and try to bring them down,” he added. The article sought to highlight the importance of “public morality and unelected institutions” as necessary checks on an elected government. The Narendra Modi government has been widely accused of weakening unelected institutions and seeking to crush grass-roots activists. Many party leaders are wondering what is driving the leader, committed to the saffron ideology, to go this far. Glowing tributes can often leave one surprised. Take, for instance, the tributes offered to the veteran Congressman and Assam’s longest-serving chief minister, Tarun Gogoi, who passed away on November 23. Some of it would have surprised even the astute, blunt and ever-smiling politician, who never sought or claimed greatness and was sporting enough to laugh even if the joke was on him. This is because the best tributes came from people or organizations who were bitter critics of his government. The ones which stood out included that from his close aide-turned-political adversary, Himanta Biswa Sarma. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s pointsman in the Northeast who left the Congress after falling out with Gogoi and is often credited with single-handedly ending Gogoi’s 15-year-reign, hailed him as a mahanayak, a visionary and a people’s man who rescued the state from years of darkness and pushed for new development initiatives or the NRC to weed out illegal migrants. The top brass of the All Assam Students’ Union hailed him as a leader of a national party with a regional outlook for his democratic and humane approach to resolving complex situations. AASU was one of Gogoi’s most bitter and vocal critics. This is not all. Even the All India United Democratic Front chief, Badruddin Ajmal, whose decision to float his party after falling out with Gogoi led to the erosion of the Congress’s Muslim vote bank, sobbed at the death of the “dynamic leader’ who knew how to “maintain a respectful relationship” even with those opposing him. He has left a legacy which will always be remembered, said Ajmal. The rousing and united send-off Gogoi received during his last journey despite Covid-19 protocols further established his popularity and standing; this is a void the Congress and Assam will find difficult to fill. Such was Tarun Gogoi’s charisma that the BJP-led Assam government had even declared three days mourning following the death of former chief minister. The ruling BJP and the Opposition party, the Congress, were in mourning together. But the day after the mourning ended, BJP leaders changed gear, resuming their campaign for the Bodoland Territorial Council polls, releasing the manifesto and launching a blistering attack on rival Bodoland People’s Front. It was hard to believe that the BJP was in mourning a day earlier. The BJP is going all out to unseat the BPF as success here would help it get momentum for the assembly polls early next year. There is no time to lose for a party which treats each and every election with utmost seriousness. The sudden demise of Ahmed Patel has triggered speculation about who could become the permanent treasurer of the Congress. (The party announced Pawan Bansal’s name as ‘interim treasurer’.) The entire discourse is based on the misconception that the treasurer is supposed to raise funds for the party. Funding, corporate donations or other contributions mostly happen on the strength of the party and the contacts of individual leaders, not the stature of the treasurer. The most important qualification of the treasurer is having the trust of the supreme leader. Two famous Congress treasurers — Sitaram Kesri and Motilal Vora — were not known to be fund-raisers. Their virtue was their honesty: they kept the money safe for the party. Party presidents trusted them and these two also knew their leader’s mind. While Kesri didn’t even help his family — his son survives on petty businesses — Vora’s credentials too are said to be impeccable. Ahmed Patel was two-in-one, a fund-raiser and a trusted custodian of resources. Such finished products aren’t ready to order. There are leaders like Kamal Nath, Digvijaya Singh, P Chidambaram, Ashok Gehlot and DK Shivakumar who are capable of raising funds but it is unlikely they will be appointed treasurer. Although it is too early to guess names, Rahul’s aide, Kanishka Singh, who enjoys complete trust of the family, could be given the job. One wonders what Bansal has to say about these whispers. The Kerala state Congress president, M Ramachandran, has a challenging task at hand: steering his party and the United Democratic Front to victory in the upcoming local body polls. But within days of announcing the ‘A vote against corruption’ as the campaign slogan came the arrest of reportedly two UDF lawmakers in multi-crore corruption and cheating cases. Soon after, an old bribery case allegedly involving leader of the Opposition, Ramesh Chennithala, came back to haunt the Congress. With young guns in the party gunning for him, all that Ramachandran wants is to take control of the local bodies ahead of the state polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-110
29-11-2020||Opinion||Paradox day||The Union government proclaims its devotion to the Constitution. In 2015, B.R. Ambedkar’s 125th birth anniversary, it marked November 26 as Constitution Day to promote constitutional values among citizens. This Samvidhan Divas, the prime minister emphasized the importance of duties in the Constitution, which Mahatma Gandhi was keen on, perceiving a close link between duties and rights. Invocations to Gandhi and Ambedkar infused with righteousness Narendra Modi’s message to citizens that rights were safeguarded when duties were performed. Maybe the meaning of that was being demonstrated that very day by the barring of farmers from entering Haryana on their way to Delhi to ask for changes to the new farm laws, such as the inclusion of a minimum support price. Were they failing in their duty of compliance? The new farm and labour laws were rammed through Parliament in September amid the Opposition’s protests, suspensions and subsequent boycott. The government ignored the Opposition request for review of the agriculture bills. That procedure was ignored at every level is not novel. Parliament, where the legislature checks and balances the power of the executive and on whose steps Mr Modi touched his forehead — as holy as the Ram Mandir? — when entering it as prime minister designate in May 2014, is becoming irrelevant. In its first stint, for example, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government, among many actions, got electoral bonds — making election funding opaque — passed through a money bill to avoid the Rajya Sabha’s scrutiny. Having returned in 2019 with the advantages reaped by its step-by-step dismantling of constitutional requirements, the government could scrap Article 370 for Jammu and Kashmir, say, or kill question hour in Parliament. The approach is multi-pronged. Depriving institutions such as the Central Information Commission of their independence or silencing dissent with violence — sometimes lethal — and imprisonment accompanies the turning of secularism into a bad joke by means ranging from murders by cow vigilantes and threats against interfaith marriages to citizenship laws that corner a minority community. The Supreme Court’s reluctance to countenance cases under Article 32, which Ambedkar believed to be the ‘soul’ of the Constitution, is unnerving in this situation. Is it coincidental that the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and the Hindu Mahasabha found nothing ‘Bharatiya’ in the democratic, secular Constitution and demanded instead the Manusmriti’s laws — by which ‘Shudras’ served meekly as did women? The first president of the Hindu Mahasabha met Mussolini and realized that militarizing Hindu society on the lines of youth organizations in Germany and Italy was most desirable. He liked the RSS for beginning the job. That is the meaning of ‘Bharatiya’. So when Mr Modi called for ‘one nation, one election’ in his discourse on the Constitution, he was probably talking of one unfamiliar to its makers. Consequently, his desire for harmony among the executive, legislature and judiciary would carry new meaning. To retrieve the Constitutional edifice, people must act — now. It is getting late.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-110
29-11-2020||Opinion||Right not rabid||In these majoritarian times, some conservative pundits, embarrassed by the feral Right and keen to seem ideologically respectable, have found an all-purpose rhetorical manoeuvre which goes like this. Progressives are to blame for the enthronement of racist, communalist and majoritarian political parties because it is the left’s ‘wokeness’, its elitist disdain for the anxieties of ordinary people and their common sense, its infatuation with minority politics that prepared the ground for the rise of the ‘hard’ right. This was the burden of Chetan Bhagat’s arguments in the course of a long interview with Karan Thapar. In country after country, fastidious, hem-raising conservatives are making the same case. Bhagat’s American counterparts argue that the reason majorities of white men and women in America voted for Donald Trump in two successive presidential elections had more to do with the smugness of liberals than the sense of white grievance that the Republican Party has cultivated since Richard Nixon inaugurated its southern strategy in 1968. By harping on racism and minorities and police brutality, progressives had driven a politically orphaned rust belt into the arms of a racist president. Had Democrats and progressives mobilized in an inclusive way, had they attended to the material needs of an alienated white working class, had they been nicer to them, Trump might never have carried the day in 2016 or have come so close to winning again. It is notable how writers (righters?) embarrassed by brazen bigotry become materialists, reproaching progressives for being culture warriors, obsessed with race and identity politics instead of constructing a broad colour-blind liberalism focused on economic well-being and social welfare. This is, in fact, exactly what Barack Obama tried when he adapted for federal purposes a scheme for medical insurance first pioneered by a Republican governor, Mitt Romney, to extend healthcare to those Americans who couldn’t afford it. Much good it did him. All the familiar right-wing bogeys, from imminent socialism to lawless federal overreach in the service of the undeserving poor (read blacks), were invoked to stymie the Affordable Care Act, a modest measure that would have been unexceptionable in most first world democracies. Conservative American writers who have supported dog-whistling Republican leaders from Nixon through Reagan to George W. Bush, who have ridden every culture-war hobby horse — from the right to bear arms, to abortion, to Christianity in the public square, to the right of religious people to discriminate against homosexuals — are now even-handedly appalled by the wokeness of progressives and Trump’s brutish ascendancy. Take, by way of example, George Will, the best of the Never Trumpers. Will is a formidable conservative columnist, who, to his credit, was implacably hostile to Trump before Trump won the 2016 election. A long-standing Republican, Will enthusiastically supported Ronald Reagan’s candidacy and famously helped him with his debate preparation against Jimmy Carter. The real difference between Reagan and Trump in the matter of racism was that Reagan slagged off black people privately or by implication while Trump is franker. Reagan’s stump speech about welfare queens was a long dog-whistle about dishonest black women gaming the welfare system. Trump, in contrast, has never made a secret of his bigotry. His long racist résumé, ranging from his campaign to execute the so-called Central Park Five (a group of black men falsely accused by Trump of assaulting and raping a white jogger) to his anti-Obama ‘birtherism’, to his enthusiasm for white militias, embarrassed sections of a right-wing commentariat, historically comfortable with discreet — therefore deniable — prejudice. This is not to trivialize the difference between dog-whistling and open racism. Hypocrisy is the tribute that vice pays to virtue: when the Right casts off the need to dissemble and lets its bigotry show, you know a nation’s politics is in trouble. The difference between glowering men in mofussil shakhas muttering about ‘love jihad’ and the chief ministers of five states declaring their intention to pass a law against conversion and marriage is the difference between casual communalism and institutionalized bigotry. Reagan kept his racism under wraps so admirers like Will didn’t have to distance themselves. But racism will out. In 2019, the US National Archives revealed that in 1971, when Reagan was the governor of California, he told Nixon over the phone how angry he had been to see Tanzanian delegates to the United Nations celebrating China’s admission to that institution: “Last night, I tell you, to watch that thing on television as I did... to see those, those monkeys from those African countries — damn them, they’re still uncomfortable wearing shoes!” Even without such revelations, it is hard for Never Trumpers with buyer’s remorse to reckon with their past. It would mean acknowledging that their complicity in dog-whistling, voter suppression, gerrymandering and the covert racism of the modern Republican Party prepared the ground for Trumpism. That would be intellectual suicide; easier options beckon. One is to say that they held their nose in a higher cause: anti-Communism or economic growth or some other handy mantra. But even this compromises them. Much better to deflect the blame and argue that enthronement of the radical right was down to the perversity of the radical left. In the American version, it wasn’t the drip feed of Republican bigotry that encouraged majorities of America’s white citizens to vote for a racist in plain sight. No, it was the nagging shrillness of the Left and Obama’s patronizing remoteness that forced working class whites to vote for Trump. Will has a cutting counter to the argument that it was racism that drove Trump’s coalition to vote for him. He writes sardonically that “... sooner rather than later, even Democrats will come to suspect that denigrating people until they vote for you lacks a certain strategic plausibility.” This is the same conclusion that many anti-BJP politicians have arrived at in India. To bluntly argue that a vote for Narendra Modi is a vote for communalism might be to lose the chance of persuading some of his supporters to change their minds. But the fact that politicians are constrained from calling a spade a spade shouldn’t keep a writer from calling out bigotry by its name. Racism and communalism in politics is a choice, not a permanent condition. When people stop making racist choices, they stop being racist. The writer’s task is to clarify not fudge the nature of the choice voters made when they chose Trump or Modi. When commentators who cheered Modi on in 2014 now wring their hands about lynching and love jihad and claim that they gave Modi the benefit of the doubt only because he was an economic reformer, progressives should, without rolling their eyes, nod politely and move on. At best, these pundits were the feral Right’s useful idiots; at worst they knowingly boarded a dangerous bandwagon because they liked the buzz of being in the vanguard of the Hindu Turn. That they see the light now is welcome. But when they claim that it wasn’t fellow travellers like them who helped deliver us into evil but bleeding heart liberals who warned against the predictable disaster of endorsing Modi, it is time to stop listening. At that point, it becomes evident that for some angsty conservatives, it was about the optics. They were put off by the full frontal barbarism of the feral Right. Had Trump or Modi walked sideways into Amerika or Hindu rashtra, they would have done the soft-shoe shuffle right alongside them. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-110
