30-11-2020||Opinion||Fatal mix: IMA against Ayurveda surgery||The Indian Medical Association has written to the Centre asking it to withdraw the gazette notification, which seeks to allow practitioners of ayurvedic medicine to perform 39 general surgical and 19 ear, eyes, nose and throat procedures that fall under the aegis of modern medicine. Although the Central Council of Indian Medicine has argued that the details of these surgical procedures were already laid down in the syllabi of ayurvedic postgraduate courses, the IMA’s reservations cannot be brushed off. Modern medicine is synonymous with scientific advancement. It is unlikely that ayurveda can match modern medicine when it comes not just to efficacy but also training, quality research and the output of knowledge. Had this been the case, India’s rich and famous would have made a beeline for ayurveda clinics and not state-of-the-art hospitals when afflicted with a serious illness. Yet, the signs of a push towards integrating traditional and modern medicine is discernible in policy.The National Education Policy, 2020 mentions medical pluralism and lateral movements that could lay the foundation for mixing these two systems. A ‘bridge course’ aimed at granting licences to practitioners of alternative medicine to prescribe allopathic medication and the creation of a national register for a new class of medical practitioners called ‘community health providers’ — their qualifications remain unclear — testify to this blurring of medical borders. Although medical pluralism — a philosophy that aims to assimilate diverse systems of healing — is not necessarily a bad thing given the steep paucity of healthcare professionals in India, this requires thorough and strictly regulated training.  Between 2016-18, the CCIM itself found at least 138 ayurveda colleges unfit to run undergraduate or postgraduate courses. Around 45 per cent of the people who practise medicine in India do not have any formal training in either format. An untrained corps of medical practitioners — whichever stream they may hail from — will only do more harm than good. Quality healthcare is a fundamental right and people in rural areas — where the shortage of modern medical practitioners is most acute — should not be left at the mercy of quacks. There are also worries — these can never be ignored when the Bharatiya Janata Party is in power — of the Centre trying to push through a particular kind of ideology in the name of boosting India’s healthcare sector. After all, the prime minister himself believes that the first plastic surgery was performed on Ganesha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-109
30-11-2020||Opinion||Boiling pot: Delhi police ask to imprison farmers in stadiums||Sir — It was heartening that the Delhi government refused to grant permission to the police to turn nine of the city’s stadiums into temporary detention centres for the agitating farmers from Punjab and Haryana who are protesting against the three contentious agricultural bills passed by the Union government in September. According to the farmers, the new laws would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations and weaken the government’s procurement system, as part of which the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, from them at minimum support prices. The farmers are protesting for their rights. A peaceful public uprising is their constitutional right. Then why are farmers, sons of the Indian soil, being attacked? Why are their voices being suppressed? The Central Government must give farmers a chance to air their demands as well as really pay attention to their grievances. B. Ahsanullah,Delhi Sir — It beats reason that the police force in a democratic country can ask an elected government to use stadiums to capture citizens who are peacefully protesting in their own country. It is a small mercy that the Delhi government refused to grant the police the permission to do so. Given its recent decisions regarding Shaheen Bagh and other protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act one was almost afraid that permission would be granted. Farmers’ discontent has been growing in recent years — the careless economic policies of the Narendra Modi regime have debilitated the fragile rural economy. Farmers have experienced a growing mismatch between their production efforts and incomes under the present government. Climate change and its outcomes have not helped the farmers’ cause. The farm bills were almost like the last nails in the coffin. The farmers are thus right to be agitated. The State can suppress the farmers with an iron hand, but it cannot root out the discontent that is brewing in the hearts and minds of farm folk across the country. Ashokan Nallathambi,Chennai Sir — The Delhi police deserves to be severely reprimanded for its actions. It seems to have forgotten its role is to protect the people. Rima Roy,Calcutta Royal secret Sir — While the world debates how much truth there is to The Crown’s portrayal of the Charles and Diana relationship, as an Indian I cannot help but notice the series’s whitewash of the royal family’s gruesome colonial past and rampant racism. The blinkered valorization of Winston Churchill and Lord Mountbatten is an affront to their colonial legacy. These are more serious omissions than the amount of truth in its depiction of the royal family. B.D. Mukherjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-109
30-11-2020||Opinion||Misjudged: Judiciary, executive & legislature||While speaking on the theme of the ‘harmonious coordination’ among the judiciary, executive and legislature at a recent conference, the vice-president, M. Venkaiah Naidu, seemed to suggest instances of distinct disharmony among these three critical pillars of the State. Mr Naidu also referred to incidents of the executive exceeding its brief, with ominous implications for personal liberty. The legislature, he added, is not immune to this excess, citing a constitutional amendment that had put the elections of the prime minister, president and vice-president beyond the scope of judicial reach. Significantly, the vice-president’s citations of what, in his opinion, are testimonies of judicial overreach were the most concrete — and controversial. Among the examples cited by the vice-president to support his proposition were court orders on such issues as the banning of crackers on Diwali, the ban on old polluting vehicles, judicial monitoring of police inquiries and, tellingly, the judiciary’s denial of a role to the executive in the appointment of judges. There can be no doubt about the importance of the constitutional imperative to maintain a fine balance among the three arms of the State. Protecting the integrity of the realm of each institution is fundamental to the seamless functioning of a democracy. But there is ample scope of debate when it comes to understanding what exactly constitutes an act of judicial overreach. In nearly every instance that was cited by the vice-president, it was the judiciary — and not an indifferent executive — that had responded to the need to uphold public welfare. The court would not have had to intervene if, to cite one example, the powers that be had not turned investigating agencies into ‘caged parrots’ that dance to the tune set by their political masters instead of conducting probes impartially. The direction of investigation into the Delhi riots is a case in point. The burden of pollution in India — something that the court has attempted to lighten repeatedly — can also be attributed to the laxity of the executive. Given the fact that decisive electoral mandates for the Bharatiya Janata Party have coincided with increasing erosion of constitutional values, unprecedented threats to liberty of dissidents as well as undeniable pressures on institutions, the court remains the final bastion of redressal. It is enlightened judicial intervention — not overreach — that can yet save the day for democratic India. Mr Naidu must rest assured that India’s judiciary knows how to go about its job without being an encroacher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-109
30-11-2020||Opinion|| False pledge: NRC in Assam||Many liberals and self-proclaimed Marxists in Assam held the firm belief — they still do — that the National Register of Citizens will eradicate the gaze of suspicion on ‘illegal’ people. This belief is nothing but an instance of false consciousness, a story manufactured by the caste Assamese middle class and the Assamese nationalist to invoke a spirit of acceptability among people towards the NRC. A bureaucratic exercise cannot be a solution to social malice. The elite among Assamese Muslims also supported the NRC process in this hope, as did a number of ‘miya’ poets. But by the time the NRC list was published last year, Assamese civil society bodies started expressing their dissatisfaction with the 1.9 million people who were left out of the register. The figure was too less for them. The NRC is far from over. The stories of hope that were sold are fading with every passing day. The anti-foreigner rhetoric has resurfaced, once again. It has been given a new lease of life and has indoctrinated a new group of youngsters into the fold of Assamese nationalism. This has resulted in a toxic mix of jingoism and hatred towards those perceived to be outsiders. Other lives The recent debate that emanated from the public rejection of the idea of a char-chapori museum by Assam’s health minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, is a case in point. The proposal for a museum, which would reflect the culture and heritage of the people living in Assam’s char-chaporis, had come from the Departmentally Related Standing Committee on Education of the Assam government. The committee had proposed this idea along with another museum for the Gorkha community. The proposal was presented to the legislative house in March; 10 of the 15 committee members who gave those recommendations are from the ruling party in Assam. Char-chaporis are heterogeneous, non-colonizing spaces that are not inhabited by Bengali Muslims only. The health minister’s resistance reflects not only the sensibilities of the Assamese but also the condition of minorities in Assam. It is evident that Assamese society suffers from ‘sociocentrism’, a condition in which the identity of a pluralist society is articulated through a dominant member of the group. For the caste Assamese, it is unimaginable that artefacts associated with the Bengali Muslim community can be a part of the Srimanta Sankardev Kalakshetra in Guwahati. Sarma’s remark also embodies a mindset that perceives the Bengali Muslim to be a polluting element degrading Assam’s culture. Hence the need for segregation and the rejection of the idea of a shared space. The rejection reveals the extent of alienation and dehumanization of minorities, especially miyas. Sorry picture The elements that are integral to the iconography of the miyas being circulated on the social media — a torn lungi, barbed wire, muri, ittar — portray what the French writer, Albert Memmi, calls ‘heterophobia’: the fear of difference, both real and imaginary. There is proof of such fear lingering in Assam. The health minister reportedly blamed the ‘invasion’ of Covid into Assam on Muslims. The chief minister is reported to have noted in a public rally in Bodoland that the ‘Mughal’ assault on Assam continues, and that if we don’t become conscious of it, Assam’s mother tongue will become Arabic. These comments come in the backdrop of the Assam government discontinuing the funding for madrasas in the name of modernizing education. This kind of vilification has coincided with the rise of right-wing politics in Assam. But this should not take away from the fact that antipathy towards minorities has been organic to Assam’s culture. The NRC is not a solution. It is only an instrument to consolidate Assamese cultural essentialism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-110
30-11-2020||Opinion||Aung San Suu Kyi: Lady with the lamp||Myanmar’s pro-democracy icon, Aung San Suu Kyi, has led her National League for Democracy to a resounding electoral victory, triumphing over anti-incumbency, a raging pandemic and festering ethnic insurgencies. Her achievement is only bettered by her next-door neighbour, Sheikh Hasina Wajed, now in her third electoral tenure and presiding over a booming economy despite the Covid-influenced downturn. The two ladies join other successful women politicians like New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern (also returned to power), and the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, whose handling of the Covid crisis has been far better than populist male heavyweights like Donald Trump. The NLD has crossed its 2015 tally of 390 seats. It needed 322 to form the government — it already has a higher number of seats. That such a decisive victory could be achieved goes to show that there is no credible alternative to Aung San Suu Kyi. “People clearly realized the need for the NLD to get enough votes to form a government on their own, said the NLD spokesman, Myo Nyunt, insisting that NLD’s return to power would help “minimize political conflict”. That, however, is easier said than done. The all-powerful military, the Tatmadaw, has threatened to impeach the president, who is known to be close to Suu Kyi and is helping her run the country, if the elections are found to be flawed. The military-aligned Opposition, the Union Solidarity and Development Party, that was trounced has alleged that the election was neither free nor fair. It has demanded that the Union Election Commission step down and the polls be re-run. Despite a large number of voters alleging that their names did not figure in the rolls, poll observers have concluded that voting took place smoothly. But they have condemned what they describe as the Election Commission’s lack of transparency and its cancellation of the polls across areas with ethnic minorities citing security reasons. That is exactly what the military, worried over the NLD’s sweeping mandate, may now try to play up. The military is worried that the decisive mandate may now embolden the NLD to press for critical amendments to the 2008 Myanmar Constitution that gives the men in uniform one-quarter of all Parliament seats and control over three ministries — home, defence, border affairs. The NLD is also keen to see an end to the provision that no Burmese with a foreign spouse can contest for high positions like that of the president — a ploy to keep Suu Kyi from getting the top job because her late husband was British. The NLD-sponsored amendments to target these provisions during its first term in power failed because the ruling party could not garner the majority needed to bring changes to the Constitution. But a sweeping majority may make a real difference. Suu Kyi has made the first smart move immediately after being assured of a clear victory: her party called for a ‘national unity government’ with ethnic minority parties to establish a ‘democratic federal union’. The NLD sent a letter to 48 ethnic political parties, pledging to prioritize the desires of ethnic nationalities in the future. Suu Kyi is seeking to achieve political consensus to give the restive minorities a stake in running the government to weaken the rebel groups that thrive on the narrative of alienation; revive and strengthen the national reconciliation process through an effective dialogue with armed ethnic rebel groups; keep the army under control because the global community would welcome the reconciliation process to end decades of civil war that has plagued the country since Independence. Suu Kyi needs global support to push the democratic agenda in Myanmar and keep the military in check. A successful dialogue with the armed ethnic rebel groups would help her get over the loss of image after her tactical silence on the military’s alleged ethnic cleansing of Rohingya Muslims in Rakhine. It may also help Myanmar become a thriving tourist and investment destination. Such a transition would ensure that Myanmar’s resources translate into growth and prosperity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-110
30-11-2020||Opinion||The second wave||The second wave of Covid-19 has hit Pakistan. More than 3,000 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Saturday; the figure was a little less than 3,000 on Sunday. The numbers are alarming given that Pakistan was one of the few countries that had been successful in combating the global pandemic. Our numbers had decreased to quite an extent by August. An extensive lockdown in March and then smart lockdowns where needed led to a decrease in cases. Now, with the onset of winter, we are seeing an increase in coronavirus cases. Beds for Covid patients are not available in hospitals in several cities. People are not following standard operating procedures. We are seeing a kind of complacency that we had not seen before. Is this the corona fatigue or is it just our own careless attitude? Maybe both. But this is no time for complacency. The world may not get the vaccine for a few more months. Countries like Pakistan may have to wait even longer for the vaccine. When the first wave came, it took the world by surprise and we didn’t know what to do. We all knew someone who was infected, be it a friend or a family member. The second wave is no less dangerous. I lost a family member to post-Covid complications just two days ago. We were at the hospital every day for the last two weeks waiting for a miracle, but she did not survive. If you have been to a hospital’s ICU where patients with post-Covid complications are being treated, you wouldn’t wish anyone to ever catch this virus. It is scary and it can be deadly. Not to mention how emotionally and physically draining it can be both for the patient and his/her family. Our healthcare sector is not equipped to deal with the growing numbers of Covid patients. We, the people, have to be careful ourselves. As much as possible. And despite all precautions, someone can still catch it. Pakistan’s cases are rising every day but public places like gyms, malls and so on are still open even though the government has shut down all educational institutions in view of the second wave. Pakistan’s Opposition parties’ alliance — the Pakistan Democratic Movement — is taking out rallies across the country. Given that the second wave is gaining momentum, the government has asked the PDM to stop the rallies. The PDM, on the other hand, is refusing to do so. When the Opposition alliance came together in September and then decided on the dates of the rallies, Pakistan’s Covid cases were under control. But now that we are seeing a gradual increase in cases, the Opposition should pause and rethink its strategy. Unfortunately, the Opposition thinks it will be a sign of weakness if it gives in to the government’s demand. The government, too, has held public ceremonies in recent days. The Opposition brings up those gatherings when questioned about its rallies. The chairman of the Pakistan Peoples Party, Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari, tested positive for Covid-19 after the PDM’s rally in Peshawar. He will address the PDM rally in Multan today via video link. His sister, Aseefa Bhutto, will represent him by participating in the rally at Multan. Just a few days ago, in a series of tweets, the prime minister, Imran Khan, stated: “In Pak, the PDM by continuing with jalsas is deliberately endangering lives & livelihoods bec if cases continue to rise at the rate we are seeing, we will be compelled to go into complete lockdown & PDM will be responsible for consequences”. Leaders of the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz keep saying that this government — they have dubbed it as Covid-18 referring to the 2018 elections — is a bigger threat than Covid-19. Now this is quite an absurd statement given the seriousness of the global pandemic. It seems that both the government and the Opposition are not willing to move back from their stated positions. At the end of the day, it endangers the public. As the senior journalist, Fahd Husain, put it in his latest column, “If the second wave of Covid-19 got worse, the government would find a handy scapegoat in the PDM. If the PDM, sensing the danger of continuing with the campaign, took a break it would halt their momentum and help the government tide over this threat.” The government should talk to the Opposition instead of giving statements or tweeting about it. The prime minister should call the PDM leadership and request them to stop their rallies for the greater good of the country. Our leadership needs to put aside their egos for the moment and think about dealing with a global pandemic. Instead of blaming each other for the rising cases and super-spreader events, it would be a good gesture on the part of both the government and the Opposition if they can reach a consensus. Political protests against the government may be a democratic right but it should not be done at the cost of putting people’s lives at risk. The government may not be performing due to a number of reasons but sending the government home — without any concrete plan — is also not a good option. Governments don’t go home due to protests as we saw a few years ago when Khan took out a dharna for over a hundred days in the country’s capital. It did put pressure on the Nawaz Sharif government but it did not send the government home. The current Opposition most likely thinks that it has to strike before the Senate elections in March 2021. But is this a solution to our problems? No is the simple answer. Pakistan’s democracy can only be strengthened if all democratic dispensations are allowed to complete their five-year term and there is a smooth democratic transition. Pressure should be there on the governments to perform. The voting ballots should decide who gets to stay and who doesn’t. The Opposition can keep the pressure on the government inside Parliament but it should also postpone its public gatherings due to Covid. It will not be a victory for the government even if the Opposition thinks it is. We saw how the Opposition was in favour of lockdowns when the first wave hit Pakistan. At that time, the federal government was not in favour of lockdowns. Now we are seeing that the Opposition is downplaying the Covid crisis. Leadership has to set an example. The public will follow. We saw what happened in the United States of America with the Donald Trump administration’s mishandling of the pandemic. Both the government and the Opposition need to sit together and come up with a strategy to deal with the coronavirus rather than pointing fingers at each other and letting the public suffer as a result. Someone needs to take responsibility. And take it fast. The author is a journalist based in Lahore mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-110
