02-09-2021||India||SC to consider transfer of all cases linked to new IT rules for digital media||The Supreme Court will consider transferring to itself all cases linked to the new Information and Technology rules for digital media and giving it a combined hearing, sources familiar with the development said. The plea came from the Centre, which filed a transfer petition days after the Bombay High Court put on hold a part of new rules that seeks to regulate content on digital news websites, reported NDTV. The court ordered that the petition be listed along with a case against media reports on the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi last year, which was blamed for a spike in Covid cases. The hearing will be held after six weeks. On August 16, the Bombay High Court put on hold the implementation of rules which required digital news media to compulsorily follow the code of conduct laid down by the Press Council of India, a self-regulating press watchdog, and the country's cable TV code. Various petitions have been pending in different high courts across the country - many of them challenging the new laws. Several courts have already said that no coercive action can be taken against publishers who have not implemented the rules. The relief to the publications remain in place for now. In response to a challenge, the Delhi High Court has refused to put a freeze on the rules. In its order, the Bombay High Court said some of the requirements under the amendment violate freedom of speech, following petitions filed by legal news portal The Leaflet and journalist Nikhil Wagle, challenging parts of the new rules. Other parts of the rules have been challenged in other courts. Even social media platform WhatsApp has filed a petition against a requirement that it break end-to end encryption under certain circumstances. The government, which went to the Supreme Court asking for a stop to the challenges, suffered a setback after the top court declined. The centre has said the new rules seek to "prevent the misuse of the freedom of press" and protect people from fake news in digital media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
02-09-2021||India||Senior Indian and US officials discuss South Asia, Indo Pacific||Senior officials of India and the US took stock of progress in bilateral cooperation in areas of defence, public health and economy, besides reviewing preparations for the next edition of 2+2 ministerial dialogue. The officials held the deliberations under the framework of 2+2 inter-sessional meeting in Washington DC on Wednesday. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said the two sides exchanged assessments about recent developments in South Asia, the Indo-Pacific region and the Western Indian Ocean. It said the meeting reviewed the progress made since the last 2+2 ministerial dialogue in October 2020 and preparations for it later this year. The third edition of 2+2 foreign and defence ministerial dialogue had taken place in India last year and the fourth one is slated to be held in Washington. "Both sides took stock of the progress and developments in the bilateral agenda under the India-US strategic partnership, including defence, global public health, economic and commercial cooperation, science and technology, clean energy and climate finance, and people to people ties," the MEA said in a statement. "They explored opportunities for enhancing ongoing cooperation in these fields based on mutual interests. Cooperation in contemporary areas such as space, cyber security and emerging technologies was also discussed," it added. "The officials had an opportunity to exchange assessments about recent developments in South Asia, the Indo-Pacific region and Western Indian Ocean, given their shared vision for peace, stability and prosperity and for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region," the MEA said. The Indian delegation at the meeting was led jointly by Vani Rao, Joint Secretary (Americas) in the MEA and Somnath Ghosh, Joint Secretary (International Cooperation) in the Ministry of Defence. The US delegation was led by Assistant Secretary of Defence for Indo-Pacific Affairs Ely Ratner alongside Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs in the Department of State Ervin Massinga.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
02-09-2021||India||India makes RT-PCR test compulsory for 7 more nations amid fear of new Covid strains||Amid fear of new COVID-19 strains, RT-PCR test is compulsory for passengers arriving from seven more countries, including South Africa, Bangladesh and China, the Centre said on Thursday.  In a letter to all states and Union territories (UTs), the government said considering reports of new mutations in SARS-CoV-2 and rising number of Variants of Concern (VOCs) and Variants of Interest (Vols) globally, seven countries have been added in the list of countries whose travellers will have to get another RT-PCR test done upon landing at Indian airports apart from the one they need to get before embarking on the flight.  These seven countries are South Africa, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand and Zimbabwe.  In earlier guidelines issued in February, passengers from only the United Kingdom, Europe and the Middle East had to get the RT-PCR test done again upon landing at Indian airports.  The Centre also asked states/UTs to ensure strict compliance to these guidelines so that the import of Vols and VoCs to India from other countries may be prevented.  "The states/UTs must also strengthen their Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) activities being coordinated through the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG) network of laboratories, by sending a fixed percentage of samples of positive cases among international travellers for genome sequencing to the respective INSACOG Genome Sequencing Laboratories tagged with them," Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in the letter.  Speaking at a press conference, NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul noted that although the risk of mutants will exist, tools of testing, tracking, vaccination, clinical preparedness and COVID appropriate behaviour have to be strongly used.  "The impact of mutants, whether it is about severity of disease or about transmissibility, is something that we understand systematically and INSACOG has huge capacity and it has been strengthened over time and using it we will look after it. The screening of international travellers from a genetic sequencing point of view is one of the most critical protocols and pillars," he said.  ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said a mutant found in Columbia is presently classified as a mutant of interest.  "We are closely observing it and serious disease or rapid spread of it has not been seen, but with time we will be able to tell more about it," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
02-09-2021||India||Nitish puppet in hands of PM, BJP: Digvijay Singh||Senior Congress leader Digvijay Singh on Thursday accused Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar of being a "puppet" in the hands of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP. He also claimed that the saffron party-led government at the Centre is selling assets created by the Congress in the name of National Monetisation Pipeline. "Nitish Kumar has transformed himself into the RSS-BJP mould. He is just a puppet CM in the hands of the PM and the BJP. He cannot be a PM material at all, Singh told reporters here. Kumar's party, the Janata Dal (United) which is an ally of the BJP at the Centre as well as in the state, recently said he is not in the race for the post of the prime minister though he has all the qualities required to become one. The CM, however, disapproved of the statement. Singh claimed that Kumar is working under tremendous pressure of the BJP and that is why chapters on freedom fighter and socialist leader Jai Prakash Narayan have been omitted from the post-graduate syllabus of a university named after him in the state. Chapters on another socialist leader Ram Manohar Lohia has also been removed from the political science syllabus in Jai Prakash University at Chhapra in Saran district, he said. Kumar and RJD supremo Lalu Prasad were followers of Narayan. Prasad has slammed the Nitish Kumar government for removing the two leaders from the PG syllabus of JP University. Thirty years back I had established JP University in the name of Jayaprakash Narayan in my karmbhoomi. Now, in the same university, this sanghi government and officials toeing its agenda are removing the ideology of JP-Lohia from the syllabus. This cannot be tolerated. Government should immediately take note, Prasad tweeted on Wednesday. The students of the university have also protested the change in the syllabus. Criticising the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) of the Centre, Singh said, It's a dangerous bid by the bankrupt Narendra Modi government to raise money by gradually handing over sectors like rail, road, airport and mining to corporates. It's an anti-people move. Why Nitish Kumar is maintaining a stoic silence over the issue? He said the BJP often claims that nothing has happened in the country in the last 70 years, the majority period of which was ruled by the Congress. If nothing has happened in the last 70 years, what the central government is selling? That is the difference between worthy and unworthy sons, between the Congress and the BJP, Singh said. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman last month announced the Rs 6 lakh crore NMP that will look to unlock value in infrastructure assets across sectors ranging from power to road and railways. To a question on Nitish Kumar's demand for caste-based census in the country, Singh said the Congress is in favour of it. "But, I am sure the PM and the BJP will not accept the demand for it. Both the PM and Nitish Kumar are misleading people over the issue, he said. Statistics about different castes will help in formulating development schemes effectively as many of them have not benefitted so far in line with their actual population, the Bihar CM has said. The BJP leadership has so far not taken a categorical stand on the issue which has been lapped up by a number of regional parties, many of them its rivals in different states. There is a view that a caste census will bring the Mandal politics to the centre stage of politics and can be an effective weapon in the hands of regional parties to counter the BJP's Hindutva and welfare planks, the twin issues used by the saffron party to make inroads into the OBC vote bank at the expense of state-based parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
02-09-2021||India||Pakistan behind Al Qaeda’s ‘Jihad’ statement naming Kashmir: Government sources||After the last American soldier left Afghanistan on August 31 midnight, the terror outfit Al Qaeda released a statement in which it called for “global jihad” to liberate “Islamic lands”, and mentioned Kashmir. The inclusion of Kashmir and omission of Chechnya and Xinjiang exposes the hand of Pakistan in Qaeda’s ominous statement, government sources told NDTV on Thursday. “The Qaeda statement talking about transnational jihad is a cause for concern. It is intriguing that Kashmir was included in the statement as it was never on the agenda of the Taliban earlier. The Pakistan ISI is behind this statement of Qaeda,” officials told NDTV. The statement will embolden Pakistan-based terror outfits like Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad in attacks in India, government sources said. A senior government official said the Qaeda statement is still being analysed, but it is a serious cause for concern for India. “Al Qaeda is trying to radicalise Muslims in the world - it is dangerous for humanity. Pakistan is pushing ahead its agenda,” he said. Pakistan, said the official, had shown its hand in hosting and controlling Ayman Al Zawahiri as the head of Al Qaeda. Interestingly, even Taliban's Supreme Commander Haibatullah Akhundzada is reportedly in the custody of Pakistan's intelligence ISI. The omission of Chechnya in Russia and China's Xinjiang among targets of "liberation" through jihad is significant and telling. The Qaeda statement said: "Liberate the Levant, Somalia, Yemen, Kashmir and the rest of the Islamic lands from the clutches of the enemies of Islam. O' Allah! Grant freedom to Muslim prisoners across the world." Another aspect being studied by the government is the presence of the families of most Al Qaeda sympathisers and terrorists in Iran. There are indications that many of them will return to Afghanistan now. "Though it's a Shia-dominated country, history has shown that as far as tactical advantages are concerned, both Shia and Sunni can work, if not together, then at least not against each other," an officer explained. With the Taliban claiming to the world that it will be different this time round, India is watching how the assurances play out. In meetings in Delhi and Kashmir, the fallout of the Afghanistan developments on the Valley has been discussed threadbare. Special attention is on growing instances of infiltration and launch pads being reactivated along the Line of Control. Sources say chatter being intercepted by agencies indicates that abandoned launch pads across the LoC have been reactivated. Even though the Taliban never showed clear interest in Kashmir and has been reassuring the world that it has changed its tactics, the fact is that it has allowed many terror groups, including the Harkat-ul Ansar - an amalgamation of Harkat-ul-Mujahideen and Harkat-ul-Jihad-al-Islami - to use Afghan soil for pushing terrorists into Kashmir. Intelligence agencies say Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Maulana Masood Azhar used to run a terror camp in Khost in Afghanistan before he used the Harkat-ul-Ansar to launch jihad in Kashmir after the Soviet-Afghan war. The Taliban, ousted from power in its first stint by the US after the 9/11 attacks, insists it will not let Afghanistan fall into the hands of terrorists. Sources said it is worrying that in their second stint, the Taliban has armed itself with better weapons, mostly captured after the exit of US troops. The Al Qaeda in the Indian subcontinent has been operating under the radar of security agencies. The AQIS or Qaeda's “Indian Subcontinent” unit has reportedly consolidated its presence in Afghanistan by embedding fighters in the Taliban. “Pakistan has been using Afghan soil to launch and train terrorists, so we have to be aware of new dynamics unfolding each passing minute,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
02-09-2021||India||Covid: Centre adds 7 more nations to list of RT-PCR test mandate||Amid fear of new Covid-19 strains, RT-PCR test is compulsory for passengers arriving from seven more countries, including South Africa, Bangladesh and China, the Centre said on Thursday. In a letter to all states and Union territories (UTs), the government said considering reports of new mutations in SARS-CoV-2 and rising number of Variants of Concern (VOCs) and Variants of Interest (Vols) globally, seven countries have been added in the list of countries whose travellers will have to get another RT-PCR test done upon landing at Indian airports apart from the one they need to get before embarking on the flight. These seven countries are South Africa, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand and Zimbabwe. In earlier guidelines issued in February, passengers from only the United Kingdom, Europe and the Middle East had to get the RT-PCR test done again upon landing at Indian airports. The Centre also asked states/UTs to ensure strict compliance to these guidelines so that the import of Vols and VoCs to India from other countries may be prevented. "The states/UTs must also strengthen their Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) activities being coordinated through the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG) network of laboratories, by sending a fixed percentage of samples of positive cases among international travellers for genome sequencing to the respective INSACOG Genome Sequencing Laboratories tagged with them," Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in the letter. Speaking at a press conference, NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul noted that although the risk of mutants will exist, tools of testing, tracking, vaccination, clinical preparedness and COVID appropriate behaviour have to be strongly used. "The impact of mutants, whether it is about severity of disease or about transmissibility, is something that we understand systematically and INSACOG has huge capacity and it has been strengthened over time and using it we will look after it. The screening of international travellers from a genetic sequencing point of view is one of the most critical protocols and pillars," he said. ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said a mutant found in Columbia is presently classified as a mutant of interest. "We are closely observing it and serious disease or rapid spread of it has not been seen, but with time we will be able to tell more about it," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
02-09-2021||India||India's primary worry: Afghanistan as terror haven ||India's immediate focus is to ensure that Afghan soil is not used for terrorist activities directed against it, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Thursday, two days after the Indian envoy to Qatar held talks with a top Taliban leader in Doha. MEA Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said India used the meeting in Doha to convey its concerns over the possible use of the Afghan territory for anti-India activities and to bring back the remaining Indians from Afghanistan. "We received a positive response," he said referring to the meeting between Indian Ambassador to Qatar Deepak Mittal and Taliban leader Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai. To a volley of questions on whether India would recognise a Taliban regime in the backdrop of the meeting between the two sides, Bagchi said: " It was just a meeting. I think these are very early days." Asked whether India will have more meetings with the Taliban, the MEA spokesperson said he does not want to speculate. "I would not like to speculate on the future. I have no update to share on that," he said. On bringing back the remaining Indians from Afghanistan, Bagchi said India will be able to revisit the matter once the Kabul airport resumes operation. The United Nations' food stockpiles in Afghanistan could run out this month and there is a critical need for USD 200 million to provide food to the most vulnerable, a senior UN official had warned earlier in the day, Deputy Special Representative and Humanitarian Coordinator in Afghanistan Ramiz Alakbarov said that at least one-third of the conflict-torn country's population currently is not sure that they will have a meal every day or not. This is what is going on. "By the end of September, the stocks which the World Food Programme has in the country will be out. We will be out of stock. We will not be able to provide those essential food items because we'll be out of stock," Alakbarov told reporters during a virtual press briefing from Kabul on Wednesday. "For us to keep the current demand, we need at least USD 200 million only for the food sector to be able to provide food to the most vulnerable, he said. He noted with concern that most of those vulnerable are children and more than half of the children in the country under the age of five are suffering from extreme malnutrition and "those children will not get food. Taliban rulers were preparing on Thursday to unveil their new government as the economy teetered on the edge of collapse more than two weeks after the Islamist militia captured Kabul and brought a chaotic end to 20 years of war. Taliban official Ahmadullah Muttaqi said on social media a ceremony was being prepared at the presidential palace in Kabul, while private broadcaster Tolo said an announcement on a new government was imminent. The Islamist movement's supreme leader, Haibatullah Akhundzada, is expected to have ultimate power over a governing council, with a president below him, a senior Taliban official told Reuters last month. The legitimacy of the new government in the eyes of international donors and investors will be crucial for Afghanistan's economy, which is likely to collapse following the Taliban's return to power, analysts said. The supreme Taliban leader has three deputies: Mawlavi Yaqoob, son of the movement's late founder Mullah Omar; Sirajuddin Haqqani, leader of the powerful Haqqani network; and Abdul Ghani Baradar, one of the founding members of the group. An unelected leadership council is how the Taliban ran their first government which brutally enforced a radical form of Sharia law from 1996 until its ouster by U.S.-led forces in 2001. The Taliban have tried to present a more moderate face to the world since they swept aside the U.S.-backed government and returned to power last month, promising to protect human rights and refrain from reprisals against old enemies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
02-09-2021||India||No major terror attack in India since Modi became PM, says Rajnath||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said not a single major terror attack has taken place in the country ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi assumed office in 2014, and asserted that terrorists were scared of the BJP government at the Centre. Addressing the Gujarat BJP leaders on the second day of the party's three-day state executive meeting at Kevadia in Narmada district, Singh also slammed the Congress saying the party was not sensitive enough towards the Army jawans as it kept the issue of One Rank-One Pension (OROP) unresolved for 40 years. "No matter what it takes, we will not let terrorists succeed. Forget about Jammu and Kashmir, no major terrorist attack took place in any part of the country after the arrival of Modiji. This is our major achievement. It seems that terrorists are now scared of the BJP government. This is not a small thing," he said. "Terrorists now realise that they are not secure even in their safe havens. What we did (surgical strike in PoK) after the Uri attack gave a clear message to the world that we can kill terrorists on this side as well as by crossing the border if need arises," Singh added. If the previous Congress governments were sensitive towards Army jawans, the issue of OROP, which the jawans had been demanding for 40 years, would have been resolved. But Congress did not accept the demand, the minister said. "But, Modiji implemented it immediately. This shows the difference between a Congress government and a BJP government," he said. Singh attacked the Congress and its leaders saying that they only used Mahatma Gandhi's name, but failed to follow in his footsteps. Referring to Ram temple at Ayodhya, he said such issues are not mere slogans, but BJP's commitment, for which, the party had sacrificed three of its state governments after the Babri mosque structure was demolished. "We always fulfil what we promise. These are not mere election slogans...it's our cultural commitment. Now, no force can stop the construction of a grand Ram temple. We had sacrificed three of our state governments after the structure (mosque) was razed. Though the Centre had dismissed three of our governments, we never diluted our commitment and movement," Singh added. After his address, the Ministry of Defence and the Gujarat Government signed an MoU for the upcoming Defence Expo-2022. It was signed in the presence of Singh and Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani. Rupani announced that the Defence Expo-2022 will be held for four days between March 10 and 13 in Gandhinagar next year. While the seminars will be held at Mahatma Mandir, the helipad exhibition centre will serve as the exhibition site for the expo, a media statement said. A meeting of Gujarat BJP's state executive began at Kevadia on Wednesday with the party's state unit chief C R Paatil presiding over it. Key leaders who are attending the meet include Singh, Rupani, Deputy CM Nitin Patel and in-charge of Gujarat BJP Bhupender Yadav, among others, a party release said, adding that others who have joined the meeting include all the MLAs, MPs, members of executive committee, party's state office-bearers and presidents of district and city units. This is for the first time the Gujarat BJP has organised a "paperless state executive" meeting, wherein invitees are given tablets with all the required information and links related to the event, the release added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
02-09-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi attacks BJP, calls for increasing sugarcane price to benefit farmers||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hit out at the ruling BJP on Thursday over the rising prices of cooking gas, petrol and diesel, and also alleged that there has been no increase in the price of sugarcane procurement from farmers in the last three years. While she did not clarify whether her attack was aimed at the Uttar Pradesh government or the Centre, the Narendra Modi dispensation last week increased the minimum price that the sugar mills pay to sugarcane growers by Rs 5 to Rs 290 per quintal for the next marketing year starting October 2021. The Congress general secretary said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government is increasing the price of LPG cylinders every month, and petrol and diesel prices have been hiked 60 to 70 times in three-four months. "But the sugarcane price for farmers has not increased for three years?" she tweeted in Hindi with the hashtags "mehnge din" (expensive days) and "ganne ke daam badhao" (increase the prices of sugarcane). Priyanka Gandhi had raised the issue last week also, stating that despite a regular increase in the prices of diesel and electricity for farmers in Uttar Pradesh, the price of sugarcane in the state has not seen any rise for three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
02-09-2021||India||Modi government mishandled economy, alleges Rahul||Accusing the Centre of mishandling the country's economy, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said the nation was at a "critical crossroad" and the Congress, as a major opposition party, has a moral duty to fight the forces that threaten the very idea of India. "Modi Government has clearly mishandled the economy. And, what this country has built over the last 70 years, is being given away to select few friends of Modi-ji", Gandhi said, joining a function organised virtually on the occasion of inauguration of the District Congress Committee office in this north Kerala district. He said Congress was not against privatisation but its privatisation plan had a logic. "We didn't privatise strategic industries: for example, Railways which is the backbone of India. Congress party must oppose this fire sale of our crown jewels at every level," Gandhi said, slamming the Centre's Rs 6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) that included unlocking value by involving private companies across infrastructure sectors from passenger trains and railway stations to airports, roads and stadiums. Attacking the Centre over rising prices of fuel, Gandhi said the government has come up with a new concept of GDP, wherein a rise in GDP means a rise in prices of Gas, Diesel and Petrol. "While international prices for crude and gas has gone down since 2014, there has been huge increase in prices in GDP in last 7 years. Rs 23 lakh crore has been earned by increasing prices of GDP in the last seven years. Where has this money gone?" he asked. The Congress leader alleged that while farmers, labourers, small traders and informal sector, MSMEs, contract workers, salaried class and honest industrialists are being demonetised, four-five friends of Prime Minister Narendra Modi are being monetised. "We have to fight these forces...," he said at the function attended by AICC general secretary K C Venugopal, KPCC president K Sudhakaran and Leader of opposition in the State Assembly V D Satheesan. Senior leaders Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala also joined Gandhi in the virtual function.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
02-09-2021||India||Elgaar Parishad case: Gautam Navlakha moves HC||Activist Gautam Navlakha, an accused in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case and currently lodged in Taloja prison, moved the Bombay High Court on Thursday seeking that he be placed under house arrest as part of his judicial custody, owing to his advanced age and medical ailments. In his plea, Navlakha, 69, also sought that the HC direct authorities of the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai to get him medically examined for a lump developed in his chest. His counsels, Yug Chaudhry and Payoshi Roy, told a bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that Navlakha wished to be examined medically to rule out "cancer". In his plea, Navlakha cited the Supreme Court's order issued in May this year, whereby the apex court had dismissed his default bail plea, but found merit in treating house arrests as an alternative form of detention, especially for such undertrials who are aged or suffering from serious medical ailments. Navlakha's counsels also told the HC that they had already written to the Taloja prison authorities, seeking a medical check-up for the lump in his chest, but they were yet to hear anything from the authorities. They further told the HC that Navlakha also suffered from hypertension that he developed while in prison, and several other ailments. Navlakha was arrested by Pune police from Delhi on August 28, 2018 in connection the Elgaar Parishad case. He was initially kept under house arrest but subsequently sent in judicial custody. As per Navlakha's plea, he has spent one year and three months in prison. The HC will hear the plea further later in the day. The case relates to the Elgaar Parishad conclave held in Maharashtra's Pune district on December 31, 2017. The Pune police had claimed that the event was backed by Maoists, and provocative speeches made there led to caste violence near the Bhima-Koregaon war memorial in the district the next day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
02-09-2021||India||SC expresses concern over fake, communal news on social media||A section of media gives communal colour to news bringing bad name to the country, the Supreme Court rued on Thursday, expressing serious concern over fake news on social media including web portals and YouTube which listen only to the powerful voices and not judges and institutions. The strong observations of the bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana came while hearing a batch of petitions, including the one filed by Jamiat Ulema-i-Hind, seeking directions to the Centre to stop dissemination of "fake news" related to last year's religious gathering at Nizamuddin Markaz and take strict action against those responsible for it. "The problem is, everything in this country is shown with a communal angle by a section of media. The country is going to get a bad name ultimately," said the bench, adding, "Did you (the Centre) ever attempt to regulate these private channels". The bench also agreed to hear after six weeks the Centre's plea seeking transfer of petitions to the apex court that are pending in high courts against the validity of new Information Technology Rules which aims to regulate online content. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said, "Not only communal but also planted news" is there and the IT Rules have been framed to regulate content online, including web portals. "The social media only listens to the powerful voices and several things are written against judges, institutions without any accountability," said the bench which also comprised Justices Surya Kant and A S Bopanna. Speaking for the bench, CJI Ramana said, "I have not come across where these social media, Twitter and Facebook, respond to common people. They never respond. There is no accountability. About the institutions, they have written badly and they do not respond and say that this is their right." "They only worry about powerful men and not judges, institutions or common man. That is what we have seen. This is our experience." It further said: "There is no control over fake news and slandering in web portals and YouTube channels. If you go to YouTube, you will find how fake news is freely circulated and anyone can start a channel on YouTube." The top court permitted Jamiat to amend its petition and serve it within four weeks to the Centre through the Solicitor General who may file the response in two weeks thereafter. At the outset, Mehta sought an adjournment of hearing on the pleas by two weeks. Referring to a few last orders, the bench asked the Centre whether it has appointed any regulatory commission for such news contents on social media. Mehta referred to the affidavits of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting filed on November 13 last year and said that the real concern has been to strike a balance between freedom of press and the right of citizens to have access to unadulterated news. The bench said there seemed no control on web portals and sought to know about if any mechanism has been put in place. "For newspapers and television channels you have a regulatory mechanism. Are you suggesting that there is no such mechanism for web portals," the bench asked. Mehta said new IT Rules have been framed to regulate such online mediums including web portals. "There is some mechanism for newspapers and so far as the TVs are concerned, you have some self-regulatory mechanism and one retired Supreme Court judge is also there," the CJI said. The centre has framed the statutory mechanism under the Cable TV Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995 and for the online contents, the new IT rules have been framed, the law officer said. Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for one of the Muslim bodies, concurred with the submissions of the law officer on new regimes put to regulate the online social media. The bench took note of Mehta's plea that some high courts are seized of petitions challenging the new IT Rules and for a holistic determination of the issues, they be transferred to the top court itself. The top court said it would hear the transfer plea with the present batch of petitions. Earlier, the Centre had told the apex court the petitioner Muslim body's attempt to obtain a blanket "gag order" on the entire media to prevent them from reporting the Markaz Nizamuddin issue will effectively destroy the freedom of the citizenry to know and the right of journalists to ensure an informed society. The government had said that in the absence of any specific information about any objectionable news published or aired by a specific news channel/agency, the Constitution and the applicable statutes do not give it any authority to unilaterally pass any censure order under the Cable Television Networks Rules. The Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind had filed the plea seeking directions to the Centre to stop the dissemination of "fake news" related to a religious gathering at Markaz Nizamuddin. The Jamiat has alleged that the unfortunate incident of Tablighi Jamaat was being used to "demonise" and blame the entire Muslim community and sought to restrain the media from publishing/airing such reports. The Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Markaz Nizamuddin in central Delhi in March last year was accused of accelerating the spread of the novel coronavirus, with its attendees carrying the infection to different parts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
02-09-2021||India||Anil Deshmukh moves Bombay HC against ED summons||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh approached the Bombay High Court on Thursday, seeking to quash the summons issued to him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with a money laundering case registered against him. Deshmukh's application came up for hearing before a single bench of Justice Revati Mohite Dere. However, Justice Dere recused herself from hearing the application without assigning any reason and said, Not before me. The application will be heard by another bench in due course of time. The ED had initiated a probe against Deshmukh and his associates after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) lodged an FIR against the NCP leader on April 21 this year on charges of corruption and misuse of official position. The ED's case is that while serving as the state home minister, Deshmukh allegedly misused his position and through dismissed police officer Sachin Waze collected Rs 4.70 crore from various bars and restaurants in Mumbai. The money was allegedly laundered to the Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, an educational trust controlled by Deshmukh's family. The ED has till now issued five summons to Deshmukh, asking him to appear before it for questioning. However, Deshmukh skipped all the five summons, claiming that he would be seeking appropriate remedy available under law. Deshmukh last month approached the Supreme Court against the summons and sought protection from arrest. The apex court had, however, refused to grant any relief and said Deshmukh had alternate remedies. The NCP leader then approached the HC, challenging the summons. The ED has so far arrested two persons - Sanjeev Palande (additional collector-rank official who was working as Deshmukh's private secretary) and Kundan Shinde (Deshmukh's personal assistant) - in the case. The agency last month submitted its prosecution complaint (equivalent to a charge sheet) against the duo before a special court in Mumbai. The CBI had lodged the FIR against Deshmukh after it conducted a preliminary enquiry against the NCP leader following an order from the HC on April 5. Deshmukh resigned from the post of state home minister the same day, but has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
02-09-2021||India||To cross boundaries, you need to think beyond the usual, states Nishant Piyush, a top digitalpreneur||He is under-25 years of age and still has managed to make his mark with his firm Prike Media, Dubai. Youngsters of today coming from different backgrounds and parts of the world are creating a lot of buzz with all that they do in their careers and respective industries. It is definitely a spectacular sight to notice how young talented beings, without having a fear of failure, go ahead in climbing their ladder of success and even cross boundaries to ace the game of business. Though all of this sounds easier than actually doing it, still young entrepreneurs like Nishant Piyush have done it and how. The kind of success stories they have created has been motivating more and more youngsters to have faith in their talents and work rigorously towards their goals. "Prike Media", based in Dubai, the UAE, was created by Nishant Piyush after realizing his dreams and going all-in into the digital space, leaving no stone unturned to make a difference in the industry. Many youngsters constantly work around their visions and dreams, but not all go ahead in attaining the same. Nishant Piyush was aware of how tough the digital space could get due to the increasing competition and saturation in the industry. However, working with a strong self-belief and true love for all that he did, worked his way, eventually leading him to the path of success, not just in India but also in Dubai. Talking about his growing presence and his digital marketing company Prike Media's prominence in Dubai, Nishant Piyush says that at the very start of his career, he had no inch of an idea that someday life would present him with so many incredible opportunities, but he also along his way created newer ones for him, for him wished to shine bright on foreign land as well. Hence, he founded Prike Media in Dubai, and today his cutting-edge digital marketing services and solutions have become the talk of the town in Dubai. They do it all from website creations, Ads, SEO, and PR to social media marketing, pay-per-click advertising, email marketing, and mobile application development. Lastly, he highlights that he could make a name for himself across the UAE with Prike Media because he chose to cross boundaries and do the unusual by constantly learning new things and honing his skills as a digitalpreneur. Do connect with him through Instagram @nishant.piyush or visit the website, https://prikemedia.com/, to know more.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
02-09-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi slams UP govt over deaths due to fever||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday hit out at the Uttar Pradesh government over the deaths in the state, including of children, due to fever and alleged that concrete steps had not been taken to strengthen the health system. She said that the news of the "death of 100 people including children" due to fever in Firozabad, Mathura, Agra and many other places in Uttar Pradesh is very worrying. The state government has still not taken any concrete steps to strengthen the health system, the Congress general secretary alleged. "Look at the condition of hospitals. Is this your 'Number 1' facility for treatment?" Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi and tagged a media report claiming that fever had gripped several districts in the state and in Firozabad the situation was grim with treatment being given on brick benches. The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday transferred the chief medical officer of Firozabad, where about 41 people, mostly children, died of suspected dengue and viral fever. Health officials said along with Firozabad, the spread of dengue is also suspected in Mathura.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-248
02-09-2021||India||India logs over 47,000 fresh Covid cases, 509 casualties in a day||With 47,092 people testing positive for COVID-19, India's total tally of cases rose to 3,28,57,937, while active cases have increased to 3,89,583, according to Union health ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll has climbed to 4,39,529 with 509 more fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The number of active cases has increased to 3,89,583 and comprise 1.19 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 97.48 per cent, ministry said. It said that active cases increased by 11,402 in a span of 24 hours. The weekly positivity rate has been recorded at 2.62 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 69 days, it said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has increased to 3,20,28,825, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. With 81.09 lakh COVID-19 vaccine doses being administered on Wednesday, the cumulative doses given in the country under the vaccination drive has reached 66.30 crore, according to the ministry. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 509 new fatalities include 173 from Kerala and 183 from Maharashtra, the ministry said. It said that 4,39,529 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,37,496 from Maharashtra, 37,339 from Karnataka, 34,941 from Tamil Nadu, 25,082 from Delhi, 22,825 from Uttar Pradesh, 20,961 from Kerala and 18,459 from West Bengal. The health ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
02-09-2021||India||Rain drenches Delhi for third day on the trot||Another spell of rain pounded Delhi on Thursday morning, worsening the waterlogging problem in some areas and plunging road traffic into chaos. The capital has recorded 229.8 mm rainfall since Tuesday morning, surpassing the September average of 129.8 mm precipitation by a big margin. Usually, it gauges only 16.7 mm rainfall on the first two days of the month. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Delhi recorded 117.7 mm rainfall in 24 hours ending at 8:30 am on Thursday, the highest on a day in September in 19 years. This is the second day on the trot that the capital recorded more than 100 mm rainfall in a day. The city had gauged 112.1 mm rainfall in 24 hours ending at 8:30 am on Wednesday which submerged several areas, including the diplomatic enclave of Chanakyapuri and commercial hub of Connaught Place, in knee-deep water and disrupted rain and road traffic. The capital had recorded 126.8 mm rainfall on September 13, 2002.The all-time record is 172.6 mm rainfall on September 16, 1963. The incessant rains submerged roads, residential areas, schools, hospitals, and markets in knee-deep water and affected the movement of around 25 trains on Wednesday. Municipal corporations in Delhi reported 21 incidents of uprooting of trees. On Thursday morning, the situation worsened at some places due to standing water. IMD officials said the intensity is likely to reduce and another spell of rain is expected from September 7. "The next spell may see Delhi breaking records for monthly (September) rainfall," an official said. Asked if the India Meteorological Department (IMD) expected such heavy rainfall, an official said it is difficult to make "precise predictions" for a small area like Delhi two to three days in advance. "The predictions are for larger areas, such as Haryana and Punjab. This applies across the world," he said. IMD officials said the Safdarjung Observatory, considered the official marker for the city, gauged 117.7 mm rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8:30 am on Thursday, the highest on a day in September in 19 years. The weather stations at Lodhi Road, Ridge, Palam and Ayanagar recorded 133.6 mm, 68.4 mm, 108.2 mm and 56.2 mm rainfall, respectively, in the 24 hours ending 8:30 am. Rainfall recorded below 15 mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is moderate, between 64.5 mm and 115.5 mm is heavy, between 115.6 and 204.4 is very heavy. Anything above 204.4 mm is considered extremely heavy rainfall. In its forecast for the month of September, the IMD said, "Normal to below normal rainfall is most likely over many areas of northwest." Mahesh Palawat, Vice President, Skymet Weather, a private forecasting agency, said the monsoon pattern is changing due to climate change. "The number of rainy days has reduced over the last four to five years, and there has been an increase in extreme weather events," he said. "We have been recording short and intense bouts of rain, sometimes around 100 mm rainfall in just 24 hours. In the past, this much precipitation would occur over a period of 10 to 15 days," he said. Weather experts said such spells of rain do not help recharge groundwater and lead to flooding in low-lying areas. The water percolates in the ground if it rains slowly over four to five days. In case of heavy falls, the rainwater runs off quickly, Palawat said. "The rain washes away pollutants, but since the number of rainy days has reduced, the average annual air quality is also getting affected," he said. Overall, Delhi has recorded 986.2mm rainfall since June 1, when the monsoon season starts, which is 82 percent more than normal. The city recorded just 10 rainy days in August, the lowest in seven years, and a cumulative rainfall of 214.5 mm, lower than the average of 247 mm. In July, the national capital gauged 507.1 mm rainfall, which was nearly 141 per cent above the long-period average of 210.6 mm. It was also the maximum rainfall in the month since July 2003, and the second highest ever. Despite the monsoon embracing Delhi only on July 13, making it the most-delayed in 19 years, the capital had recorded 16 rainy days in the month, the maximum in the last four years. It received 34.8 mm rainfall against the normal of 65.5 mm in June.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
02-09-2021||India||Former Rajya Sabha MP Chandan Mitra passes away at 65||Veteran journalist and former Rajya Sabha MP Chandan Mitra died late Wednesday at his south Delhi residence after a long ailment. He was 65. Mitra, who did a stint in various newspapers, including the Times of India and the Hindustan Times, in his long career as a journalist before he became editor of The Pioneer, is survived by his wife Shobori Ganguly and two sons Kushan and Shakya. The death of the columnist and raconteur, known for his sharp views on politics and also his abiding love for old Hindi film music, was condoled by a host of political leaders across the spectrum as well as President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "Shri Chandan Mitra Ji will be remembered for his intellect and insights. He distinguished himself in the world of media as well as politics. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti," the prime minister said in a tweet. The president described him as an outstanding journalist whose stint as a parliamentarian added to his reputation. His understanding of Hindi heartland and its history was profound. His demise leaves a void in Indian journalism. My heartfelt condolences to his family and friends," Kovind tweeted. Mitra's son Kushan said his father had been suffering for a while. "Since it is already out there; Dad passed away late last night. He had been suffering for a while," he said in a tweet on Thursday. Elected to the Rajya Sabha as a BJP member twice, Chandan Mitra was considered close to BJP patriarch L K Advani. In 2018, he resigned from the party and joined the Trinamool Congress but stayed away from active politics. Mitra, who passed away in his Sainik Farms residence, had resigned as publisher of The Pioneer. He continued to be its editor even though poor health kept him away from active politics. Expressing his anguish, BJP president J P Nadda said Mitra would be remembered for his distinguished career in the field of media and service for people. TMC president and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee also condoled his death and said he would always be remembered for his contribution to the world of journalism and politics. BJP MP and lifetime friend Swapan Dasgupta posted a picture of Mitra and himself from a school trip in 1972 and wished for his friend to be happy wherever he was. "I lost my closest friend-editor of Pioneer & former MP Chandan Mitra-this morning. We were together as students of La Martiniere & went on to St Stephen's & Oxford. We joined journalism at the same time & shared the excitement of Ayodhya & the saffron wave," he said in a tweet. "I am posting a photograph of Chandan Mitra and me together during a school trip in 1972. Be happy my dear friend wherever you are. Om Shanti," Dasgupta said. Going down memory lane, other old friends recalled impassioned arguments with him on a range of issues and also his love for film music, particularly songs composed by Laxmikant Pyarelal. "Dr. Chandan Mitra had friends across the political spectrum and made very learned speeches in the Rajya Sabha. Apart from his professional qualifications, his knowledge of Hindi film music was awesome, which he used with great effect in his interventions and writings, said Congress leader Jairam Ramesh. His party colleague Shashi Tharoor had some memories to share too. Stephanians both, Mitra was Tharoor's campaign manager in the election for the St Stephen's College Union Society. "Deeply saddened by this news. Chandan was my campaign manager in my successful race to be President of the St Stephen's College Union Society, served in my Cabinet and succeeded me. We remained in touch over the years, ironically till I returned to Delhi& politics separated us. RIP," Tharoor tweeted. The Press Club of India issued a statement condoling Mitra's demise. "Chandan Mitra was a stalwart editor who also had fruitful innings in The Statesman and as editor of Hindustan Times. Mitra mentored young reporters, and relaunched The Pioneer. "His passing is a great loss. The Press Club of India stands with his family in this hour of loss," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
02-09-2021||India||Adityanath orders  inquiry into Supertech twin towers case||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday ordered an inquiry and strict action against the guilty officials in the Noida Supertech twin towers case.  The directives came after the Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered demolition of the 40-storey twin towers that had come up in violation of building byelaws in Supertech's Emerald Court housing project in Noida's Sector 93.  The top court ordered that the towers be razed within three months for the violation of building norms in "collusion" with district officials, holding that illegal construction has to be dealt with strictly to ensure compliance with the rule of law.  The chief minister also directed officials to register criminal cases against the guilty persons, if need be, as he reviewed the matter in Lucknow, an official spokesperson said.  "In the case of Noida's Supertech Emerald court case, the orders of the Supreme Court should be ensured in letter and spirit. Irregularities in this case have been going on continuously since 2004," the CM said, according to the spokesperson.  "A special inquiry committee should be constituted at the government level and a thorough investigation be done," Adityanath said.  The chief minister's directives came during the meeting with his special 'Team-9' that includes ministers, bureaucrats and the police chief of the state, according to officials.  In the wake of the Supreme Court order, Noida Authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari had on Tuesday said that the top court's directives will be fully complied with, even as the society residents rejoiced at the top court verdict that came after a decade-long legal battle.  The realty firm had constructed two 40-storey towers illegally in its Emerald Court housing project premises with over 900 flats and 21 shops.  Residents of the housing project claimed their consent was not taken for the twin towers, which were being built in violation of norms and moved the court.  The Allahabad High Court had in 2014 ordered the demolition of the twin towers with the Supreme Court upholding the verdict in 2021.  However, buyers who have invested their money in these towers hoped their interest would be protected, even as the Supertech Group said it would be filing a review petition in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
02-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi warns of impending 1991-like economic crisis||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday warned that a 1991-like economic crisis was looming over the country and termed the Narendra Modi government’s handling of the economy a “catastrophic failure”. “This is not a cyclical problem; this is a structural problem. We cannot get out of it without changing direction,” the former Congress president told a news conference in the capital. Rahul said the Congress had the ability to pull India back from the brink the way it had in 1991. “There is a structural failure and the government is in panic. The government and Narendra Modi are fearing… as he is unable to fulfil the promises made to people. He is seeing this and he is in panic. Both Prime Minister and finance minister are in panic and they do not know what to do. This is the reality,” he said. He added that the government was living off the fuel prices, which were being increased frequently. A few hours after Rahul spoke, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman was seen at the launch of a book on V.D. Savarkar. Earlier in the day, the prices of cooking gas across all categories, including subsidised gas, were hiked by Rs 25 per cylinder — the third straight increase in rates in less than two months. The Congress MP provided another expansion for GDP — “gas, diesel, petrol” — in a swipe at the government, which had claimed the country’s gross domestic product was on the rise. “When they say the GDP is rising, they mean gas-diesel-petrol price,” he said. Rahul urged the youth to ask the government what it had done with the Rs 23 lakh crore earned from fuel prices. “I want the young people of this country to think about this. This is about your future, you have to ask the question, who is this money going to?” he said. “Rs 23 lakh crore has been taken out of your pockets, out of the pockets of farmers, labourers, poor people.... The question is, where is it going?” Rahul said the rise in fuel prices could have been justified had it resulted from an increase in the price of crude and gas in the international market. “Crude oil prices were $105 per barrel when we were in power; today it is $71. That is a decrease of 32 per cent. International gas prices were $880 per tonne, today it is $653 per tonne — a 26 per cent drop,” he said. Holding up a handwritten chart, Rahul said that when the UPA left office in 2014, the price of LPG was Rs 410 a cylinder. Today, it is Rs 885 a cylinder — an increase of 116 per cent. “On one side, there is demonetisation taking place with farmers, labourers, small traders, MSMEs, contract workers, salaried class, honest industrialists being hit. On the other side, there is dramatic monetisation taking place,” Rahul said. “Three to five big industrialist friends of the Prime Minister are being benefited. There is a transfer of wealth taking place from the poor, from the weak, to the Prime Minister’s friends.” Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
02-09-2021||India||Haryana: SDM who ordered to break farmers' heads transferred||Karnal sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha, caught on camera ordering police to break the heads of protesting farmers, was on Wednesday transferred as an additional secretary to Chandigarh at a time the Samyukta Kisan Morcha is demanding his dismissal. Sinha’s transfer to the Haryana citizen resource information department, ordered two days after chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had defended him, is unlikely to pacify the protesting farmers. The farmers want Sinha not only dismissed but also booked on murder charges over the death of farmer Sushil Kajal, who had suffered injuries in Saturday’s lathi-charge. While the Morcha is yet to comment on the transfer, it has firmed up plans on its response if the state government fails to accept its demand for action against Sinha by September 6. As of now, the Morcha plans to lay siege to the mini-secretariat in Karnal if its demands are not met within the deadline. Apart from action against Sinha and other officials involved in the lathi-charge, the Morcha is also pressing for the withdrawal of the cases filed against Haryana’s farmers. Given the links they have with other segments of society in agrarian Haryana, the farmers have been receiving support from lawyers and people in other professions. Protest meetings are being organised elsewhere in the country, too, against the “high-handed behaviour” of the Haryana government. A delegation of the All India Kisan Sabha on Tuesday visited the family of Kajal and handed his wife a cheque for Rs 1 lakh. On Wednesday, AIKS general secretary Hannan Mollah told reporters that Kajal’s mother had alleged he had died of internal injuries suffered during the lathi-charge. Told about the police claim that the family had failed to have a post-mortem done, AIKS finance secretary P. Krishnaprasad shot back: “If that is so, why did the police not insist on a post-mortem?” He added: “The Kisan Sabha has demanded a judicial probe by a sitting judge as the family of the deceased believes he succumbed to his injuries, for which he did not get proper treatment.” According to the AIKS, farmer leaders have alleged that Kajal was severely beaten up by a group of policemen, who did not allow him to be taken to hospital. Also, severely injured farmers were allegedly forced to leave hospital after first aid. “The body was cremated in the village without post-mortem on 29th August 2021,” an AIKS report says. “The superintendent of police, Ganga Ram Puniya, has claimed the death was due to heart attack. How the police can state the cause of death without a post-mortem? This is a purposeful act to hide the truth and protect the culprits.” The report adds: “The BJP-led state government and the chief minister are shamelessly trying to protect the culprits by not ensuring a post-mortem after they received the report of the death of the farmer activist.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
02-09-2021||India||Kerala HC's message of harmony in ‘no criminal kidney’ ruling||There’s no “criminal kidney or criminal liver or criminal heart”, Kerala High Court has ruled while chastising an organ-transplant authorisation committee that had rejected a kidney donor because he was accused of “multiple criminal offences”. “Human blood is passing through all of us,” Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan observed while setting aside the committee’s order. He linked the matter to the “idea of secularism”. The law for human organ donation should act as a “path-breaker for communal harmony and the idea of secularism”, the single-judge bench said. “Let the Hindus, Christians, Muslims, Sikhs and even persons with criminal backgrounds donate their organs to needy people irrespective of their caste or creed or religion, or criminal background. That will be a day that was dreamed (of) by the founding fathers of our Constitution,” the August 27 judgment said. Petitioner Radhakrishna Pillai, 54, from Kollam had approached the court on August 10 after the “district-level authorisation committee for transplantation of human organs” rejected his application for permission to accept a kidney from 38-year-old Sajeev R., his driver. Pillai and Sajeev had furnished all the necessary permissions and documents. Sajeev had declared he was donating a kidney since he had a close relationship with Pillai, who had suffered complete renal failure. But the committee refused permission, saying: “The donor is involved in multiple criminal offences.” The high court said the Transplantation of Human Organs and Tissues Rules, 2014, contained no provision for rejecting the organs of a donor accused or convicted of crime. “The only embargo... is that the donor should not be a drug addict,” the court said. “There is no organ in the human body like a criminal kidney or criminal liver or criminal heart! There is no difference between the organ of a person with criminal antecedents and the organ of a person who has no criminal antecedents. Human blood is passing through all of us.” It slammed the authorisation committee: “If these types of reasons are taken for rejecting the applications by the authorisation committee, a murderer, a thief or a person who is involved in some minor criminal offences cannot donate organs voluntarily.” The only conclusion to be drawn from the committee’s position is that it believes “the criminal behaviour of the donor will percolate to the person who accepts the organs”, the court said. “What sort of reasoning is this? No person with common sense can agree with (it),” the court noted, adding that the committee had gone “beyond their jurisdiction” in rejecting the application. The court directed the Kerala chief secretary to order the authorities concerned to speed up organ-donation applications. It stressed that the purpose of having organ-donation rules was to check commercial interest in donations. It urged the authorities to spread awareness to encourage organ donation in India. “Some statistics say that organ donation in India is very poor, around 0.3/million population, as compared to some western countries where it is as high as 36/million,” the judgment said. C.M. Mohammed Iquabal, the petitioner’s counsel, told The Telegraph the “criminal antecedents” of the would-be donor were limited to a case relating to a physical fight with a neighbour. He said the objective of the organ-donation law was to protect poor and less educated people from being cheated by agents or others into donating organs. “The law in no way stops someone volunteering to donate an organ,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
02-09-2021||India||CJI assures Election Commission of priority hearing of EVM plea  ||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Wednesday assured the Election Commission of early hearing next Tuesday of its plea for the immediate release of 4.48 lakh EVMs and 3.96 lakh VVPAT machines used in Bengal and other states in the recent Assembly elections. The EC has told the Supreme Court that if these equipment are not allowed to be used, it would lead “to serious logistical challenges” for next year’s elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Goa, Manipur and Uttarakhand. On April 21, the Supreme Court had indefinitely extended the period for filing petitions and suits challenging electoral outcomes in Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu in view of the pandemic. The usual permissible period is 45 days under the Representation of the People Act, 1951. The EC has urged the Supreme Court to fix a timeframe for filing of petitions or vacate its order so that the machines could be freed up for use in the upcoming elections. The EVMs and VVPAT machines used in the five states earlier this year are technically in the possession of the EC but they cannot be used. In Bengal alone, 31 electoral petitions have been filed so far. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing before the bench of CJI Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and A.S. Bopanna on behalf of the EC on Wednesday, pleaded for an urgent hearing. CJI Ramana assured the EC that the matter would be heard on priority on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
02-09-2021||India||Allahabad High Court judge call for declaring cow as national animal ||An Allahabad High Court judge has called for the declaration of the cow as a national animal and said “cow protection should be the fundamental right of Hindus”. Justice Shekhar Kumar Yadav made the observation while denying bail to the accused, Javed, in a cow slaughter case. Javed’s counsel had pleaded that his client had been implicated in a false case and that no cow meat had been found in his possession. Justice Yadav wrote in his order: “Samast paristhitiyon ko dhyan mein rakhne ki awashyakta hai ki gai ko ek rashtriya pashu ghoshit kiya jaye aur go suraksha ko Hinduon ke maulik adhikar mein rakha jae.” A translation: “All circumstances must be considered and the cow should be declared as a national animal and cow protection should be the fundamental right of Hindus.” Justice Yadav wrote: “…We know that when there is an assault on a country’s culture and faith, it becomes weak….” He continued: “The cow has an important place in Indian culture. The cow is known as mother in the country and is worshipped as a goddess…. The people of India are known for their generosity. It is because of this that they consider as gods those animals that are beneficial to them.” “…Cows give milk, which is needed for a strong and health constitution. It gives cow dung for fertiliser and urine that kills germs. It produces calf and oxen, which help in agriculture when they grow up,” Justice Yadav said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
02-09-2021||India||Works of JP axed from Jai Prakash University course||Socialist leader and freedom fighter Jayaprakash Narayan has been omitted from the political science syllabus of the university established in his name in his native Saran district of Bihar. The thoughts and works of other prominent socio-political leaders like Ram Manohar Lohia, Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Raja Ram Mohan Roy, M.N. Roy and others have also been omitted from the postgraduate political science syllabus of Jai Prakash University in Chapra. The omission of Narayan’s name has shocked politicians, academics and students across the state. RJD chief and former chief minister Lalu Prasad, who was instrumental in setting up the university, saw the hand of the RSS in the syllabus cuts. “I established JP University in the name of Jayaprakashji in my karmabhoomi Chapra 30 years ago. Now officials sharing the sanghi mentality of the sanghi Bihar government are removing great socialist leaders like JP and Lohia from the syllabus of the university. This is intolerable. The government should immediately take cognisance,” Lalu tweeted. Top leaders of Bihar such as chief minister Nitish Kumar, Lalu and BJP Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi are followers of Narayan. Student organisations protested the omission of the prominent leaders from the political science syllabus and demanded that they be given their due place in the course. Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary expressed displeasure when the matter came to light and asked senior officials of his department to look into the issue. Sources said the change in syllabus could not have been done without the knowledge and permission of the governor, who is the chancellor of the state universities. The additions to the syllabus include Deendayal Upadhyaya, Subhas Chandra Bose and Mahatma Jyotiba Phule. A senior professor of the university told this newspaper that “adding any political leader or freedom fighter to the syllabus can never justify dropping JP, Lohia or Ram Mohan Roy”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-249
02-09-2021||India||Weather forecast: India to receive above normal rainfall in Sept ||India is likely to receive above normal rainfall this month that will make up for the current 9 per cent monsoon deficit accumulated over two months of lower than normal rainfall, the India Meteorological Department said on Wednesday. The IMD said India’s September rainfall would be 110 per cent of the long period average, which is “very likely” to reduce the deficit that has resulted from interconnected weather phenomena over the Bay of Bengal and the Indian and Pacific oceans. Rainfall across the country during July was 6 per cent below average, but dropped to a whopping 24 per cent below average in August. Both months are critical for the kharif season crops — rice, maize, pulses, oilseeds, sugarcane, cotton among others — sown during the monsoon months. The Union agriculture ministry’s crop weather watch bulletin in mid-August had recorded 997 lakh hectares sown with crops this year compared with 1,015 lakh hectares in 2020, or a dip of about 18 per cent. The area under cereals was 6 per cent and food grains 4 per cent lower than in 2020. August’s rainfall deficit in many states was a surprise, a senior weather scientist said. The IMD had anticipated below average rainfall in parts of northwest and central India, but failed to predict the rainfall deficit in Gujarat, Odisha and India’s western coastline. The IMD has attributed the August deficit to multiple factors, primarily the so-called Indian Ocean Dipole, a temperature anomaly stretching from western equatorial Indian Ocean to the Indonesian region that can negatively impact the Indian monsoon. Typically in August, two depressions and four low-pressure systems form over the Bay of Bengal, but this year there was no depression and only two low-pressure systems formed, said IMD director-general Mrutyunjaya Mohapatra. Fewer typhoons over the western Pacific may also have contributed to the August deficit, Mohapatra said. Remnants of westward moving Pacific typhoons help generate low-pressure systems over the Bay of Bengal that serve as engines for the monsoon rainfall. The Indian Ocean Dipole is expected to remain unfavourable for rains over India during the remainder of the monsoon season but Mohapatra said changes already occurring in the Pacific Ocean and over the Bay of Bengal could enhance rainfall activity during September. “We see a cooling trend in the Pacific Ocean and we expect low-pressure systems to emerge over the Bay of Bengal in the coming weeks,” Mohapatra said. Above normal rainfall for even 10 days in September could make up for the current deficit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
02-09-2021||India||Hurriyat hardliner Syed Ali Shah Geelani passes away at 92||Syed Ali Shah Geelani, Kashmir’s oldest and most unwavering pro-Pakistan secessionist, passed away on Wednesday. He was 92. Geelani spearheaded to his very end the hardline faction of the Hurriyat Conference. With him gone, an epochal chapter in Kashmir’s contemporary history of uncompromising  political separatism may have closed. One of the few secessionists who also contested elections, Geelani was thrice elected to the Assembly of the former Jammu and Kashmir state between 1972 and 1987. Some reports had said that he formally quit the leadership of the Hurriyat in mid-2020, but Geelani never gave up his call for secession from India and merger with Pakistan. Geelani had been ailing for years and post the abrogation of Article 370 in 2019, had fallen remarkably quiet. Last week, the Geelani family reportedly pulled down a board that marked out his Hyderpora residence on the outskirts of Kashmir as headquarters of the Hurriyat. Restrictions on movement have been imposed in the Valley and Internet suspended after his death. His two sons, a university teacher and a medical doctor who spent many years in Pakistan, have stayed away from overt participation in the Hurriyat or espousing their father’s cause. Rumours of Geelani’s death have often circulated in the past, each time triggering panicked security arrangements for fear of widespread civic outpouring and disruption. Now that he has been announced dead, reports from the Valley suggest an upping of preventive security measures. Geelani wanted to be buried at the “martyrs’ graveyard” abutting the Idgah in downtown Srinagar, but it is likely that his final resting place will have to be close to his residence in Hyderpora.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
02-09-2021||India||Modi govt critics support India’s decision to contact Taliban||India’s decision to establish contact with the Taliban has drawn support from some of the Narendra Modi government’s staunchest critics, such as former foreign minister Yashwant Sinha, Congress politician Mani Shankar Aiyar and retired IPS officer Julio Ribeiro. They and others on Wednesday put their signatures to an appeal to the government to stay the course and ensure that no political party exploited the situation in Afghanistan to polarise Indian society. Written in the form of an appeal from Indian friends of Afghanistan, the open letter said: “India should continue to engage with the Taliban to achieve the objectives set out in this appeal. We welcome the government’s first official acknowledgement of its engagement with the Taliban in Doha and the positive assurances given by the latter.” It urged the government to ensure there was no discrimination on grounds of religion while providing shelter to Afghans who have been forced to leave their country. “No political party should be allowed to use the developments in Afghanistan to communally polarise Indian society for electoral gains and any such attempts should be dealt with sternly,” the letter said. India had on Tuesday officially acknowledged its first contact with the Taliban after the Afghanistan takeover, saying a senior leader of the group had met the Indian envoy to Qatar at the Doha embassy. In an appeal to the international community, the open letter said: “No country in the region should be excluded from, nor isolate itself from, collaborative efforts to bring peace in Afghanistan and promote national reconciliation and national reconstruction.” It added: “This requires India, Pakistan, China, Russia, Iran and other countries to evolve and implement a common strategy, in cooperation with the United Nations, USA, EU and other members of the international community.” While asking the international community to jointly shoulder the responsibility for rebuilding Afghanistan’s war-damaged economy, the letter urged the Taliban to ensure that no terrorist organisation was given sanctuary. The other signatories to the letter are former foreign minister Natwar Singh, former Delhi lieutenant governor Najeeb Jung, writers Vaidpratak Vaidik and Saeed Naqvi, retired diplomat K.C. Singh, Gandhian activist Sandeep Pandey, former Rajya Sabha member Majeed Memon, and the former aide to Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Sudheendra Kulkarni.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
02-09-2021||India||Agencies brace for Taliban effect in Jammu and Kashmir||The resurgence of the Taliban has serious security implications for India, especially in Jammu and Kashmir, and there is apprehension that Afghanistan will soon become a terror hub to be used by anti-India elements, sources in the security establishment have said. Government sources said India’s internal and external secret agencies had been keeping a close eye on the growing influence of the Taliban, which have links with Pakistan-based terror outfits Lashkar-e-Toiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed and the Haqqani network, a Taliban faction. “The resurgence of the Taliban has become a serious security concern for India and the threat cannot be downplayed. There is genuine fear that we could now witness the resurgence of cross-border terrorism in Kashmir in a big way,” an Intelligence Bureau official told The Telegraph. India, he said, is already facing two hostile neighbours — Pakistan and China — on its western and northern borders. “We are already dealing with plenty of problems on our borders and the Taliban could act as a force multiplier,” he said. A former official of RAW, India’s external spy agency, said it was a precarious situation and nobody knew what would happen in Afghanistan after the withdrawal of the US forces. “But one thing is undeniable that the resurgence of the Taliban will make it easier for the Islamic State-Khorasan (IS-K) and other terror groups from Pakistan to establish sanctuaries on Afghan soil,” he said. A retired IB director said the Pakistan-China axis would use the Taliban against India. “India is now facing a big challenge to safeguard its interests in the wake of the Taliban resurgence,” he said. The Haqqani group continues to be the best armed and trained Taliban faction. In the past, it had carried out attacks against Indian assets, including the embassy in Kabul. “The nexus between Pakistan’s ISI and the Haqqani group is very strong and this is alarming for India and poses a real security risk,” the former IB director said. There is fear that the ISI can use the Haqqani network to train terror recruits in Afghanistan and send them to India to conduct militant attacks. In the past, Pakistan had used Afghanistan soil to train jihadis for terrorism in Kashmir, he said. The IS-K is the Afghanistan and Pakistan arm of the Islamic State and was founded in 2015 in Nangarhar province in the eastern part of Afghanistan bordering Pakistan. It is the most violent of all the jihadist militant groups in Afghanistan and is not affiliated to the Taliban leaders who have seized control of Afghanistan’s government. “Among its ranks, the group has both Afghan Talibanis and Pakistani militants. Many of the disgruntled Taliban fighters had joined the group as they considered their own organisation too moderate,” said a security official attached to the Union home ministry. The IS-K has taken responsibility for the terror attack at Kabul airport on August 26 that killed at least 170 civilians, including 13 US troops. In March last year, the terror group had attacked a gurdwara in Kabul that killed 25 people. Sources in the security establishment said the IS-K’s core group had nearly 5,000 militants but smaller cells were active across Afghanistan. Qaida message Al Qaida has congratulated the Taliban for the Afghanistan takeover and called for the “liberation” of Kashmir. “…Liberate the Levant, Somalia, Yemen, Kashmir and the rest of the Islamic lands from the clutches of the enemies of Islam…. Grant freedom to Muslim prisoners across the world,” al Qaida prayed in a statement. Additional reporting by Muzaffar Raina||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
02-09-2021||India|| First woman to read news bulletin in Hindi on BBC passes away||Rajni Kaul, a distinguished broadcaster who became the first woman to read a news bulletin in Hindi on BBC nearly 60 years ago, passed away in Faridabad on Tuesday. She was 93.  She was cremated on Wednesday, family sources said.  Born in Peshawar, now in Pakistan, Kaul worked with All India Radio (AIR) in New Delhi before joining the Voice of America (VOA) in Washington and then BBC in London.  She was the first woman to join BBC Hindi as a staffer and became the first woman to read a news bulletin in Hindi on the network in 1961.  She was married to eminent broadcast journalist late Mahendra Kaul who also worked with the VOA and the BBC. They had settled down in London.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
02-09-2021||India||Australian envoy meets Nalco brass||Barry O’Farrell, high commissioner of Australia to India, has appreciated the business operations of Odisha-based National Aluminium Company Ltd and expressed optimism on strengthening bilateral ties, particularly in the mining, energy and minerals sector, with thrust on aluminium. A high-level Australian delegation led by O’Farrell visited Nalco’s corporate office at Bhubaneswar on Tuesday and interacted with chairman-cum-managing director Sridhar Patra and members of the company’s management team. Officials of Nalco, a leading manufacturer and exporter of alumina and aluminium under the ministry of mines, apprised the Australian team about the various business activities of the company, spanning the entire value chain of aluminium manufacturing, starting from bauxite mining to production of world-class aluminium end products. Nalco, a Navaratna company, is one of the highest net foreign exchange earning central public sector enterprises in the country and is recognised globally for its quality products. Other members of the Australian delegation included consul general Rowan Ainsworth, Amy Keough, first secretary, Australian High Commission, and Partha Sen, business development manager, Australian Trade and Investment Commission, Calcutta. Radhashyam Mahapatro, director (HR), and M.P. Mishra, director (projects and technical) and other senior officials of Nalco were present on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
02-09-2021||India||BJD protests against Centre’s apathetic attitude towards Odisha||The ruling Biju Janata Dal in Odisha on Wednesday hit the streets against the Centre’s failure to ensure adequate supply of fertilisers to the state that has hit farming activities badly. A delegation of BJD leaders later met governor Prof Ganeshi Lal to lodge their protest against the Centre’s apathetic attitude towards the state. The BJD’s protest coincided with the beginning of Odisha Assembly’s monsoon session with focus on a possibility of a drought in the state. The House witnessed hullabaloo on the issue forcing the Speaker to adjourn proceedings frequently in the morning session. However, normal business resumed later with MLAs discussing the drought issue. The monsoon session will continue till September 9. The House witnessed uproar when Speaker S.N. Patro had refused to cancel the Question Hour and instead took up the drought issue through a special discussion. This forced the Speaker to adjourn the House. Agriculture minister Arun Kumar Sahoo has assured the House that a contingent crop action plan has been prepared to face the possible drought in Odisha. He described in detail how the state has been hit by scanty rainfall Farmer-related issues took the centrestage both inside and outside the Assembly. While it was the prospects of a drought that generated heat in the House outside the temperature rose on the issue of the Centre’s failure to supply the required quantity of fertilisers to the state. “Following repeated requests from Odisha, the Centre had agreed to provide adequate urea and DAP to farmers. But it has failed to keep its commitment. Now lakhs of farmers are suffering,” said BJD’s senior leader Sanjay Kumar Das Burma while protesting on the farmers’ issue near the Raj Bhavan. He said the farmers have cultivated paddy and non-paddy crops on 61.96 hectares of land. “An agreed action plan was finalised between the state government and the Centre on the issue of providing fertilisers to farmers within a stipulated time. But the Centre failed miserably,” he said. However, BJP termed it as a blatant lie. “The ruling BJD has failed on all fronts. In order to hide their failure, they have taken up the issue of farmers. As per the Odisha government’s figure, a .364 lakh metric tonne of urea, 1.85 lakh metric tonne of DAP and other fertilisers have been provided to the state by the Centre. But the state has failed to distribute it to farmers. Now they are shifting the blame on the BJP,” said BJP’s state general secretary Golak Mohapatra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
02-09-2021||India||Kashmiri separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani dies after prolonged illness||Pro-Pakistan separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani died here on Wednesday after a prolonged illness, officials said. Geelani, who was a member of banned Jamaat-e-Islami and chairman of hardline Hurriyat Conference, had been suffering from various ailments for nearly last two decades. He was a former MLA from the Sopore constituency of Jammu and Kashmir in 1972, 1977 and in 1987. Former chief minister and People's Democratic Party leader Mehbooba Mufti informed about his death on Twitter. "Saddened by the news of Geelani sahab's passing away. We may not have agreed on most things but I respect him for his steadfastness & standing by his beliefs. May Allah Ta'aala grant him jannat & condolences to his family & well wishers," Mehbooba Mufti has tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-250
