03-09-2021||India||Supreme Court slams Amrapali buyers over dues||The Supreme Court on Friday said that the homebuyers who want their flats completed in stalled projects of the troubled Amrapali Group projects in Noida and Greater Noida must pay their dues, or else their allotment could be cancelled. The court's observation came as a warning to homebuyers who had bought the flats several years ago, but have not been paying deposits for completion of the projects, after the government construction firm NBCC took over the projects from Amrapali Group, which could not deliver them despite taking huge sums from the homebuyers. “They (homebuyers) want lassi also and malai also,” Justice UU Lalit said on Friday. “Homebuyers want the flats, but don't want to pay money. They just want NBCC to construct the flats and give to them,” Justice Lalit said, and ordered the homebuyers to ensure they deposit their dues according to the payment plan that they agreed at the time of purchase. The Supreme Court warned not depositing the dues could lead to cancellation of flat allotment, after observing that several homebuyers have not been paying. Justice Lalit’s observations came on a petition by homebuyers, represented by lawyer ML Lahoty, who said they bought the flats in the Amrapali projects several years ago and delivery has taken so long that they don't have much money left on them to pay. The Supreme Court was then told by the Amrapali court receiver R Venkataramani - a lawyer appointed by the court to coordinate with the authorities - that a consortium of six banks has been formed and it will be able to start lending to these homebuyers after a month from now. The next hearing in the case is on September 13. In the last hearing, the Supreme Court had told the over 9,500 homebuyers to pay up in 15 days or their allotment could be cancelled. In July 2019, the Supreme Court had cancelled the registration of Amrapali Group and removed all the land leases of the group in the National Capital Region (NCR) for breach of homebuyers' trust. NBCC was later tasked to finish and deliver 38,159 flats by 2023.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
03-09-2021||India||100 districts in country most vulnerable to climate change: Study||All 612 districts in India are vulnerable to climate change, but 100 districts, mostly in the eastern part of the country, are most vulnerable, a study said. The study was carried out by the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore along with IIT Mandi and IIT Guwahati and supported by the Department of Science and Technology. Eight states in the country, Jharkhand, Mizoram, Odisha, Chattisgarh, Assam, Bihar, Arunachal Pradesh, and West Bengal, all in eastern India, are found to have higher vulnerability, Akhilesh Gupta, Senior Adviser and Head, Policy Coordination and Programme Management (PCPM) Division, and a climate change expert at the Department of Science and Technology (DST), underlined at a policy dialogue. "All 612 districts in India studied are vulnerable to climate change, but there are 100 districts mostly on eastern parts of the country which are most vulnerable as per a vulnerability assessment study carried out by IISc, Bangalore along with IIT Mandi and IIT Guwahati and supported by the Department of Science and Technology," a statement by the DST said. Pointing out to an Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Gupta said the global temperature which has already increased to 1.1 degrees Celsius above the pre-industrial era level is likely to further increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius in next two decades. India too is expected to experience greater impact of global warming in the time to come and there may be an increase in frequency, severity and duration of heat waves. Monsoon may become more erratic, Gupta said. There may be more frequent droughts and floods. The Indian seas may witness more sea-level rise. There has already been increase in sea level in last two decades, he added. Tropical cyclones may also increase in number. With the increase of carbon dioxide content in the oceans, the sea water may become more acidic, Gupta pointed out at the programme organised by National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM), Ministry of Home Affairs and DST in collaboration with Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH. "Next two decades are going to be very crucial. IPCC's working group report gives stark warnings for global climate impacts. The two-degree rise in global temperatures may come earlier than expected. It may have a huge impact on India, especially on agriculture, health and water security. India is confronted with a challenge of addressing such impacts," he added. Maj Gen M K Bindal, Executive Director, NIDM, MHA warned that the danger mark has been reached, rapid access to information is needed to protect lives and livelihood and the use of science, technologu and innovation (STI) is key to fight climate change problems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
03-09-2021||India||Education minister asks central universities' VCs to fill up over 6,000 vacant posts by October||Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Friday asked vice chancellors of central universities to fill up over 6,000 vacant posts in mission mode by October. The minister also set a deadline of September 10 for the universities for advertising the vacancies. During his interaction with vice chancellors, Pradhan said 6,229 posts are vacant in universities, out of which 1,012 are in SC category, 592 in ST category, 1,767 posts in OBC category, 805 in EWS category and 355 in divyang category. "Let us work on a mission mode to fill up the posts by October. There can be a few anomalies, but by September 10 all the universities should have advertised," he said . Apart from representatives from 46 central universities, Minister of State for Education Subhash Sarkar, Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare, UGC Chairman D P Singh and senior officials of the ministry and UGC attended the meeting. The minister said that there will be student rebellion and in a democracy there has to flexibility to accommodate. "The onus of ensuring that teaching and learning is not compromised lies with the VCs. Universities should focus on bringing back on schedule the academic routine which had been disrupted by the pandemic in last two years," he said. On reforms like four-year degree courses, Pradhan said that the universities have the autonomy to decide the roll-out strategy and as these reforms take time, universities should start consultations with teachers and students while preparing the framework for implementation from 2022. Talking about creation of a collective framework by various agencies to fulfil the NEP''s vision of enhancing skill and vocational education, Pradhan noted that Japanese language should be an additional skill. "Suppose a postgraduate in English literature has also studied Japanese language, that person''s employability gets enhanced multifold in India itself." "The amount of investment that is coming to India in the near future in the field of infrastructure and automobile will open up opportunities for our students with knowledge of Japanese. I hope the central universities will be pioneers in implementing the Academic Bank of Credit and schemes like multiple entry and exit," said the minister. Addressing the participants, Pradhan said that Indian universities are cradles of creativity, innovation and opportunities. "The New Education Policy, 2020 will play a crucial role in placing India at the top of the emerging new world order and as custodians of India’s destiny our universities should fulfil their responsibilities outlined in the NEP," he said. "The minister said that our higher education institutions are key catalysts for promoting socio-economic development and for realising aspirations and national goals," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
03-09-2021||India||Delhi riots chargesheet reads like web series, says Umar Khalid in court||Former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, arrested under the stringent anti-terror law UAPA in the north-east Delhi riots conspiracy case, told the court on Friday that the charge sheet against him reads like a web-series or TV news script and referred to Harry Potter villain Voldemort while attacking it. Khalid and several other are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 riots which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. He has sought bail in the case. Senior Advocate Trideep Pais, representing Khalid, told Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat that the charge sheet makes hyperbolic allegations against his client without any factual basis and is a result of the fertile imagination of the police officer who drafted it. The lawyer also gave reference of Voldemort, a villain in the Harry Potter series of books/movies, to draw parallels between the statements in the charge sheet, among other examples to show that the final report filed by the police was rubbish . Pais argued, "The charge sheet is a result of the fertile imagination of the police officer who drafted it and the witnesses are procured... He is not writing the script of Family Man [a web-series]. This is a charge sheet. Referring to a line in the charge sheet which stated that Umar kept a safe distance from Delhi as he knew that it would be thrown into the fire, he said that the only way the police officer could have known this was if he was inside Khalid's mind . The last person who travelled with someone and got into this officer's head was Voldemort from Harry Potter, the lawyer said. The counsel further called the allegation that Umar was maintaining a facade of secular politics a figment of the police imagination, and said that it reads like a 9 pm TV news channel script. Pais said that several statements carried in the chargesheet cannot be relied upon while considering his bail. There is no way these statements are consistent with each other and meet the test under UAPA," he added. He further said that there was nothing in Umar's speeches that led to lawless action, sedition, hatred, or any illegality of any sort. In the last hearing, Pais had argued that the police's case was based on truncated clips of Khalid's speech given at Amaravati telecasted by two TV channels, which were in turn based on an edited video tweeted by BJP leader Amit Malviya. The matter will be heard again on September 6, 2021. Delhi Police had recently said that the bail plea has no merit and that it will demonstrate the prima facie case against him before the court by referring to the chargesheet filed in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
03-09-2021||India||No signs of unnatural death as per Siddharth Shukla's autopsy report, say police||The autopsy report of actor Sidharth Shukla, who died at the age of 40, does not mention the exact cause of death, police sources said on Friday. The cause of the death will be known after reports of chemical analysis of the viscera and histopathology tests, a police official said. "On the face of it, there were no signs of unnatural death (as per the autopsy report)," the official said, referring to reports that a heart attack led to Shukla's demise. There were no external injuries on the actor's body, another police official said. The actor's viscera has been sent to the Kalina Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) in Mumbai and some organs were sent to the pathology laboratory of a medical college for examination, a source at the civic-run R N Cooper Hospital said. A forensic expert from the hospital said they sent the viscera to the FSL to rule out the possibility of foul play. "The FSL will investigate for the presence of toxicity in the organs and other details," he said, adding the pathology lab will examine the organs and submit a report within two days. Shukla was rushed to the hospital on Thursday morning after he took ill at home. The doctors declared him brought dead. He was cremated at the Oshiwara crematorium here on Friday afternoon in the presence of family members, friends and colleagues from the entertainment industry. Shukla became a household name with his role in the long-running TV show Balika Vadhu and as the winner of Bigg Boss 13 . In 2014, he made his Bollywood debut with "Humpty Sharma Ki Dulhania".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
03-09-2021||India||NIA not to take coercive action against Varavara Rao till September 6||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday told the Bombay High Court in an oral statement that it will not take any coercive action against poet-activist Varavara Rao till September 6 when his plea for medical bail extension will be heard. Rao, an accused in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case and currently on interim medical bail granted by HC in February this year, is supposed to surrender before the Taloja prison authorities on September 5. Rao's counsel, senior advocate Anand Grover, sought an extension of bail before a bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar on Friday. However, due to paucity of time, the matter could not be heard. HC said it will hear Rao's plea on September 6. Grover then urged HC to ensure no coercive action was taken against Rao until then. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who appeared for NIA, in an oral statement said,"We will not take any coercive action until the next hearing." On February 22 this year, a bench of Justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale had granted Rao (82) interim medical bail on "humanitarian grounds." At the time, Rao, suffering from multiple ailments, was undergoing treatment at Nanavati hospital in Mumbai after being shifted out of Taloja jail following the court's intervention. At the time, the HC had said if it did not grant Rao medical bail, it would be abdicating its duty to protect the principles of human rights, and a citizen's fundamental rights to life and health. The bench had imposed stringent bail conditions, including a direction to Rao to stay within the jurisdiction of the Mumbai NIA court for the period he was out on bail, as well as forbidding him from establishing any contact with his co-accused in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
03-09-2021||India||Supreme Court stays Kerala govt's decision to hold offline exams for Class XI||The Supreme Court Friday stayed for a week Kerala government's decision to conduct offline exams for Class XI commencing from September 6 amid the rising cases of Covid. "There is an alarming" situation in the state owing to Covid-19, observed the apex court adding that "cases in Kerala are about 70 per cent cases of the country. Children of this age cannot be exposed to this risk." "Prima facie we find force in submission made by petitioner that the state government has not seriously considered the prevailing situation before having a physical exam proposed to be conducted in September this year. As we couldn't get a satisfactory response from counsel for the state in this regard, we grant interim relief staying the offline exam for till next date of hearing," said a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Hrishikesh Roy and C T Ravikumar. The apex court posted the matter for next hearing on September 13. The Kerala High Court had earlier observed that conducting examination was a matter of government policy and no interference was warranted. The apex court bench passed the order on an appeal filed by advocate Rasoolshan A challenging a decision of the High Court refusing to interfere with the decision to hold offline exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
03-09-2021||India||India nod to Biological E for Phase 2/3 Covid-19 vaccine trial on kids||Biological E has received approval for conducting phase II/III human clinical trial of Covid-19 vaccine candidate Corbevax on children above five years and adolescents, the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) said on Friday. Corbevax, an RBD protein sub-unit vaccine, has been developed with supported from the Department of Biotechnology and its PSU Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), it said. PTI had first reported the grant of approval to Biological E for trial of its vaccine candidate on Wednesday. The approval of the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for conducting phase III comparator safety and immunogenicity trial in adults came after the Subject Expert Committee's (SEC) review of Phase I and II clinical trials data. "Additionally, Biological E also received approval on 01.09.2021 to initiate Phase II/III study to evaluate safety, reactogenicity, tolerability and immunogenicity of Corbevax vaccine in children and adolescents," the DBT said. Mahima Datla, Managing Director, Biological E. Limited, said these approvals would help support its subsequent filings with the World Health Organization (WHO) as well. So far indigenously developed Zydus Cadila's needle-free Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D has received emergency use authorisation from the drug regulator, making it the first vaccine to be administered in the age group of 12-18 years in the country. The DCGI in July had granted permission to the Serum Institute of India (SII) for conducting phase 2/3 trials of Covovax on children aged 2 to 17 years with certain conditions. The development of Corbevax was supported by the Department of Biotechnology and its PSU Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) from preclinical stage to phase III clinical studies, the DBT said. "We look forward to the clinical development of candidate Corbevax for paediatric and adults, DBT Secretary Renu Swarup said. Datla said, "We are delighted to receive these significant approvals from the DCGI. These approvals encourage our organisation to move forward and successfully produce our Covid-19 vaccine to meet the vaccination needs." "We are grateful to BIRAC for their support and we are enthused that these approvals would help support our subsequent filings with WHO as well. We appreciate and acknowledge the contribution of all our collaborators for their continued support in this endeavour," Datla said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
03-09-2021||India||JD(U) MLA in underwear scandalises fellow passengers, clarifies later||The Opposition in Bihar on Friday found fresh ammunition against Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's JD(U) after a video of a party MLA travelling by a New Delhi-bound train in undergarments went viral. Gopal Mandal, who represents Gopalpur constituency of Bhagalpur district, had boarded the Tejas Express here the previous evening. The video, beamed by news channels and portals, shows Mandal engaged in a spat with some fellow passengers who were objecting to his "roaming around" in his vest and underpants. "The matter was sorted out as the melee led to the RPF being called and record the statements of myself and the hostile co-passenger," Mandal told reporters. He, however, insisted that the co-passenger had "over-reacted", claiming "I was suffering from dysentery. No sooner did the train chug off that I felt the need to urgently move my bowels. So I ripped off my kurta and pyjama and made a dash to the toilet". "On the way, I was accosted by this self-righteous man. I shoved him away and after relieving myself I confronted him. I admonished him saying he should have looked at my age. I am 60. He spoke of female passengers feeling uncomfortable though no woman or girl was inside the compartment," the MLA said. The legislator also claimed that he suspected that the co-passenger was "drunk", which has not been confirmed by railway and police sources here. Sale and consumption of alcohol is banned in Bihar. "The man finally realised his mistake when he learnt that I was an MLA. I also pointed out to him that I was wearing knee-length shorts and not mini-sized briefs, which could leave people scandalised," said Mandal who is now in Delhi. Back home, baiters of the JD(U) were quick to blame his conduct for "bringing a bad name to Bihar". "I am not aware of the full episode. But I must say it is incidents like these that are responsible for Bihar's poor reputation. I wish the chief minister, who is now left with just a handful of MLAs, could spend some time tutoring the public representatives on public conduct," said LJP MP Chirag Paswan. RJD MLA and chief spokesman Bhai Virendra concurred. "The so-called sushasan babu (a sobriquet given mockingly to Nitish Kumar by party supremo Lalu Prasad) should take note of such foul behaviour. The state keeps getting a bad name for myriad reasons".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
03-09-2021||India||Supreme Court unhappy with Centre over delay in framing guidelines for Covid-19 death certificate||The Supreme Court Friday expressed displeasure over delay in framing guidelines for issuance of death certificates to the families of those who died of Covid-19 and directed the Centre to file compliance report by September 11. "We passed the order a long time back. We have already extended the time once. By the time you frame the guidelines, the third phase will also be over", a bench comprising Justices M R Shah and Aniruddha Bose observed. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, assured the court that everything is under consideration. Advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, who has filed the petition, submitted that under the pretext of consideration things should not be delayed as the top court has already granted a four-week extension to the Centre on August 16 to frame guidelines for ex-gratia compensation and now it is seeking more time. Advocate Sumeer Sodhi, who appeared for some of the applicants, said the extended time for the first direction passed on June 30 is getting over on September 8. The bench said it is for the Centre to take a decision on compensation within that period of time and today it was adjourning the matter only for the purpose of compliance with other directions. "Put up on September 13 as Solicitor General seeks time to enable Union Of India to comply with earlier order and place on record compliance report of other directions issued by this court on June 30, 2021. Compliance report to be filed with the registry on or before September 11," the bench said. The apex court had in its June 30 verdict directed the National Disaster Management Authority to recommend within six weeks appropriate guidelines for ex-gratia assistance on account of loss of life to the family members of persons who died due to Covid-19. The Centre had moved an application seeking some more time to frame the guidelines on the ground that the exercise which was in active consideration of the NDMA was at an advanced stage and requires a little more in-depth examination. In its June 30 verdict, the top court had also ordered steps to simplify guidelines for issuance and correction of death certificates/official documents, stating the exact cause of death, that is, 'Death due to Covid-19' for enabling dependents to get benefits of welfare schemes. The top court's verdict had come on two separate pleas filed by lawyers Reepak Kansal and Gaurav Kumar Bansal seeking directions to the Centre and the states to provide Rs 4 lakh compensation to the families of coronavirus victims as provisioned under the Act. Four intervenors, who had lost their family members due to Covid have also moved the top court contending that there cannot be any discrimination in the amounts being paid by different states to family members of those, who had succumbed to the deadly infection. The apex court in its verdict, however, had noted the peculiarity and the impact and effect of the pandemic and said that it cannot order payment of Rs four lakh as ex-gratia compensation which should be decided by the NDMA as there was a need to focus simultaneously on prevention, preparedness, mitigation and recovery, which calls for a different order of mobilization of both financial and technical resources. "We direct the NDMA to recommend guidelines for ex gratia assistance on account of loss of life to the family members of the persons who died due to Covid-19, as mandated under Section 12(iii) of Disaster Management Act (DMA) 2005 for the minimum standards of relief to be provided to the persons affected by disaster - Covid 19 Pandemic, over and above the guidelines already recommended for the minimum standards of relief to be provided to persons affected by Covid-19," it had said. It had also directed the Centre to take appropriate steps on recommendations of the Finance Commission on providing insurance cover for deaths caused by Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
03-09-2021||India||Despite the fast pace, India will miss year-end goal of vaccinating entire population against Covid||The government has picked up its vaccination pace but it still won’t reach its goal of fully immunising the country’s entire adult population against the coronavirus by December 31. It could get closer than expected to its more modest target of giving all Indians one Covid-19 jab before 2022 rolls around. But it won’t reach that objective completely either because some states are far behind on their vaccination schedules and also, say experts, there's the issue of vaccine hesitancy. There are just 120 days left to the end of the year. West Bengal, going by the last seven-day average, should take 155 days to complete giving residents their first jab and Andhra Pradesh could take 164 days. At the other end of the scale, Kerala should finish giving the first doses in just 24 days and Karnataka in 42 days. Rajasthan, moving at the current pace, should be done with the first doses in 44 days. Tiny Goa expects the first jabs to be completed in 15 days while Himachal Pradesh is already done. Says health economist Rijo M John: “Full vaccination of all adults is out of the question (by year end). As for a single dose, the government might be able to do it if it can maintain the current momentum.” However, he adds: “I believe there will still be states that are not able to reach that level, mainly due to hesitancy.” After India’s slow vaccine rollout, a large chunk of the credit for making possible the greater number of doses that are being administered probably should go to the Serum Institute of India. The company has stepped up production in a bigger way than anyone expected. That enabled the government to accelerate its vaccination programme in August and even hit a peak of 10.14 million jabs on one day during the month. In total, 180 million vaccinations were given in August across India and that’s a steep jump from 130 million in July. In the beginning of August, Serum Institute had estimated it could produce about 120 million doses during the month but it was actually able to turn out 150 million, though the company is keeping quiet about its precise figures. Earlier this year, it was producing around 65 million vaccines each month. Serum Institute may up production to 200 million monthly doses from this month. India has to vaccinate 940 million over the age of 18. So far it has managed to give first jabs to 473 million, or slightly over half the target population. Around 15 per cent is double-jabbed. The country’s vaccination programme has moved in fits and starts throughout the year and the government has offered different figures at different times -- even to the Supreme Court -- about the number of doses that would be available. In May, it said 2.15 billion doses of vaccines would be available by December end. That was modified sharply to 1.35 billion in an affidavit to the Supreme Court. Going by the current production levels, though, even that figure is a tough ask. India’s vaccination drive has stayed centred around Serum Institute even though other vaccines are almost ready for delivery to the public. Zydus Cadila has just received regulatory clearance for its ZyCoV-D three-dose DNA vaccine. Cadila says it expects to launch on the market by end-September and aims to produce 120 million doses annually. More than 28,000 people in different parts of the country have received the vaccine and it’s also been tested on 1,000 children between the ages of 12 and 18. ZyCoV-D is delivered using a disposable needle-free injector. The company is looking at whether three doses can be reduced to two. One advantage of DNA vaccines is that they don’t need to be stored at very low temperatures and they are less expensive to produce. Bharat Biotech, the second Covid-19 vaccine producer which has been in the market for several months, is keeping tight-lipped about its production numbers though it has just opened a new plant for manufacturing the vaccine at Ankleshwar in Gujarat. Other vaccines like the Russian Sputnik V have also run into trouble with an insufficient number of second dose vaccines to match the first dose vaccines that were available in the country. Johnson & Johnson has been given emergency use approval for its Janssen vaccine. Similarly, Moderna has been granted emergency use approval but its entry has been held up by the company’s demands for immunity from legal liability that the government is reluctant to give. India will need around 1.86 billion doses of vaccines to ensure that the entire adult population is fully vaccinated and that still looks like a distant goal. In addition, it looks as if youngsters from 12-18 will also have to be vaccinated. About 41 per cent of India’s population is below the age of 18. Currently, places like Delhi have high seropositivity levels. But they will decline over time. Vaccinations must move at a faster pace to avoid the risk of a fresh wave of infections or, even worse, a new more virulent variant than Delta and one which we may not have protection against.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
03-09-2021||India||Congress never monetised core, strategic assets: Chidambaram on NMP||Former Union finance minister P Chidambaram on Friday slammed the Centre's National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP), saying his Congress party monetised non-core, loss-making assets when in power, in stark contrast to what the Narendra Modi-led government proposes to do. Addressing a press conference here, Chidambaram said the Congress never sold off strategic assets. We always ensured that there is no monopoly in monetisation as we chose assets based on criteria," he said. Chidambaram asked the government if provisions will be included in the invitation to bid (ITB) to ensure the monetisation process doesn't create monopolies or duopolies in the sector. "What provisions will be included to prevent monopolies emerging in ports, airports, telecom and power sectors," he asked. What the Modi government plans is a day-light robbery of assets which took years to build," he said. Issuing a list of 20 questions to the Modi government, Chidambaram demanded that the Centre reveal the current revenue from the assets it plans to sell. Konkan Railway and Delhi Mumbai freight corridor will also be sold," he said, adding the announcement was made without discussions and consultations and to avoid parliamentary debate. Chidambaram asked the government to reveal the value of assets that will come back to the government after a period. What are the objectives of the National Monetisation Pipeline? Is the sole objective raising revenue over a four-year period, he asked The finance minister must be surely owning a house somewhere in India. She should give it to me on lease for 99 years and she can hang on with the paper that calls her as the owner of the house. What will I give back to her after 99 years? Will I maintain, repair and upgrade it if I am not the owner, he said, referring to the government's stand that it will continue to be the owner of the assets. :What will be the interest of the party in maintaining the assets if it is not the owner," he asked. Chidambaram said in listing the assets to be monetised, the government has acknowledged the work done in the last 70 years. A big lie has been exposed by its own list, he added. He said people should raise their voices against the danger of selling assets. Asked if Congress plans to challenge the government legally, he said so far only a policy announcement has been made. After the invitation to bid (ITB) process starts, someone will surely challenge it. Congress prefers the people's court and we will raise awareness about the dangers, he said. Chidambaram asked if the government will stipulate in the contract that the amount of depreciation should be put in a depreciation reserve account used only to maintain, upgrade or add to the assets so that at the end of the lease period, a valuable asset is returned to the government. He also asked if there will be asset stripping by the lessee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
03-09-2021||India||Supreme Court junks Bengal govt's plea to appoint DGP without UPSC consultation||The Supreme Court Friday refused to entertain the Bengal government's plea seeking to appoint the Director General of Police (DGP) without consulting the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), saying it would be "abuse of law". A bench comprising Justices Nageswara Rao, B R Gavai and B V Nagarathna, however, allowed the state's impleadment application in the main matter on police reforms and said it will start hearing matter which "hasn't seen the light of day for many years". The apex court told the state government that the points it was raising were exactly the same which it had raised earlier that UPSC should not have a role in appointment of the DGP. "We have seen your application. The points you are raising are exactly the same which you have raised earlier that UPSC should not have a role. When the main matter is taken you can argue this matter. We cannot permit this. This is abuse of process. We will dismiss your application. We cannot have petitions like this. Why are we wasting so much time on these applications," the bench observed. The top court said if states also start filing matters like this it will be difficult for it to find time to hear other matters. "You yourself come and tell us all bail applications are not being heard, criminal appeals are not being heard," the top court told senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for West Bengal. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for Prakash Singh (main petitioner), requested the bench for an early hearing of the main petition on police reforms saying "unfortunately in most states implementation of directions of the top court remains unimplemented." The court has now posted the matter for hearing in October and said, "We will start hearing the matter. It hasn't seen the light of day for many years." The apex court was hearing an application filed by Bengal stating that UPSC does not have expertise to consider and appoint DGP of a state as also that it is not in line with the federal System of governance. The state government, in its plea, requested the top court to modify its 2018 order in the Prakash Singh case on police reforms which made it mandatory for the state governments to appoint the DGP from a panel of three most senior police officers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
03-09-2021||India||SC refuses to grant bail to 1944 Sikh riots-accused Sajjan Kumar||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed the plea of former Congress leader Sajjan Kumar, who is serving life imprisonment in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case, seeking interim bail on health grounds. The apex court perused the medical records of Kumar and observed that he has been examined by doctors at a government hospital here and his condition is stated to be stable and improving. A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh said it is not inclined to grant him bail on medical grounds. The 75-year-old Kumar is serving life imprisonment after the Delhi High Court had convicted him and others in the case on December 17, 2018. The high court had reversed the acquittal of Kumar by the trial court in 2013 in the case related to killings of five Sikhs in Raj Nagar Part-I area in Palam Colony in southwest Delhi on November, 1984, and burning down of a gurdwara in Raj Nagar Part-II. The riots had broken out after the assassination of then prime minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984 by her two Sikh bodyguards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
03-09-2021||India||Delhi riots: Failure to conduct proper probe will torment sentinels of democracy, says court||A court here on Thursday came down heavily on the Delhi Police for its probe into a 2020 riots case, saying that its failure to conduct a proper investigation will "torment" the sentinels of democracy when history will look back at the worst communal riots in the national capital since partition. The court, which discharged former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain's brother Shah Alam and two others in a case related to alleged loot and vandalization of a shop during the riots in February 2020 at Delhi's Chand Bagh area, also called the probe callous and indolent" which gives an impression that a constable was planted as a witness. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav called the case a colossal wastage of the hard-earned money of taxpayers in which the police merely tried to pull the wool over the court's eyes and nothing else. The court noted that there was no CCTV footage of the incident to confirm the presence of the accused at the spot, no independent eye witness, and no evidence regarding the criminal conspiracy. "I am not able to restrain myself from observing that when history will look back at the worst communal riots since partition in Delhi, it is failure of investigating agency to conduct proper investigation by using latest scientific methods will surely torment the sentinels of democracy," the judge said. He further pointed out that the case seemed to have been solved merely by filing the charge sheet without any real effort to trace out the eyewitnesses, real accused persons, and technical evidence. Furthermore, the court said that the probe lacked sensitivity and skillfulness. This court cannot permit such cases to meander mindlessly in the corridors of judicial system, sweeping away precious judicial time of this court when the same is open and shut case, the judge observed. The court said that after investigating this matter for so long, the police presented only five witnesses -- the victim, Duty Officer, formal witness, investigating officer (IO), and a constable, who had identified the three accused. The judge said that the delay on the part of the constable to report the incident gives an impression that he has been planted in the case. He said that no real or effective investigation has been carried out and the police have just tried to show the case as solved merely by recording the statement of the constable, that too at a belated stage. The evidence brought on record by the investigating agency in the case in hand miserably falls short for framing charges against the accused persons. Accordingly, all the three accused persons are discharged from the case, the court added. Alam's brother Tahir Hussain was arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the northeast Delhi riots conspiracy case and is currently in judicial custody. He is also an accused in several other cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
03-09-2021||India||Modi government harmful for employment, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi hit out at the Centre on Friday over the reported rise in the unemployment rate in the country in August, alleging that the Narendra Modi government is "harmful for employment". Taking to Twitter, Gandhi posted the screenshot of a media report that cited data compiled by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) to claim that over 15 lakh people in the country lost their jobs in August. "The Modi government is harmful for employment. It does not promote or support any kind of business or employment not belonging to friends and instead is trying to snatch jobs from those who have them," the former Congress chief alleged. A pretense of self-reliance is expected from the people of the country, he said in his tweet in Hindi, adding, "issued in public interest". Congress has been attacking the government over its handling of the country's economy and flagging concerns over job losses, demanding corrective measures to boost employment. The government has dismissed the opposition party's criticism and rebutted all allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
03-09-2021||India||India logs over 45,000 fresh Covid cases, 366 casualties in a day||With 45,352 people testing positive for coronavirus, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,29,03,289, while active cases registered an increase for the third consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,39,895 with 366 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases increased to 3,99,778 comprising 1.22 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.45 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 10,195 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 16,66,334 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 52,65,35,068. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.72 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.66 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 70 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,20,63,616, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. A total of 67.09 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 366 new fatalities include 188 from Kerala, and 55 from Maharashtra.A total of 4,39,895 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,37,551 from Maharashtra, 37,361 from Karnataka, 34,961 from Tamil Nadu, 25,082 from Delhi, 22,841 from Uttar Pradesh, 21,149 from Kerala and 18,472 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
03-09-2021||India||Army foils infiltration bid along LoC in JK's Poonch||The Army has foiled an infiltration bid along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, defence officials said on Friday. This is the second infiltration bid foiled by the Army in the last five days. "There was an infiltration attempt (by terrorists) along LoC in Poonch sector last night," said the PRO defence. The infiltration bid has been foiled with effective fire by the troops on our side of the LoC, he said. Further details are awaited, the PRO added. He, however, denied any ceasefire violation along the LoC. Earlier in the week on Monday, two terrorists were killed as Army troops foiled a similar infiltration attempt along the LoC in Poonch district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-245
03-09-2021||India||Delhi University: Gag on diverse voices and writers||Dalit writers Bama and Sukirtharani have described as “partisan” the removal of their writings from Delhi University’s syllabus, contending that the varsity wants to deny “the representation of diverse voices” by axing work that portrays caste and gender oppression. At a virtual interaction with Delhi University teachers on Wednesday, both Tamil writers said that people’s sufferings on account of their caste or gender were a social reality that students needed to engage with. Last week, the university approved changes to its BA English honours syllabus, dropping Mahasweta Devi’s short story Draupadi, Bama’s autobiographical work and Sukirtharani’s poems Kaimaru (Debt) and En Udal (My Body). B. Mangalam, a professor from Aryabhatta College, read out a brief statement from Bama at the discussion on “Censorship in education: Denying representation, diversity and plurality”. “If we cannot discuss caste and oppression in our classrooms, are we expected to tell the students that caste does not exist in our society?” the statement said. “Do we tell real-life stories and talk about social realities with our students, or give them only sanitised and fictional texts?” Sukirtharani said the removal of the Dalit authors’ works marked a dangerous trend. “This also reflects how a partisan perspective would prevail over an alternative perspective. The alternative standpoint is not being allowed,” she said. “This is another form of denying representation of diverse voices. In my writing, I have raised the sufferings and aspirations of Dalit women.” Sukirtharani said Kaimaru dealt with manual scavenging while En Udal explored the affinity between a woman’s body and nature and depicted how both are exploited. Mahasweta Devi’s Draupadi is about a tribal woman’s struggle against State oppression. The Dalit Intellectual Collective, an organisation of Ambedkarite scholars, has begun a signature campaign demanding the restoration of the dropped texts. C. Lakshmanan, convener of the Collective and associate professor at the Madras Institute of Development Studies, said more than 200 Dalit writers and scholars had signed the letter, which would be submitted to Delhi University and the Union education ministry. He said the various social science and humanities courses should include literary text on the problems, politics and cultures of Dalits and tribal populations. Lakshmanan added that it had taken a prolonged struggle by the United Dalit Students’ Forum for JNU to include in its various syllabuses content relating to marginalised people in the 1990s. A few other universities such as the English and Foreign Language University and the Tata Institute of Social Sciences have included such texts, he said, but more effort would be needed to get the state-run universities to do so. Beena J. Pallical, secretary of the National Campaign for Dalit Human Rights, said Delhi University’s move reflected a Brahminical mindset that wanted to perpetuate its hegemony at academic institutions. “There is discrimination against the marginalised sections in faculty selection. Some Dalits and tribals have struggled to reach faculty positions. But the trend is to reverse such inclusion,” she said. Delhi University had dropped the texts from its syllabus on the recommendation of an oversight committee that had no subject expert from the English department. Following widespread criticism, the university had defended itself saying the syllabus “should contain materials which do not hurt the sentiments of any individual and is inclusive in nature”. The Collective’s letter describes this argument as a reflection of the “casteist and circumscribed mentality of the DU academic council”. “Whose sentiments were hurt by these texts? Surely not the sentiments of those whose oppression was portrayed here!” the letter says. “Must the sentiments of the privileged always shape academic programmes?” A university source had told this newspaper that Draupadi was dropped because of its description of a rape.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
03-09-2021||India||Some media outlets take communal angle on everything: SC||Some media outlets in India show “everything with a communal angle” and the country gets a bad name, a Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice N.V. Ramana said on Thursday. The court also expressed concern that social media platforms faced no accountability and listened “only to the powerful”, while spouting “fake news” and “slander” against judges, institutions and ordinary people. The bench was hearing a year-old petition from the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind that sought an injunction on the media against blaming the spread of Covid on a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi in mid-March last year and against demonising the Muslim community. Jamiat had stated that some media outlets had used terms such as “corona jihad”, “corona terrorism” and “Islamic resurrection” to accuse the Tablighi Jamaat of deliberately spreading Covid and slander the entire Muslim community. “The problem is, everything in this country is shown with a communal angle by a section of the media and it is the country that is going to get a bad name ultimately,” the bench, which included Justices Surya Kant and A.S. Bopanna, said. Justice Ramana asked solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, who was appearing for the Union government, whether any attempt had been made “to regulate these private Web channels”. The Chief Justice said: “There is no control over fake news and slandering in Web portals and YouTube. If you go to YouTube, you can see how fake news is circulated. Anyone can start a channel on YouTube and circulate fake news.” “Social media only listens to the powerful voices, and several things are written against judges and institutions without any form of accountability.... This is the condition of institutions, forget about the common man.” He continued: “I have not come across (instances) so far (of) these social media (platforms) — Twitter, Facebook and YouTube — responding to common people. They never respond. There is no accountability for them. They say this is their right.” Mehta said the print media and TV channels were already governed by statutory provisions, and the government had framed new IT rules to regulate Web portals. These new rules have, however, been challenged by various media houses in several high courts on the ground that they infringe on the media’s and citizens’ right to free speech. Mehta said the Centre had moved an application for all the high court cases against the new IT rules to be transferred to the apex court. The bench said it would tag the Jamiat petition to the Centre’s transfer plea. Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for one of the parties that has challenged the new IT rules, agreed with the Chief Justice about the social media platforms’ unbridled powers, saying Twitter had blocked his account without notice. Justice Ramana regretted that the only remedy in such cases was to move a civil suit in a court. “What is the use of powerful (media) debates if only people who are powerful are allowed to get their matters redressed and the common man’s grievance is not redressed?” he said. The new IT rules prohibit the digital dissemination of news or views that, among other things, insult or harass on the basis of gender, harm children, communicate false or misleading information, are libellous, or are racially or ethnically objectionable. The apex court had issued notices to the News Broadcasters Association and the Press Council of India on the petition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
03-09-2021||India||Kerala panchayat drops salutations like 'Sir' and 'Madam'||Members and officials of a Kerala panchayat will have to be addressed only by their names or designations with the local body unanimously resolving to drop salutations like “Sir” and “Madam”. The resolution passed by the Mathur village panchayat in Palakkad district on Tuesday also urges residents to “demand” and not “humbly request” — an example of archaic and sometimes obsequious wording from the Raj era that still widely passes for “proper” English in India. These changes are a way of underlining that the panchayat office is subservient to the people and not the other way round, panchayat president and Congress politician Pravitha Muralidharan told The Telegraph on Thursday. “Salutations such as ‘Sir’ and ‘Madam’ are remnants of British colonial rule. The mere suggestion of dropping them found immediate acceptance from everyone, especially the officials,” Pravitha said. Anyone who feels uncomfortable addressing members or officials older than them by their names can use the traditional “chettan” (elder brother) or “chechi” (elder sister). “So, it’s not that we don’t have more friendly and informal alternatives to ‘Sir’ and ‘Madam’. These (English salutations) actually create a distance between us and the people,” Pravitha said. The resolution is displayed outside the office of the panchayat, which is governed by the Congress-led United Democratic Front that has eight members against seven from the Left Democratic Front and one from the BJP. The panchayat has also asked the state official language department to suggest Malayalam alternatives to the English designations for its officials, such as lower and upper divisional clerks. “We need their help since there are designations without Malayalam equivalents,” Pravitha said. She added: “We realise that people may take some time to adjust to the new way of addressing us. Yet we have the satisfaction of making a beginning in Kerala.” The resolution has attracted interest from several local bodies in Kerala as well as the Chennai city corporation. “We have received a lot of enquiries from other local bodies in Kerala and Chennai about how we went about this resolution and how we plan to implement it,” Pravitha said. R. Nandakumar, convener of the Aikya Malayala Prasthanam, an NGO that works for the promotion of the Malayalam language, welcomed the move and urged all local bodies and the state government to adopt the model. “We have been campaigning for a very long time to have these salutations dropped and Malayalam given its rightful place in Kerala, where even the state public service commission tests are conducted largely in English,” Nandakumar told this newspaper. He, however, stressed that implementation was key. “The state government had in 2017 decided to make Malayalam the administrative language from May 1 that year for all departments,” he said. “But the order is yet to be implemented, which is why it is important for the Mathur panchayat to make the resolution work right away.” The Kerala administrative reforms (official language) department had instructed all state government bodies to use only Malayalam within the state and limit English to communications with the Centre, other states and countries. But the order isn’t being followed fully. Kerala Assembly Speaker M.B. Rajesh had recently said that lawmakers need not address the Chair as “Sir”. “Addressing as ‘Sir’ is not something democratic and hence they can address (the Chair) as ‘Respected Speaker’. But this cannot be changed with a ruling since it’s an old practice,” Rajesh had told reporters. “Apart from those speaking in English, no one addresses the Chair as ‘Sir’ in Parliament. We can follow that practice,” he suggested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
03-09-2021||India||Media Research Users Council India elects Shashi Sinha as chairman||The Media Research Users Council India (MRUCI) has elected Shashi Sinha, chief executive officer-India, IPG Mediabrands, as its chairman at its board meeting on Thursday. Shailesh Gupta, director of Jagran Prakashan Ltd, will be the vice-chairman of the council. Sinha takes over the mantle from Pratap Pawar, chairman, Sakal Media Group, who served as MRUCI’s chairman for two consecutive terms, from 2019-20 to 2020-21. Pawar, Mammen Mathew MM Publications, and Dhruba Mukherjee, CEO, ABP Pvt. Ltd, have been appointed new members to the board of governors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
03-09-2021||India||Former bureaucrats write to EC for inclusive and error-free voter lists ||A hundred senior retired officers of the All India Services and Central Civil Services have made an appeal to the Election Commission to update the electoral rolls accurately to include vulnerable sections of the society. Under the aegis of the Constitutional Conduct Group which published two volumes of a public audit of elections earlier this year, 100 former bureaucrats signed the petition to chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra. The letter calls for greater scrutiny to ensure that religious and caste minority communities, women, Dalits, Adivasis, trans people, urban homeless, persons with disabilities, persons with mental health issues and migrant labourers are included in voter rolls. The signatories include former foreign secretary Sujatha Singh, retired IAS officers Wajahat Habibullah, Najeeb Jung, G.K. Pillai, K. Sujatha Rao, and Ardhendu Sen, ex-IPS officers Julio Ribeiro, Maxwell Pereira¸ F.T.R. Colaso, Vappala Balachandran and Amitabh Mathur and Punjab’s former principal chief conservator of forests H. S. Gujral. It also includes top former Research and Analysis Service officers Anand Arni and Rana Banerji, Chennai’s former chief commissioner of income tax, A. Selvaraj, and G. Sankaran, former president of the Customs, Excise and Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal. The letter lists five points of action — ensuring registration of all eligible voters, foolproof mechanism for verification by voter of inclusion of name in relevant part of electoral rolls, deletion of duplicate names and names of voters who have moved or died, using Aadhaar number to validate voter IDs constitutes a gross violation of the citizens’ right to privacy and ensuring error-free, verifiable electoral rolls. The signatories said: “In particular, we wish to stress the need for the ECI to make special rules for the urban homeless and put in place special measures for differently-abled persons. The normal procedures for registration and verification that apply before a name is included in the electoral lists create virtually unsurpassable barriers for the urban homeless. Typically, homeless women and men have no documents that prove their identity or address. For these groups (members of which have no homes), special rules that permit either self-verification, or verification by any individual whose name exists in the electoral lists, are needed. Since they have no fixed address, we propose that the address of the nearest homeless shelter where they sleep at night, or the address of an NGO that works with homeless populations in the city, should suffice for purposes of the electoral list.” In addition to the existing online system, they recommended that the latest official master roll should be displayed on a public online bulletin board, as well as another bulletin board of transaction records, which enables every voter given a receipt for application for enrolment, update or deletion to search for the application process status. They said: “There is need to improve the data entry software, with built-in warnings when duplicate entries are being made and verification by the Electoral Registration Officer where such warnings are ignored by lower staff.” The letter adds: “The Telangana CEO (chief electoral officer) reported in September 2018 that 2.2 million people were excluded from the electoral rolls after Aadhaar-based ‘verification’ was carried out in 2015, thus depriving them of the right to vote in the general elections to the Telangana Legislative Assembly….” Although allegations have often arisen in recent polls of names missing from voter lists, no former election commissioner signed the memo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
03-09-2021||India||MEA seeks to downplay first official contact with Taliban||The external affairs ministry on Thursday sought to downplay the first official contact with the Taliban when asked if it was a step closer to recognising the group, which India had always considered a terrorist outfit and refused to engage with diplomatically when it controlled Afghanistan between 1996 and 2001. Asked whether Tuesday’s meeting between India’s ambassador to Qatar Deepak Mittal and senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammed Stanekzai signified that India had taken a step towards recognising the group, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said: “Let’s treat the Doha meeting for what it is. It’s just a meeting. These are still very early days.” According to Bagchi, India used the meeting sought by the Taliban to convey New Delhi’s concerns. “Our primary immediate concern is that the Afghan soil should not be used for anti-India activities and terrorism. Our focus is on that,” he said, adding that he has no information on whether there will be more meetings with the Taliban. On whether India has a road map for talks or will talk to the Taliban whenever it approaches New Delhi, Bagchi was non-committal. Asked if India still considers Taliban a terrorist organisation, Bagchi sidestepped attempts to elicit a categorical response. The Taliban is yet to comment on the meeting though the group has in the past announced its meetings with representatives of other governments. Neither side has issued a photograph of the meeting. Asked about this, Bagchi said: “It just didn’t happen. It’s just a meeting. It wasn’t that sort of a meeting where photos are taken. Don’t think there was any thought to it.” On why the Taliban wanted the meeting, he said: “I presume they would like to reach out to all countries that have an interest and are relevant in this.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
03-09-2021||India||Hurriyat hardliner Syed Ali Shah Geelani buried in the dark ||Hurriyat hawk Syed Ali Shah Geelani had been long dead politically but the Jammu and Kashmir administration found his lifeless body too hot to handle on Wednesday night. The administration virtually stole the body from his home, amid protests from his family, to prevent a mass funeral that would almost certainly have triggered anti-India protests. The 92-year-old separatist, who died at 10.30pm, was quietly buried before dawn at a graveyard near his home. Even his immediate family was not allowed at the funeral, Geelani’s son Naseem said. Geelani had wanted a burial at the “martyrs’ graveyard” in Srinagar where scores of people, killed largely in security force action, are buried. The government imposed a near total communication blockade and stringent restrictions on movement to prevent people joining his funeral. There were no reports of violence. Naseem said the authorities forcibly took the body away at 3am. The administration had begun barricading the localities leading to Geelani’s Hyderpora home as soon as the news of his death arrived. By 4.30am, the funeral was done. A family source said Geelani’s nephew Abdul Rasheed Shah, whom security forces prevented from entering the Geelani home on Wednesday night, was the only relative to witness the last rites. “Since he was outside the house, he was allowed to join the funeral,” the source said. “While Geelani’s body was being forcibly taken away, the women resisted and argued but they (police) did not relent.” Kashmir police chief Vijay Kumar denied the allegations and claimed the police had helped bring the “body from the house to the graveyard as there was apprehension that miscreants might take advantage”. He claimed Geelani’s relatives had participated in the funeral. The family was allowed to visit Geelani’s grave at 10am on Thursday. While supporters widely mourned the charismatic but controversial leader’s death, the situation remained largely peaceful, as has been normal in post-2019 Kashmir. Many lauded Geelani for his purportedly unwavering stand on Kashmiri independence. “He didn’t give up, he didn’t give in,” wrote Ashwaq Masoodi, a Kashmiri and a Harvard fellow. But Geelani’s publicly anti-India stand masked contradictions. He contested five Assembly and three parliamentary elections, getting elected to the state legislature in 1972, 1977 and 1987. He is believed to have initially opposed the militancy but did an about-turn after sensing the public mood. His critics accuse him of preaching violence to others and peace to his family. None from his extended family joined the militancy. Geelani had chosen silence on the dilution of Article 370, apparently for fear of his family being hounded. He began mellowing his anti-India rhetoric after the NIA summoned his sons for questioning in a “terror funding” case. Staunchly pro-Pakistan, Geelani had multiple run-ins with Islamabad, sometimes because he found it too moderate on Kashmir. Pakistan declared a day of mourning for Geelani. Prime Minister Imran Khan tweeted a homage and said the Pakistani flag would fly at half-mast on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
03-09-2021||India||All India Lawyers’ Union Delhi unit speaks up for farmers||The Delhi unit of the All India Lawyers’ Union on Thursday urged the Haryana government to order a judicial probe and take stern action against police and government officials, including the Karnal sub-divisional magistrate, for the lathicharge on protesting farmers. Strongly condemning the brutal lathicharge on peacefully demonstrating farmers at Bastara Toll in Karnal, Haryana, on August 28, the lawyers’ forum, citing eyewitness reports and video clippings, said that the police action “was a calculated and well orchestrated action by the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Karnal and the police to oppress and suppress the peaceful agitation of farmers…” According to the forum, eyewitnesses have clearly testified that SDM Ayush Sinha, who was on Wednesday transferred as an additional secretary to the Haryana citizen resource information department, was exhorting the police to hit and break the heads of farmers, which itself amounted to a grave criminal offence. “The police brutally and literally followed the exhortation. A farmer namely Sushil Kajal succumbed to his severe head injuries inflicted by the police. He was not even given adequate medical aid by the police and a large number of farmers were severely injured in the brutal police lathicharge,” the organisation said in a statement. According to the forum, the police resorted to lathicharge without any warning to the demonstrating farmers and without any provocation. “This is per se criminal offence, illegal, unjustifiable and violation of human rights and constitutional rights. The SDM and the police are liable for the death of Sushil Kajal and injuries caused to the farmers. “The cause of the farmers’ agitation is not the cause of the farmers alone. It is the cause of the entire nation, democracy, federalism and the very sovereignty of India,” the organisation stated. The forum said farmers have been peacefully agitating for the last nine months demanding repeal of the three anti-farmer and anti-people farm laws undemocratically passed in violation of the fundamental principles of parliamentary democracy. “The agitation has been going on with solidarity from every section of the society and the people across the country. People from various walks of life — activists, intellectuals, youth, students and women — have been illegally slapped with sedition charges and other provisions of draconian laws only because they expressed dissent against the government and showed solidarity with the farmers,” it said. The organisation made the following demands:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
03-09-2021||India||Covid: RT-PCR test must for India arrivals from some countries||Travellers from seven additional countries, including Bangladesh and China, would need to undergo a mandatory RT-PCR test for Covid-19 on arrival in India, the Union health ministry announced on Thursday amid concerns about new coronavirus variants. The ministry has added Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, South Africa and Zimbabwe to a list of countries that currently cover Europe, West Asia and the UK from where incoming passengers would need to take RT-PCR tests after landing. Travellers from other countries are currently expected to show RT-PCR negative test certificates taken 72 hours prior to their departure. “States must ensure strict compliance with these guidelines so that the import of VOIs (variants of interest) or VOCs (variants of concern) to India from other countries may be prevented,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in a letter sent to chief secretaries of all states on Wednesday. A VOI is a virus that displays genetic changes or mutations that are predicted or known to impact some property of the virus such as transmissibility, disease severity, or its capacity to evade immune responses. A VOC is a virus that has been observed to alter the epidemiology of the infection through such properties. While passengers from this list of countries are awaiting the results of the RT-PCR tests, they would be expected to wait at airports for which the airport authorities would need to make special arrangements. All such travellers who test negative would be allowed to leave the airport and advised to self-monitor their health for 14 days. The guidelines require any passengers from these countries found positive at the airport or after they reach home or any of their contacts who test positive to be isolated and their samples sent for viral genome sequencing. If the sequencing reveals a new variant, the patient would be isolated in a hospital until recovery. The ministry said it has added the seven countries considering reports of new mutations in SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and the rising number of VOIs and VOCs worldwide. The World Health Organisation has so far labelled four viruses as VOCs — Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta. Alpha was first detected in the UK, Beta in South Africa, Gamma in Brazil and Delta in India. The WHO has also labelled five other viruses — Eta, Iota, Kappa, Lambda and Mu — as VOIs. “A VOI becomes a VOC if we actually see the mutations translate into public health consequences,” a government epidemiologist said. India’s second Covid-19 wave was primarily driven by the Delta variant which was first detected in India in October 2020 and has since spread to over 80 countries. A senior researcher who requested anonymity said that while mandatory RT-PCR tests on arrival for international travellers from select countries could help curb the spread of new variants if they are brought in, there is no certainty new variants would emerge only from those nations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
03-09-2021||India||Congress: Centre squandering wealth built in 60 years||The Congress on Thursday condemned the Centre’s National Monetisation Pipeline policy through which assets valued at Rs 6 lakh crore and created over 67 years were sought to be “squandered away”. Congress veteran Ashwani Kumar said at a news conference held in Chennai that the Centre sought to alienate the assets, including those of critical value to the nation. “The Centre’s announcement seeks to legitimise favours to the favourite few at the cost of public interest and in breach of the government’s fiduciary obligations,” he said. Terming the policy as “tailor-made for rent seeking”, he said: “It reeks of crony capitalism, and the fire sale of the nation’s assets through the mechanisms indicated is manifestly against national interest.” The Congress said these agreements would lead to increase in prices in key public sectors. It will lead to a rising concentration of economic power in crucial sectors at the cost of price stabilisation and result in loss of public revenues for 30-50 years, Kumar said. Terming it as “a transfer of taxpayer-funded assets to a handful of business groups”, he said it would lead to job insecurity as well. The justification of collecting Rs 6 lakh crore for facilitating Rs 100 lakh crore investments in the infrastructure sector is an obvious absurdity, the Congress veteran added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-246
03-09-2021||India||JNU executive council clears course on 'jihadi terrorism'||Jawaharlal Nehru University’s highest decision-making body — the executive council — on Thursday approved a course that links Islamist and communist terror and describes “jihadi terrorism” as the only form of “fundamentalist-religious inspired terrorism”. The move came a day after vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar defended the course, prompting a senior retired diplomat and a renowned academic to speak out. Two executive council members said only one teacher could express her dissent. “When she demanded that the course be sent back for review, a professor of international studies accused a section of teachers of defaming the varsity by speaking to the media against curriculum framed by colleagues,” an executive council member told The Telegraph. On August 17, the JNU’s academic council had approved the course. The optional course — Counter-terrorism, asymmetric conflicts and strategies for cooperation among major powers — will be offered to Master of Science dual-degree students specialising in international relations at the School of Engineering. The minutes of Thursday’s executive council meeting are yet to be circulated among the members. A statement from the JNU administration on Thursday made no mention of the course and its spokesperson is yet to respond to queries on the issue. On Wednesday, vice-chancellor Kumar had in a statement said: “How India has witnessed the rise of religious fundamentalism and radicalisation through perverse ideologies in its neighbourhood is an area where a lot of knowledge is needed to deal with the emerging situations….” India’s former ambassador to Holland Venu Rajamony, currently professor of diplomatic practice at O.P. Jindal Global University in neighbouring Sonipat, expressed disappointment. He told this newspaper: “I am surprised and sad that such a course was passed without discussion. Terrorism is a complex subject that is best addressed in an objective and non-partisan manner without separating out one kind of terrorism while neglecting other kinds of terrorism to do justice in any good university. “JNU as an outstanding university must address this academic topic with certain academic rigour and discipline and it should not have a casual approach to such a complex, difficult and sensitive issue.” Rajamony did his masters in international relations at JNU from 1981 to 1983. Widely published author and former professor of international relations at Delhi University Achin Vanaik said: “The course focuses on terrorism as something done by non-state groups whereas all states, including democratic states, carry out terrorism domestically and/or externally. The course links terrorism to one religion, and is being portrayed as an ideology. That is not correct….” “There is no real mention of domestic terrorism. There is religiously motivated terrorism carried out against minority groups in India. The discourse around terrorism is hypocritical. The only way to respond to terrorism is to be impartial and universal in condemning it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
03-09-2021||India|| Modi birthday: Call to observe September 17 as 'Jumla Unemployment Day'||An illusory sum of Rs 15 lakh for every Indian. A call to bang on plates. Worsening joblessness. All these legacies of Narendra Modi will be highlighted on the Prime Minister’s birthday by a nationwide youth movement against unemployment, Yuva Halla Bol, which has decided to observe September 17 as “Jumla Unemployment Day”. Anupam, national convener of the Yuva Halla Bol, said in a statement: “The Prime Minister’s birthday will be dedicated to the issues of unemployment and jumla.” Rishav Ranjan, spokesperson for the movement, told The Telegraph from Delhi: “We have planned a few things for the day, including the beating of utensils and clapping —a method Modi had invented to keep the people upbeat.” He said he didn’t want to reveal too much about the plans for obvious reasons. Modi had during his 2014 election campaign pledged to repatriate black money stashed in foreign banks and suggested the amount was so big that every Indian “will get Rs 15-20 lakh”. This was seen as a promise to deposit Rs 15 lakh with every Indian’s bank account. But a few months after Modi’s election victory, then BJP president Amit Shah had said the statement was a “jumla” — an idiomatic way of speaking — not to be taken literally. When Covid first broke out, Modi had appealed to people to beat utensils and clap for five minutes from 7pm on March 22 last year to boost the morale of health workers fighting the pandemic. Even before Covid struck, unemployment figures in India had been the worst in four decades. The situation has only worsened during the pandemic, with Modi’s government accused of mismanaging both the economy and healthcare. “We had observed Modi’s 70th birthday (last year) as Jumla Day. This time, many other organisations and unions too have decided to participate in our movement,” Ranjan said. “Youngsters across the nation are eager to voice their issues through this campaign. They want to highlight the unemployment and express anguish against the Modi government.” He added: “We want to turn unemployment and privatisation into big political issues so that the Prime Minister, his government, Opposition parties and the media address these real issues.” Alankrit Shukla, a banker, extended his support to the Yuva Halla Bol decision on Thursday, tweeting: “I was appearing in examinations a few years ago and can understand the pain of unemployment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
03-09-2021||India||Nine fresh deaths in Bihar floods||At least nine persons perished in the floods in Bihar on Thursday, taking the deluge toll to 53 since Wednesday as the situation worsened due to heavy rain in the state and neighbouring Nepal. At present 17 Bihar districts — Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Sitamarhi, Samastipur, Khagaria, Saharsa, Madhepura, Araria, Katihar, Bhagalpur, Munger, East Champaran, West Champaran, Gopalganj, Saran, Vaishali and Patna — are affected by severe floods. Around 30 lakh people have been affected by the deluge of whom 2.2 lakh have been displaced from their homes and many have been forced to eat at community kitchens being run by the state government. A large number of people have taken refuge on national highways crisscrossing the flood-affected areas. They are spending their days and nights under temporary shelters built with the help of bamboo poles and polythene sheets. There is no respite in sight for the flood-hit areas due to the continuous rainfall that has led to the major rivers flowing above the danger level. Heavy discharge of water flowing down from Nepal into the Gandak and Kosi rivers has further deteriorated the situation. The Ganga has also risen above the danger level again in Patna, posing a fresh threat to areas along the river. According to the Central Water Commission (CWC), the Gandak is currently flowing at its highest flood level of 51.75 metres at Lalganj in Vaishali district. The state government has deployed 17 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) in the affected areas to conduct rescue and relief operations. It has also kept two NDRF teams and three SDRF teams on standby in flood-prone districts. “We are using 1,865 boats for rescue and relief operations as well as to facilitate the movement of people from one place to another. More boats will be deployed, if needed. Polythene sheets and dry ration packets are being distributed. The government has also provided Rs 477 crore as gratuitous relief to 7.96 lakh families. Damage to crops is also being assessed to provide relief to the farmers,” disaster management minister Renu Devi said. Other departments connected to roads and electricity are also assessing the damage to infrastructure due to floods. With floodwaters touching the upper parts of a bridge on the Samastipur–Darbhanga route, the railways had to cancel 14 trains and divert 14 others. Eight trains are either being terminated before their destination or being started from stations beyond their normal origin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
03-09-2021||India||Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology betters world ranking ||Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology  Deemed University, Bhubaneswar, jumped up 200 positions globally to be placed in the cohort of 801-1000 in the  Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2022 announced on Thursday. It is a significant improvement from last year when it had achieved a rank of 1001+. KIIT’s performance makes it the No. 1 ranked varsity in Odisha and eastern India, said a KIIT press release. While KIIT, NIT Rourkela, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham and Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) share the same rank in this coveted and most-referred annual ranking of the global higher education institutions, IIT Bhubaneswar and Manipal Academy of Higher Education have been ranked 1000+. As a young university of only 17 years, KIIT’s performance is better than any other varsity in the country. It has also been achieving impressive positions in the rankings conducted by various government bodies. Expressing happiness over the development, Prof. Achyuta Samanta, founder, KIIT & KISS credited combined efforts by students and staff for the achievement. “KIIT’s performance in the rankings is significant as it is a multi-disciplinary university with as many as 28 faculties. Had it been an institution offering only Engineering courses, it would have achieved much higher ranking,” he said. The Times Higher Education (THE) World University Rankings is an annual publication of university rankings by Times Higher Education (THE).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
03-09-2021||India||Odisha govt to set up new health university||The Odisha government will set up a new health university to regulate and administer all the medical and paramedical institutions in the state. In order to set up the university, the Odisha government on Thursday passed a bill titled Odisha University of Health Sciences Act, 2021 in the Assembly. The objective of the bill is to deal with issues of affiliations, admission, proper and systematic instruction, mental health education, dental education, homeopathy and ayurveda and nursing education, pharmacy education, paramedical education, physiotherapy, allied medical sciences, other medical pharmaceutical courses and training and research in modern medicine. “The objective of the bill is also to see how the students get quality education, their examination is conducted at the right time,” officials said. The move is aimed at ensuring uniformity in various academic programmes in medical and allied subjects in the state. Officials said nearly 500 medical institutions starting from nursing to pharmacy allied medical science, physiotherapy will come under the ambit of the proposed Odisha Health University. The state government will also appoint a vice chancellor, registrar and other officials for the functioning of the university. The state government also passed a bill to amend the Odisha Land Rights to Slum Dwellers Act, 2017. Under this act if a slum dweller is in possession of land to the extent of 30 square metres, the land will be settled in his name subject to the availability of the land. Political observers feel that the move is aimed at winning the support of slum dwellers ahead of the upcoming municipal and panchayat elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-247
