04-09-2021||India||CJI hopes to get government support in  appointing judges||Terming the huge vacancies of judges as one of the "difficult challenges", Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana on Saturday expressed hope that the government will ensure swift clearance of names recommended by the Collegium for appointment to high courts as it did for the apex court. He also said a comprehensive proposal for creating the National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation is under preparation and will be sent to the government soon. The judicial system is facing difficult challenges like that of deficient infrastructure, shortage of administrative staff and huge vacancies of judges," the CJI said at a function organised by the Bar Council of India (BCI) to felicitate him. On the appointments to the higher judiciary, the CJI thanked the prime minister and the Union Law Minister, who was present at the event, for the clearance to the nine names, recommended by the Collegium for appointment as judges to the apex court, at a jet speed . "I must thank the prime minister and law minister and the Government of India for clearing the names," he said. The CJI said that it has been his endeavour to address the issue of vacancies in the higher judiciary on an "urgent basis" and noted that due to the collective efforts, the vacancy in the top court is now reduced to just one. Similarly, after I took over, the Collegium has recommended, if I am not wrong, 82 names to various high courts. "I hope the government will ensure that the names are cleared at the earliest just the way the nine names were cleared for the apex court. It is an ongoing process. We hope to live up to the herculean challenge of filling nearly 41 percent vacancies existing in all the high courts," he said. The CJI said in another month, he expects that 90 percent of vacancies will be filled. He said he wanted to place on record his sincere thanks to his colleagues in the Collegium -- Justices U U Lalit, A M Khanwilkar, D Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao -- for becoming active and constructive partners in this endeavour. The CJI also expressed concern over the low representation of women in the judicial system. Among those who attended the event were several sitting judges of the apex court, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, and office bearers and members of several bar bodies from across the country. On the issue of judicial infrastructure, Justice Ramana said he has prepared a report collecting information from every part of the country and he would send it to the law minister very soon. Highlighting the problems faced by litigants and lawyers, especially women advocates in the courts, he said if a national-level judicial infrastructure corporation is created, it can take care of these issues. He said earlier he had seen that there were no toilets for women lawyers in the courts. "I have been emphasising on augmenting the infrastructure for very long. I have a proposal to address this issue in a time-bound manner. A comprehensive proposal for the creation of the National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation is under preparation," he said, adding a proposal in this regard will reach the Law Minister very soon. "I expect full cooperation from the government," he said. The CJI said though access to justice has been strongly provided, still lakhs of people are unable to approach the courts to seek remedy and high expenditure and long delays, which are a part of our legal process, are the biggest challenge. Justice Ramana said another area that needs to be highlighted is that majority of women lawyers struggle within the profession and very few of them have found representation at the top. "After 75 years of independence, one would expect at least 50 percent representation for women at all levels but I must admit, with great difficulty we have now achieved a mere 11 percent of women representation on the bench of the Supreme Court," he said. The CJI said some states, because of reservation policy, may reveal higher representation but the reality remains that the legal profession still has to welcome women into its fold. He said bar council and bar associations are his weakness and he has enjoyed his life as a member of the bar more than as a judge. "Today, I feel that more than being felicitated, I am being reminded of my responsibilities as the Chief Justice of India," he said. The CJI highlighted a new trend in the profession similar to what has happened in foreign countries. "I am referring to corporatisation of the profession," he said, adding, Common people cannot afford quality legal advice at corporate prices which is an area of concern. Sending a message to young members of the bar, he said being at the frontline of the legal system, they must protect the institution from targeted, motivated and malafide attacks. The CJI said that during the function he was referred to as former cricketer Sachin Tendulkar but he must correct the perception. Like any game, it is a team effort. Unless all the members of the team perform well, it is difficult to win, he said. Apex court judge Justice Vineet Saran, who also addressed the gathering, said the CJI is a person with a golden heart. "Yesterday, somebody informed me that a young girl has written to the chief justice that when schools have opened, when colleges, all others businesses are going on, why are not the courts opening? I am told that the CJI has treated it as a PIL and it will be taken up," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
04-09-2021||India||Delhi University teachers want Mahashweta Devi's Draupadi back in syllabus||A section of English teachers of Delhi University has accused a varsity panel of making a mockery of the "democratic and the due process" in drafting the subject's syllabus and demanded reinstating of dropped works, including Mahashweta Devi's celebrated short story "Draupadi". In a statement issued on Friday, about 115 English teachers from across DU colleges slammed the dropping of works of Devi, Bama, and Sukirtharani by the Oversight Committee during redrafting the English syllabus for semester 5. According to the teachers, the "entire process was flagrantly violated and bypassed by the Oversight Committee". "It (the Oversight Committee) single-handedly seeks to destroy a syllabus that has been put together after years of careful discussion and debate, where democratically elected committees have chosen democratically diverse texts that seek to represent all sections of society," they said in the statement. "We demand the reinstatement of works by Mahasweta Devi, Bama, and Sukirtharani in the Core Women's Writing paper of semester V," they added. The varsity's Academic Council last month dropped Devi, and two Dalit authors from BA (Hons) English course, while approving changes in its syllabus on recommendations of the Oversight Committee. "The voices that have been throttled are those of Dalit and non-Dalit women writers writing about Dalit/tribal women. "What else could be less inclusive than excluding these powerful women narratives, Mahasweta Devi's 'Draupadi', Bama's Sangati (chapters 2-4) and Sukirtharani's two poems 'Debt' and 'My Body', that congeal caste and gender oppression with that of patriarchal state violence from the syllabus," they asked. Earlier while redrafting the syllabus, the DU had claimed it strives to bring out the "inclusive nature of the syllabus" through a "careful perusal". The teachers also alleged that the English department head was coerced into consenting on the refurbished syllabus. They said that the OC recommendation that "Draupadi" should be deleted came on July 19 -- less than 24 hours before classes were scheduled to begin. The English department wrote twice to the OC, they claimed, presenting all the "academic and pedagogic reasons" in favour of keeping the story, but the committee rejected their argument. The OC "held the Department of English to ransom by not notifying its BA (Hons) English Semester V syllabus on the website until the 1st of September 2021 (44th day of the Vth semester, a week after the registrar's press release)," they alleged. Recounting the sequence of events, the teachers said that the English department HOD received the notice from the assistant registrar to drop "Draupadi" by Devi on August 9. But when department dropped the story and suggested to replace it with "Hunt", a work by the same author, the OC in a letter on August 11, vetoed the move citing "ideological" differences, and offered to choose from six alternatives. Professor Raj Kumar, HOD of English department at the university, told PTI that he approved the course "only in the interest of teachers and students since it was being held for months". According to Kumar, the English department had put in "3000 hours of work" on the syllabus between 2017 and 2019. "Two international professors and professors from other central universities had also approved the syllabus," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
04-09-2021||India||Delhi records zero Covid deaths for fourth consecutive day||Delhi did not report any death due to COVID-19 for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday while the number of new infections was 55 with a positivity rate of 0.08 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. This is also the 23rd time since the start of the second wave of the pandemic in the national capital that zero fatality has been reported in a day. On March 2 this year, the national capital had reported zero death due to the virus. On that day, the number of new infections stood at 217 and the positivity rate was 0.33 per cent. The second wave swept the city during April-May. On Saturday, 55 fresh cases were recorded as the positivity rate increased to 0.08 per cent, while there was no death due to COVID-19, according to the latest bulletin. The new cases took the national capital's infection tally to 14,37,929. A total of 70,303 tests -- 48,510 RT-PCR tests and 21,793 rapid antigen tests -- were conducted a day ago, the bulletin said. On Friday, 35 fresh cases were recorded as the positivity rate stood at 0.05 per cent, according to official figures. On Thursday, the daily case count stood at 39 with a positivity rate of 0.06 per cent. The death toll due to the coronavirus infection in Delhi stood at 25,082 on Tuesday. The national capital has not reported any death due to the coronavirus since then.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
04-09-2021||India||Rains lash parts of Delhi, temperatures go down||Rains lashed parts of the national capital on Saturday afternoon bringing the mercury down. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued a yellow alert for Delhi for Saturday, predicting light rain or thundershowers. Rains were witnessed in the northeast, north and central parts of Delhi. The city on Saturday recorded a minimum temperature of 26.1 degrees Celsius, normal for this time of the year, the IMD said. The city recorded 0.7 mm of rain in the last 24 hours. The relative humidity was 88 per cent, it said. The weather department has predicted a generally cloudy sky with light rain during the day. The maximum temperature is expected to settle around 33 degrees Celsius. With an AQI of 67, the air quality was in the 'satisfactory' category, the real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board at 9.05 am showed. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
04-09-2021||India||Jan Aashirwad Yatra left Opposition nervous, says Nadda||The highly successful Jan Aashirwad Yatra, a public outreach by 39 new Union ministers, has left the opposition disturbed and nervous , BJP president J P Nadda said on Saturday and accused it of trying to hinder the programme. People continue to show "unflinching support and trust" in the Modi government, he said in a statement. "All ploys and disturbances have failed to shake the strong support and trust that the people have showered on the Narendra Modi government," Nadda said, hitting out at the Maharashtra government for targeting Union Minister Narayan Rane. Rane was arrested by the Maharashtra police for his comments against Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray while on the Yatra. It is a direct attack on our democratic system but people's support forced all narrow-minded opposition parties and our political adversaries to retreat, Nadda said. The highly successful Jan Aashirwad Yatras across the country has left the Opposition parties disturbed and nervous and they unsuccessfully tried to disturb and create hindrances in our Yatra and programmes. The BJP president added that people have rejected the "negative political agenda" of opposition parties and have stood strongly with the politics of development and growth. The Yatra, which began on Independence Day and continued till August 28, covered more than 24,000 km in 14 days in which over 5,000 programmes were organised. "All these programmes were highly successful which also ensured enthusiastic participation of people from all walks of life," the BJP president claimed. People have lauded all-round development and progress under the Modi government whose "pro-people and pro-poor" policies and programmes have touched the lives of all sections of society, he said, adding that it has taken several initiatives to boost India's security and safety. "The last seven years of India under the dynamic, decisive and foresighted leadership of Modi has been that of people's participation, development, trust, security, prosperity and growth," he said. "The tremendous success of the Jan Aashirwad Yatras are also proof of the 'Vikas Yatra' that the country has seen under the dynamic and decisive leadership of the prime minister and the trust and support of all his Cabinet ministers," Nadda added. He said the BJP and Modi are committed and firm on providing benefits of all social welfare and economic welfare schemes to every section of society, particularly to those who have been left behind in the race of growth and development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
04-09-2021||India||Chhattisgarh orders probe after surgeon serilises 101 women in 7 hours||The Chhattisgarh government has ordered a probe into irregularities at a recently-held government-run sterilisation camp in Surguja district, where a surgeon allegedly performed tubectomies on 101 women in seven hours, an official said on Saturday. The sterilisation camp was held on August 27 at Narmadapur community health centre in Mainpat development block of the district, located over 300 km away from the capital Raipur, the official said. Local newspapers had reported alleged irregularities in the camp, following which the department swung into action and issued show-cause notices to the surgeon and a local health official. Following complaints regarding the sterilisation camp, a probe has been ordered, based on which further action will be taken, said Dr Alok Shukla, Principal Secretary of the state's Health and Family Welfare department. A total of 101 surgeries were performed by a (government) surgeon in the camp. The women who underwent the procedure were reported to be in a normal condition. However, as per the government guidelines, a surgeon can perform a maximum of 30 surgeries in a day and hence, an enquiry has been ordered to ascertain why the guidelines had been violated, Shukla said. The surgeon has claimed that a large number of women had turned up for the procedure and urged him to perform the operations, citing that they had come from remote villages and cannot travel frequently, he said. Earlier, Surguja Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) P S Sisodiya had on August 29 issued a show-cause notice to surgical specialist Dr Jibnus Ekka, who performed operations in the camp, and Block Medical Officer (BMO) Dr R S Singh seeking their reply in this regard. The CMHO had also constituted a three-member committee to probe the matter. The surgeries were conducted from 12 pm to 7 pm on August 27. Once the enquiry committee submits its report, further action will be taken. Stern action will be taken against people who are found guilty, Dr Sisodiya said. In November 2014, at least 83 women had developed complications after undergoing a procedure at a government-held sterilisation camp in Bilaspur district, and 13 of them had died, triggering widespread criticism against the government-run programme offering free sterilisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
04-09-2021||India||Chhattisgarh organises special camps Bastar residents for Aadhar, ration card grievance redressal ||After being deprived of facilities for years, people of Bastar in Chhattisgarh are now getting services of the government through camps. Special camps are being organized for redressal of grievances related to Aadhar card, Ration card, Ayushman card and pension cases. In the sensitive areas of Sukma district, villagers thronged similar camps in Silger, Minapa, Sarkeguda. The positive response by the villagers prompted the administration to increase the duration of the camp. To provide various facilities to the villagers of these sensitive areas of Sukma district, a facilitation camp was organized at village Sarkeguda. Vehicles were also arranged by the administration so that the villagers do not face any problem in commuting to the camp site. Villagers of Minpa and Silger had apprised the administration about their problems, for which facilitation camps are being set up in these areas for quick redressal. Similar camps will be organized in other villages in the coming days. The camp-strategy adopted by the Chhattisgarh government to provide basic facilities like education, health, employment, drinking water to the inner villages is proving to be very effective. There are seven districts in Bastar division. These seven districts are included in the list of aspirational districts of the country. In the tribal dominated districts of Sukma, Bijapur, Dantewada, Narayanpur, Kondagaon, Bastar (Jagdalpur) and Kanker, access to facilities in the hinterland has always been a challenge due to geographical complexities and Naxal activities. The Chhattisgarh government led by Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel decided to adopt a camp-strategy according to the local conditions for the development of the division by moving away from the traditional methods. This new strategy of governance is based on the principles of development, trust and security. To ensure an environment of security in the Naxal-affected interior areas, security-force camps were set up at various places. These safety-caps opened the way for other camps related to public conveniences. Through the mobile clinics of Mukhyamantri Haat-Bazaar Clinic Yojna, now medical-camps have started in the Haat-bazaars of the interior areas, where the villagers are getting the facility of free examination, treatment and medicines. Success has been achieved in restarting hundreds of schools which were closed due to Naxal riots in the interior areas.\ In these traditional schools of Hindi medium, English medium schools have also started at various places along with teaching in local dialects. These English medium schools are being operated under the Swami Atmanand English Medium School Scheme, in which free education is being provided to every student with facilities like private schools. During the Corona period, Chhattisgarh has collected the maximum number of minor forests produce in the country. Most of the minor forest produce in the state is collected in these seven districts of Bastar division. With better strategy, now the collection of minor forest produce is being done in a more systematic and organized manner. From their collection to purchase, the work is being done by the forest dwellers only. These forest produces are being procured by self-help groups by setting up purchase camps in Haat-bazaars. The enthusiasm of the villagers has increased due to the increase in the price of minor forest produce by the government and increasing the number of minor forest produce purchased on support price from 07 to 52. These minor forest produces being collected from the forests of Bastar are being processed locally, due to which people are getting employment and benefits on a large scale.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
04-09-2021||India||Odisha sees rise in Covid-19 cases among children||Coronavirus infection among children continued to rise in Odisha even as the total number of new cases dropped to 681 on Saturday, a Health Department official said. The state had reported 849 new cases on Friday, he said. Among the new patients, diagnosed with Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, there were 118 children, which was 17.32 of the total fresh cases detected. It was 14.13 per cent on the previous day, the official said. Odisha has so far reported 10.1 lakh Covid-19 cases. Khurda district reported the highest number of new cases at 222. Four districts -- Bolangir, Gajapati, Kandhamal and Nuapada -- did not report any new case. Five more people died in the state, taking the toll to 8,040.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
04-09-2021||India||Mobile internet services snapped in Kashmir again as restrictions continue||Restrictions on assembly of people remained in force in most parts of Kashmir Valley after the death of hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani while mobile Internet services were suspended on Saturday morning after being restored the previous night, officials said. Geelani, 91, died at his home in Srinagar on Wednesday night after a prolonged illness. The pro-Pakistan separatist leader, who spearheaded separatist politics for over three decades in Jammu and Kashmir, was buried at a mosque near his residence. Following his death, restrictions were imposed in the Valley as a precautionary measure. Restrictions on assembly of people remained in force in most parts of the valley but curbs on movement have been eased in some parts, the officials said, adding the curbs were in place in Srinagar's Downtown (old city) and Hyderpora, the native area of Geelani. Roads leading to Geelani's residence here remained sealed with barricades put up to stop the movement of people, the officials said. Security forces have been deployed in strength in the city and elsewhere to maintain law and order, they added. Internet services and mobile telephony services across all operators were restored on Friday night after remaining suspended for two days. However, Internet services on mobile devices were suspended again on Saturday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
04-09-2021||India||India, US to hold 2+2 dialogue in November, says foreign secretary||The 2+2 dialogue between India and the United States would be held in November this year, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla has said. "We're looking at the 2+2 which will happen in November. The exact dates are not yet worked out," Shringla told a group of Indian reporters at the conclusion of his three-day visit to Washington DC, during which he held meetings with top officials of President Joe Biden's administration, including Secretary of State Antony Blinken. "We used this opportunity to have the 2+2 inter-sessional meeting at the joint secretary level," he said on Friday. The last meeting of the 2+2 was held in New Delhi and the next meeting is to be hosted by the US here. The 2+2 ministerial dialogue takes place between foreign and defence ministers of both the sides. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh would be hosted by their American counterparts Secretary of State Blinken and Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin for the maiden India-US 2+2 meeting of the Biden administration. In addition to being engaged on Afghanistan, the two countries during his visit had an extensive conversation on regional and multilateral issues including the United Nations and the upcoming Quadrilateral summit here later this year. US Special Envoy on Climate Change John Kerry is also scheduled to visit India soon, he said. On Friday, the foreign secretary also held meetings with industry representatives organised separately by the US India Strategic and Partnership Forum and US India Business Council. "We covered a very wide range of issues of interest to them," he said, adding that they were very interested in India's handling of the COVID-19 situation, the vaccine issue, economic recovery in India, economic opportunities and the investment situation in the country. Shringla arrived in Washington DC on Wednesday following his successful trip to New York, where he chaired meetings of the UN Security Council. India was the president of the 15-member body for August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
04-09-2021||India||One dead, five injured in factory blast at Palghar||One person was charred to death and five others were injured, some of them seriously, in an explosion and fire at a textile factory in Tarapur industrial area of Maharashtra's Palghar district early on Saturday, an official said. Palghar district Disaster Management Cell chief Vivekanand Kadam said the incident occurred around 6 am. " The sound of the explosion was so loud that it was heard four to five kilometers away. The explosion triggered a major fire at the unit located in Tarapur MIDC," Boisar, he said. "One person was killed in the incident, while five others suffered injuries and have been admitted to a local hospital. The deceased is yet to be identified as the body is charred beyond recognition," he said, adding that two factory workers have reportedly gone missing after the incident and efforts were on to find them. The fire brigade personnel and police rushed to the spot on being alerted and launched a rescue operation, Kadam said. As per the information available so far, the explosion occurred in one of the units of the factory, the official added. "The blaze has been brought under control and the cooling operation is underway," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
04-09-2021||India||Active cases continue to rise as India records 42k new Covid infections||India's Covid-19 infection tally rose by 42,618 in a day to reach 3,29,45,907 while the number of active cases touched 4,05,681 following an increase for the fourth consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll climbed to 4,40,225 with 330 more people succumbing to the viral disease, showed the data updated at 8 am. In a span of 24 hours, the active caseload rose by 5,903. The number of active cases now comprise 1.23 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.43 per cent, the ministry said. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.50 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was 2.63 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 71 days. As many as 17,04,970 tests were conducted on Friday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 52,82,40,038. Under the nationwide vaccination drive, a total of 67.72 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far. Of the 330 fatalities recorded in a day 131 are from Kerala and 92 from Maharashtra. Of the total deaths in the country, 1,37,643 are from Maharashtra, 37,380 from Karnataka, 34,980 from Tamil Nadu, 25,082 from Delhi, 22,854 from Uttar Pradesh, 21,280 from Kerala and 18,483 from West Bengal. The Union health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 this year and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
04-09-2021||India||Supreme Court collegium clears 68 names as judges in HCs at one go||The Supreme Court collegium on Friday night sent as many as 68 names — the largest such recommendations at one go — to the Centre for appointment as judges in various high courts. The 68 recommendations are for 12 high courts, including that in Calcutta. The district judges recommended for elevation as judges of Calcutta High Court are Shampa Dutt Paul, Bibhas Ranjan De, Siddhartha Roy Chowdhury and Ajoy Kumar Mukherjee, sources said. Advocates Krishna Rao and Koyeli Bhat are also among those recommended, the sources added. Among the 68 names recommended for the high courts is judicial officer Marli Vankung for Gauhati High Court. If selected, Vankung, who belongs to a Scheduled Tribe, will be the first high court judge from Mizoram. The three-member collegium, headed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, had considered the names of over 110 candidates (82 from the Bar and 31 from the judicial services) during meetings held on August 25 and September 1. The collegium, whose other members include Justices U.U. Lalit and A.M. Khanwilkar, cleared the shortlisted names on Friday night. Of them, 44 are from the Bar and 24 are district judges. Women total 10. Sources said the collegium’s recommendations usually did not cross single digits, adding that 68 names being suggested in one stroke underscored the urgency with which it was dealing with the vacancies in the high courts. Last month, the collegium had cleared an unprecedented nine names at one go for judge’s assignments at the Supreme Court, paving the way for their elevation and oath-taking on August 31. The 12 high courts for which the recommendations have been made are those of Calcutta, Allahabad, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Madras, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Punjab and Haryana, Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Assam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-242
04-09-2021||India||Debate follows Allahabad judge's erroneous cow claim||An observation in an Allahabad High Court judge’s order that “scientists believe the cow is the only animal that both inhales oxygen and exhales oxygen” has prompted a section of Indian scientists to wonder whether silence from within their community fosters erroneous claims among unsuspecting public. Justice Shekhar Kumar Yadav of Allahabad High Court, while dismissing the plea of a man accused of cow slaughter, said in his order on Wednesday: “Vaigyanik yeh maante hain ki ek hi pashu gaay hi hai jo oxygen grahan karti hai, oxygen chhorti hai (Scientists believe that the cow is the only animal that both inhales oxygen and exhales oxygen).” BJP leaders Trivendra Singh Rawat, when he was Uttarakhand chief minister in 2019, and Vasudev Devnani, when he was education minister in Rajasthan in 2017, had also said that the cow was the only animal that exhaled oxygen. Scientists have pointed out that breathing isn’t 100 per cent efficient and all breathing creatures on earth inhale and exhale some oxygen. Human-exhaled breath itself contains around 16 per cent oxygen, among myriad other constituents. Human-exhaled breath typically contains 78 per cent nitrogen, 16 per cent oxygen and 4 per cent carbon dioxide, among other gases, water vapour, inorganic volatile organic compounds such as acetone and ethanol and other compounds, according to a 2020 review paper by scientists at the Central Glass and Ceramics Research Institute, Calcutta. “It is unfortunate that the order cites this claim,” said Arunabha Mishra, professor of chemistry at Vidyasagar College, Kalyani, and a member of the All India People’s Science Network, a consortium of over 30 non-government groups nationwide involved in promoting science and scientific temper. “The order may be cited in future court proceedings,” Mishra added, explaining the context for his comments. Mishra and other scientists have said they are not familiar with the details of the specific case itself and their comments are restricted to elements of the order relating to cows and attributed to scientists. Some scientists feel that the claim on oxygen, now iterated in the court order and attributed to scientists, underlines the need for authoritative scientific voices to counter such assertions when they are first aired. “If scientists keep quiet about misleading claims, then unsuspecting non-experts might assume that scientists agree with them,” said Aniket Sule, associate professor of physics at the Homi Bhabha Centre for Science and Education, Mumbai. One option, some scientists say, would be for the country’s three science academies to issue public statements countering erroneous claims. But fellows of the academies say there would always be a debate on what to say and when to say it and whether these organisations should respond at all. “Many of our colleagues tell us not to bother countering such claims,” Sule said, adding that they argue that the claims are so unscientific “that no one, not even non-experts, would believe them”. But, he pointed out, “in the absence of vocal opposition from scientists, non-experts, whether celebrities or legal minds, might begin to mistakenly assume scientists agree with the claims”. The All India People’s Science Network has counted nearly a dozen misleading claims made by central or state ministers since Prime Minister Narendra Modi in October 2014 cited Ganesha’s elephant nose as a signal of plastic surgery in ancient India. One government functionary had claimed that Charles Darwin’s theory of evolution was wrong, another claimed that the Vedas had a “theory” superior to Albert Einstein’s energy-mass equivalence equation, yet another had claimed that yoga could cure cancer. Claims about cows have proliferated. A Union government agency named the Rashtriya Kamadhenu Aayog, tasked with the conservation and protection of cows, had claimed last year that cow dung could shield people from radiation. “It is not surprising to see the claims on oxygen or Panchgavya — such claims have been made earlier, but not in a court order,” said Soumitro Banerjee, professor of physical sciences at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Calcutta. “But it is surprising to see the claim on oxygen attributed to scientists,” said Banerjee, also the general secretary of the Breakthrough Science Society, an organisation created by scientists across the country to promote scientific thinking and to “foster consciousness against unscientific beliefs, superstitions, fanaticism, communalism and casteism”. The judge’s order mentions that Panchgavya, prepared from cow milk, ghee, curd, urine and dung, helps in the treatment of several hard-to-treat diseases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
04-09-2021||India||19 lakh manufacturing jobs lost in August: CMIE||Nearly 19 lakh people lost jobs in August with the manufacturing sector the worst affected, according to the latest employment data released by a private research firm. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) figures show that the unemployment rate had climbed to 8.32 per cent in August after a brief spell of improvement. The latest unemployment rate is similar to the post-lockdown figure of 8.35 per cent recorded by the CMIE around this time last year. According to the CMIE data, the number of employed persons decreased from 39.97 crore in July to 39.78 crore in August, which indicates that 19 lakh people have lost their jobs over the past month. The CMIE statistics show that the monthly unemployment rate in May this year was 11.9 per cent, with over 1.5 crore jobs lost that month. This was the period when the second wave of the pandemic was wreaking havoc in the country. The unemployment rate had dipped in June and July but edged up again in August. According to the latest data, over one million people engaged in the manufacturing sector lost their jobs in August and another 8 lakh in July. The number of employed persons in this sector decreased from 2.96 crore in June to 2.88 crore in July and 2.79 crore in August. The job loss in the manufacturing sector was somewhat offset by gains in the service sector. Eight lakh jobs were added in retail, e-commerce, repair and technical support in August. Nearly 1.5 crore people were engaged in the service sector in August against 1.42 crore in July. Labour economist Santosh Mehrotra said the unemployment situation was back to the level of the post-lockdown period in 2020. Mehrotra pointed out that the decline in the job situation in the manufacturing sector had coincided with a rise in employment in agriculture between 2017-18 and 2020-21, adding to the crowding there and leading to cuts in wages. “The unemployment crisis is the same as this time last year. According to the CMIE’s data, the share of agriculture in total employment was 35 per cent in 2017-18, which went up to 39.5 per cent in 2020-21. On the other hand, the share of the manufacturing sector in total employment dropped from 10 per cent to 7.5 per cent during this period. When more workers are joining agriculture, which is already crowded, it will depress the wage rate, which is what is happening,” Mehrotra said. He said the figures were incongruous with the government’s Make In India and Atmanirbhar Bharat initiatives. The government’s Periodic Labour Force Survey for 2019-20 also bore out the employment glut in the agriculture sector. The share of agriculture in total employment rose from 57.8 per cent in 2018-19 to 61.5 in 2019-20 in the rural sector. Mehrotra said a developing nation should aspire for a workforce shift from agriculture to manufacturing and services. “The reverse is happening in India. The government’s slogans of Make In India and Atmanirbhar Bharat do not match the situation on the ground,” he said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said the biggest national issue was unemployment and alleged that the Modi government was “harmful for employment”, PTI reported. Posting on Twitter a screenshot of the CMIE report, Rahul tweeted: “The Modi government is harmful for employment. It does not promote or support any kind of business or employment not belonging to friends and instead is trying to snatch jobs from those who have them.” A pretence of self-reliance is expected from the people of the country, he said in his tweet in Hindi, adding: “Issued in public interest.” In another tweet, Rahul said the biggest national issue was unemployment for which there were “some direct solutions — Don’t sell PSU-PSB, give monetary help to MSME, think about the country, not friends”. But the central government doesn’t want solutions, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
04-09-2021||India||India, US sign pact for air-launched unmanned aerial vehicle||India and the US have signed a project agreement (PA) for an air-launched unmanned aerial vehicle (ALUAV) under the ambit of the defence technology and trade initiative as part of the plan to expand bilateral military cooperation. The defence ministry said on Friday that the agreement was signed on July 30 under the ambit of the defence technology and trade initiative (DTTI). Government sources described the development as “very significant” at a time China has been increasingly flexing its muscle in the region. “Considering China’s aggressive posture, this agreement will pave the way for more cooperation in defence and security. It will convey an unambiguous message about the growing relationship between India and the US,” said a defence ministry official. The project agreement was signed between the ministry of defence and US department of defence by the co-chairs of the joint working group on air systems under the DTTI. “The PA outlines the collaboration between Air Force Research Laboratory, Indian Air Force, and Defence Research and Development Organisation towards design, development, demonstration, testing and evaluation of systems to co-develop an ALUAV prototype,” the defence ministry said in a statement. The main aim of the DTTI is to bring sustained leadership focus to promote collaborative technology exchange and create opportunities for co-production and co-development of future technologies for Indian and US military forces. Under the DTTI, joint working groups on land, naval, air and aircraft carrier technologies have been established for focus on mutually agreed projects in respective domains. The PA for ALUAV falls under the research, development, testing and evaluation (RDT&E) memorandum of agreement between the ministry of defence and US department of defence, which was first signed in January 2006 and renewed in January 2015. The agreement is a significant step towards deepening defence technology collaboration between the two nations through co-development of defence equipment, the statement said. The Aeronautical Development Establishment (ADE) at DRDO and the Aerospace Systems Directorate at the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL), along with the Indian and US air dorces, are the principal organisations for execution of the PA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
04-09-2021||India||Janata Dal United MLA from Bihar creates ruckus on train||An MLA of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United moved around in his undergarments in the Patna-New Delhi Tejas Rajdhani Express on Thursday evening and created a ruckus when other passengers objected to his behaviour. A fellow passenger, Prahlad Paswan of Jehanabad, who lost his gold chain and rings in the fracas, submitted a written complaint to the Government Railway Police (GRP) against MLA Gopal Mandal in New Delhi railway station on Friday. Paswan requested that an FIR be registered against the legislator and his associates for allegedly hurling abuses, forcing him to drink dirty water and for snatching a gold chain and two rings from him. Narendra Kumar Neeraj alias Gopal Mandal, a four-term MLA from Gopalpur constituency in Bhagalpur district, boarded the A-1 coach of the train from Patna Junction on Thursday evening. A couple of hours later as the train crossed Bihiya in Bhojpur district, fellow passengers were shocked to see Mandal roaming around in his vest and underpants. A purported photograph of Mandal walking around in this manner in the compartment has been widely shared on social media. The co-passengers strongly objected to Mandal’s actions since women and children were also travelling in the compartment. It resulted in an altercation in which the legislator allegedly showered expletives, manhandled and threatened to shoot them. “The legislator was not even willing to understand. He instead tried to cow us down by flaunting his position, all the while showering filthy gaalis (expletives) at us. He started misbehaving and forcibly poured dirty water in my mouth. He also abused me on caste lines in front of the passengers,” Paswan told The Telegraph over the phone. “Mandal and his three associates snatched my gold chain and two rings. They were around 30 grams in weight and must be worth a few lakhs of rupees. I have submitted a complaint to the GRP at New Delhi railway station and expect them to register an FIR,” Paswan said. Paswan said other passengers saved him and wondered “how voters elected people like Mandal as MLAs”. He also alleged that Mandal was inebriated. Mandal admitted he had moved in the train in his undergarments.Mandal said: “I was suffering from loose motion, and had to run in my undergarments to the toilet in the train. A passenger caught hold of my hand after which we exchanged words. I did not assault or abuse anybody. The passengers were saying women were travelling in the train, but there were no women in that coach.” Mandal told reporters.Asked about the incident, East Central Railway chief public relations officer Rajesh Kumar told this newspaper that an incident was reported in the 02309 Tejas Rajdhani Express on Thursday._ “An altercation was reported among some of the passengers regarding the dress of one particular passenger travelling in the Patna-New Delhi Tejas Rajdhani Express on Thursday. The train superintendent immediately intervened in the matter,” Kumar said. New Delhi GRP station house officer (SHO) Ajeet Kumar told this newspaper that the complaint against Mandal has been “forwarded to the GRP at Patna because the incident occurred under its jurisdiction. The FIR could be registered there”. Mandal is known for being a loudmouth and creating controversies with his words and actions. Sources in the JDU said that he has become an embarrassment for the state government. The legislator has been involved in brawls, dancing with girls, alleged land grabbing, threatening MLAs from his neighbouring constituencies irrespective of their parties, and proclaiming that Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav will soon become the chief minister. Mandal recently alleged that deputy chief minister and senior BJP leader Tarkishore Prasad was extorting money from businessmen and officials in Bhagalpur. He backtracked a couple of days later when the BJP raised a hue and cry. A senior JDU leader said on the condition of anonymity that Nitish was “giving a long rope to Mandal because he hails from the Extremely Backward Castes being wooed at present by all political parties. Moreover the JDU has just 43 MLAs and he (Nitish) cannot afford to lose an MLA at this juncture”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
04-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu:  M.K. Stalin decides to forego popularity 'priviledge'||It is not surprising that two acts of Tamil Nadu chief minister M.K. Stalin last month went largely unnoticed, rather ignored, in today’s “new India”. In the first instance, the chief minister told his education minister not to print Stalin’s photographs on 65 lakh bags meant for distribution among schoolchildren in the state, opting to retain pictures of his political adversaries from the previous government that had sanctioned the project. Second, Stalin told a fellow DMK lawmaker not to waste his time praising the chief minister while participating in a discussion on animal husbandry in the Assembly. Both these actions were out of sync with the “new normal” in India. The schoolbags, which were custom-made for distribution during the time of the previous government, carried the photographs of AIADMK leader, the late Jayalalithaa, and then chief minister E. Palaniswamy. To print photographs of politicians on schoolbags was considered a normal practice. Discarding those bags and making fresh ones with photographs of Stalin would have cost the exchequer a minimum of Rs 18 crore. So Stalin’s government decided to distribute the old bags, irrespective of the photographs. Stalin’s decision to forego a “privilege” came at a time elected governments and their leaders are often accused of using public money to enhance their popularity among the masses. All the more, coming from Stalin the act is exceptional as he was born and brought up in a culture where larger-than-life cut-outs on display even in front of the leader’s own house is considered absolutely normal. Praising a leader in his or her presence is also not new in Tamil Nadu politics — at least from the time Jayalalithaa came into prominence by inheriting the legacy of her political mentor, the legendary MGR. When she was alive, AIADMK members of Parliament used to carry her photographs with them. “Amma” never discouraged them from doing so. Although such blatant acts of sycophancy were not encouraged during the time of Stalin’s father, the late Karunanidhi, the changed scenario in the country itself might have prompted DMK legislators, too, to toe the line and sing paeans to the new leader. Stalin has, however, said openly: “I have already instructed DMK members not to praise me and that I will take action against them if they do. The members should use the allocated time (in the House) judiciously.” Mouthing hymns of praise and wasting reams of newsprint eulogising a certain leader have become the norm. Day after day, the disease of sycophancy is spreading its tentacles, cutting across party lines. Putting a politician’s photograph on children’s bags may not seem incongruous in a country where the Prime Minister’s photo is emblazoned on Covid vaccination certificates, many believe. Forget the ethics of the act, despite the fact that the certificates with Narendra Modi’s photograph have put Indians travelling abroad to great inconvenience, the government has not bothered to take steps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
04-09-2021||India||Karnataka: BJP leader asks state to rename Rajiv Gandhi National Park||A BJP parliamentarian has asked the Karnataka government to rename Rajiv Gandhi National Park in Nagarahole, taking a cue from the trend to drop the name of the former Prime Minister from prestigious projects across the country. Pratap Simha, who represents the Mysore-Kodagu Lok Sabha constituency, has in a letter to chief minister Basavaraj Bommai called for dropping the name of Rajiv and renaming the national park after former Field Marshal K.M. Cariappa. The letter follows an online petition for restoring the old name, Nagarahole National Park, or naming it after Cariappa since the forest part of the Nilgiris Biosphere Reserve in the Western Ghats is partly in his home district of Kodagu. This comes weeks after BJP leader C.T. Ravi urged the chief minister to change the name of Indira Canteen, a network of eateries offering heavily subsidised meals that was started by the Congress government helmed by P.C. Siddaramiah. The apparent inspiration for Simha’s letter was the Centre’s decision to rename the Rajiv Khel Ratna Award after hockey legend Major Dhyan Chand. The Assam cabinet had on Wednesday renamed the Rajiv Gandhi National Park in the state as Orang National Park. Simha said that three of the country’s 103 national parks, including Nagarahole which falls in his constituency, are named after Rajiv. “Besides this, several other national parks in the country bear the names of Nehru-Gandhi family, which is an attempt to wrongfully appropriate inheritance of the projects of Government of India aimed at biodiversity conservation with the primary objective to preserve wildlife, save flora and fauna and restore the natural ecological balance,” he said. Simha cited the online petition and the fact that Kodagu district has contributed immensely to the armed forces. “A total of eleven officers from Kodagu have occupied top posts in the army so far,” he noted, referring to Cariappa, General K.S. Thimmayya and others. The Congress slammed Simha for his move to rename the national park named after a former Prime Minister who sacrificed his life for the country. “Rajiv Gandhi is not only a former Prime Minister of this country. He sacrificed his life for the nation, which is why Nagarahole National Park has been named after him,” state party spokesman V.S. Ugrappa told The Telegraph on Friday. “Those in power should develop new projects and name them after those who have contributed to the nation rather than going about renaming existing ones,” said Ugrappa. The Twitter handle of Simha saw several reactions for and against his proposal. “These guys can’t make anything new and only change names like claiming someone’s else’s children as their own,” tweeted a user Nageswara Rao P. “Please change Narendra Modi Stadium to Sachin Tendulkar Stadium,” tweeted Mallikarjun Wade, referring to the Motera stadium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
04-09-2021||India||UP: 50 people, including children, die of dengue in Firozabad||At least 50 people, including children, have died in the past two weeks because of dengue and viral fever in Uttar Pradesh’s Firozabad. Four children died on Friday. Some reports have put the toll at 75. Chief medical officer Dinesh Kumar Premi in a statement said: ‘So far, 50 people have died due to dengue and viral fever. Ten areas — nine blocks and a Nagar Nigam area — in the district are affected.” About 40 deaths were reported till August 30 when chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited the district and claimed that he had asked the officers to take immediate measures. On Thursday, the state government suspended Dr Girish Srivastava, in-charge of Sailai Public Health Centre (PHC). Other doctors of the PHC who were suspended include Dr Saurabh Prakash and Dr Ruchi Yadav. “They were suspended for dereliction of duty,” said Chandra Vijay Singh, district magistrate of Firozabad. Family members of the deceased said the toll might be higher as hospitals across the district had been denying treatment because of lack of infrastructure. “I kept roaming from one hospital to the other in the district and none was ready to admit my son. They would say that Mana, 10, was suffering from a mysterious fever. When I told them that he might have dengue, they said they didn’t have any means to test what caused the fever. Then I took my son to Agra where he died at a private hospital. I still don’t know what kind of fever he had,” said Kuldeep Singh of Humayunpurva Pathwari area in the district. Health department sources in Lucknow claimed that while the number of deaths was highest in Firozabad, many have died of dengue or other fever in Mainpuri, Etawah, Agra and Kasganj districts. Adityanath during his visit had said: “Thirty-two children and seven adults have died here. I have asked the health department to find out whether it was because of dengue or any other disease.” “We send the samples to Sarojini Naidu Medical College, Agra, for test and it takes seven to eight days to get the reports. Some of the patients were found suffering from dengue but in many cases, it was not detected,” said a senior health department officer in Lucknow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
04-09-2021||India||UP Assembly Polls 2022: BJP banks on Hindutva alone to retain power||Hindutva versus economic issues will be the dominant narrative in the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and the BJP is keen to see if Hindutva alone can help the party retain the state. Party insiders said preliminary feedback from the ground had shown anger among large sections of voters because of a rise in the prices of essential commodities, joblessness and farm distress after the devastation caused by the second wave of Covid-19. “Our initial survey has shown that the voters in general are distressed because of various reasons. But so far, that doesn’t mean they will vote to defeat us,” a BJP leader involved in managing the polls said. “This election in many ways will be a test case. It will bring out the strength of our Hindutva and nationalist ideology,” the leader added, hoping voters would be willing to bear some economic hardships to back the saffron party. He said their findings had shown that despite having complaints against the Yogi Adityanath government, the people were not ready to bring the Samajwadi Party or the Bahujan Samaj Party to power. Party leaders said after Gujarat under then chief minister Narendra Modi, Uttar Pradesh under Adityanath was the new Hindutva laboratory and the poll results would prove whether the aggressive line being pushed by the party was successful. “Yogi Adityanath’s image as a firm Hindutva ruler and an incorruptible leader is very popular among the people. Voters will think twice before deciding to defeat him,” a minister in the Uttar Pradesh government said. The saffron-clad chief minister is known for his strident divisive policies. Party managers feel the ongoing construction of a grand temple at Ayodhya would also help the party tide over misgivings over price rise and joblessness. Besides Hindutva, the party has launched a massive campaign to woo the OBCs, claiming that the Modi government at the Centre and Adityanath in the state were devoted to the welfare of the deprived sections. Some party MLAs feel that the outreach may not cut much ice as Adityanath has been accused of promoting the dominance of upper caste Rajputs/Thakurs. “The OBC community has been very badly hit by price rise and lack of jobs. People in my constituency are complaining that they have got gas connections under the Ujjwala scheme, but don’t have the money to buy cylinders that are getting costlier,” an OBC legislator from eastern Uttar Pradesh said. Internally, party leaders said the anger among voters was mainly concentrated in western Uttar Pradesh, the centre of the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws. “The ground situation here is very bad for the party,” a BJP MP from western Uttar Pradesh said. “There is only one big thing in favour of Yogiji. People are happy with the law and order situation,” the MP added, but felt this may not be enough to make people vote for the BJP. The Adityanath government has been credited for cracking down on criminals through encounter killings and ending the “goonda-raj” under the Samajwadi government, party leaders said. Party managers in Delhi said they were closely following the voices of voters on various TV channels and news portals and monitoring the situation, particularly in western Uttar Pradesh. “The farmers’ agitation is the major reason behind the anger against the government in western UP. But this is limited to only big farmers,” a BJP leader said. The BJP believes that only the agrarian Jat community is angry and hopes they will suffer only limited electoral loss in the region. BJP MPs and MLAs from western Uttar Pradesh and even some from the central and eastern regions of the state feel the party leadership could be underestimating the anger among voters. “The leadership feels Hindutva will dominate the minds of the voters, but on the ground we come across scores of people who say the Ram temple will not give them food and jobs,” a party MP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
04-09-2021||India||Centre backs JNU’s new 'jihadi terrorism' course||The government has thrown its heft behind Jawaharlal Nehru University’s new course that describes “jihadi terrorism” as the only form of “fundamentalist-religious inspired terrorism”, with education minister Dharmendra Pradhan “complimenting” the JNU vice-chancellor. “One MP wrote to me about the JNU course. I compliment Jagadeshji (vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar) for this course. The MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) offers courses on terrorism. If the best universities debate on terrorism, why should our central universities not discuss it?” Pradhan said during a virtual interaction with vice-chancellors of central universities on Friday. Kumar, who is on extension, is seen as close to the ruling establishment and has been accused of introducing courses and taking other key decisions without consulting JNU’s academic bodies, besides taking harsh actions against dissenting teachers and students. CPI parliamentarian Binoy Viswam had written to the education minister earlier this week criticising as “deeply prejudiced”, “historically inaccurate”, “politically motivated” and “malignant” the new course on counter-terrorism, which also links Islamist and communist terror. The course — Counter-Terrorism, Asymmetric Conflicts and Strategies for Cooperation among Major Powers — that will be offered to Master of Science dual-degree students specialising in international relations at JNU’s School of Engineering has been widely criticised by academics for taking a constricted view of the subject, besides pandering to the Right wing view on the matter. The course also claims that the erstwhile “Soviet Union and China have been predominant state sponsors of terrorism”, a model that has been “well adapted by several radical Islamic states” after the Cold War. Although Pradhan drew a parallel between the JNU course and courses on terrorism at MIT, the course description of “Warlords, Terrorists, and Militias: Theorising on Violent Non-State Actors” on the American university’s website suggests a broad perspective. “This course is a general overview of the recent political science literature on violent non-state actors. Its aim is to examine why non-state actors (such as warlords, terrorists, militias, etc) resort to violence, what means and tactics they use, and what can be done to counter that violence…. Though thematically-driven, this course will also reference cases from the contemporary battlefields of insurgency and terrorism (be it Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan, the West Bank and Gaza, Colombia, etc) as they relate to the pertinent themes,” the MIT course description says. The description of another MIT course — Advanced Topics: Plotting Terror in European Culture — says: “This interdisciplinary course surveys modern European culture to disclose the alignment of literature, opposition, and revolution. Reaching back to the foundational representations of anarchism in nineteenth-century Europe… the curriculum extends through the literary and media representations of militant organisations in the 1970s and 80s (Italy’s Red Brigade, Germany’s Red Army Faction, and the Real Irish Republican Army).” During Friday’s interaction, the education minister also endorsed Delhi University’s decision to introduce four-year undergraduate courses with multiple entry and exit options, a move criticised by some academics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
04-09-2021||India||SC stays Kerala govt’s decision to conduct offline Class XI exams||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed for a week the Kerala government’s decision to conduct offline Class XI exams, observing that the Covid-19 situation was “alarming” in the state. “There is an alarming situation in Kerala. It accounts for more than 70 per cent cases of the country, with around 35,000 daily cases. Children of tender age can’t be exposed to this risk,” Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, heading a three-judge bench, told the state’s counsel C.K. Sasi. The bench also comprising Justices Hrishikesh Roy and C.T. Ravi Kumar rejected the argument of the counsel that there was no apprehension of any spread of Covid-19 on account of the offline exams scheduled from September 6 as according to him the state had successfully conducted offline exams for Classes X and XII. The court observed that the earlier exams were conducted before April, after which the second wave exacerbated the situation and Kerala continues to witness a rapid surge of cases. “…We find force in the submission made by the counsel for the petitioner that the state government has not seriously considered the prevailing situation before having physical exam proposed to be conducted from September 6. As we were unable to get a satisfactory response from counsel for the state in this regard, we grant interim relief staying offline exam for till next date of hearing…” the bench said, while posting the matter for hearing on September 13. The bench passed the order after specifically asking the counsel whether the state was willing to give an assurance that not a single child would be affected if the court permits the government to go ahead with the exams and receiving a negative response.  Justice Roy said as he was earlier the Chief Justice of Kerala High Court, he knew the state has one of the best health facilities, but yet it failed to contain the rapid surge of Covid cases. Justice Kumar, who hails from Kerala High Court, also endorsed the view. Earlier, P. Padmanabham, counsel for the petitioner Rasoolshan, assailed the state’s decision to conduct the offline exam for Class XI despite the fact that Kerala was accounting for 70 per cent of the total Covid caseload in the country. The petitioner moved the apex court by way of a special leave petition after Kerala High Court declined to interfere with the state government’s decision to go ahead with the exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-243
04-09-2021||India||Prashant Pandey (spiritual friend) emphasizing spiritual ideology amidst materialistic mindset||Where entire youth is focused on materialistic mindset but Prashant Pandey is the one who is deeply pegged in spiritual ideology. Prashant Pandey says that as the present time is moving rapidly towards materialism, in the midst of a large number of people not understanding the original meaning of spirituality, considering it as meaningless. But this ideology is rapidly developing the feeling of hatred, greed and anger among the people. People stand with full devotion and keep providing new energy and direction to the spiritual ideology. The law inside teaches you spirituality, so we have to do more and more work in this direction. It is because of this that the balance is maintained. The topic of spirituality is being presented wrongly in front of the people today. Yes and spirituality starts to be understood as religiousism whereas it is not so, inner discipline and interactivity is the simple explanation of spirituality. Along with material progress, if one pays attention to spiritual progress then a higher system can be created. Remember, spirituality has never been a hindrance in material progress, but it has been helpful. To create a distinction between these two is just a part of a big diplomacy. To understand these two factors, we have to go through these two points deeply. Spiritual Ideology: Let’s understand in this way!!! This world is made up of two things:- one is full of materialistic things and the second place is where only inner meanings left. There two type of person living in this world. One is following primary things and the second is following secondary things. When we left primary things for the sake of secondary thing that is spirituality. If we raise ourselves to the level where material things become secondary and inner meanings become of prime importance, then one is a spiritual person. Materialistic Mindset It is the reciprocal of spiritual ideology. When people can’t live without material things like greedy, money, fame, limelight than there life become absolutely meaningless. Their mind functions only in the direction of grabbing materialistic things. Because of this, they never get mental peace. And after sometime, they get depressed. But here, Prashant Pandey tells the power of spiritual ideology. No doubt, today, he is well-known name in the world of spirituality. He is continuously sharing the knowledge regarding spirituality, Yoga, meditation, etc, for the good mental health of the people. Here, he tells about the power of spiritual ideology that once you followed the spirituality, you start to feel some divine energy entering in to your body. The atmosphere around you is completely changed. Some positive vibes will be felt by you. If you are not able to focus on any work before then your willpower will be increased by practicing spiritual ideology session. Your focus power and working speed will be increased in the way that you will become able to manage more work in less time. Your mood will be happy and relax always. As you all know, today’s schedule is full of headache and stress due to which every person gets frustrated. They start feel peer pressure around themselves. But if you practiced yoga sessions regularly then begin to grasp all of the fundamental things not only within yourself but also outside by devoting part of your time, willpower, and determination. This is religion and this is the path of truth. According to Prashant Pandey, accomplishing something reinforces your self-control and assurance to where you can change the climate around you with simply an idea. In spite of the way that rehearsing Kriya Yoga prompts a high state known as freedom in the sacred writings, specifically being one in the unadulterated type of mindfulness, an inconspicuous power of homogeneous components starts to work in the material world also. Achievement can be accomplished in various manners. In this article, we are elaborating that Prashant Pandey has focused on spiritual ideology for those people who focused only on materialistic things of the world. He says that these materialistic things provide temporary happiness and peace for mind not permanent. But if you followed spiritual path then you will get permanent happiness and peace of mind. The most surprising thing is that the noise we create in our life to make things better, it makes that thing worse. This confusion takes the person in such a lap that he does not even realize it and becomes a part of a disturbed world forever. He indeed is a beautiful soul, as it is said; he is a sign of God. His address when I ask how much further his work will go is: ""I'm always planning to go back to Kashi." Many people have benefited from Prashant Pandey's spiritual rays and light like the rising sun on a universal level, and they have become his "spiritual friends" instead of followers. He has a youtube channel where he gives his kind words and engages with his followers whose link is as below.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
04-09-2021||India||Odisha web channel editor detained following Dutee Chand complaint ||The editor of a web channel in Odisha was detained on Friday following a mental harassment complaint by sprinter Dutee Chand. The sprinter has accused the journalist of posting obscene and defamatory content against her while she was taking part in the Tokyo Olympics. Bhubaneswar deputy commissioner of police Uma Shankar Das said: “We have detained Sudhanshu Shekhar Rout on the basis of the allegations filed in the Mahila police station. We have also seized computers and other incriminating material from the accused.” In her complaint registered on Wednesday at the Mahila Police station, Dutee alleged that Rout had run a malicious campaign while she was preparing for the 200m events at the Tokyo Olympics.  She has also held RTI activist Pradip Pradhan responsible for it. “I am today relaxed and happy as the police have detained one person in connection with the case. I have been subjected to mental harassment for the last few days as an attempt has been made to destroy my personal life and assassinate my character,” Dutte told reporters. She has also filed a Rs 5 crore defamation suit against Rout and Pradhan for maligning her and levelled charges of criminal intimidation, publishing obscene content and insulting the modesty of a woman against them. Dutee told The Telegraph: “I am playing for the country. I have always received the love of people. I had never imagined that people would drag me to such a low level. I am a bit relaxed today.” She had also threatened to leave Odisha if she did not get justice. Recalling her struggles since childhood to become an Olympian she said:  “I am unable to concentrate on my goals as this malicious campaign against me is distracting my attention.” The police have lodged a case under various sections of IPC 292 (obscene posts), 354 A  (outrage modesty), 385 (extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation), 509 (insult the modesty of a woman) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy). Senior journalist Prasanna Kumar Mohanty said: “We all should know that there is a Laxman rekha (the boundary line). When one files a story against a woman and that, too, about an athlete of international repute, one should be careful.” Mohanty also cited the Supreme Court’s grave concern over the spread of fake news on web portals, Facebook and YouTube in the absence of a regulatory mechanism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-244
