05-09-2021||India||Bengal: SC stays proceedings against editors of web news portal||The Supreme Court has stayed further proceedings in a fresh case filed in West Bengal against some people, including editors of a news web portal, in connection with articles published by them. The court also made the protection granted in an interim order of last year to Nupur J Sharma, the editor of Opindia, and others including its founder and CEO, as absolute. A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh, while dealing with the fresh FIR said, "Further proceedings in pursuance of FIR No...registered at Bhadreswar Police Station shall remain stayed." It said that interim orders passed on June 26, 2020 in the main writ petition filed last year are made absolute and posted the next hearing in November. "Interim orders are made absolute. Liberty to the petitioners to file additional documents. The parties to file short synopsis running into not more than two pages each. List on a non-miscellaneous Tuesday in the month of November 2021," the bench said in its order passed on September 3. On June 26 last year, the top court had stayed further proceedings in three FIRs lodged in West Bengal against petitioners. In their intervention application, Nupur J Sharma and others said that they are constrained to move the top court due to "persistent hounding" and "victimisation" by the West Bengal government, "who in its endeavour to scuttle inconvenient media reports registered multiple FIRs against them". The application further said, "That the order dated June 26, 2020 came as a respite to the petitioners whose honour, life and liberty were sought to be repeatedly undermined by the state..." However, "it appears that the respondents are unrelenting in the efforts to persecute the petitioners/applicants as the petitioners/applicants have recently on August 5, been served with a notice under section 41A of the CrPC from CID, West Bengal in relation to FIR registered with Bhadreshwar police station", it said. It said that the FIR relates to media reports published in opindia.com about Telenipara communal riots of May 2020 and were registered contemporaneously around the same time as FIRs, which forms the subject matter of the writ petition. The petitioners said that the FIR came to their notice only on the receipt of the notice under section 41CrPC on August 5 requiring them to appear before the investigating officer on August 13 but later the investigating officer through an email dated August 12 asked the petitioner to appear on August 23. They sought a stay on the investigation emanating from the FIR registered at Bhadreshwar police station and the notice issued to them for appearing before investigating officer. The petitioners also sought quashing of the FIR. On June 26 last year, the Supreme Court had, while staying the three FIRs, issued notices to the West Bengal government and the Centre seeking their replies on the plea. The main writ petition filed by Nupur Sharma and others including the founder and CEO of the news portal and editor of its Hindi language publications claimed that the West Bengal government and its "authoritarian Calcutta Police" are misusing FIRs and "brute police powers" to intimidate journalists. "The petitioners are constrained to invoke the extraordinary writ jurisdiction of this court under Article 32 of the Constitution against the patently extortionist and mala fide actions of the Government of West Bengal to impose illegal censorship in the state by threatening, scuttling, and gagging honest media houses through misuse of state police," the plea has claimed. The petitioners claimed they were informed that the cause of one of the FIRs lodged by police was an article published by the news web portal on the issue of alleged hiding of data related to COVID-19. The plea claimed that one of the FIRs lodged pertained to a news report published by the web portal in October last year. It alleged that to undermine the freedom of press, the state has rather chosen to "hound down" the petitioners by registering multiple FIRs in order to "bargain for deletion of news articles by putting the petitioner's life and liberty at bait". It claimed the state and the police are not only intimidating the journalists but also threatening their family members to seek deletion of media reports which bring to the public notice "the actual state of affairs in the state of West Bengal during these difficult times". It also alleged that the police had intimidated some of the petitioners to get the news articles deleted. "Accordingly, the officers while insulting and demeaning the petitioner no. 1, asked her to use her influence to get the articles removed or to face the brunt of state's political executives," it has claimed. The plea claimed that deleting any content from the internet has a nationwide effect and any decision to delete any content has to be left to be taken by the Centre and not by state governments. It has also sought a direction to exclude the role of police in the matter of deletion of content on the internet "particularly since there exists a regulatory mechanism for overseeing such content" and restricting any mischievous contents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
05-09-2021||India||Right-wing activists manhandle Raipur pastor, 2 others at police station over conversion||A pastor and two others, including an officer-bearer of a Christian outfit, were allegedly manhandled and abused inside a police station at Raipur on Sunday by members of a right-wing organisation, a senior official said.  The group of right-wing activists accused pastor Harish Sahu of indulging in religious conversion and manhandled him as well as Ankush Bariyekar, general secretary of Chhattisgarh Christian Forum, and one Prakash Masih, inside Purani Basti police station, he said.  "Sahu had been called to the police station after a right-wing organisation submitted a complaint against him that he is indulging in religious conversions. Accordingly, he came to the police station today along with Bariyekar and Masih. But a group of right-wing activists present there manhandled and abused the trio inside the chamber of the station house officer (SHO)," he said.  A video of the incident went viral on social media. After the incident, Purani Basti station house officer (SHO) Yadumani Sidar was attached to the police lines by Senior Superintendent of Police Ajay Yadav, the official added.  Bariyekar lodged a complaint in this regard, after which several people were booked under IPC sections 147 (rioting), 294 (obscene acts and songs), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation), he said.  The incident occurred exactly a week after a 25-year-old pastor, Kawalsingh Paraste, was allegedly beaten up in his house in Polmi village in the state's Kabirdham district by a mob of over 100 people, accusing him of indulging in religious conversions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
05-09-2021||India||RSS distances itself from Panchjanya article targeting Infosys over IT portal glitches||The Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) on Sunday distanced itself from an article critical of Indian software major Infosys that was published in Panchjanya, a magazine associated with the saffron organisation. Sunil Ambekar, the RSS' all-India prachaar pramukh, said Panchjanya is not a mouthpiece of the RSS and the article reflects the author's opinion and should not be linked with the organisation. In its September 5 edition, Panchjanya has a four-page cover story on Infosys 'Saakh Aur Aghaat' (Reputation and Damage), with its founder Narayana Murthy's picture on the cover page. The article has attacked the Bengaluru-based company and dubbed it as 'Unchi Dukan, Phika Pakwaan' (great cry and little wool). It also alleged that Infosys is aligned with “anti-national” forces and as a result messed up the government's Income Tax portal. However, Ambekar took to Twitter to clarify Sangh's stand. “As an Indian company, Infosys has made seminal contribution in the progress of the country. There might be certain issues with a portal run by Infosys, but the article published by Panchjanya in this context only reflects the individual opinion of the author. “Panchjanya is not a mouthpiece of the RSS and the said article or opinions expressed in it should not be linked with the RSS,” he tweeted. The article drew flak from the Opposition parties which lashed out at the magazine calling the piece “anti-national”. Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi on Sunday questioned the “silence” of India Inc on the issue months after commerce minister Piyush Goyal's criticism of Tata Sons. “Then they came for me. And there was no one left to speak out for me” “RSS affiliated Panchajanya, says Infosys is working with anti-national forces and is part of tukde tukde gang. First the attack on Tatas by Commerce Minister and now this. Silence by industry biggies. Okay,” she said in a tweet. The Congress also dubbed them as “attacks” on India's “prized” corporate sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
05-09-2021||India||Parts of south, west, north India to witness heavy rain in next 3 days||Several parts over south, west and north India are likely to receive heavy rainfall during the next three days with the revival of the Southwest Monsoon, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday. It said enhanced rainfall activity with fairly widespread and isolated heavy to very heavy rains is very likely over Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala the during next three days and reduce in intensity and distribution thereafter. Under the influence of west-northwestward movement of a likely low pressure area or its remnant cyclonic circulation, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rains are very likely over south Odisha, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Vidarbha and south Chhattisgarh September 5-7. North Marathawada, north madhya Maharashtra, north Konkan, Gujarat Region is likely to receive rainfall during September 7-9. Isolated extremely heavy falls are also likely over north Konkan during September 7-8, central Maharashtra and Gujarat Region on September 8 and Telangana on September 7. Rainfall activity is very likely to increase with scattered to fairly widespread rains over most parts of northwest India with isolated heavy falls over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, north Punjab and Jammu region and east Rajasthan during September 7-9. After recording deficient rainfall in August, the IMD has predicted above-normal precipitation in September. The rainfall deficit until August 31 was nine per cent. The deficiency until September 5 was nine per cent. While issuing its forecast for September, IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra on Wednesday said the shortfall recorded during August is likely to be compensated with excess rainfall in the current month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
05-09-2021||India||BJP terms ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ as election meeting||The BJP on Sunday termed the 'Kisan mahapanchayat' organised in Muzaffarnagar an "election meeting" and accused its organisers of indulging in politics with assembly polls approaching in a number of states, including Uttar Pradesh. Thousands of farmers from Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring states gathered at Muzaffarnagar on Sunday for the 'Kisan Mahapanchayat organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) to protest the Centre's controversial farm laws. The BJP's 'Kisan Morcha' head and MP Rajkumar Chahar claimed in a statement that it is politics and not concerns for farmers which have been on the agenda of those behind the 'mahapanchayat'. "This was very much a political and election meeting. The opposition and these farmer union leaders have been using the shoulders of farmers to engage in politics," He said. Chahar claimed that no government has done so much for farmers as the one led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has in the last seven years. The farmers' protest at Delhi's borders against the three contentious laws has been going on for over nine months. They have been demanding the repeal of the laws, which they feel will do away with the MSP system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
05-09-2021||India||Scientifically investigate 'Mystery tunnel' under Delhi Assembly building: Experts||Historians and heritage experts, including those from the ASI, have called for carrying out a scientific investigation of a tunnel located beneath the sprawling building of the Delhi Assembly, which has again captured the imagination of the people. The 'mystery tunnel', first reported around 2016, has sparked multiple speculation, and experts said it will be too early to draw any conclusion unless the structure is thoroughly examined from an archaeological standpoint or any documentary evidence is found. The subterranean structure's mouth lies just below the floor of the assembly hall of the iconic building (Old Secretariat), which was constructed in 1912 by the British after the imperial capital was shifted from Calcutta to Delhi, and it is being planned to be thrown open to the public next year. Delhi Assembly Speaker Ram Niwas Goel on Friday had said that historical significance of the tunnel is yet to be established but it is conjectured that the tunnel connects the assembly building to the Red Fort. He also claimed that there was an "execution room" at the site where Indian revolutionaries were brought to by the British. Many historians and heritage experts, including those who have done extensive research on the multi-layered history of Delhi, however, have expressed scepticism over the claims and suggested scientific investigation of the structure and the site. A senior Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) official said that theories and conjectures abound in absence of investigation. "So, the structures beneath need to be seen archaeologically, first. And, even if there are obstructions due to metro and flyover pillars, technology is there to investigate to test the theory. Without investigation, it would not be wise to make comments," he told PTI. Also, the Red Fort link theory seems a bit implausible as the distance between the 17th-century Mughal monument and the British-era landmark is over six km, and with a low height, a tunnel that long would be hard to imagine as it would also be hard to navigate, the official said. There are also multiple passages to reach the Yamuna river from the Red Fort. Without investigation, it is difficult to tell if the purpose of the tunnel in question was to escape or to store and if it was built before the construction of the early 20th century structure that stands over it, experts said. Another ASI official said no communication has been received by the Archaeological Survey of India from the Delhi Assembly authorities on carrying out archaeological examination of the tunnel. Designed by architect E Montague Thomas, the current assembly building initially served as the Secretariat of the imperial government while New Delhi capital was being built. Located in the prime Civil Lines area, the handsome white-colour landmark, also housed the Central Legislative Assembly when it was shifted to the new Parliament House near Raisina Hill in 1927. Historian and author Swapna Liddle also feels the Red Fort link theory remains a speculation as it has no backing of archaeological or documentary evidence. "Another possibility is that this was a 'tahkhana' (a cellar) for storage or hiding, given the British had grown wary of the native population after the 1857 Mutiny. So, a safe passage or hideout may have been built beneath the building," she told PTI. Liddle, author of 'Connaught Place and the Making of New Delhi' and former convener of the INTACH Delhi Chapter, also said that a conjecture that the tunnel predates the assembly building also does not seem very plausible, "as why would the British take the tunnel out in the Ridge area". The Delhi ridge area was a site of major actions during the First War of Independence in 1857. Rana Safvi, historian and author of 'Shahjahanabad: The Living City of Old Delhi', feels that it was "highly improbable" that such a long tunnel linked the two buildings from two different eras. "The British documented everything meticulously and if there was such an arrangement, some archival record or map must have shown it. Also, logically, there seems no reason as to why would they build such a long underground passageway," she said. City-based conservation architect and urban planner AGK Menon, however, said, if it was secret tunnel, "of course, there will be no record of it". "The tunnel is visible, now it should be investigated thoroughly and architecturally examined before drawing any conclusion or propounding any theory," he added. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
05-09-2021||India||Nipah Virus: Tamil Nadu screens people at border in wake of cases in Kerala||Tamil Nadu has stepped up measures to monitor people who arrive from Kerala in nine bordering districts, in the wake of the neighbouring state reporting a death due to Nipah virus infection, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma Subramanian said on Sunday. A 12-year old boy died on Sunday due to Nipah virus infection at a hospital in Kozhikode, according to Kerala Health Minister Veena George. "Already we have been monitoring the nine districts that border Kerala. We have been conducting door-to-door awareness campaigns in the districts on the spread of Zika virus... In the wake of the Nipah virus, we have issued an advisory to district health officials to expedite measures like holding fever camps," he told reporters. The Minister said health officials of the nine districts to hold fever camps at the entry points in the border districts besides conducting thermal screening of the passengers, testing their saturation levels. "Already, we are allowing people to enter (Tamil Nadu) only if they have a Covid-19 vaccination certificate nor a RT-PCR negativity report," he said. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan said people who enter Tamil Nadu from Kerala were screened not only for Covid-19 but also for other communicable diseases like Zika, Nipah. "We are continuously monitoring the people who enter Tamil Nadu. People need not panic about the Nipah virus. But at the same time they should not show negligence (in following the government advisory)," he cautioned. Health department officials of the nine districts that border with Kerala were urged to conduct surveillance for all communicable diseases, especially Zika and Nipah. "Deputy directors have been informed and the local bodies in border areas should stay alert about these diseases," a message sent to the district health officials said. Nipah Virus is a zoonotic virus -- it is transmitted from animals to humans -- fruit bats and pigs -- and can also be transmitted through contaminated food or directly between people. To a query about a few school students and teachers having tested Covid-19 positive after schools were reopened on September 1, Radhakrishnan said they might have contracted the virus earlier. "...these people (teachers and students testing Covid-19 positive), might have contracted the virus ahead of coming to the schools. There is still prevalence of the Covid-19 virus...People should strictly follow Covid-19 protocols," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
05-09-2021||India||PM Modi's approval rating shows popular support to his policies, says BJP||BJP leaders on Sunday cited a global survey, which ranks Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the leader with the highest approval rating, to assert that this shows popular support to his pro-people policies. The data by Morning Consult, which regularly tracks popularity ratings of a host of global leaders, has put Modi with 70 per cent approval on the top of a list which included US President Joe Biden and UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson. “The highest ranking for the country's top leader Narendra Modi in the global approval rating is a matter of pride and honour for the country. This is a result of people's blessings to his welfare policies for the masses,” BJP president J P Nadda said. The party's chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP Anil Baluni said India's prestige has risen in an unprecedented manner under Modi. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said, "Global leader with highest approval ratings, that's our Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji with 70 per cent approval ratings. Congratulations."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
05-09-2021||India||Case against Chhattisgarh CM's father over alleged derogatory comments||Raipur police have registered a case against Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel's father Nand Kumar Baghel for allegedly making derogatory comments against a community, an official said on Sunday. After a controversy erupted over the alleged remarks of his father, the chief minister said he was pained by such comments and asserted that nobody was above the law in his government and police will take an appropriate action in the matter. Following a complaint filed by the 'Sarv Brahmin Samaj', the D D Nagar police here registered an FIR late Saturday night against Nand Kumar Baghel (86), the official said. The case was registered under Indian Penal Code Sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language) and 505(1)(b) (with intent to cause, or likely to cause, fear or alarm to public, or to any section of public whereby any person may be induced to commit offence against the state or against public tranquility), he said. The outfit in its complaint alleged that the CM's father recently appealed to people to boycott Brahmins by terming them as foreigners, and also asked people to not let them enter their villages, the official said. It also accused Nand Kumar Baghel of asking people to "evict" Brahmins out of the country, he said. In the past also, the CM's father had allegedly made derogatory comments against Lord Ram, the official said quoting the complaint. The outfit also said a video of the purported comments of the CM's father was available on social media platforms, the official added. According to police, Nand Kumar Baghel reportedly made the remarks while addressing an event in Uttar Pradesh recently. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel in a statement said his father's comments have come to his notice and he is pained by it. The remarks made by my father Nand Kumar Baghel against a specific class have come to my attention. The comments have hurt the sentiments of the class as well as social harmony and I am also pained by it, the CM was quoted as saying in a release issued by the state public relations department. The CM also said that through social media and other platforms, he has learnt it is being said that action against Nand Kumar Baghel will not be taken because he is father of the chief minister. "Every person is equal before my government, he said. Everyone knows about my ideological differences with my father. Our political thoughts and beliefs are very much different. I respect him as his son, but as the CM, I cannot forgive him for such mistakes which disturb the public order," he added. "Nobody is above the law in my government even if he is the chief minister's 86-year-old father," the CM said, adding that an appropriate legal action will be ensured by police in this regard. He said the Chhattisgarh government respects every religion, caste and community and their sentiments, and gives equal importance to everyone. "It is our duty to protect the dignity and constitutional rights of everyone. Law is supreme for us," the chief minister asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
05-09-2021||India||Two health workers show symptoms of Nipah virus infection, says Veena George||Two more people have been identified with symptoms of Nipah virus infection, Kerala health minister Veena George said here on Sunday. The two are among the 20 high risk contacts of the deceased 12-year-old child, she said. "We have identified 188 contacts till now. The surveillance team have marked 20 of them as high risk contacts. Two of these high risk contacts have symptoms. Both are health workers. One works with a private hospital, while the other is a staff member of Kozhikode Medical College hospital," she told reporters after chairing a high-level meeting to take stock of the situation. She said all the 20 high risk contacts will be shifted to the Kozhikode Medical College by evening, while other contacts of the child have been asked to remain in isolation. The pay ward at the Medical College Hospital has been completely converted into a dedicated Nipah ward, she said. The boy died at a hospital here early this morning. The samples of the boy, which were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, confirmed the presence of the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
05-09-2021||India||High court judges appointed based on merit, seniority, says SC||The process of appointment of judges to high courts is through a well-established process where the HC collegium considers seniority, merit and all inputs received by the government, the Supreme Court has said while imposing a cost of Rs 5 lakh on an advocate for abusing the court proceedings by trying to stop the elevation of a judge. A bench of Justices S K Kaul and M M Sundresh made the observation while dismissing a plea filed by an advocate seeking directions to consider the representation submitted by him and take necessary action with the proposal of appointment of high court Registrar General A Venkateswar Reddy as a judge of the Telangana High Court. The three-member Supreme Court Collegium in a meeting held on August 17 had approved the proposal for elevation of six judicial officers as judges of the Telangana High Court including Reddy. The top court was hearing a plea filed by advocate B. Sailesh Saxena seeking directions to the Centre, Telangana and Registrar (Vigilance & Administration) of the High Court of Telangana to consider the representation submitted by him and take necessary action as per law for proceeding further with the proposal of appointment of Reddy as a judge of the Telangana High Court. The petitioner made several allegations against the high court Registrar General and stated that his recommendation should not be processed for his elevation as a judge. The petitioner advocate in his plea claimed that he was a legal advisor for the family of an MP belonging to the Telugu Desam Party and legal counsel for other politically connected persons and alleged that an FIR at the instance of the Registrar was filed on July 31, 2017 in pursuance to a direction issued by high court with a view to harass him. The bench said the high court registrar general, as a responsible officer, only followed the direction passed by the high court judge. The apex court said the high court opined that what the petitioner was attempting to do was to seek an investigation into the allegation that the evidence collected by the investigating officer in criminal complaints filed against him as fabricated and that was found to be nothing but a deflection towards derailing the course of investigation in the complaints lodged against the petitioner. The writ petition was found to be thoroughly misconceived and appears to be an abuse of process of law and a counterblast to the series of criminal complaints in which persons belonging to the 'so-called noble profession got involved'. "We are surprised as the brazenness of the petitioner now filing the present petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India, the aforesaid being the finding against him, to now somehow see that the elevation of respondent No. 4 does not take place on the account of these proceedings initiated by the petitioner. "This is gross abuse of process of law. The process of appointment of judges to the high court is under a well known established process where the collegium of the high court considers recommending the names and in case of judicial officers by seniority and on merits. Thereafter, the proposed IB inputs and other inputs are obtained and the Government processes names. "The collegium of the Supreme Court has the benefit of all the material before taking a call on whether to recommend the name or not. The appointment takes place thereafter by issuance of warrants of appointment. Thus sufficient safeguards exist in the system," the bench said. The top court said the endeavour of the petitioner is to harass respondent No. 4 (high court registrar General) and abuse the court proceedings. "We are of the view that appropriate imposition of costs seems to be the only solution.We thus dismiss the writ petition with costs of Rs 5 lakh to be deposited with the Supreme Court Advocates On Record Welfare Fund within four weeks.We also think it appropriate that the Bar Council of Telangana examines the conduct of the petitioner as a member of the 'Noble Profession' and for that purpose a copy of the order be sent to the Bar Council of Telangana," the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
05-09-2021||India||Have to save India from getting sold, says Rakesh Tikait at Kisan Mahapanchayat||Thousands of farmers from Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring states on Sunday gathered at Muzaffarnagar for a Kisan mahapanchayat aimed at "saving the country", just months ahead of the crucial UP Assembly polls. The event was organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) at the Government Inter College ground in Muzaffarnagar in protest against the Centre's controversial farm laws. "These meetings will be held across the country. We have to stop the country from getting sold. Farmers should be saved, the country should be saved; business, employees and youth should be saved--this is the aim of the rally, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said. Popular names like Medha Patkar and Yogendra Yadav were seen on the dais. Yadav was given a yellow robe by Tikait, while the BKU leader was presented a mace at the event. Meanwhile, BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Sunday described the protesting farmers as "our own flesh and blood" and suggested that the government should re-engage with them in reaching common ground. BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said farmers belonging to 300 organisations spread across different states like Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Maharashtra, Karnataka, among others, have gathered for the event. He said over 5,000 'langars' (food stalls), including some mobile stalls, have been set up for the participants. The farmers, including women carrying flags of different organisations and wearing different coloured caps, were seen arriving at the venue in buses, cars and tractors. A woman farmer leader from Karnataka addressed the gathering in Kannada language. One of the participants blew a ransingha' (trumpet), the photograph of which was posted by the Kisan Ekta Morcha on Twitter. "In old times, when the fight was for honour and respect, this instrument (ransingha) was used. Today, a call has been given for war by all 'kisan majdoor' unions against the BJP's corporate raj', it tweeted in Hindi. Meanwhile, the Muzaffarnagar administration denied Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Chaudhry's request to sprinkle flowers from a helicopter on the venue and participants of the mahapanchayat. City magistrate Abhishek Singh rejected the request, saying it cannot be allowed due to security reasons. The district authorities have posted police personnel at the residences of Union minister Sanjiv Balyan and BJP MLA Umesh Malik here, as a precautionary measure. The SKM on Saturday claimed that thousands of farmers from 15 states had reached Muzaffarnagar to participate in the mahapanchayat. The umbrella body of 40 farmer unions spearheading the farmers' agitation against the Centre's three farm laws said the event would prove that the agitation had the support of all castes, religions, states, classes, small traders and other sections of society . "The mahapanchayat of September 5 will make the Yogi-Modi governments realise the power of farmers, farm labourers and supporters of the farm movement. The Muzaffarnagar mahapanchayat will be the biggest ever in the last nine months," the SKM had said in a statement. It also said that 100 medical camps had been set up for the farmers attending the mahapanchayat. The farmers' protest against the three contentious laws has completed over nine months since they first arrived at Delhi borders. They have been demanding the repeal of the laws, which they are afraid will do away with the MSP system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
05-09-2021||India||Ram Nath Kovind felicitates 44 teachers with National Teachers' Award||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday conferred the National Teachers' Awards on 44 teachers from across the country for their contribution in developing innovative methods of teaching. The national-level awards are given on Teachers' Day to celebrate the unique contribution of some of the finest teachers in the country and to honour those who, through their commitment, have not only improved the quality of school education but also enriched the lives of their students. Noting that every child has different capabilities and talent, the President said teachers need to focus on all round development of the students keeping their different needs and interests in mind. "Teachers should keep in mind that every student has different capability, talent and psychology, social structure and background. Hence, they should focus on all round development of each child in accordance with the child's needs, interests and capabilities," he said during an online award ceremony. "It is the duty of teachers that they develop interest towards studies in their students. Sensitive teachers can make the future of their students bright with their behaviour, conduct and teaching," he added. The National Awards to Teachers were first instituted in 1958 to recognise excellence and commitment of teachers in shaping the minds as well as future of the youth. From mid-60s onwards, September 5 came to be the fixed date for the function on account of the birthday of Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan, former president of India and an eminent educationist. The award is to accord public recognition to meritorious teachers working in elementary and secondary schools. For the year 2021, online self-nomination process was followed by a three-tier selection process at district, state and national level. "Our education system should be such that our students develop feelings of respect and dedication for constitutional values and duties of citizens. It should strengthen their love for country and make them aware about their role in changing global landscape," Kovind said. A documentary film on each of the 44 awardee teachers was also shown during the virtual award ceremony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
05-09-2021||India||Kashmir restrictions eased but security forces still deployed||Restrictions were eased out in Kashmir, but security forces continued to remain deployed on the fourth day on Sunday following the death of hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani, officials said. There are no restrictions on movement of people in the Valley, but barricades continue to remain in place along roads at several areas, especially those leading to Geelani's residence at Hyderpora here in view of the fourth day of mourning for the separatist leader. Security forces have been deployed in strength in the city and elsewhere to maintain law and order, they said. The traffic movement has increased across the Valley, but most of the public transport remained off the roads, officials said. Few shops also opened in some areas of the city as well as in other parts of the Valley, they added. The situation is normal and under control, officials noted. The police had on Saturday said several preventive measures had been taken to maintain law and order, including preventive arrests of dozens of miscreants so far. The police also said several social media platforms, including Kashmir Media Service which are running from Pakistan, have been trying to spread fake news and videos to instigate miscreants to disturb peace. Even a few local media persons and channels have been found spreading fake news and the police are observing them, maintaining evidence and appropriate actions shall be taken against them, they said. While voice calling and fixed-line internet services across all operators were restored Friday night after remaining suspended for two days, mobile internet services remained barred. IGP Kashmir, Vijay Kumar on Friday said the services would be restored on Sunday after a review meeting. Geelani, 91, died at his home in Srinagar on Wednesday night after a prolonged illness. The pro-Pakistan separatist leader, who spearheaded separatist politics for over three decades in Jammu and Kashmir, was buried at a mosque near his residence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
05-09-2021||India||Centre sends team to Kerala after 12-year-old dies of Nipah virus infection||A 12-year-old boy died due to Nipah virus infection at a hospital here while two others have been identified with symptoms of the infection, Kerala Health Minister Veena George said on Sunday. The samples of the boy, which were sent to the Pune National Institute of Virology, confirmed the presence of Nipah virus. The Central Government has rushed a team of the National Centre for Disease Control to the state. The team, which was scheduled to reach on Sunday, will provide technical support to the state. Two more people have been identified with symptoms of Nipah virus infection, George said here on Sunday. The two are among the 20 high risk contacts of the deceased 12-year-old child. "We have identified 188 contacts till now. The surveillance team have marked 20 of them as high risk contacts. Two of these high risk contacts have symptoms. Both are health workers. One works with a private hospital, while the other is a staff member of Kozhikode Medical College hospital," she told reporters after chairing a high-level meeting to take stock of the situation. She said all the 20 high risk contacts will be shifted to the Kozhikode Medical College by evening, while other contacts of the child have been asked to remain in isolation. The pay ward at the Medical College Hospital has been completely converted into a dedicated Nipah ward, she said. Nipah virus is spread by saliva of the fruit bats. Giving details of the boy, the minister told reporters, "Unfortunately, he passed away at 5 in the morning. The condition of the child was critical on Saturday night. We formed various teams and have started the tracing. Steps have been taken to isolate those who were the primary contacts of the boy". The minister said the infection was confirmed by the Pune NIV on Saturday night. "Three samples-- plasma, CSF and serum-- were found infected. He was admitted to the hospital with a heavy fever four days ago. But on Saturday, his condition became worse. We had sent his samples for testing the day before yesterday," the minister said. George said there was nothing to worry about. "The health department is closely following up the situation. Special officers have been posted and special teams were formed. The patient was first taken to a private hospital, then to the medical college and from there again shifted to a private hospital. So we have traced all his contacts. The friends he played with in his locality, his cousins and others, the health department had completed the identification and tracing of all these contacts," George said. The minister also asked the neighbouring Kannur and Malappuram districts to remain cautious. Hospital sources said the boy will be cremated today itself following the health protocol. Police have cordoned off an area of three km radius around the house of the boy. In the wake of the virus resurfacing in Kerala, the Centre has advised some immediate public health measures which include active case search in the family, village and areas with similar topography especially in Malappuram. The measures also include active contact tracing for any contacts in the past 12 days, strict quarantine of the contacts and isolation of any suspects and collection and transportation of samples for lab testing, the ministry said. The first Nipah virus disease outbreak in South India was reported from Kozhikode district of Kerala on May 19, 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
05-09-2021||India||Active cases on the trot for fifth straight day as India records 42k new Covid-19 infections||With 42,766 people testing positive for the novel coronavirus infection in a day, India's infection tally rose to 3,29,88,673, while active cases registered an increase for the fifth consecutive day, the Union health ministry said on Sunday. The Covid-19 death toll has climbed to 4,40,533, with 308 new fatalities, according to the ministry data updated at 8 am on Sunday. The active cases have increased to 4,10,048, comprising 1.24 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.42 per cent, the health ministry said. An increase of 4,367 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Less than 50,000 daily new cases are being reported for 70 consecutive days, the ministry said. It said 17,47,476 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of the infection in the country to 53,00,58,218. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.45 per cent. Weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.62 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the last 72 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,21,38,092 in the country, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 68.46 crore, it said. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 this year and three crore on June 23. The 308 new fatalities include 142 deaths from Kerala, and 64 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,40,533 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,37,707 from Maharashtra, 37,401 from Karnataka, 35,000 from Tamil Nadu, 25,082 from Delhi, 22,854 from Uttar Pradesh, 21,422 from Kerala and 18,491 from Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
05-09-2021||India||Calcutta HC names of senior advocate, 3 others are iterated||The names of senior advocate Amitesh Banerjee, son of Justice U.C. Banerjee who had rejected the Godhra train carnage conspiracy theory, and three others have been iterated by the Supreme Court collegium for elevation as Calcutta High Court judges. The Centre had raised fresh queries after sitting on the recommendations for over two years. Justice U.C. Banerjee, a former Supreme Court judge, had helmed the commission that in 2006 ruled out any conspiracy in the 2002 Sabarmati Express fire tragedy in Godhra that killed 58 kar sevaks. The arson was cited as an excuse for the Gujarat riots that erupted when Narendra Modi was chief minister. The decision to iterate the names of Amitesh Banerjee and the three other advocates — Jaytosh Majumdar, Raja Basu Chowdhury and Lapita Banerji — was taken at a meeting of the collegium late on Friday night. The collegium is made up of Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana and Justices U.U. Lalit and A.M. Khanwilkar. The four names had been recommended in July 2019. Sources said the Centre had in the second fortnight of August this year raised fresh queries on Amitesh Banerjee and the others. With the Supreme Court collegium iterating the names, the Centre has little option but to comply with the recommendations unless it chooses to trigger a fresh constitutional row over judicial appointments. Under the memorandum of proceedings that governs the appointment and transfer of judges, the government can raise objections over names recommended by the collegium. But if the collegium iterates the recommendations, the government has to accept the suggestions. The collegium on Friday night also iterated the names of five advocates whom it had recommended for elevation over the past two years. For Rajasthan High Court, the collegium iterated the name of advocate Farzand Ali. The names of advocates Rahul Bharti and Moksha Kazmi (Khajuria) were reiterated for Jammu and Kashmir High Court. The names of advocates Nagendra R. Naik and Aditya Sondhi were iterated for elevation as judges of Karnataka High Court. The Centre had returned their files by raising objections. CJI Ramana has been credited with taking strong measures to fill up vacant judges’ posts in the Supreme Court and the high courts to tackle the massive pendency of three crore cases in the country. Last month the collegium had recommended an unprecedented nine names at one go for elevation to the Supreme Court. The Centre, often chastised by the Supreme Court for sitting on collegium recommendations, had swiftly cleared the names in eight days, paving the way for their oath-taking on August 31. The government was said to have raised objections to the names of Justice Hima Kohli and then advocate P.S. Narasimha. However, CJI Ramana is understood to have taken up the issue at the “highest level” and made it clear that all the nine recommendations would have to be green-lighted. On Friday, the collegium suggested the names of 68 persons for elevation as high court judges, the highest one-time recommendation. Against the sanctioned strength of 72 judges at Calcutta High Court, it has a working strength of 31. The 72 include 54 permanent and 18 additional judges. The 31 are made up of 29 permanent and two additional judges. The high court has 41 vacancies — 25 permanent and 16 additional judges — based on official data as on August 1, 2021. Among the 68 names recommended on Friday, six are for Calcutta High Court, according to sources. Calcutta High Court is the fifth largest high court in the country after those of Allahabad (total strength of 120 judges), Bombay (994), Punjab and Haryana (85) and Madras (75).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
05-09-2021||India||Researchers warn of Covid-19 third wave risk  to children||Daily new Covid-19 infections among children during a possible third wave’s peak could on average rise to seven times the second wave’s crescendo counts, according to calculations made for Karnataka that could be tailored for other states. The calculations by researchers at the Indian Institute of Science and the Indian Institute of Public Health in Bangalore have projected likely future epidemic scenarios amid concerns that laxity in precautions, waning immunity or new coronavirus variants might trigger a third wave. Their computer simulations point to what it would take Karnataka to avert a third wave and under what conditions such a surge appears inevitable. Doubling the current vaccination rate and adhering to strict Covid-19-linked precautions, for instance, could blunt the impact of or even avert a third wave. Experts say future surges — either in states or across India — would depend on the proportion of the population protected by natural immunity or vaccination, level of adherence to Covid-19 precautions and whether new coronavirus variants capable of evading immune responses emerge. T. Jacob John, a senior clinical virologist who was formerly at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, is among experts who believe India is unlikely to see a third nationwide wave because of a large already infected and vaccinated population. But local surges within states may occur. The IISc-IIPH study suggests that the larger the population protected by Covid-19 vaccines, the lower the threat of a third wave. At Karnataka’s current vaccination rate of 280,000 daily doses, if a new immune-escape variant emerges in September, a third wave will likely peak in January 2022 with a maximum of 229,000 active cases, the simulations have suggested. However, if the vaccination rate is doubled to 560,000 daily doses and a new immune-escape variant emerges in September, a third wave will likely peak in February 2022 with a maximum of only 25,000 active cases. Under the 560,000 daily doses scenario, if a variant emerges in November, there will be no third wave, according to the simulation. The IISc-IIPH study has not been peer-reviewed so far, but posted on medRxiv, an online archive of research papers. The researchers have also attempted to forecast infection counts among children amid concerns that they might be disproportionately impacted during a third wave because a significant proportion of adults 18 years or older are now protected by vaccination. Their study suggests that the daily new infections among children (0 to 17 years) during a third wave’s peak in Karnataka could range from four to 10 times the numbers during the second wave. A seven-fold rise would be over 30,000 daily infections, compared with roughly 4,300 daily infections among children in Karnataka during the second wave peak in May 2021. In a worst-case scenario, daily new infections among children below 11 years could rise to 21 times the second wave’s peak. Sections of paediatricians have in recent weeks sought to douse concerns that a third wave might hit children harder, arguing with data from India and across the world that the vast majority of children remain asymptomatic or show mild symptoms. “Our findings show the importance of increasing the pace of vaccinations,” said Sashikumaar Ganesan, associate professor of computational sciences at the IISc and study team member. “A higher vaccination rate lowers the caseload and at a doubled vaccination rate with Covid-19-appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks, physical distancing and avoiding crowds, a third wave could be averted,” Ganesan said. While the calculations are for Karnataka, he said, they could be done for other states using local data on proportions of people infected and vaccinated and vaccination rates. “The dynamics of the epidemic are similar,” Ganesan said. “The forecast could be applied to other states too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-240
05-09-2021||India||Syed Ali Shah Geelani's home clip tests cop version||Footage showing commotion and suggesting anguish after police allegedly snatched the body of hardline separatist Syed Ali Shah Geelani for burial amid a scuffle with the women of the household on Wednesday night has left the Jammu and Kashmir administration red-faced and brought under stress the police claim of acting as facilitators in the last rites. The video clip shows women crying, apparently moments before Geelani’s body was taken out forcibly. A lone policeman wearing a mask is seen trying to prevent the protesting men from chasing the police as somebody shuts the door on them. Whether the body was forcibly taken away is not clear from the footage. “We will not allow you…,” a woman is heard crying. “Abba…,” cries another. The police on Saturday filed an FIR under the anti-terror UAPA for draping the coffin in the Pakistani flag and raising pro-azadi slogans. Geelani died at 10.30pm. At 3am, the family said, the police snatched the body and he was buried before dawn. “We were not allowed to move out…. They had everything, from the coffin to the shroud, ready. The grave was already dug. They were not allowing us to do anything. We told them either allow us to have his funeral bath or do whatever you want at the barrel of a gun,” a relative said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
05-09-2021||India||Narendra Modi alerted to Central Vigilance Commission vacuum||A group of former judges, advocates and activists have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to express grave concern over the failure to appoint the chairperson and a vigilance commissioner of the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) despite the posts remaining vacant for several months. Apart from being the apex vigilance institution in the country, the CVC is vested with the power to inquire into allegations of corruption against certain categories of public servants, including complaints referred to it by the Lokpal. The CVC is the designated authority to receive complaints from whistleblowers under the Public Interest Disclosure and Protection of Informers (PIDPI) Resolution, 2004. Under the CVC Act, the commission should have a central vigilance commissioner, who is also the chairperson, and two vigilance commissioners. The letter stated that after the retirement of a vigilance commissioner in October last year, the CVC had been functioning with the chairperson and one vigilance commissioner. The chairperson demitted office in June this year and the institution has since then been functioning with only one commissioner who has been made the acting chairperson though no provision exists under the law for such an arrangement. The signatories to the letter are former Chief Justice of Delhi High Court Justice A.P. Shah, former judge of Patna High Court Justice Anjana Prakash, advocate Prashant Bhushan, social activist Aruna Roy, retired IPS officer Meeran Borwankar, IAS (Retd) Sundar Burra, former information commissioner (Central Information Commission) Shailesh Gandhi and social activist and Satark Nagrik Sangathan founder Anjali Bhardwaj. “Even in 2019 and 2020, for nearly 12 months, the commission was without a chairperson and an ad hoc arrangement of appointing an acting chief was resorted to. The purpose of setting up autonomous oversight bodies like the CVC is defeated if appointments are not made in a timely manner,” the letter stated. “The government has effectively paralysed the Central Vigilance Commission by leaving posts of commissioners vacant. Further, it is imperative that appointments be made in a transparent manner to maintain the integrity of the decision-making process,” it added. The letter pointed out that the Supreme Court, in multiple judgments, had given specific directions to ensure transparency in the process of shortlisting, selecting and appointing functionaries of various independent bodies such as the CVC and the CIC to prevent the undermining of the appointment process. Yet, the signatories said, no transparency is being followed by the government in the appointment process, thereby undermining the very purpose of the act and the institution created for combating corruption. “It is concerning to note that other than the circular of May 2021, inviting applications for the post of the central vigilance commissioner, no further details are available in the public domain. Even the names of the members of the search committee and details of applications received pursuant to the circular are not disclosed. “Timely and transparent appointments are key to ensure the proper functioning of institutions. Transparency safeguards against arbitrariness in the appointment process and builds public trust…. We urge you to ensure that vacancies in the CVC are filled without any further delay in a transparent manner,” the letter stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
05-09-2021||India||Haji controversy: Two filmmakers drop biopic on Mappila hero||Two filmmakers who were among those who made a beeline to produce biopics on a central character of the 1921 Mappila Rebellion in Kerala have dropped out. Variyamkunnath Kunjahamed Haji who led the 1921 revolt, originally against the British, has been a polarising character in Kerala with the Sangh parivar arguing that his was an anti-Hindu pogrom and not freedom struggle. After filmmaker Ashiq Abu and actor Prithviraj, who was supposed to play Haji, backed out of their film on Wednesday, Omar Lulu dropped his project on Friday, just a day after announcing the biopic with action hero Babu Antony in the title role. When Abu first announced a biopic starring Prithviraj in July last year, hate messages flooded their social media pages, including open threats from Right-wing leaders. The outcry that Abu’s project triggered had led to four other filmmakers announcing separate films on Haji and the 1921 rebellion, one of them being RSS co-traveller Ali Akbar. While all were projected as big budget movies, none could take off due to the pandemic. Lulu told The Telegraph on Saturday that he decided to drop his project after watching the 1988 film 1921 which was roughly based on the Mappila Rebellion through the eyes of a fictional character played by Mammootty. Haji was only a supporting character in that movie. “When I watched 1921 for a second time after 10 years, I realised that it had already narrated the story of Variyamkunnath Haji. So there is no point in making another big budget film on the same subject since 1921 is a very good benchmark,” he said. He admitted receiving many messages supporting and opposing his proposed project. “No one threatened me or my film. But I did receive a lot of messages from pro-Sangh parivar people who were against the film and many others who encouraged me to go ahead,” he said. Lulu had even received several offers from producers shortly after his announcement on making the biopic on Haji if someone were to pump in Rs 15 crore. While Dubai-based entrepreneur Iqbal Marconi offered to meet the entire expense, several others offered to jointly finance the movie. “My idea was to cast Babu (an actor trained in martial arts) in the title role and bring in experts to do action sequences to add value to the story of Haji. But now there’s no point in discussing that since I have dropped the plan,” he added. While neither Abu nor Prithviraj had explained the reason for backing out of the project, there was speculation that they had serious differences with producers Compass Movies. Compass Movies, in a statement on Friday, announced that the project was not shelved even after the exit of Abu and Prithviraj. It announced that the film would be made in two parts by a new team to be announced soon. Veteran filmmaker P.T. Kunju Muhammed had clarified that he would go ahead with his film soon after Abu’s decision shocked the Malayalam film industry. But there was no word from Ibrahim Vengara and Shahbaz Pandikkad, who too had announced their own films. Akbar did not respond to calls from this newspaper. Often described as a part of the Khilafat Movement, the Mappila Rebellion had led to heavy bloodshed with an estimated 10,000 people, nearly 2,400 of them rebels, getting killed. Haji and his compatriot Ali Musaliar who led the fight were executed after summary trials. The Indian Council of Historical Research had recently kicked up a row by deleting 387 names of Mappila rebels, including Haji and Musaliar, from the Dictionary of Martyrs of India’s Freedom Struggle that contains accounts of martyrs from the First War of Independence in 1857 to the Independence in 1947.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
05-09-2021||India||Farmers gearing up for Sunday's mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar||Bharatiya Kisan Union president Naresh Tikait has said the people of Muzaffarnagar have decided to keep their doors open for farmers who are to arrive from across the country to attend a mahapanchayat against the three farm laws on Sunday. “The farmers coming here from all over the country will not face any problem as the people are ready to offer them food, water, shelter and other assistance,” the BKU chief said on Saturday. The mahapanachayat has been called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. “We are on a dharna at the Haryana-Delhi and Uttar Pradesh-Delhi borders for the last nine months. But this insensitive central government is hell bent on finishing farmers and handing over the agricultural fields to the corporates. The mahapanchayat would pledge to defeat the BJP in future elections so that the farmers are saved from its conspiracy,” Tikait said. Dharmendra Malik, a BKU leader, said over five lakh peasants might attend. Additional district magistrate Amit Singh said: “Besides security forces all over, there will be women police on duty to look after the women farmers.” State government sources said over 100 IPS officers and 20,000 police and paramilitary forces had been deployed in Muzaffarnagar and adjoining Meerut, Saharanpur and Shamli districts. According to an order from the police headquarters, Lucknow, besides security forces of the respective districts, IPS officers from Allahabad, Kanpur, Lucknow, Moradabad and other districts would be on duty in Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur, Shamli and Meerut. “The administrative and police officers have held several rounds of meetings with our leaders and decided to deploy huge forces. We hope it is for the safety of the farmers,” Malik said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
05-09-2021||India||Centre signs tripartite peace pact with Karbi insurgents||The Centre on Saturday signed a tripartite peace accord with Karbi insurgent outfits that is expected to end protracted violence in the Karbi Anglong region of Assam. The Karbi Peace Accord was signed in New Delhi in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and representatives of some Karbi insurgent groups from the Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council that governs the Karbi Anglong district. The Karbis, who have been fighting for statehood, are a major ethnic community of Assam and have several factions and splinter groups. The history of the Karbi insurgent groups has been marked by ki­llings, ethnic violence and abductions since the late 1980s. A media statement from the Union home ministry said the agreement would ensure greater devolution of autonomy to the Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council (KAAC), protection of the identity, language and culture of the Karbi people and focused development of the council area without affecting the territorial and administrative integrity of Assam. “The Karbi armed groups have agreed to abjure violence and join the peaceful democratic process as established by law of the land. The agreement also provides for rehabilitation of cadres of the armed groups,” the statement said. Shah said a Rs 1,000-crore development package would be given to Karbi Anglong. “I want to assure everyone that we will implement this accord in a time-bound manner,” the Union home minister said. The Assam government, the home ministry statement said, will also set up a Karbi Welfare Council for the development of Karbis living outside the KAAC area. “The Consolidated Fund of the State will be augmented to supplement the resources of the KAAC. Overall, the present settlement proposes to give more legislative, executive, administrative and financial powers to the KAAC,” the statement said. Besides the Centre and the Assam government, the signatories to the accord are Tuliram Ronghang, chief executive member of the KAAC, and representatives of the Karbi Longri North Cachar Hills Liberation Front, People’s Democratic Council of Karbi Longri, United People’s Liberation Army and the Karbi People’s Liberation Tigers factions. In February, 1,040 Karbi militants belonging to these outfits had laid down arms before then Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal to return to the mainstream. The KAAC is one of the three autonomous councils in Assam under the Sixth Schedule that provides for protection of the rights of tribals. The other two are the Bodoland Territorial Council and the North Cachar Hills Autonomous Council. The Naga Students’ Federation and the NSCN (I-M) had earlier expressed reservations about the proposed tripartite pact. The NSF had claimed that the Naga populace of Karbi Anglong district, who the outfit says are the original inhabitants of the area, had not been consulted. The NSCN (I-M) had said the proposed Karbi Anglong Autonomous Territorial Council should not “override” the interests of the Rengma Nagas living there. The NSCN (I-M) had said the “present Karbi Anglong areas” were officially declared Rengma Naga Hills in 1841 during British rule. “The Karbis who are immigrants from different places like Sivasagar, Nagaon, Cachar, Tezpur, Lakhimpur, Silchar and Khasi and Jaintia Hills during British rule cannot claim (for) themselves the status of original inhabitants,” an NSCN (I-M) statement had said. The outfit had also declared that any pact that “victimises” the Rengma Nagas, according to it the legitimate owners of the land, would not be acceptable to the Nagas in general and to the NSCN (I-M) in particular.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
05-09-2021||India||CJI Ramana expresses concern over lack of adequate representation of women in judiciary||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Saturday expressed concern over lack of adequate representation of women in the judiciary and the trend of “corporatising” the legal profession that has put access to justice beyond the common man’s reach. Replying to his felicitation by the Bar Council of India, Justice Ramana lamented that the majority of women advocates struggled within the profession and very few found representation at the top. ““Even when they do, they still continue to face significant challenges. After 75 years of Independence, one would expect at least 50 per cent representation for women at all levels, but I must admit (that) with great difficulty we have now achieved a mere 11 per cent representation of women on the bench of the Supreme Court. “Some states, because of reservation policy, may reveal higher representation, but the reality remains that the legal profession still has to welcome women into its fold,” Justice Ramana said. The CJI’s remark comes against the backdrop of the elevation of three women judges to the Supreme Court. One of them — Justice B.V. Nagarathna — is in line to become the first woman Chief Justice of India in 2027. Justice Ramana stressed the need for lawyers to contribute to nation building, but regretted that the profession was being commercialised. ““I want to highlight a new trend in the profession. This is similar to what has happened in foreign countries. I am referring to the corporatisation of the profession. Because of issues relating to livelihood, many young and bright lawyers are joining law firms. This is a welcome change as it is opening up fresh avenues for first-generation lawyers. “But at the same time, it is also causing a decline in the traditional practice. Common people cannot afford quality legal advice at corporate prices, which is an area of concern. Even though we are strongly providing access to justice, still lakhs of people in India are unable to approach the courts to seek remedy,” CJI Ramana said. According to him, steep expenditure and long delays in the legal process are the biggest challenges confronting the judiciary and there is a need for all stakeholders to come together to find a way out. “Although this might not be the right occasion to mention, but as an experienced member of the judicial family, it is my duty to bring to your notice certain hard facts. The judicial system is facing difficult challenges like that of deficient infrastructure, shortage of administrative staff and huge vacancies of judges. I have been emphasising on augmenting infrastructure for very long. I have a proposal to address this issue in a time-bound manner,” the CJI said. “A comprehensive proposal for the creation of a National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation is under preparation. We have collected the status report from across the country. A proposal in this regard will reach the Hon’ble law minister very soon. I expect full cooperation from the government,” he added. The CJI referred to Justice B.R. Gavai comparing him with Sachin Tendulkar because the collegium headed by him cleared nine names for elevation as Supreme Court judges at one go last month and then another 68 names on Friday for high courts. Both sets are the highest numbers of names cleared by the collegium in one stroke. Justice Ramana said: “A while ago I was referred to as Sachin Tendulkar. I must correct the perception here. Like (in) any game, it is a team effort. Unless all the members of the team perform well, it is difficult to win. Here, I must place on record my sincere thanks to my colleagues in the collegium — brothers U.U. Lalit, A.M. Khanwilkar, D.Y. Chandrachud and L. Nageswara Rao — who have become active and constructive partners in this endeavour. “Due to the collective efforts, as you are all aware, we could reduce the number of vacancies in the apex court to just one. Similarly, after I took over, the collegium has recommended, if I am not wrong, 82 names to various high courts. I hope the government will ensure that the names are cleared at the earliest just the way the nine names were cleared for the apex court.” It is an ongoing process. We hope to live up to the Herculean challenge of filling nearly 41 per cent vacancies existing in… the high courts.” Hailing Justice Ramana earlier during the programme, Justice Gavai had described him as “Sachin Tendulkar breaking records one after another”. Terming the CJI as a “true leader” of the India judiciary, Justice Gavai said: “Under his able leadership, a common man feels that a real judge is there in the Supreme Court… who has a real concern for the common man and the downtrodden.” Justice Gavai said CJI Ramana treated all other judges as his own brothers and sisters and was always helpful and accessible to them. Justice Vineet Saran also lavished praise on the CJI, saying Justice Ramana had achieved what is being perceived as an impossible task of clearing the names of nine judges for the Supreme Court and 68 for the high courts at one go. Justice Saran also reminded the audience of how Justice Ramana had treated as a PIL a letter addressed to him by a 12-year-old schoolgirl, requesting him to resume physical hearings at courts since most other institutions had restarted normal activities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
05-09-2021||India||Teachers’ association protests government’s online push||The largest central university teachers’ association has expressed apprehension that the government is trying to mainstream online education, potentially imperilling the careers of students by turning a pandemic-era exigency into a long-term learning mode. Quality concerns have been raised over online education, not to mention its limited reach in a country with patchy Net connectivity and lack of wide access to devices. The Federation of Central Universities’ Teachers’ Associations (FedCUTA) has opposed the new National Education Policy (NEP) that advocates the spread of online learning. The association has planned a protest in New Delhi on Teachers’ Day. FedCUTA said online education should be used to supplement offline learning, not replace it. However, several reputable central universities have made provisions for 40 to 60 per cent of courses being covered online. Delhi University (DU) and Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) have decided to introduce four-year undergraduate programmes, increasing the usual three-year duration, and permit students to pursue up to 50 per cent of a course in either the online or the offline mode from other universities. The students can earn credits from other institutions and redeem them for award of degrees from their parent institutions. FedCUTA president Rajib Ray said: “Online education was adopted because of the pandemic. But it is now being forced on us. This is dangerous.” Ray expressed doubts about the quality of the online courses offered under Study Webs of Active Learning for Young Aspiring Minds (Swayam), a government initiative where online courses prepared by professors of various universities are available. Students can pursue such courses online and get the credits transferred to their own institutions where they would not be required to study the same courses again. Prof. Milap Sharma, a member of the JNU teachers’ association and FedCUTA, said teachers were finding it difficult to engage with students online and ensure that they receive and follow instructions properly. Abha Dev Habib of the DU teachers’ association and also a FedCUTA member, pointed to the distance mode of learning in existence for years. She said the government should strengthen the institutions offering education in the distance mode, where students are allowed to participate from home, if it wanted to increase the gross enrolment ratio. “But through the NEP, the government is trying to convert regular mode programmes at conventional universities to semi-regular programmes by incorporating online learning,” Habib said. She said employers preferred students passing out of regular programmes, or in-campus learning, because of the opportunity it provided for peer interactions, discussions with teachers outside classrooms and extra-curricular activities. Prof. Ramsewak Dubey from Allahabad University and Prof. X.P. Mao from North-Eastern Hill University highlighted the reduction in government funding for higher education in recent times. The UGC has written to universities to take austerity measures and steps for generating internal resources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-241
