06-09-2021||India||'Standing resolutely and fearless': Rahul Gandhi voices support for protesting farmers||A day after thousands of farmers gathered at a mahapanchayat in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday voiced support for the protesting farmers and said they are fearless and standing resolutely.  The BJP attacked Gandhi and alleged that he was trying to fuel propaganda by tweeting an old picture "to claim success of the mahapanchayat".  "Standing resolutely and fearless, here are the 'Bharat Bhagya Vidhata'," Gandhi tweeted in Hindi along with a photograph of a massive public gathering.  Gandhi used the hashtag of 'FarmersProtest' along with his tweet.  Attacking Gandhi, the BJP's Information and Technology Department head Amit Malviya tweeted, "That Rahul Gandhi has to use an old picture to claim success of the Mahapanchayat just shows how the propaganda to call it a well attended 'farmer' agitation hasn't worked."  "It is political. With religious slogans raised, it leaves no one in doubt, what the actual motivation is!" he said.  Slamming Malviya, Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Jayant Chaudhary said the photograph tagged by Gandhi was from a kisan panchayat organised by his party in Shamli and asked what the BJP leader wanted to say. Thousands of farmers from Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring states on Sunday gathered in Muzaffarnagar for the 'kisan mahapanchayat' and vowed to continue their stir till the three contentious agri laws enacted by the Centre are scrapped.  The event was organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) which has been spearheading the agitation against the laws since November last year.  The farmers' protest at Delhi's borders against the three contentious laws has been going on for over nine months.  They have been demanding the repeal of the laws which they feel will do away with the MSP system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations.  The government has insisted that these laws have given farmers a new opportunity to sell their produce and rejected claims that they are aimed at doing away with the minimum support price regime and farm mandis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
06-09-2021||India||Seek prior approval to probe corrupt ministers, other officials: Centre to police officers||The Centre has issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for police officers to seek mandatory prior approval before conducting any investigation against allegedly corrupt public servants, according to a Personnel Ministry order. An amendment carried out in the over 30-year-old Prevention of Corruption Act (PCA), 1988 in July 2018 bars a police officer from conducting "any enquiry or inquiry or investigation into any offence alleged to have been committed by a public servant" without "the previous approval" of the authorities. The SOPs were issued “to standardize and operationalise procedures with a view to achieving uniform and effective implementation for prior approval processes”, more than three years after the amendments came into force. They provide for stage-wise processing of information received by a police officer, specify the rank of the police officer to seek prior approval and lay down a single-window procedure for it among others, said the order issued to secretaries of the central and state government departments. All administrative authorities, including ministries and departments of the central and the state governments, besides the investigating agencies, have been asked to ensure "strict compliance" of the SOPs, it said. The SOPs have been shared with the director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) "with the request that all field units may kindly be apprised of these SOPs for strict compliance", and also with the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC). The SOPs make it mandatory for a police officer to verify whether the information received by him pertains to the allegation of the commission of an offence by a public servant or whether it contains information to identify the public servant(s) against whom the offence has been alleged. It also makes it mandatory for them to specify act(s) of commission or omission attributable to such public servant(s) and "whether such act(s) are relatable to the official function or duty discharged by such public servant(s) specific to the office/post held at the time of commission of the alleged offence". “The police officer in receipt of an information shall place the matter before the police officer of appropriate rank for seeking previous approval,” it said. The SOPs have specified the police officer of appropriate rank who will make a proposal to the appropriate government/authority in respect of a person who is or has been a public servant, said the order. The police officer of appropriate rank will decide upon whether the information received merits to be "enquired" or inquired into or investigated, it said. Enquiry for the purposes of these SOPs means any action taken for verifying as to whether the information pertains to the commission of an offence, the order clarified. A director general (DG) or DG-equivalent police officer has been specified in the SOPs to seek prior approvals for Union ministers, Members of Parliament, ministers of state governments, members of state legislature, judge of the Supreme Court and high court, and chairpersons or managing directors of public sector enterprises (both central and state) and public sector banks (board-level). The Personnel Ministry has also shared a checklist for police officers for processing cases of prior approvals, said the ministry's order. The police officer will have to enclose a copy of the complaint if the request seeking approval against an allegedly corrupt officer is based on it. They would also have to enclose an authenticated translation in case the original complaint has been made in a vernacular language, it said. They will have to furnish details whether the complaint prima facie reveals deriving of an undue advantage by a public servant for self or any other person, information in respect of bribe giver and "details of the recommendation made or decision taken by a public servant, which is relatable to the offence alleged against the public servant", according to the order. The government authorities have been asked to "designate an officer" "not below the rank of an under-secretary for receiving the proposals relating to previous approval", it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
06-09-2021||India||Javed Akhtar faces heat for Taliban-RSS remark||Lyricist-poet Javed Akhtar on Monday came under attack from the Shiv Sena and the VHP for his comments that appear to equate the RSS and other right-wing outfits with the Taliban, a militant group that has seized power in Afghanistan, while police stepped up security outside his Mumbai home. Akhtar (76) recently told a news channel that right wing all over the world has an uncanny similarity. "The Taliban want an Islamic country. These people want to make a Hindu Rashtra," the veteran lyricist said without naming the RSS. A Maharashtra BJP MLA over the weekend hit out at Akhtar and said no film involving him will be allowed to be screened till he apologises for his remarks. The ruling Shiv Sena in Maharashtra, a former ally of the BJP, on Monday came out in defence of the Nagpur-headquartered Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and dubbed Akhtar''s comments as "completely wrong". "How can you say those who favour the concept of a Hindu Rashtra are of Talibani mindset? We don''t agree with this," an editorial in Sena mouthpiece ''Saamana'' said. Referring to his remarks, the editorial said, "Even though Javed Akhtar is a secular man and speaks against fundamentalism, he is completely wrong in comparing the RSS with the Taliban. The Marathi publication said the stand of those who propagate a Hindu nation is moderate. "The Partition which led to the creation of Pakistan was based on religion. Those who support a Hindu nation only want that the majority Hindus shouldn''t be sidelined. Hindutva is a culture and people of the community demand the right to stop those who attack this culture," it said. The Sena edit maintained that comparing Hindutva with the Taliban is an "insult" of the Hindu culture. "Despite being a Hindu majority country, we have raised the flag of secularism. The proponents of Hindutva only want that Hindus shouldn''t be sidelined," it said. "You can have differences with the RSS, but to call their philosophy Talibani is completely wrong," the Marathi daily added. The Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) slammed Akhtar, saying his comments were a "conspiracy" to confuse the society and demanded strict action against the Bollywood lyricist. A top VHP functionary said the RSS and its affiliates do not believe in violence which was the case with the Taliban, seen as a violent movement. “The Taliban is a terrorist organisation which believes in violence and is anti-women. Comparing such organisations with the RSS, VHP and Bajrang Dal.....I condemn his statement. All these three organisations do not believe in violence and do not work against anyone. "They do social service. It seems like a conspiracy when such big people give such statements and society gets confused. His statement was aimed at confusing society by telling lies. Strict action should be taken against him,” VHP national general secretary Milind Parande told reporters in Nagpur. As Akhtar faced heat, police stepped up security outside his residence in Mumbai. Adequate police force, including women constables, was deployed outside Akhtar''s residence in suburban Juhu, an official said. BJP MLA and state spokesperson Ram Kadam condemned Akhtar''s remarks. The legislator from Mumbai said no film involving Akhtar will be allowed to be screened in the country until he apologises over his comments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
06-09-2021||India||Kerala: 11 contacts of 12-year-old Nipah victim show symptoms||The Kerala health department has identified 251 persons who have come in contact with the 12-year-old boy, who succumbed to Nipah virus infection, out of which 38 are in isolation at the Kozhikode Medical College hospital and of which 11 have shown symptoms, Health Minister Veena George said on Monday.  George, in a press meet here, said of the 251 contacts, 129 are healthcare workers.  "There are 38 persons in isolation at the Kozhikode Medical College hospital of which 11 have shown symptoms. Samples of eight persons have been sent to Pune NIV for testing," the minister said, adding that the health condition of all those who have shown symptoms are stable.  She said of the 251 contacts, 54 are high risk contacts out of which 30 are healthcare workers. This includes parents and few close relatives of the child too. "These contacts were identified following strict protocol," she said.  She said the special laboratory set up at the medical college hospital here by the Pune NIV team, which reached the state in the afternoon, will start testing the samples from tonight.  A medical expert team has visited the house and locality of the child. Another team from the Animal Husbandry Department also inspected the locality.  "The blood and serum samples of the two goats, owned by the child's family, will be tested at the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal," the Minister said, adding that a team from Bhopal NIV will reach Kozhikode on Wednesday.  George also informed that the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Kozhikode taluk has been halted for the next 48 hours. However, testing and other related activities will continue.  Special teams have been formed for a detailed collection of information from the locality of the child's house.  "The team will collect every single detail from all the houses in the containment zone. One team has been assigned for every 25 houses," she said.  Earlier in the day, the state government had issued a Nipah management plan listing the health protocol to be followed by government and private hospitals.  The state health department has been on high alert after a 12-year-old boy from Kozhikode succumbed to Nipah virus infection on Sunday.  An area of three kilometre radius from the house of the deceased child has been declared as a containment zone. This includes wards from five panchayats. The health department in four districts--Kozhikode, neighbouring Kannur, Malappuram and Wayanad districts have been put on high alert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
06-09-2021||India||Six minor girls paraded naked in MP to appease rain gods||At least six minor girls were paraded naked in a village in Madhya Pradesh's Damoh district as part of a ritual to please the rain god and get relief from the drought-like situation, officials said on Monday. Taking cognisance, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) also sought a report from the Damoh district administration about this incident which occurred on Sunday at Baniya village under the Jabera police station area, about 50 km from the Damoh district headquarter, in the Bundelkhand region. A district official said, “A response will be submitted to the NCPCR.” Damoh superintendent of police (SP) DR Teniwar said, “The police received the information that some young girls were paraded naked to appease the God of rains as part of local practice and prevailing social evils.” Police are investigating this incident. Action will be taken if it is found that girls were forced to go naked, he said, adding villagers believe that this practice may result in rain. According to beliefs, young girls are made to walk naked with a wooden shaft rested on their shoulders with a frog tied to it. Women accompanying these girls sing bhajans to praise the rain god, he said. Damoh collector S Krishna Chaitanya said the local administration will submit a report in this regard to the NCPCR. He said the parents of these girls are also involved in this incident and they will be made aware of such superstitious practices. The district collector said none of the villagers complained about this 'ritual'. “In such cases, the administration can only make the villagers aware about the futility of such superstition and make them understand that such practices don't yield desired results,” he told reporters. Meanwhile, two videos of the incident have surfaced. In one of the video clips, girls (looking aged around 5 years) without clothes are seen walking side by side with a wooden shaft resting on their shoulders with a frog tied to it. A group of women singing bhajans follows the procession. In another video, some women can be heard saying that this ritual was being performed as the paddy crop is drying in the absence of rains. "We believe that this will bring in rains," they can be heard telling the person who recorded the incident. These women said that they would collect raw food grain from villagers during the procession and then cook food for 'bhandara' (group feast) at a local temple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
06-09-2021||India||BJP govt should respect farmer agitation; withdraw farm laws: Akhilesh||The BJP government should show respect to the protesting farmers and repeal the contentious farm laws, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said on Monday and added that the country would not tolerate any insult to the peasantry. Talking to reporters here, Yadav referred to Sunday's 'kisan mahapanchayat' in Muzaffarnagar and said, “I congratulate the farmers for uniting against the three new farm laws. The kind of dreams that the BJP had shown to the farmers, it promised farmers' income will double. But their income did not double, instead inflation increased.” “The BJP government should have respected the struggle of the farmers and withdrawn the three farm laws. The nation will not accept any insult to the farmers,” he added. Yadav was in Agra to meet the family members of his party leaders who died during the second wave of Covid-19. Yadav said the SP has left the Jaswantnagar assembly seat for the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia), founded by his uncle Shivpal Singh Yadav, to contest and added that his party respects the latter's associates. On forming alliance for the 2022 assembly polls, he said that his party would tie up with smaller parties, but ruled out any coalition with the BSP. "We had formed coalition with the BSP earlier, but this time it will not be done," he said. On the decision of the AIMIM led by Asaduddin Owaisi to contest the UP polls, Yadav said, “The state is big and many more people would come here.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
06-09-2021||India||Karnal: Ahead of farmers’ mega meet, mobile internet suspended||The Haryana government on Monday ordered suspension of mobile internet services in Karnal district to ‘stop the spread of misinformation and rumours’, a day ahead of the farmers' mahapanchayat and planned gherao of the mini-secretariat over the August 28 lathicharge. The mobile internet services in Karnal district will remain suspended from 12:30 pm on Monday to Tuesday midnight, according to an order of the Home Department. The order, issued “to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order in the jurisdiction of Karnal district, said mobile internet services (2G/3G/4G/CDMA/GPRS), SMS services, including bulk SMS (excluding banking and mobile recharge) and all dongle services etc provided on mobile networks, except voice calling, will remain suspended”. “Whereas, it has been brought to my notice vide...dated September 6 by ADGP (CID), Haryana and District Magistrate, Karnal, that there is chance of intensification of protest which may adversely affect the public safety and law and order situation in Karnal district in the wake of call for Kisan Mahapanchayat on September 7.” “And whereas, there is a clear potential of disruption of public utilities and safety, damage to public assets and amenities and law and order in district Karnal on account of misuse of internet services by way of spread of inflammatory material and false rumours, which are being/could be transmitted/circulated to the public through social media/messaging services on mobile Internet services, SMS services and other dongle services,” the order said. It further added that the suspension of mobile Internet services was ordered to stop the spread of misinformation and rumours through social media platforms such as WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter on mobile phones and SMS. It said this could facilitate mobilisation of mobs that can cause serious loss of life and damage to public and private properties by indulging in arson, vandalism or other violent activities. All telecom service providers of Haryana are, hereby, directed to ensure compliance of the order, it added. Earlier on Monday, prohibitory orders banning gathering of five or more people were imposed in Karnal. The district administration issued orders under section 144 of the CrPC and a traffic advisory with planned route diversions, officials said. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers' outfits protesting against the farm laws, had threatened to lay siege to the Karnal mini-secretariat on September 7 if its demands were not met. Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni on Monday said a mahapanchayat will be held in Karnal on Tuesday, after which farmers will proceed to gherao the mini-secretariat. “Farmers will be gathering in Karnal's New Anaj Mandi on Tuesday morning,” he said, adding their demands have not been met and they will go ahead with their protest. The Haryana Police had lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a national highway near here on August 28 while heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting. Over 10 protesters were injured. The SKM had said a murder case should be registered against IAS officer Ayush Sinha, who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to ‘break heads’ of protesting farmers. Sinha, who was later transferred in a reshuffle also involving some other IAS officers, has now been posted as the additional secretary in the Citizen Resources Information Department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
06-09-2021||India||Russia shares India's concern on Afghan terror factory, notes envoy||The Afghan soil should not be a source of spreading terrorism in other countries of the region and both Russia and India have ‘common concerns’ over it in the backdrop of the unfolding situation in Afghanistan, Russian Ambassador Nikolay Kudashev mentioned on Monday. Delving into implications of the latest developments in Afghanistan, the Russian envoy also said, “There is a danger of the possible spread of terror into Russian territory as well as Kashmir, noting that India and Russia will continue to work together to counter any threat of terrorism.” Kudashev told PTI in an interview that Russia would like to see an inclusive government in Afghanistan that is able to ensure security, stability and predictability, adding the issue of recognition to any new dispensation in Kabul is not an immediate area of focus. The Russian envoy said, “There is "ample scope" for cooperation between India and Russia on Afghanistan and both sides have been in regular touch with each other on the latest developments in the war-torn country.” “Both India and Russia are concerned about the situation in Afghanistan. We want an inclusive government. We want that the Afghan soil should not be a source of terror for other countries in the region,” Kudashev said. “These are the very basic values that bring Russia and India together. I do not see much of a difference in our position on Afghanistan,” he said. Asked whether Russia is concerned about the possible export of terrorism to Russia from Afghanistan, the envoy said ‘definitely’ and noted that any escalation of the civilian conflict would be detrimental to the regional security scenario. “As far as the phenomena of terror are concerned, we do share our concerns with India. There is a danger of terror being spread to the Russian territory and the territory of Kashmir. This is a matter of common concern,” Kudashev said, replying to a question on the possibility of various terror groups operating from Afghanistan shifting focus from the war-ravaged country. Asked about Pakistan backing various terror groups operating in Afghanistan and whether they pose a threat to regional security, Kudashev said, “Russia expects Pakistan to be among the countries that would like to see predictability and a secure environment in Afghanistan.” There have been mounting concerns in India over the possibility of a rise in activities of various terror groups, including Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed, from Taliban-controlled Afghanistan. Indian Ambassador to Qatar Deepak Mittal met senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai in Doha last Tuesday. In the meeting, Mittal conveyed to Stanekzai that Afghanistan's soil should not be used for anti-Indian activities and terrorism. It was the first publicly acknowledged formal engagement between the two sides. Kudashev said tackling the threat of terror has been a matter of continued dialogue between Russia and India under multiple frameworks, including the bilateral mechanism of the counter-terror working group. “Counter-terrorism is part of each and every bilateral meeting. Rest assured we know about this danger and we are most willing to cooperate to deal with it,” he said. The Russian envoy said his country would like to see the ‘future in Afghanistan with optimism’ and there is a need to give some time to any new dispensation in Afghanistan. “We are for an inclusive government in Afghanistan that can ensure sustainable development in the war-torn country. The Afghan people deserve peace, stability, and sustainable development just as any other nation in the world,” Kudashev said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin on August 24 discussed the developments in Afghanistan over a week after its capital Kabul fell to the Taliban. After the conversation, Russian envoy said that the two leaders expressed the intention to enhance cooperation to counter the dissemination of ‘terrorist ideology’ and the drug threat emanating from Afghanistan and agreed to form a permanent bilateral channel for consultations on the issue. Russia has been a key player in pushing for the Afghan peace process before the Taliban captured power in Kabul. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
06-09-2021||India||High Court adjourns Varavara Rao’s plea for interim bail extension||The Bombay High Court on Monday adjourned till September 24 the hearing on the plea for interim bail extension of poet-activist Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, and said he need not surrender to Taloja prison authorities till September 25. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is conducting a probe into the case, opposed Rao's plea for the extension of medical bail and to shift to Hyderabad from Mumbai, saying his medical reports did not indicate that he suffers from any serious medical ailment. Rao (82), who was granted interim bail on medical grounds in February 22 this year, was scheduled to surrender and return to judicial custody on September 5. But, last week, the activist, through lawyer R Sathyanarayanan and senior counsel Anand Grover, filed an application seeking extension of the bail. Rao had also sought permission to stay in his hometown Hyderabad while out on bail, saying he found living in Mumbai and accessing health facilities here unaffordable. In its affidavit filed before the HC on Monday, the NIA said, "The medical reports filed by the applicant do not disclose any major ailment which necessitates him to take treatment at Hyderabad, neither it forms a ground for further extension (of bail)." The NIA, in its affidavit, further said, "The Taloja prison, located in neighbouring Navi Mumbai, had adequate health care facilities and Rao can be provided with the"best medical facilities there." The probe agency also said Rao should not be granted bail extension and should not be allowed to shift to Hyderabad as he is accused of committing a "serious" offence. "They (Rao) cannot expect the Hon'ble courts to pass orders as per their convenience, especially when the accused has prima facie committed offence of serious nature," the NIA said in its affidavit. As part of the stringent interim bail conditions imposed by the HC, Rao has been staying with his wife in a rented accommodation in Mumbai. When he was granted bail, Rao was undergoing treatment for multiple ailments at the city-based private Nanavati Hospital, where was admitted by prison authorities following the HC's intervention. On Monday, Grover told a bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that after being discharged from the Nanavati Hospital in February this year, Rao had developed three additional health ailments. NIA's counsel, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, told the HC that the central agency had filed a "detailed affidavit" opposing Rao's plea. The bench, however, pointed out that it had an administrative meeting to attend and could not hear further arguments in the matter. Grover then urged the HC to extend Rao's date of surrender till the next date of hearing. The HC agreed and said Rao needn't surrender till September 25, but added that he must continue adhering to the bail conditions until then, including staying within the jurisdiction of the Mumbai NIA court. In his plea seeking extension of medical bail and modification of bail conditions, Rao said as per doctors of the Nanavati Hospital, he is suspected to have a neurological issue, known as cluster headache, which needs further examination. Rao further said in the plea that he continues to suffer from multiple ailments, including urinary tract infection with recurrent hyponatremia, suspicion of Parkinsons' disease, lacunar infarcts in six major lobes of the brain, and some eye problems. The activist contended that if he returned to custody in the Taloja prison, which was not equipped to cater to his medical problems, his health would certainly deteriorate and he might die. Thus, he sought that his medical bail be extended for another six months. "All medical parameters of the applicant go to show that if he is sent back to judicial custody, it will not be long before his condition reverts back to what it was," Rao's plea read. Rao also said in his plea that he found living in Mumbai and accessing health facilities here unaffordable, and urged the HC to let him stay in Hyderabad while out in bail. The case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at the 'Elgar Parishad' conclave, held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the city's outskirts. The Pune police had claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
06-09-2021||India||Kerala HC directs Centre to schedule second Covishield dose on CoWIN portal||The Kerala High Court has directed the Centre to allow scheduling, on CoWIN portal, of second Covishield dose after four weeks from the first for those who want to take it earlier than the present suggested gap of 84 days. Justice P B Suresh Kumar said that if the central and state governments can permit persons traveling abroad to choose between early and better protection from Covid-19, there is no reason why the same privilege cannot be extended to those here who want early protection in connection with their employment or education. The high court, in its order dated September 3 which was made available on Monday, said that even according to the Union Health Ministry's policy the people shall have the choice to get early vaccination, for the implementation of which vaccine is being distributed on payment basis through private hospitals as well. "The fourth respondent (Centre) is directed to make necessary provisions forthwith in the CoWIN portal, so as to enable scheduling of second dose of Covidhield vaccine after four weeks of the first dose for those who want to accept the second dose after a period of four weeks in terms of the initial protocol of the vaccine," the court said. The observations and directions of the court came while allowing the plea by Kitex Garments Ltd, represented by advocate Blaze K Jose, seeking permission to administer the second dose of Covishield vaccine to its workers without having to wait for 84 days. Kitex, in its plea had said that it has already vaccinated more than 5,000 of its workers with the first dose and has arranged for the second dose at a cost of nearly Rs 93 lakh, but was unable to administer the same due to the prevailing restrictions. The Centre had opposed the plea by contending that the 84-day gap between two doses of Covishield was fixed to increase the efficacy of the vaccine, as recommended by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) and was also based on the technical inputs provided by the National Immunization Technical Advisory Group (NITAG).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
06-09-2021||India||Asian Development Bank clears $150 mn loan for Tamil Nadu’s urban poor housing project||Multilateral funding agency Asian Development Bank has approved a USD 150 million (about Rs 1,095 crore) loan for a sustainable housing project for the urban poor in Tamil Nadu. The loan to provide access to inclusive, resilient, and sustainable housing for the urban poor in Tamil Nadu was approved on September 3, 2021, ADB said in a release on Monday. The Manila-headquartered funding agency said Tamil Nadu is vital to India's economic growth, contributing 8.54 per cent to the country's gross domestic product (GDP). Economic opportunities have increased rural urban migration in the state, which already has one of the highest urbanisation rates in India. "Tamil Nadu's housing shortfall accounts for 6.66 per cent of the national deficit, and when mapped against income levels, low-income households bear most of the shortage," said ADB Principal Safeguards Specialist for South Asia Ricardo Carlos Barba. The aim is to provide vulnerable and disadvantaged households access to inclusive, safe, and affordable housing infrastructure and services, Barba said. Tamil Nadu has a population of more than 72 million (7.2 crore), nearly half of which are living in urban areas. The rapid urbanization and growth in the urban population will require adequate urban infrastructure and services, including housing, ADB said. With this USD 150 million loan, through the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board, the project will construct housing units in nine different locations and relocate about 6,000 households vulnerable to natural hazards to safer locations. It will also help Tamil Nadu's Directorate of Town and Country Planning develop regional plans to map the state's economic and infrastructure development including affordable housing, environmental protection, disaster risk management, and gender, ADB said. A portion of ADB's assistance will be invested by the state government as equity into the Tamil Nadu Shelter Fund to catalyze private sector financing and support investments mainly in industrial housing and working women's hostels for low-income and migrant workers. In addition, ADB will provide a USD 1.5 million (nearly Rs 10.95 crore) technical assistance (TA) grant from its Technical Assistance Special Fund to support the capacity building of government agencies responsible for delivering affordable housing and regional planning in the state. The TA will document successful approaches to affordable housing delivery, including the graduation programme for vulnerable relocated beneficiaries, that can be adopted in other cities and countries, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
06-09-2021||India||BJP calls Rahul Gandhi ‘political cuckoo’ of Indian politics||With Rahul Gandhi attacking the government over the farmers' protest, the BJP on Monday dubbed him as a political cuckoo of Indian politics who, it alleged, does not want to work on the ground and uses the shoulders of others for his political agenda. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra also accused the Congress leader of posting an old picture of farmers' protest while referring to their Sunday mahapanchayat in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar district, and said this is part of his politics of spreading confusion and lies . The Congress is without a (regular) president. It is incapable of raising ground issues. That is why Sonia Gandhi holds virtual meetings with leaders of other parties while Rahul Gandhi relies on old photographs in his attempt to spread confusion for politics, Patra told a press conference. Sonia Gandhi is the interim president of the party. As a cuckoo does not build her nest and seeks comfort in nests of other birds, Rahul Gandhi also works in a similar manner, he said. He does not work to build his party's organisation. He does not work hard. It has become his habit to use others' shoulders for politics, he charged. With protesting farmer unions hitting out at the government, Patra claimed that the Modi dispensation was always dedicated to farmers and will remain so. He cited a number of measures taken by the government, including direct transfer of over Rs 1.5 lakh crore to farmers, and record procurement and payment for their produce, to make his point. Citing the Morning Consult survey that ranked Modi with the highest approval rating of 70 per cent among 13 heads of governments, including Joe Biden and Boris Johnson, Patra said it was possible because of the government's achievements, including a host of welfare measures for the poor, deprived and farmers. At the press conference, the BJP spokesperson also referred to India's Covid-19 vaccination drive, which has been gathering pace and clocked over one crore jabs on two days recently, and hit out at Rahul Gandhi, who had earlier criticised the alleged slow pace of inoculation. Over 68.75 crore people have received at least one dose of vaccination, which has reached an average daily figure of 85 lakh, he said. Now Rahul Gandhi is not seen posting any tweet on the vaccination drive, he said. He also attacked the Congress leader for not speaking out on the alleged rape of a minor in Rajasthan and registration of an FIR against Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel's father for his remarks allegedly targeting a community. While Gandhi spreads confusion everywhere for his politics, he has kept quiet on these issues involving the Congress-ruled states, Patra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
06-09-2021||India||The drone takeoff has started, thanks to the new government rules||Ever since drones began flying, the government has looked upon them as a problem to be wished away. There was the danger to planes landing at airports. And, of course, there was a security risk and the possibility terrorists might use them to carry explosive devices. Consequently, the government kept drones tethered to the earth with a book full of rules and red tape. Suddenly, though, the government’s done a 180-degree about-turn and the nascent industry says the sky’s now the limit. “The takeoff has started,” says Smit Shah, who’s the director of the Drone Federation of India. Shah said a “rough estimate suggests in the next five years it will be more than a Rs 50,000-crore business.” He adds: “It could even be 10 times more.” Shah also says the industry could create 500,000 professional jobs over the next five years as the new rules open up opportunities for local manufacture of delivery drones. The new regulations make India “future-ready,” he declares. In recent years, drones have been evolving beyond their military original purpose to become powerful business tools. Globally, they’ve already made the leap to the consumer market and now they’re being put to work in commercial and civilian government applications from firefighting to farming. These developments have created a market opportunity that Goldman Sachs has called “too hot to ignore.” Green, yellow & red zones The country is about to be divided into green, yellow and red zones. Drones will be allowed to fly freely in green zones and subject to certain rules in the yellow zones. They’ll need permission to fly in Red Zones which will be around airports, defence establishments and government offices. Vipul Singh, CEO and co-founder Aarav Unmanned Systems (UAS), isn’t even looking ahead five years – he’s more worried about the next six months when he believes there will be a “40-times expansion in the number of drones.” He’s now worrying about how to up production, raise funds and train staff to cope with this sudden booming growth. For the moment, he isn’t worrying too much about revenues which he says will follow automatically. So what’s likely to be on the drone flight path over the next year? “You’ll see the first drone prototype air-taxis being built out of India in less than 12 months,” Shah predicts confidently, adding: “You may not have people flying in that prototype. But it will be a prototype that can be graduated for trials and people flying as well.” E-commerce package delivery Besides that, Shah reckons, we will soon have e-commerce packages and even, “very complex heavy packages” being delivered by drones, even between nearby cities once air passages are established. At a different level, he sees drones being used to drop medicines in hilly areas or to rural healthcare centres that don’t have fridges to store cold chain medicines. Besides that, there are already enormous government schemes waiting to take off that will literally need swarms of drones. There’s Svamvita which works with the Ministry of Panchayati Raj and the Land Records Department in different states and which aims to demarcate private and government property and create land records in India’s 6.6 lakh villages. Already more than 100 drones have been flying daily in states across the country working on this project but it’s reckoned about 3,000 will be needed to get it done efficiently. On a similar scale, there’s the government’s crop insurance scheme, the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bhima Yojana. Roads and railways Turn to the public and private sectors and they will also step up the use of drones now that it’s easy to get them into the air without flying into a wall of red tape. Drones are of immense use in the infrastructure sector, in sectors like roads and railways. Also, for instance, they can quickly keep an overhead eye on oil and gas and petroleum pipelines. Mining companies too need them and so do iron and steel and coal companies. For these companies which keep large quantities of their raw materials out in the open drones can help with quick stocktaking. Also, there are a huge number of small drones being used by almost every wedding photographer or anyone covering an event. Giant Cos making a move Not surprisingly, the country’s giant corporations like the Ambanis, the Adanis, the Mahindras and the Tatas have all been making moves into the sector. Mukesh Ambani has bought a majority stake in Asteria which develops drones both for mining, oil & gas, agriculture and security-oriented vehicles for the police, paramilitary and military. Ambani also invested $100,000 in Detect Technologies which makes drones for surveying power company transmission lines and the suchlike. These have been increasingly in demand since the Covid-19 pandemic broke out forcing companies to use lower manpower on the ground. The Adanis and the Tatas, too, are making UAVs for the police and security services. And Mahindra Defence has tied up with Aeronautics of Israel to make unmanned vehicles primarily for the navy and also for crop spraying. The government, till recently showed no signs of wanting to loosen the rules that had tied the drone industry in knots over the last decade. After considerable lobbying by the Drone Federation of India, in March the government introduced what it called the Unmanned Aircraft System Rules 2021. To the industry’s dismay, the new rules simply refined the existing system of tight controls. Repeal in 3 months But the Drone Federation didn’t give up and amazingly less than three months later the government reversed course sharply. Says Smit Shah: “The repeal has come in just over three months. Under the same government, the same people. We started from a very control-centric and very licence-oriented regulation and then complete liberalisation.” Shah says the Prime Minister’s Office was deeply involved in loosening the regulations. Now that the government’s done its about-face, its ambitions for the industry are boundless. "India is on the cusp of a major drone revolution. The future belongs to drones,” Union aviation secretary P. S. Kharola said at the weekend. "We want to become drone leaders in the world. India is best suited for this sector as it became the IT capital of the world, then the startup capital and now drones beckon us," he said at the inauguration of a remote aircraft pilot training school in Bangalore on Sunday. Market valu: $20.24 billion The drones market is valued at $20.24 billion in 2020 and is forecast to post CAGR of nearly 16 per cent to 2026. The new rules apply to all drones of under 500kg and once a basic registration has been done the paperwork is now minimal. The number of forms needed to operate a drone has fallen from 25 to five and the types of fees from 72 to four. Most of the country is expected to be in the green zones for which no permissions are needed below a certain height. This is a huge change from before. Says Shah: “Before if any drone company wanted to do legal operation, they had to ask for an exemption from the rules.” Industry was waiting Mind you, the drone industry was just waiting for a green flag to get going. There are already 100 drone manufacturers, 200 service providers and 25,000 trained pilots. There are already eight drone aircraft system remote pilot training sites across India approved by the DGCA (Director General of Civil Aviation) in India. Karnataka has also just opened its first DGCA-approved (Director General of Civil Aviation) drone-training site. The Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Uran Akademi, which has been training commercial airline pilots since 1986, is tying up with the drone-manufacturing company, Drone Destination, to set up drone pilot training centres. The companies launched one training centre in Manesar earlier in the year and the second was inaugurated in Bangalore at the weekend. Aerial spraying of crops Singh of Aarav Unmanned Systems points out that the Agriculture Ministry has recently loosened the rules and given the green signal for aerial spraying of crops – this hadn’t been allowed earlier. Besides that, in February, the government has also loosened the rules surrounding the collection of geospatial data. Again, the government has changed course sharply on geospatial data. Before it had taken a heavily security-oriented approach to allowing the capture of data. Singh notes that drones can be used at almost every stage of building roads. They can be used to map the route a road should take. Then drones flying overhead can monitor construction. And finally, they can identify potholes or other needed repairs. Aarav both makes drones and also operates them for its clients. Singh is looking at whether he will have to open a new facility in the coming months and also how he will build up staff and pilot training modules. Besides that, he’s also worried about global supply chains that have been severely disrupted by the pandemic. He could be spectacularly busy in the coming months – but he isn’t about to complain about that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
06-09-2021||India||BJP seeks apology over Javed Akhtar's remark||Security was beefed up outside the residence of writer-lyricist Javed Akhtar in Mumbai on Monday after a Maharashtra BJP MLA demand an apology from him over his remark where he allegedly compared the RSS with the Taliban, a police official said. Adequate police bandobast was placed outside Akhtar's residence near the ISKCON temple in Juhu area, the official said, adding that security personnel, including women constables, were deployed outside the lyricist's home. Akhtar recently told a news channel that right-wing all over the world has an uncanny similarity. "The Taliban want an Islamic country. These people want to make a Hindu Rashtra," the lyricist said without naming the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). BJP MLA and state party spokesperson Ram Kadam condemned Akhtar's remark. The legislator from Mumbai said no film involving Akhtar will be allowed to be screened in the country until he apologises to Sangh functionaries over his comments. The Shiv Sena, which shares power with the NCP and Congress in Maharashtra, on Monday said Akhtar was "completely wrong" in comparing the RSS with the Taliban. "How can you say those who favour the concept of a Hindu Rashtra are of Talibani mindset? We don't agree with this," an editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
06-09-2021||India||SC chides govt over appointments in tribunals||The Supreme Court Monday said the Centre was testing its patience and "emasculating" tribunals by not appointing officials to the quasi-judicial bodies which are facing severe crunch of presiding officers as well as judicial and technical members and sought action on the matter by September 13. Asserting that it did not want any confrontation with the government, a special bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana asked the Centre to make some appointments to the tribunals before next Monday. There are around 250 posts lying vacant at various key tribunals and appellate tribunals such as NCLT, DRT, TDSAT andT. "You are emasculating the tribunals by not making the appointments," said the bench, also comprising Justices D Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta requested the bench to adjourn hearing due to non-availability of Attorney General K K Venugopal due to personal issues. "No, sorry. Last time, we had made it very clear. We have set up this special bench of two senior judges by disturbing two regular benches. They had earlier heard these matters and passed detailed judgements," the CJI said. "There is no respect for the judgements of this court. This is what we are feeling. You are testing our patience. Last time, you made a statement that some persons have been appointed. Where are they appointed," he said. Mehta said that these appointments were made in Central Administrative Tribunals and shared information from the Finance Ministry on the new Tribunals Reforms Act and the rules to be framed under it. "The government will ensure that within the next two weeks, a decision on appointments to all the tribunals, where the search and selection committee has already recommended names for appointments," he said. The court took note of the submissions and adjourned the hearing on a batch of pleas pertaining to the vacancies at the tribunals and the new law for further hearing on September 13. "We hope the appointments will be made by then." "It seems you are bent upon not respecting the judgement of the court... We have only three options left, one is staying the legislation or whatever the Act that you have made and directing you to go ahead with the appointments, or close down these tribunals and give the powers to high courts to take up these matters, and third is we ourselves will appoint the people. We may consider initiating contempt proceedings," the CJI said. "We do not want confrontation with the government and we are happy with the way the nine Supreme Court judges were appointed. The entire legal fraternity appreciated this... But what about these tribunals? These are small tribunals. Some of them are very good like NGT, CAT, consumer commissions, NCLT. No chairpersons, no presidents, nothing...they are collapsing. Why are you so particular about these tribunals, we do not understand," the bench said. Mehta said, "The government does not want any confrontation either." The bench asked the Centre to apprise it of alternative proposals, if any and whether it wanted these quasi-judicial bodies. It said some panels headed by judges had made some recommendations 18 months ago under the then existing laws to which the government cannot have any objection. "Still, virtually no appointments were made... Some tribunals are on the verge of closing down. Some of them are functioning with one member, they are on the verge of extinction. We can understand that there was some law which was in the offing and the Centre was saying it will make appointments according to it, but these were recommendations made strictly in accordance with the law as it existed then," the bench said. It also referred to the severe crunch of presiding officers and other members in tribunals like AFT, NCLT and NCLAT. "These tribunals are critical to the economy. They are the cornerstone of the government's policy for reconstruction and rehabilitation of the corporate sector. Because of the vacancies, NCLT and NCLAT cannot dispose of matters... There is an outer limit of 330 days for completing the corporate insolvency resolution process," it said. "There is an apex court judgment which said if insolvency proceedings are not decided within the stipulated time period, then they will have to go under liquidation," it said. Justice Chandrachud referred to the new memorandum of procedure which said that the shortlisted names will be recommended only after getting the IB (Intelligence Bureau) clearance. He said that he was once heading the selection committee for appointments in the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commissions (NCDRC). As per the new MoP, you first get the IB report and then shortlist the appointments. Once you make the recommendations, there is no question of IB raising any objections. So the names which are sent by the selection committee are all IB cleared. Unless IB clears, we don't send those names because we do not want to get into a thicket, Justice Chandrachud said. "Notwithstanding that, the names recommended were deleted and there is no clarity why they are deleted and the recommendations were made by the panel to which senior officials were also part," he said, adding, "It is a waste of energy ." The bench said the apex court has to deal with the burden in the absence of a work force in tribunals. "We have appeals against interlocutory orders from NCLT. Keeping in mind the outer limit, we are interfering. We are told that the tribunal could not take up these applications. We had to extend the periods otherwise the doors would have been closed..," it said. The bench asked the Centre to set up the Central Goods and Services Tax Tribunal (CGST) as sought by lawyer Amit Sahni in his PIL. "There is no question of filing the counter affidavit. You (Centre) have to constitute the tribunal, that's all. If you want an order, we will pass an order to the effect of whatever we have said in court. If you do not want an order, we want some appointments by the next date of hearing..," it said. The top court also issued notices on several fresh pleas including the one filed by Congress leader Jairam Ramesh challenging the Constitutional validity of various provisions of the Tribunal Reforms Act, 2021, which was passed during the recent Monsoon Session of Parliament and received Presidential assent on August 13. Earlier, the bench had given details of pending vacancies in 15 quasi-judicial bodies such as Debt Recovery Tribunals (DRTs) and Securities Appellate Tribunal. There are 19 vacant positions of presiding officers or the chairman in these tribunals, besides 110 and 111 posts of judicial and technical members respectively lying vacant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
06-09-2021||India||India administering 1.25 crore Covid vaccines daily, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said India is administering 1.25 crore Covid vaccines daily which is higher than the population of several countries. Modi said Himachal Pradesh has become a champion by being the first state to administer the first dose of Covid vaccine to all eligible people despite logistic difficulties. Sikkim and Dadra and Nagar Haveli too have achieved this target, he said. Earlier, Modi interacted with healthcare workers and beneficiaries of the Covid vaccination programme in the state through video conferences. Interacting with Dr Rahul, posted at the Dodra Kwar Civil Hospital in Shimla district, Modi said 10 per cent of the expenditure can be saved if all 11 shots in a single vial are used while administering Covid vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
06-09-2021||India||Landslides cut off Sikkim from rest of India||Landslides, triggered by heavy rains, blocked the National Highway 10, cutting off Sikkim from the rest of the country, officials said on Monday morning. Personnel of the Border Roads Organisation are clearing the highway at 29 Mile area in West Bengal's Kalimpong where the incident happened, they said. The debris from the overnight landslide has covered almost 70 m stretch and it will take some time to clear the road for one-way traffic, officials said. At present, vehicles are being diverted through an alternate narrower and longer road that passes via the Darjeeling hills, they said. The area, about 60 km from the Sikkim border town of Rangpo, is a trouble spot on the state's lifeline NH-10. It was blocked due to landslides at least four times so far this monsoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
06-09-2021||India||Schools reopen for students of classes 6 to 8 in Karnataka||Schools reopened for students of classes 6 to 8 in Karnataka on Monday, by following strict COVID-19 protocols and standard operating procedures (SOP). As per government directions, schools have been reopened in taluks where the COVID-19 positivity rate is below 2 per cent. Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh said that the government decided to reopen schools after approval from the state's technical advisory committee on COVID-19. "The department had an intention of reopening schools for some time now and teachers were also ready for it, but keeping in mind the health of the students along with education and concerns of the parents, we discussed with the technical advisory committee and after taking the opinion of expert paediatricians, we are reopening schools for classes 6,7 and 8," he told reporters. The Minister said many parents and students had urged him during his recent visits to several parts of the state to reopen schools. He said the entire government machinery and district administrations have been working together with the department for the safe conduct of classes. It is mandatory for students to submit a consent letter from their parents to attend offline classes and these classes are not compulsory, as there is a provision of online classes also. The government has said that offline classes for students of classes 6-8 will be held on alternate days, each with 50 per cent attendance, it will be five days a week, and the remaining two days (weekend) will be used for sanitizing and other COVID control measures. In response to a question, the Minister said, looking at how offline classes will go on, the government after consulting the technical advisory committee will make a decision on reopening schools for classes 1 to 5, but did not specify any timeline. The government had already allowed the reopening of schools for students from classes 9 to 12 since August 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
06-09-2021||India||Abhishek Banerjee appears before ED in money laundering case||Abhishek Banerjee, TMC MP and nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here on Monday for questioning in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal pilferage scam in the state, officials said. Banerjee, 33, arrived at the office of the central agency at Jam Nagar house in central Delhi just before 11 AM. "I am ready to face investigation and I will cooperate with the agency," he said. The investigating officer of the case will record Banerjee's statement under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), officials said. Abhishek Banerjee represents the Diamond Harbour seat of West Bengal in the Lok Sabha and is the national general secretary of the Trinamool Congress (TMC). The ED has filed a criminal case under the PMLA after studying a November 2020 FIR of the CBI that alleged a multi-crore coal pilferage scam related to Eastern Coalfields Ltd mines in the state's Kunustoria and Kajora areas in and around Asansol. Speaking to reporters at the Kolkata airport on Sunday, Banerjee had said that he would get himself hanged if any central agency can prove his involvement in any illegal transaction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
06-09-2021||India||Actor Couple Pankaj And Divya Spills Their Opinion on Leveraging the Power of Social Media the Right way||Social media is a powerful tool in the hands of the youth. Over the years we have seen how the internet has come together in making trends, helping the world, exposing bad things and so much more. But did you know that it is also a lucrative career option that could transform your life? On the verge of launching their acting career with a brand new web series, Pankaj and Divya share how they found not only success, but also love, all on social media!  Together PJ and Divya have a fan following of over 15 million across platforms such as Moj, Instagram and YouTube. But life was not always easy for these youngsters. They came from middle class families, where career translated to security, and hence, it seemed that conventional jobs were the only way out. Owing to their consistent effort, and a lot of initial support from families, they struck out big in the world of content creation. Together they make more than most jobs could have paid at their age, and they just want to inspire the world to never give up on their dreams.  It was social media that gave this adorable couple the wings to fly. Divya says, “Social media is powerful. It does not discriminate. You don’t need to be rich, have good grades, a lot of education, or social and economic privilege to get fame here. It has opened up a whole new world of career, money and fame for the Indian youth.” PJ adds, “Social media gives us voice. We can convey so much in a few seconds and reach million at it. Earlier, a lot of careers had criteria, which can be hard to achieve for those without the means. But with content creation, it is you who decides what you want and the sky is the limit.”  PJ started with YouTube videos, while Divya with dance videos. It was a turn of fate that brought them together, creating original content together, and getting millions of hits with each video. The couple actually met while shooting their content and it was love at first collaboration. Like many other content creators, these two put in a lot of work into concepts, story and script, shooting, producing and final presentation. “All you need are passion and a smartphone”, they say, “and an attitude to never give up”.  This Indore-based couple have truly shown where hard work and determination can take you. They are fulfilling their big dreams and are currently are working on multiple offers of music videos and have a web series lined up on a popular streaming service.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
06-09-2021||India||India records lowest daily Covid casualties in 167 days||India logged 38,948 new coronavirus infections and 219 fresh fatalities, the lowest in 167 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. With the fresh cases, the total tally of COVID-19 cases has climbed to 3,30,27,621, while the death toll has climbed to 4,40,752. The case fatality rate has declined to 1.33 per cent after 48 days, according to the data updated at 8 am. India had reported 199 deaths in a single day on March 23. The active cases have declined to 4,04,874 comprising 1.23 per cent of the total infections while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.44 per cent, the ministry said. A decrease of 5,174 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Less than 50,000 daily cases are being reported for 71 consecutive days, the ministry said. As many as 14,10,649 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 53,14,68,867. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.76 per cent while the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.58 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 73 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,21,81,995. The cumulative COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has reached 68.75 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crores on May 4 and three crores on June 23. The 219 new fatalities include 74 from Kerala and 67 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,40,752 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,37,774 from Maharashtra, 37,409 from Karnataka, 35,018 from Tamil Nadu, 25,082 from Delhi, 22,856 from Uttar Pradesh, 21,496 from Kerala and 18,502 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
06-09-2021||India||Protesting farmers unfurl Mission Uttar Pradesh/Uttarakhand||Farmers protesting against the three farm laws for over a year kicked off on Sunday Mission Uttar Pradesh/Uttarakhand, vowing to defeat the BJP in the upcoming Assembly elections, at the Kisan Mazdoor Mahapanchayat held in Muzaffarnagar. Emboldened by the response for the mahapanchayat held in the western Uttar Pradesh district, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) — which has been spearheading the farmers agitation at Delhi’s borders from November last year — announced a Bharat Bandh on September 27. Speaker after speaker drew attention to the size of the gathering as a response to the Right-wing ecosystem’s claim that only a handful of farmers are opposed to the farm laws. With farmers cutting across all faiths and from at least 15 states turning up for the mahapanchayat bearing the Tricolour and their organisational flags, the SKM sought to project it as a united struggle against the communal and casteist politics of the BJP governments at the Centre and in the states. Given that the rise of the BJP over the past decade in Uttar Pradesh has broken the Muslim-Jat compact nurtured by former Prime Minister Charan Singh for years, the farmers pledged to ensure that communal riots do not break out again and coined a slogan for Hindu-Muslim unity — “Allahu Akbar-Har Har Mahadev”. The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh came in for particular targeting with farmer leaders pointing out that it has not fulfilled the promises made to the farming community. Even 20 per cent of the promised procurement has not been done. The UP government had promised loan waiver for 86 lakh farmers but only 45 lakh farmers have received the relief. The Union government agency CACP  has found that in the year 2017, the cost of sugarcane was Rs 383 per quintal, but farmers were paid Rs 325 per quintal, and sugarcane mills owe farmers sS 8,700 crore, they said. In Uttar Pradesh, crop insurance was paid to 72 lakh farmers in 2016-17, while in 2019-20, only 47 lakh farmers were paid, where as  crop insurance companies earned a profit of Rs 2,508 crore, they pointed out. The Adityanath government assumed office in the summer of 2017. The show of strength by farmers drew support from BJP MP Varun Gandhi, who posted a video of the massive mobilisation and tweeted: “Lakhs of farmers have gathered in protest today, in Muzaffarnagar. They are our own flesh and blood. We need to start re-engaging with them in a respectful manner: understand their pain, their point of view and work with them in reaching common ground.” This was not just a tweet in support for agitating farmers but also a commentary on the government’s attitude towards the farmers protests. Congress MP Rahul Gandhi took to verse to again articulate support for the farmers tweeting in Hindi that the unjust government will have to listen to the voice of truth being echoed by the farmers. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted: “Bharat on the rise. Independent India has never seen such a historic 10-month-long struggle. Modi govt must repeal Agri laws & legalise MSP. Discuss with our Annadatas who feed all of us.’’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
06-09-2021||India||Nipah resurgence in Kerala, Centre sends team||The Union health ministry has sent a public health team to Kozhikode district in Kerala where a 12-year-old boy died on Sunday from suspected Nipah virus infection that had claimed 21 lives in the Kozhikode-Mallapuram area three years ago. The team from the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, will support the state’s efforts to trace the boy’s contacts, search for cases in his family, neighbourhood or village, and quarantine his contacts or other suspected cases. The infection is rare but deadly with a high risk of mortality. The Nipah virus resides in some species of fruit bats. Scientists believe the virus slips into humans when they come into contact with fruit bat droppings or saliva, possibly through contaminated fruits or date sap. Health experts say the infection spreads from person to person through respiratory secretions or contaminated surfaces. Symptoms typically appear four to 14 days after exposure to the virus and include fever, headache, cough or sore throat followed by encephalitis, or brain inflammation. On Sunday, Kerala health minister Veena George said 188 contacts, including 20 “high-risk” ones, had been identified. “Two health workers, one from a private hospital and the other from the medical college, are symptomatic for the virus,” she said. “We have decided to move all the high-risk contacts (including the two health workers) to a special ward that has been opened at the Kozhikode medical college,” the minister said. Kerala has asked the National Institute of Virology, Pune, to organise a point-of-care diagnostic test at the Kozhikode medical college. This will allow health authorities to rapidly screen contacts and others who show symptoms and isolate them to prevent any further spread of the infection. A 24/7 control centre has been opened at the government guest house in Kozhikode to monitor the situation. The boy from Chathamangalam died at a hospital on Sunday morning after suffering from high fever for four days. “Plasma, CSF (cerebrospinal fluid) and serum samples tested positive for Nipah,” the health minister said. The child’s family had moved him to a super-specialty hospital in Kozhikode on August 31 where doctors suspected Nipah and sent his samples to the NIV. The boy’s family members have confirmed that he had eaten rambutan that is grown in the neighbourhood. The body was buried around noon on Sunday under stringent safety protocols. The district authorities have sealed the area within a 3km radius from the child’s home and put neighbouring districts Kannur and Malappuram on alert. The NCDC team visited the house of the deceased and collected samples of rambutan fruits. The samples could help identify the source of the infection and confirm whether the origin was through a bat. Infectious disease experts say the standard public health measures to contain any Nipah emergence involve tracking down and isolating a patient’s contacts, including caregivers at home or in hospital, who might have unknowingly exposed themselves to the infection. Epidemiologists tasked with investigating the Nipah case are likely to also try to determine whether the boy was the index case — the first patient in an outbreak. Experts say quick isolation of patients is critical to preventing the infection from spreading. There is no specific treatment for the Nipah infection and doctors typically provide supportive care while waiting for the immune system to fight the virus. The boy had inflammation of the brain and heart muscle, the health ministry said. A Nipah outbreak in Kozhikode-Mallapuram in 2018 — the country’s third over two decades — had claimed the lives of 21 of the 23 patients who had tested positive, a 91 per cent mortality. India’s first outbreak of Nipah had occurred in Siliguri in 2001 and killed 45 of the 66 patients, a 68 per cent mortality. A second outbreak in Nadia in 2007 killed all five patients. Scientists at the NIV in December 2018 had urged public health authorities to inform populations considered at risk that they should not consume partially eaten fruits as they might be contaminated with the Nipah virus. Nipah outbreaks have also occurred since 1999 in Malaysia, Singapore and Bangladesh. Additional inputs from K.M. Rakesh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
06-09-2021||India||RSS magazine accuses Infosys of aligning with 'anti-national' forces||Panchjanya, a Hindi magazine that is known to echo the views of the RSS, has accused Infosys of aligning with “anti-national” forces to destabilise the Indian economy in comments that complement the “national interest” sermon delivered by Union minister Piyush Goyal to industry recently. In its cover story in the latest edition, the magazine cited the glitches in the income tax portal managed by the information technology giant to launch a tirade, accusing Infosys of aligning with “Naxals, Leftists and the tukde tukde gang”. “But, when same type of things (the glitches in the portal) happen repeatedly, then it naturally raises suspicion. There are accusations that the Infosys management is deliberately trying to destabilise the Indian economy,” says the report, titled “Saakh aur Aaghat (Reputation and Harm)”. The RSS sought to distance itself from the magazine, whose former editors include ex-Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and whose current editor is followed on Twitter by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The attack, which followed commerce and industry minister Goyal’s swipe at the Tatas last month, lends credence to accusations that the current regime appears to be openly targeting non-Ambani, non-Adani industry giants. The Modi government has been accused by the Opposition and many others of promoting the worst kind of crony capitalism by backing a handful of Gujarat-based industry houses Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had summoned Infosys CEO Salil Parekh last month and given the company time till September 15 to fix the glitches in the income tax portal. As the Panchjanya report kicked up dust, Sunil Ambekar, chief of the RSS publicity wing, tweeted: “Panchjanya is not a mouthpiece of the RSS and the said article or the opinions expressed in it should not be linked with the RSS.” Ambekar went on to acknowledge Infosys’s “seminal contribution” to the progress of India. “As an Indian company, Infosys has made seminal contribution in the progress of the country. There might be certain issues with a portal run by Infosys but the article published by Panchjanya in this context only reflects individual opinion of the author,” he tweeted. Technically, the two weekly magazines, Organiser in English and Panchjanya in Hindi, may not qualify as mouthpieces of the RSS but people associated with the Sangh head the publications. Panchjanya editor Hitesh Shankar stood by the report. “Panchjanya stands firm with its report. If Infosys has objections, it should present its side by urging for a more thorough investigation of these facts (raised in the article) in the interest of the company,” he told The Telegraph, underscoring that there was a lot of anger among people over the glitches. Asked about the RSS distancing itself from the magazine, Shankar said: “Some elements are mentioning the RSS in this episode due to vested interests. Remember, this report is not related to the Sangh, the report is about Infosys.” On Twitter, Modi has been following Shankar from May this year. “Thank you @narendramodi ji. It shows your concern to understand people’s pulse. It is an honour!” Shankar had tweeted in reply to Modi following him. The Modi government and the BJP maintained silence on the attack on Infosys. The company did not respond to questions from this newspaper on the report in the magazine. Although Shankar referred to “facts”, the Panchjanya report itself said that it did not have “concrete evidence” to back the accusations. But the report added that “history and circumstances” give weight to the allegations. In “history and circumstances”, the article again banks on accusations without citing any evidence. “Infosys is accused of providing assistance to Naxals, Leftists and the tukde tukde gang,” the report said, claiming that the company “directly or indirectly” extends financial assistance to some web portals, calling them “divisive forces”. “Shouldn’t Infosys promoters be asked what is the reason for the company’s funding of anti-national and anarchist organisations?” the article asked and wanted to know whether Infosys should be allowed to participate in the government tendering process. Picking on the two key figures behind the formation of the company, the report said Nandan Nilekani had contested elections on a Congress ticket and N.R. Narayana Murthy was known for his views against the “ideology of the current regime”. These were presented as “history and circumstances” to back the allegations of Infosys aligning with anti-national forces. The report accused Infosys of hiring Left sympathisers for important positions. Last month, Union minister Goyal had said while addressing the annual conference of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in Mumbai: “A company like yours, just because you bought one or two foreign companies, their importance becomes greater than national interest?” Goyal’s question was seen as aimed at the Tatas, possibly for opposing the e-commerce rules proposed by his ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
06-09-2021||India||Paralympics: How Pramod Bhagat overcame daunting odds||The hand that wields the racket and gifted India its first Paralympic gold in badminton used to repair fans once in an Odisha town. When Pramod Bhagat, the world No. 1 in men’s para-badminton, leapt into the arms of his coach after the Tokyo triumph on Saturday, the moment stretched beyond the sporting arena and marked a milestone in his life-long battle with polio, poverty and the void created by the loss of his parents at an early age. Born at the nondescript Attabira in western Odisha’s Bargarh district, Pramod, 33, used to work in his family’s roadside electrical goods repair shop. When he reached the age of four, polio had blighted his left leg. So poverty-stricken was the family that he could not complete his course at an Industrial Training Institute in Hirakud. But badminton fascinated him. Pramod was 13 when he first witnessed a badminton match and was hooked to the game. His younger brother Sekhar, who now manages the family shop, told The Telegraph: “No one can imagine how happy we are today. We have lost both our parents. No one is there to see the phenomenal glory my brother has achieved. I have seen how he struggled hard despite polio to reach this place.” “When he called me from Tokyo after winning the gold medal, we both could not control our emotions. Our voices choked. The entire town is jubilant at his achievement. Sweets were distributed and crackers burst last night,” Sekhar said. In Tokyo after the summit clash, Pramod dedicated the gold to his parents. “I would like to dedicate this to my parents and to everyone who has supported me throughout. I’m glad I could make India proud,” he said. The eldest of the three brothers, Amod, works at a private company in Delhi. Keen to master the game, Pramod first worked on his footwork and fitness and then honed the other tactical skills largely by himself in the initial years. He played his first badminton tournament against players without disabilities at the age of 15 and won. There was no looking back after that. In 2005 while taking part in a badminton tournament at Burla, he came in contact with para-badminton coach Shib Prasad Das. “He is very cool, determined and focused. He practises for seven to eight hours a day,” Das told this newspaper. While practising at the Nalco Indoor Stadium in Angul, Pramod participated in the National Championship in Bangalore in 2006 and emerged victorious. Pramod has over 40 medals in his kitty, including four Para-Badminton World Championships gold medals. With badminton being introduced in the Paralympics in Tokyo, he has become India’s first gold medallist in the sporting event. Pramod has been conferred with the Arjuna Award and the Odisha government’s Biju Patnaik Sports Award. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik and governor Ganeshi Lal have hailed Pramod’s feat at the Paralympics. “Golden moment! Congratulations to Odisha’s talent Pramod Bhagat who has won the country’s first gold medal in para-badminton,” Patnaik wrote on social media. “Your success has made the whole nation proud. Wishing you a bright future ahead.” Pramod has thanked the chief minister for his support. He is scheduled to reach New Delhi on Monday. “After he reaches Bhubaneswar, he will go to Attabira where residents are waiting to give him a grand welcome,” said Sunil Pradhan, another badminton player.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
06-09-2021||India||Farm protest: Message of unity at Muzaffarnagar Mahapanchayat||The chants of “Allahu Akbar” and “Har Har Mahadev” rang out in unison on Sunday at a mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar, the district in Uttar Pradesh that was left blood-stained by riots in 2013 that became a stepping stone to power for the BJP in the elections that followed. Over five lakh farmers gathered at the Government Inter College ground that was filled to capacity, with large crowds spilling outside, to send a message to the BJP ruling in the state and at the Centre that if the three farm laws were not repealed, the party would pay in the Assembly elections next year. “Allahu Akbar,” chanted Rakesh Tikait, a Jat leader of western Uttar Pradesh who had sided with the BJP in the last Assembly elections. “Har Har Mahadev,” the crowd chanted back. “Such slogans were chanted here in the past too…. Allahu Akbar-Har Har Mahadev. These slogans were raised. The slogans of Har Har Mahadev and Allahu Akbar were raised from this very soil. These slogans will always be raised here. There will be no riots here,” Tikait, the spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait), said. “If there are such governments in the country, they will engineer riots,” the farmer leader added. “They will divide, we will unite.” The riots of 2013 that left 50 people dead and over 50,000 displaced had shattered the Jat-Muslim harmony in Muzaffarnagar. The polarisation helped the BJP win power in the 2017 Assembly elections as the Jats sided with the party. Sunday’s rally was called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella organisation of farmer unions from across the country that is leading the now nine-month sit-in at Delhi’s borders against the three laws that the farmers believe will rob them of their land and livelihood and allow corporate houses to take over agriculture. “The Centre has sent across the message that India is on sale — be it the country’s airports, ports or land. There are 14 crore unemployed people in our country and they are taking forward the farmers’ movement to prevent the sale of public and peasants’ properties,” Tikait said. “More such meetings will be held across the country. We have to stop the country from being sold. Farmers should be saved, the country should be saved, businesses, employees and youth should be saved — this is the aim of the rally,” he added. Varun call BJP MP Varun Gandhi later described the protesting farmers as “our own flesh and blood” and said the government should re-engage with them. “Lakhs of farmers have gathered in protest today, in Muzaffarnagar. They are our own flesh and blood. We need to start re-engaging with them in a respectful manner, understand their pain, their point of view and work with them in reaching common ground,” he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
06-09-2021||India||Sena questions Centre's exclusion of Nehru from I-day poster||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said the exclusion of Jawaharlal Nehru’s picture from a poster released to mark the 75th year of Independence showed the Centre’s “narrow mindset”, and asked the government why it “hates” India’s first Prime Minister so much. Raut, in his weekly column in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana, said the Indian Council of Historical Research had excluded the pictures of Nehru and Maulana Abul Kalam Azad from its poster, and alleged that it was an act of “political vindictiveness”. “Those who had no participation in the freedom struggle and creating history are keeping out one of the heroes of the independence struggle. This act, done out of political vindictiveness, is not good and shows their narrow mindset. It is an insult of each and every freedom fighter,” Raut said. “What has Nehru done to hate him so much? In fact, the institutions he built are now being sold to keep the Indian economy moving,” he said, referring to the Narendra Modi government’s National Monetisation Pipeline. It was because of Nehru’s “long-term vision” that the country was saved from economic devastation, Raut said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
06-09-2021||India||Kendriya Vidyalaya teachers wait for transfers to resume||Over the past year, a Kendriya Vidyalaya teacher posted in mountainous Nagaland has had to deal with snakes entering his home, missed his father-in-law’s funeral and decided against another visit after his little niece passed away. The 35-year-old teacher, a native of a small town in Uttar Pradesh who wished not to be named, fears his situation won’t change when he becomes eligible for transfer this year. Similar is the lot of many other Kendriya Vidyalaya teachers, especially those posted in remote locations because the central government-run Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) has put on hold transfers for the past two years. Although the KVS has cited the pandemic and consequent logistical hurdles to keep transfers in abeyance, the decision has affected the morale of teachers who are worried about their near and dear ones back home amid unprecedented health exigencies. The teachers are also concerned about their own health. Although classes have been mostly online due to the pandemic, the KVS has directed its teachers to remained stationed in their job locations. “This area is infested with snakes. Only two days ago, a snake entered my home. I had to remove it myself. This is so risky,” the teacher in Nagaland told The Telegraph over phone. He will complete three years at his current location and will be eligible to apply for transfer in March-April next year. There is, however, no word yet on whether the KVS will resume transfers anytime soon. According to the KVS’s transfer policy, a teacher completing three years of service in a “hard station”, schools located in hilly areas, is eligible for transfer subject to vacancies in schools in preferred destinations. Teachers posted in the plains can apply for transfer after serving for five years at a particular school. The teacher who lives in Nagaland with his wife and child, said: “I lost my father-in-law to Covid back in Uttar Pradesh in April. We could not attend his funeral. We took a flight from Dimapur and had a layover in Calcutta. By the time we reached, the cremation was over.” Last month, his eight-year-old niece died of illness. He decided against travelling to Uttar Pradesh again in view of the difficulties involved, only compounded by the pandemic. A teacher from Delhi who is posted at a school in Arunachal Pradesh said his wife was pregnant and mother unwell back home. He has not been able to visit them for the past six month. “I have completed four year in my current assignment. I could have applied for transfer this year but could not because the policy has been put on hold. I am too preoccupied with and worried about the family exigencies back home,” he said, preferring anonymity. Teachers posted in Kendriya Vidyalayas in places like Tawang and Roing in Arunachal Pradesh, Kargil and Leh in Ladakh, Nubra Valley in Himachal Pradesh and Tamenglong in Manipur face greater hardships due to the high altitude and hostile locations. The KV Pragatisheel Shikshak Sangh (KVPSS), a teachers’ outfit, has urged the Union education ministry and the KVS authorities to resume transfers. P.V. Chhikara, a teacher at KV Bhatinda and KVPSS secretary, said: “This is so demoralising for the teachers. There are teachers who are suffering from serious ailments and awaiting transfer so that they can get better treatment. We have demanded immediate resumption of the transfer policy.” An email this newspaper sent to KVS commissioner Nidhi Pandey on August 23 asking about the decision to stop transfers did not elicit a response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
06-09-2021||India||Bihar: Teachers take classes on boats amid flood||Where there is a will, there is a boat. This Teachers’ Day, three teachers rowed their watery way to school students marooned in floods in Bihar’s Katihar district and coached them on boats, continuing with an initiative they started five days ago. The Manihari sub-division, located along the Ganga in Katihar, gets inundated every year and stays under water for several months, disrupting normal life and the education of children. Borrowing boats from local fishermen and boatmen, the three teachers — Kundan Kumar Saha, Pankaj Kumar Sah and Ravindra Mandal — sail out in the morning to reach the remote villages. Once around 20 students are aboard a boat, they tie it to the nearest tree or stump rearing their heads through the floodwaters, put up a whiteboard and begin their classes, the waves of the swollen Ganga rocking them softly. The teachers don’t charge any fees, even buying books, notebooks and pencils for the kids. Education had never been a smooth sailing for the children of Manihari, mostly inhabited by impoverished farmers and labourers. The pandemic pushed them further in deep water as the area’s government schools closed and online learning remained a distant dream because of lack of Internet connectivity. “First the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown shut educational institutions, then the floods ravaged the area for at least four months. The twin troubles have disrupted the education of children since last year,” Mandal told The Telegraph. Those on the boat are a diverse mix — from primary school students to high school pupils. They are taught mathematics, physics, chemistry, Hindi and English, among other subjects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
06-09-2021||India||Assam: Rising number of police shoot-outs whips up political furore||Two persons accused of different crimes were injured in police encounters in Assam’s Guwahati and Dhemaji when they “tried to escape from custody”, a senior officer said on Sunday. Special director-general of police (law and order) Gyanendra Pratap Singh said sleuths in Guwahati had to open fire on one accused in self-defence when he tried to flee custody. The accused, who suffered a bullet injury on his leg, was recently arrested from Delhi for allegedly supplying cocaine in a rave party in Guwahati last month, he said in a tweet. Talking about the other case, Singh said a man accused of attacking a college girl, who later succumbed to her injuries, tried to snatch a police weapon in Dhemaji district on Saturday evening. He was injured in the police firing, Singh added. Since May, at least 23 suspected militants and criminals were shot dead in police encounters in the state as they reportedly tried to snatch service weapons or attempted to escape from custody, while 38 accused were injured along with some policemen. The rising number of shoot-outs has whipped up a political furore with the Opposition alleging that the Assam police has turned “trigger happy” under the chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma-led regime, which assumed charge on May 10.Unfazed by the criticism, Sarma had on July 15 said in the Assam Assembly that the state police has “full operational liberty” to fight against the criminals within the ambit of law. At the first ever face-to-face meeting with the officers in-charge of all police stations of Assam on July 5, Sarma had said that shooting at criminals “should be the pattern” if they attempt to escape from custody or try to snatch arms from the police to fire at them. Taking suo moto cognizance, the Assam Human Rights Commission on July 7 asked the state government to institute an enquiry into the circumstances that led to the death and injury of the accused in police encounters over the past two months. Earlier, a Delhi-based lawyer from Assam, Arif Jwadder, had filed a complaint with the National Human Rights Commission against the Assam police for the series of encounters that have taken place since Sarma took charge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
06-09-2021||India||Bihar JDU MLA booked for creating ruckus on train||A Bihar JDU MLA, who hit the headlines for travelling by a New Delhi-bound train in undergarments and quarrelling with co-passengers when they took umbrage, has been booked under various sections of the IPC besides the SC/ST Act, officials said here on Sunday. They said the FIR was lodged on Saturday, based on a complaint lodged against the MLA Gopal Mandal. The complainant, Prahlad Paswan, had recorded his statement at government railway police (GRP) New Delhi on Friday soon after the train reached its destination. He alleged that he was travelling in the same compartment of Tejas Express as the legislator and had expressed his discomfort when he saw Mandal going towards the toilet in his vest and underpants. Paswan has alleged that he was physically attacked by the MLA and his cohorts, who asked him to disclose his name and abused him making reference to his caste. Paswan has also alleged that the attackers robbed him of some valuables, which included a finger ring, and forced him to drink water drawn from the lavatory tap. A zero FIR was lodged on the basis of Paswan’s complaint at New Delhi that was forwarded to authorities concerned here. The MLA, who represents the Gopalpur constituency of Bhagalpur district, has so far not reacted to the allegations made in the FIR though he had responded to the public outcry with the claim that he was suffering from dysentery and had felt the urge to relieve himself as soon as the train chugged off from Patna on Thursday evening. When asked for his comments, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, who is the de facto leader of the JDU, said he would not like to say anything till the investigation got over.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-239
