07-09-2021||India||Narendra Dabholkar murder case: Charges to be framed next week||Charges would be framed against five accused in the case of the murder of anti-superstition activist Dr Narendra Dabholkar on September 15, a special court here said on Tuesday.  Dabholkar, who headed the Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti, was shot dead in Pune on August 20, 2013, allegedly by the members of a right-wing extremist group.  A criminal trial starts once charges are framed.  Charges would be framed against Virendra Sinh Tawde, Sachin Andure, Sharad Kalaskar and Vikram Bhave under IPC sections 302 (murder), 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy), 34 (common intention), relevant sections of the Arms Act and section 16 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (punishment for terrorist act), the court said.  Against advocate Sanjiv Punalekar, another accused, charges would be framed under IPC section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence or giving false information to screen offender), said special judge for UAPA cases S R Navandar.  Tawde, Andure and Punalekar attended the hearing through video link while Bhave was present in person. Kalaskar could not be present virtually due to technical reasons, prosecution sources said.  When the judge asked the accused if they pleaded guilty to the charges, Tawde sought time saying he wanted to meet his family members and lawyers in person.  Andure also sought more time.  The judge said there was no need to grant time for merely pleading guilty or not guilty.  As the accused insisted, the court passed the order to frame charges while deferring the proceedings to September 15, but made it clear that there would be no further postponement.  CBI lawyer and special prosecutor Prakash Suryawvashi said the central agency had proposed the same charges against Punalekar as those against others, but the court in its order only mentioned section 201 of IPC in his case. "We will not challenge the order. I will convey the order to the CBI," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
07-09-2021||India||Invited by top national leaders including PM, says Chirag||LJP leader Chirag Paswan on Tuesday said he has invited top national leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and Congress president Sonia Gandhi, for an event in Patna on September 12 to mark the first death anniversary of his father and Dalit stalwart Ram Vilas Paswan. The event assumes heightened political significance at a time when Chirag Paswan is embroiled in a bitter dispute with his uncle and Union Minister Pashupati Kumar Paras to claim the legacy of his father. He also went to Paras' residence here to give him an invite. The young leader rejected speculation about his party wanting his father's Delhi residence of over three decades to remain under its control by installing a bust of Ram Vilas Paswan and asserted that as a lawmaker he will not do anything that is considered encroachment or any violation of law. "As of now the government has permitted me to stay here. The bust is a symbol of the party's love for the late leader and will be shifted whenever an alternative arrangement is provided. The bust should never be seen as an attempt on my part to encroach the property," he said. Noting that government rules do not allow converting any residence into a museum or a memorial, he said he would never support anything that goes against this and asserted that the party plans to install his father's bust or statue in every district across the country. The Urban Development Ministry had issued an initial notice for vacating the residence soon after the death of Ram Vilas Paswan, but the family has been allowed to stay there for now after Chirag Paswan took up the matter with senior government functionaries, sources said. On the September 12 event, Chirag Paswan said he has spoken to Modi and Shah to invite them and has also met Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in this regard. Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, with whom the LJP leader has had sharp differences, and RJD's Lalu Prasad Yadav have also been invited. Paras is also likely to organise an anniversary event on October 8, the day Ram Vilas Paswan had died last year. He is also expected to invite top national leaders. Chirag Paswan, who left for Bihar on Tuesday with his family, is going by a traditional calendar to hold the event on September 12. Political observers will be keenly watching the attendance at the Jamui MP's event at a time when he has been touring Bihar on an "Aashirvaad Yatra" to rally support for his LJP faction. Five of the six party MPs have joined hands with Paras. While the BJP has given a ministerial berth in the Modi government to Paras ignoring Chirag Paswan's claims to the party, opposition leaders, including Lalu Prasad and his son Tejashwi Yadav, have reached out to him. Though he has voiced displeasure over the BJP's treatment of him, he has so far maintained silence about his future political moves, saying his priority now is to build his party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
07-09-2021||India||Strong, decisive decisions slowed down spread of Covid-19 in India, says MoS Health||India's strong and decisive actions like surveillance at points of entry slowed down the spread of Covid-19 and gave enough time to the country to build public health capacities and infrastructure to effectively manage the pandemic, Union Minister Bharati Pravin Pawar said on Tuesday. The minister of state for health and family welfare represented India at the World Health Organization-South East Asia Regional Office (WHO-SEARO) through video-conference. She offered intervention on behalf of India at the ministerial roundtable for the seventy-fourth session of the WHO Regional Committee for South-East Asia. Pawar also highlighted the key measures and strategies planned to build back better' to achieve Universal Health Care and health related Sustainable Development Goals and to strengthen health system resilience for the future. Noting that COVID-19 has affected virtually every sphere of life and caused a huge number of deaths, she said the country adopted a proactive, pre-emptive, whole of government, whole of society and people-centric approach to manage the pandemic. "Our preparedness and response strategies utilised our past experiences of managing public health emergencies and contemporary scientific knowledge about evolving nature of disease to decide requisite public health interventions,” the minister said. "India's strategy for fighting the pandemic is built on five pillars Test, Track, Treat, Vaccinate and adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour. With a decentralised but unified, whole of government approach, we focused on rapidly creating Covid-dedicated infrastructure and upskilling our healthcare workforce," she said. Pawar noted that the proactive and bold decisions by India's "strong and decisive leadership" like surveillance at points of entry slowed down the entry and spread of COVID-19 and gave enough time to the country to build public health capacities and infrastructure to effectively manage the pandemic. Inter-sectoral coordination facilitated by establishing high level inter-ministerial groups and communication with states, other stakeholders and community at large facilitated a jan andolan (people's movement) for managing the pandemic, the minister said. "Legal and policy provisions like the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Act, 2020, and the Disaster Management Act, 2005, already available to the Union and sub-national jurisdictions, provided the enabling framework to operationalise all aspect of pandemic management by clarifying roles, responsibilities while facilitating inter-sectoral coordination as governance from national to local levels," she said. Further, technical support by the Union government on containment, treatment protocol and all aspects of Covid management ensured a unified response, Pawar added. Speaking on the human cost of the pandemic, she said realising the indirect impact of COVID-19 especially on the poor and marginalised sections of society, a number of social security measures, including supply of food grains, minimum income support schemes, support for small industries, support for children who have lost their parents due to COVID-19 and other economic measures were taken to mitigate the impact of the pandemic. On the massive implication of India's development and deployment of vaccines along with amplification of production capacities on global health, Pawar shared the fundamental principles of India's vaccination strategy such as augmenting production of vaccines, prioritising vulnerable groups for vaccination, making efforts in procurement of vaccines from other countries, monitoring vaccinated people for their second dose, as well as providing requisite digital vaccination certificate. Our National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 provides guidance on vaccine trials, equitable distribution of vaccine, procurements, financing, delivery mechanisms, prioritisation of population groups etc. and the National Task Force on Vaccine Development supports Research and Development of Drug, Diagnostics and Vaccines for Coronavirus, the minister said. India utilised the existing infrastructure of the Universal Immunization Programme which was augmented to ensure cold chain maintenance besides managing required logistics of vaccines and syringes, she said. Pawar added that the capacity building at all level was taken by training more than 7,600 participants at the state level and around 61,500 at the district level apart from training more than 2 lakh vaccinators and 3.9 lakh other vaccination team members. "To enhance vaccine production, financial support as grant was provided to vaccine manufacturers, advance payment for orders placed, permission for at-risk manufacturing was allowed besides focusing on technology transfer to aid production, the minister said . The Co-WIN digital platform supported transparent registration and tracking of every beneficiary for COVID-19 vaccination along with real time information on the available stocks of vaccine, their storage temperature, digital certificates, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
07-09-2021||India||Srimaan Ramachandra Raja striving to make the world a better place to live in||Being a youngster, he chose to live a life for others, which has led him to initiate "Shree Welfare Foundation." Isn't it wonderful to know about all those people whose ultimate aim in life is not to fulfil their desires but do the unusual and take multiple steps forward for the betterment of others? Only a handful of people in this world think on these lines and make sure to move on the path of benevolence, a path that can lead them and, most importantly, others to their definition of peace, calm and happiness through their work. Moving relentlessly towards the same and paving his own path as a social activist and humanitarian is Srimaan Ramachandra Raja. This young man exudes pure love, passion and a will to do the greater good for people with his efforts and hard work, and that's why he initiated his NGO named Shree Welfare Foundation, created with the sole aim to support a social cause for the welfare of children, women and the underprivileged. However, there is more than what meets the eye in the case of this young talent. Srimaan Ramachandra Raja is not just the founder of his foundation and a social activist but also is a novice entrepreneur and an aspiring politician. On asking why he desires to be a part of the political world, Srimaan says that politics gives power, and with power, multiple things can be achieved. Hence, he wants to keep this as his backbone to achievement in the right direction. This Chennai young lad who was raised in Rajapalayam is an MBA graduate, but still, he chose social welfare as his way of life, which has earned him massive love, respect and recognition of people, especially those whose lives he has touched profoundly. Srimaan also holds the post of National Governing Council Member- NGPL. Throwing light on the selfless acts he does, Srimaan says that a helping hand and a good heart always reaches people's hearts and gives the power to extend help to others with genuine care and concern. This has been his motivation throughout, which has inspired many other youngsters as well to help others and impact lives. Currently, Srimaan is helping underprivileged children with school fees in excess of 2.5 lakhs, medical assistance worth 6 lakhs through his foundation. He has also been providing food to farmers amidst their protests in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
07-09-2021||India||Embrace your life and step towards a purpose driven life with the remarkable mindset coach munish maya||Munish Maya is a man of a remarkable personality and an all inclusive nature, he is a charismatic entrepreneur, a successful business & Life Strategist, social media Influencer, Leadership Expert, Success & Mindset Coach, Motivational Speaker. His aim and mission is to help people unlock their full potential and create a life they love and be successful at. Munish Maya says that,” In order to change your life, you need to embrace the CHANGE.” Munish has a striking experience of 10 years in this industry, since then he has been dedicated to help his followers and clients to overcome each & every obstacles that comes in their way, by teaching them to live powerfully with a state of clarity in their mind and courage in their heart. This will lead them to become the best version of themselves. Munish believes that we should be ready to take risks and go the hard way just to make the most out of our lives, as risk is the down payment of a successful life. Munish has received so much appreciation and recognition for his striking ideologies and strategies which are really effective and applicable to real life scenarios that millions of people now consider Munish as their inspiration and looks up to him as a constant source of motivation. Talking about his followers and fan-base currently Munish has a thriving community of 1 Million+ people connected to him worldwide. Mr. Munish, has been actively and consistently seen consulting some of the top Fortune 500 brands, startups, thought leaders, artists as well as visionaries. He also holds the honor to be amongst the first Global Brand Ambassador from India. Talking about his earlier education, Munish Maya has a degree of Bachelor in Technology in Electronics & Communication, from the renowned Thapar University. Mr. Maya is one of the most talked about and appreciated name in the field of personal development and leadership landscape. Munish has closely worked with many professionals and clients and he is fully aware of the prevalent mindsets that people have, he says that many people think that they’re already too old to succeed in life. This is myth and stops people to work towards exploring their purpose in life. Munish says that,” Success has no deadline. It is not defined by a certain age or a certain time or by any deadline. Success is something that you have to define for yourself, and no one else can do it for you.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
07-09-2021||India||Goa government issues SOPs for Ganesh Utsav||The Goa government on Tuesday issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for Ganesh Utsav celebrations in the state, which include a ban on priests visiting homes for rituals, as well as households having Covid-19 patients being barred from inviting guests or visiting others. The SOP lays down that priests can conduct online puja, and appealed to families to perform rituals associated with the festival by "using various technologies like Youtube or Whatsapp videos". Officials said 'sarvajanik Ganeshotsav', or public festivities, may be permitted by local bodies on a case to case basis with adherence to all COVID-19 norms, including the use of masks and sanitisers, deployment of thermal screening equipment, and maintenance of social distancing. "Family with person in Home Quarantine or in Home Isolation shall neither host anyone in their houses or visit any other person outside their house, stated the SOP. The immersion of idols will take place in a staggered manner between 5pm to 10pm, the SOP added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
07-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi asks Centre to postpone NEET exam||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday called for the postponement of the NEET examination, and alleged that the government is "blind" to students' distress. The former Congress chief also urged the government to let the students "have a fair chance" in the exams. Gandhi's remarks come a day after the Supreme Court refused to defer the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET)-UG examination scheduled for September 12, saying it does not want to interfere with the process and it will be "very unfair" to reschedule it. The advocate for the petitioners argued that medical entrance exam NEET-UG 2021 be deferred as many other examinations are scheduled around September 12. "GOI is blind to students' distress. Postpone NEET exam. Let them have a fair chance," Gandhi tweeted. Later, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted,"Time after time the government pushes on against the legitimate demands of students across India." "Why is it so hard for those in power to hear out and help those who are the future of our nation? Does their mental health and wellbeing not matter?" she said on Twitter with the hashtag "JusticeForNEETAspirants".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
07-09-2021||India||Bengal government challenges relief to Suvendu Adhikari||The West Bengal government on Tuesday filed an appeal before the Calcutta High Court challenging an order of a single bench that directed the police not to take coercive action against BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari in criminal cases relating to him in the state. The matter was mentioned by a state lawyer before a division bench presided over by Justice Subrata Talukdar with regard to filing an appeal against the single bench order. The state's appeal may be listed for hearing before the bench on Wednesday, a lawyer associated with the matter said. Justice Rajasekhar Mantha on Monday stayed proceedings against Adhikari, Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly, in connection with three cases relating to the death of a security guard, an alleged political clash in Nandigram and a case of snatching lodged in Contai, Nandigram and Panskura police stations respectively in Purba Medinipur district. Allowing investigation in an alleged job scam case registered with Maniktala police station in Kolkata and a case of "threatening" the police at Tamluk, the court directed that no coercive action can be taken against Adhikari in connection with these two cases. Directing the West Bengal government to furnish information regarding any further FIR registered against Adhikari, the bench said the state will have to obtain permission of the court before arresting him or taking any coercive action against him in all such cases. Justice Mantha directed Adhikari to cooperate with the investigating officers in connection with the two cases in which investigation will continue, while making it clear that the investigators will, as far as possible, accommodate him, if he is required to give any statement, from a place and time convenient to him, considering his public responsibilities. The order was passed by the high court in Adhikari's petition seeking the court's intervention in criminal proceedings filed against him by the police or an order transferring investigation of the cases to CBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
07-09-2021||India||Chhattisgarh chief minister's father arrested over derogatory remarks against community||The Raipur Police have arrested Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel's father Nand Kumar Baghel from Delhi in a case registered against him for allegedly making derogatory remarks against a community, an official said here on Tuesday. After being brought from the national capital, Nand Kumar Baghel was produced in a local court which sent him to jail under judicial remand for 15 days, he said. The CM had strongly disapproved of the objectionable remarks allegedly made by his 86-year-old father and asserted nobody is above law. Nand Kumar Baghel was arrested and brought from Delhi to Raipur on Tuesday." Raipur Additional Superintendent of Police Tarkeshwar Patel said. He was produced in the court of Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC) Janak Kumar Hidko who sent him to 15-day judicial custody, he added. According to police, the octogenarian did not apply for bail. The case against Nand Kumar Baghel was lodged on Saturday night at the DD Nagar police station in Raipur on a complaint filed by the 'Sarv Brahmin Samaj' against him. He was charged under Indian Penal Code Sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language) and 505(1)(b) (with intent to cause, or likely to cause, fear or alarm to public, or to any section of public whereby any person may be induced to commit offence against the state or against public tranquility), police had said. The outfit, in its complaint, alleged that the CM's father recently made a controversial appeal to people to boycott Brahmins by terming them as "foreigners", and asked people to not let them enter in their villages. The organisation also accused Nand Kumar Baghel of asking people to "evict" Brahmins from the country. The organisation had said a video of the purported comments of the CM's father was available on social media platforms. According to the police, Nand Kumar Baghel reportedly made the remarks while addressing an event in Uttar Pradesh recently. After a controversy erupted over the alleged remarks of his father, the chief minister had said he was pained and asserted nobody was above law and police will take appropriate action in the matter. The remarks made by my father Nand Kumar Baghel against a specific class have come to my attention. The comments have hurt the sentiments of the class as well as (affected) social harmony and I am also pained by them, Bhupesh Baghel had said in a statement. Nobody is above law under my government even if he is the chief minister's 86-year-old father, the Congress CM had said. He said the Chhattisgarh government respects every religion, caste and community and their sentiments, and gives equal importance to everyone, the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
07-09-2021||India||Talks fail, thousands of farmers march towards Karnal mini-secretariat||Police used a water cannon near the district secretariat here as thousands of farmers marched towards the complex demanding action over a police lathi-charge last month. Farmer unions had warned that protesters would lay siege to the mini-secretariat if action was not taken against officials involved in the lathi-charge in Karnal on August 28. Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav claimed that protesters -- marching to the secretariat from the venue of a mahapanchayat 5km away had already begun a gherao there. Farmers reached the New Anaj Mandi for a mahapanchayat in the morning, riding tractors and motorcycles. As they gathered there, an 11-member delegation was invited by the local administration to discuss their demands and dissuade them from marching towards the secretariat. "Our talks with administration failed as they did not agree to our demands," senior farm leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan said about three hours later. Farmer union leaders then urged the large gathering at the mahapanchayat to march peacefully towards the mini-secretariat, five kilometres away. The leaders told the farmers not to enter into any confrontation with policemen, and squat in protest wherever they are stopped. Thousands of protesters walked towards the secretariat carrying farmer union flags. Several barricades have been put up on the route. Earlier, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait told reporters that they had demanded the suspension of the IAS officer who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to "break heads" of protesting farmers. Rakesh Tikait, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Darshan Pal and Yogendra Yadav were among the senior Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders who had reached Karnal for the rally, being held days after a huge mahapanchayat in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting for months over the three farm laws enacted at the Centre, claiming that the legislation will lead to the erosion of the minimum support price (MSP) system. Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav, Karnal's Inspector General of Police Mamta Singh and Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia, were among the officials who took part in the talks with farm leaders. Which law? Addressing the mahapanchayat earlier, Yogendra Yadav said, "We have come to ask the government which Constitution, which law gives an IAS officer permission to give orders to break the farmers' heads." "Under which law are police allowed to carry out brutal lathicharge resulting in the death of one and injuries to several others," he added. The authorities have, however, denied that any farmer died due to the violence on August 28. The Haryana Police had that day lathi-charged a group of farmers disrupting traffic on the national highway while heading towards the venue of a BJP meeting. Over 10 protesters were injured. The SKM had said a murder case should be registered against IAS officer Ayush Sinha over his alleged break heads remark. Transfer posting Sinha, who was later transferred in a reshuffle also involving some other IAS officers, has now been posted as the additional secretary in the Citizen Resources Information Department. Farm leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni said a meeting with district administration officials was held here on Monday as well. After failing to get any satisfactory response on their demands the farmers decided to hold a mahapanchayat on Tuesday, he added. He had earlier sought the registration of a case against those involved in the lathi-charge. Central forces deployed Security arrangements had been beefed up in Karnal a day ahead of mahapanchayat and central forces deployed. Mobile internet services were suspended in Karnal and the four adjoining districts of Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Jind and Panipat until Tuesday midnight. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 CrPC banning gathering of people were imposed in Karnal district. Traffic on the Delhi-Karnal-Ambala National highway was not disrupted while the panchayat continued, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
07-09-2021||India||Covid-19 put a full stop to education of 37 per cent rural, 19 per cent urban kids||There have been "catastrophic consequences" of the prolonged school closure in the country due to Covid-19, with over 37 per cent of students in rural areas not studying at all and 48 per cent not being able to read more than a few words, a recent survey has claimed. The School Children's Online and Offline Learning (SCHOOL) survey, titled "Locked Out: Emergency Report on School Education", involving nearly 1,400 students from underprivileged households was conducted in August in 15 states and union territories. It was released on Monday. "The picture that emerges from this survey is absolutely dismal. In rural areas, only 28 per cent of children were studying regularly at the time of the survey, and 37 per cent were not studying at all. The results of a simple reading test are particularly alarming: nearly half of all children in the sample were unable to read more than a few words," it said. The corresponding figures for students studying regularly, not studying at all, and unable to read more than a few words in urban areas were 47 per cent, 19 per cent and 42 per cent, respectively, the survey claimed. The main findings of the SCHOOL survey are focused on the relatively deprived hamlets where children generally attend government schools. Schools and other educational institutions across the country have been closed for over a year and a half since the onset of the pandemic. Following a marked improvement in the Covid-19 situation, several states are reopening the schools in a phased manner from September. As per the report, the proportion of children who were studying online regularly was just 24 per cent and eight per cent in urban and rural areas, respectively. Lack of money, poor connectivity, or no access to smartphones were some of the reasons behind the "very limited" reach of online education among sampled students, the survey noted. "One reason for this is that many sample households (about half in rural areas) have no smartphone. But that is just the first hurdle: Even among households with a smartphone, the proportion of children who are studying online regularly is just 31 per cent in urban areas and 15 per cent in rural areas. Smartphones are often used by working adults, and may or may not be available to school children, especially the younger siblings (only nine per cent of all SCHOOL survey children had their own smartphones)," it explained. Even among the underprivileged households, the figures were "much worse" for Dalit and Adivasi families than for others, be it for online education, regular study, or reading abilities, claimed the survey. For instance, only "four per cent" of rural SC/ST children were studying online regularly, in comparison to 15 per cent among other rural children. Barely half of them were able to read more than a few letters in the reading test, the survey added. According to the survey, an overwhelming majority of parents felt that their child's reading and writing abilities declined during the lockdown. Even among urban parents with "online children", the proportion who felt so was as high as "65 per cent". "In the sample as a whole, only four per cent of parents felt that their child's reading and writing abilities had improved during the lockout something that should have been the norm. The proportion of parents who felt that their child had adequate online access was just 23 per cent in urban areas and eight per cent in rural areas," it said. Among rural SC/ST parents, a mammoth "98 per cent" wanted schools to reopen as soon as possible. However, according to the report, reopening of schools, which is still being debated, is just the "first step" and it will take years of patient work to "repair this damage". "Even preparations for that first step (such as repairing school buildings, issuing safety guidelines, training teachers, enrolment drives) are virtually invisible in many states. After that, the schooling system needs to go through an extended transition period not only to enable children to catch up with a reasonable curriculum but also to restore their psychological, social and nutritional wellbeing. As things stand, the system seems to be heading towards business as usual when schools reopen this is a recipe for disaster," it warned. The survey conducted in 15 states and union territories -- including Assam, Bihar, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Bengal -- was a joint effort of nearly 100 volunteers across the country. The report was prepared by a coordination team, including the likes of economists Jean Dr ze and Nirali Bakhla.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
07-09-2021||India||Mehbooba Mufti claims she is under house arrest, says Kashmir situation far from normal||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday claimed that she has been placed under house arrest, and said the move has exposed the government's claims of normalcy. The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister also posted on Twitter pictures of a security force vehicle blocking the main gate of her Gupkar residence here. "Ive (I have) been placed under house arrest today because according to admin(istration) the situation is far from normal in Kashmir. This exposes their fake claims of normalcy," she tweeted. She also hit out at the Centre alleging that while the Government of India was expressing concern for the rights of people in Afghanistan, the same were denied to Kashmiris. "GOI expresses concern for the rights of Afghan people but wilfully denies the same to Kashmiris," the PDP leader charged. Meanwhile,  Director General of Jammu and Kashmir Police Dilbag Singh on Tuesday complimented the cops, Central Armed Paramilitary Forces and the Army for handling the situation professionally following the death of Geelani. "The DGP has complimented the police, CAPF and Army deployments for highly professional handling of ground situation over the last five days. Special restraint shown by police and security forces and a very responsible conduct of the local people especially the youth is highly appreciated," a police spokesperson said. Singh said all stakeholders have to move together in strengthening peace. "We have to move forward together to strengthen peace, identifying the enemies of peace and weaning out mischievous elements, and strictly deal with them under law," he added. The DGP said most of the restrictions in the valley have been eased, including internet curbs. "The situation is fully normal in both regions of Kashmir and Jammu, but under close watch," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
07-09-2021||India||Supreme Court orders UP Police handover of missing girl probe case to Delhi Police||The Supreme Court Tuesday handed over the investigation of a case lodged in Uttar Pradesh, after a 13-year-old girl was missing from Gorakhpur since July 8, to Delhi Police which recently recovered her and arrested the alleged abductor. A bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar transferred the probe and said that all records related to the case collected by the UP Police be handed over to Delhi Police. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) R S Suri, appearing for Delhi Police, told the bench that the girl was recovered and the man who allegedly abducted her was arrested from Calcutta on September 2 and they were brought here on September 4. After that, the minor was examined at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences and also given counselling. Suri told the bench, also comprising justices Hrishikesh Roy and C T Ravikumar, it seems that on July 15 she had married the offending man and she has refused to go with her mother. He said the girl has been handed over to the Gorakhpur Police as they wanted her custody to present her before the magistrate there. While arguing that investigation should be handed over to Delhi Police, Suri told the bench that the minor refused to go with her mother as she is upset with her parents. Advocate Pai Amit, appearing for the girl's mother who has filed a petition seeking directions to the UP Police and Delhi Police to trace her daughter, told the bench her pregnancy test is positive and if something has to be done, it has to be done in an urgent manner. He said the girl is about 15-16 years old but in her Aadhaar, her age is mentioned as 13. Suri said the girl claims that she is 17-year-old and the AIIMS has referred her to the forensic department for estimation of her age. "We will transfer the investigation to the Delhi Police. That we will do immediately. But, how should we go thereafter, you should indicate it to us," the bench told the ASG, who said he would discuss the issue and apprise the bench about it. The bench told the counsel appearing for Uttar Pradesh that it is transferring the probe to the Delhi Police and if he has any objection to it. "I have no objection. I leave it to my lords," the lawyer said. After the ASG referred to the report of counselling, the bench said, She has admitted sexual assault? . Suri replied in the affirmative after which the bench observed, Something needs to be done about it . The bench, while posting the matter for further hearing on September 14, said in the backdrop of the manner in which the matter proceeded before it and without recording any finding on the factum of nature of investigation done by the Gorakhpur Police, it is transferring the investigation to the Delhi Police. The investigation of the case shall be carried forward by the Malviya Nagar Police with immediate effect and they must take all necessary steps required to protect the minor girl from being exposed to any untoward situation, the bench said in its order. The bench said since the girl is not represented before it through a lawyer, it is nominating senior advocate K V Viswanathan to represent her. On September 3, the Delhi Police had informed the top court that the girl was recovered and the man who had allegedly abducted her was arrested from Calcutta. The top court had on September 1 pulled up Uttar Pradesh Police for its probe into the case and directed it to forthwith share the investigation report with Delhi Police. The mother, who works as a domestic help in Delhi, has claimed in her petition that her daughter is believed to have been kidnapped from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh by a man when her family members had gone there to attend a marriage ceremony. An FIR was registered in the case at Gorakhpur. In her petition, the girl's mother has sought directions for carrying out investigation into the disappearance and kidnapping of her daughter and take appropriate action against those who may be found involved in this. The habeas corpus petition, seeking to produce the girl before the court, has alleged that despite an FIR being lodged at Gorakhpur and an attempt being made to make a complaint with the Delhi Police, no action has been taken to trace the minor. It said the man, who is suspected to have kidnapped the girl, was constantly luring and coaxing her to accompany him. The mother claimed after an FIR was registered in Gorakhpur, she returned to Delhi and approached a police station where she had complained regarding the man on a previous occasion but the police refused to register or take steps for recording her complaint about kidnapping of her daughter on the grounds that a prior FIR has already been lodged in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
07-09-2021||India||Farm leaders invited by Karnal admin amid mahapanchayat, plan of gherao||An 11-member delegation of farmer leaders was invited to hold talks with the district administration here on Tuesday as protesters in large numbers assembled for a mahapanchayat and later planned to gherao the district headquarters. Senior leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), including Rakesh Tikait, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Darshan Pal, Yogendra Yadav and Gurnam Singh Chaduni, have arrived here for the mahapanchayat demanding action against the police lathicharge on farmers on August 28. These senior leaders will be part of the talks with the administration and have said that they will raise various demands during the interaction. "We are talking to a delegation of farmers, Karnal Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav told PTI over phone. Officials said details of the meeting will be shared later. Meanwhile, security arrangements have been beefed up in Karnal as the farmers have planned to gherao the mini-secretariat here. There is heavy deployment of Haryana Police as well as central forces in Karnal, while security forces in adequate strength have also been deployed at the new Anaj Mandi here where farmers are holding the mahapanchayat and plan to move towards the mini-secretariat, they said. Officials said vehicular traffic on the Delhi-Karnal-Ambala National highway was plying normally in the morning. Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni had earlier in the day appealed to the farmers to assemble at the Anaj Mandi in a peaceful manner. Next course of action will be decided at the mahapanchayat, Chaduni had said in a video message. However, a statement issued by Haryana Police and Karnal district administration said some people had reached the new Anaj Mandi armed with lathis and iron rods, which does not show good intention on their part. Ground intelligence reports indicate that some elements from Rambha, some from Nissing and some from other places have reached the Anaj Mandi armed with lathis, iron rods, which does not show good intention on their part, according to the statement. The statement said police and district administration have spoken to farmer leaders who have tried to persuade such elements to leave the venue, but they are not listening to their leaders. Karnal district administration and police is warning such mischievous elements not to take the law into their hands and maintain public order. All such elements will be strictly dealt with in accordance with law, it said. Braving inclement weather in the morning, farmers reached the new Anaj Mandi riding tractors and motorcycles. Senior police officials have been put on duty at the new Anaj Mandi. There is also heavy barricading and deployment of security forces at the mini-secretariat. A day ahead of the proposed gherao of the mini-secretariat by the farmers, central forces were deployed, mobile internet services suspended and prohibitory orders banning gathering of people were imposed. The Haryana government, which had earlier ordered suspension of mobile internet services here from Monday 12:30 pm to Tuesday midnight, decided to suspend these services in four adjoining districts -- Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Jind and Panipat districts with effect from 12 am to 11:59 pm on Tuesday. Forty companies of security personnel, including 10 companies of central armed police forces, have been deployed in Karnal district where local authorities have also imposed prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC, officials said. The SKM, an umbrella body of farmer outfits protesting against the farm laws, had threatened to lay siege to the Karnal district headquarters on Tuesday if its demands were not met. The Haryana Police had lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a national highway near here on August 28 while heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting. Over 10 protesters were injured. The SKM had said a murder case should be registered against IAS officer Ayush Sinha who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to "break heads" of protesting farmers. Sinha, who was later transferred in a reshuffle also involving some other IAS officers, has now been posted as the additional secretary in the Citizen Resources Information Department. Chaduni said a meeting with district administration officials was held here on Monday, but after failing to get any satisfactory response about their demands they decided to hold a mahapanchayat on Tuesday before proceeding to the mini-secretariat to gherao it. He had earlier sought registration of a case against those involved in the lathicharge. He also demanded a compensation of Rs 25 lakh and a government job for the family of a farmer who died after allegedly sustaining injuries in the lathicharge. However, the administration here claimed that the farmer was not injured in the police action but had died due to a heart attack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
07-09-2021||India||Increased infectivity of Delta variant causes it to be dominant, says study||The Delta variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which has become the dominant strain in India and many other countries, most likely spread through its ability to evade neutralising antibodies and increased infectivity, according to a study published in the Nature Journal on Tuesday. The B.1.617.2 or Delta variant was first observed in India in late 2020. It has since spread around the globe. The international team of researchers combined lab-based experiments and epidemiology of vaccine breakthrough infections, showing that the Delta variant is better at replicating and spreading than other commonly-observed variants. "There's also evidence that neutralising antibodies produced as a result of previous infection or vaccination are less effective at stopping this variant," said Professor Ravindra Gupta from the University of Cambridge in the UK, and one of the study's senior authors. "These factors are likely to have contributed to the devastating epidemic wave in India during the first quarter of 2021, where as many as half of the cases were individuals who had previously been infected with an earlier variant," Gupta noted. To examine how well the Delta variant was able to evade the immune response, the team extracted serum from blood samples collected as part of the https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/new-education-measures-will-make-youth-future-ready-says-narendra-modi-at-shiksha-parv-conclave/cid/1829692-19 cohort of the UK's National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) BioResource. The samples came from individuals who had previously been infected with the coronavirus or who had been vaccinated with either the Oxford/AstraZeneca, known as Covishield in India, or Pfizer vaccines. Serum contains antibodies raised in response to infection or vaccination. The team found that the Delta variant virus was 5.7-fold less sensitive to the sera from previously-infected individuals, and as much as eight-fold less sensitive to vaccine sera, compared with the Alpha variant. In other words, it takes eight times as many antibodies from a vaccinated individual to block the virus. The researchers also analysed over 100 infected healthcare workers at three Delhi hospitals, nearly all of whom had been vaccinated against SARS-CoV-2. They found the Delta variant to be transmitted between vaccinated staff to a greater extent than the Alpha variant. "The Delta variant has spread widely to become the dominant variants worldwide because it is faster to spread and better at infecting individuals than most other variants we have seen," said Partha Rakshit from the National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi, and joint senior author of the study. "It is also better at getting around existing immunity -- either through previous exposure to the virus or to vaccination -- though the risk of moderate to severe disease is reduced in such cases," Rakshit said. The spike proteins of the SARS-CoV-2 bind to ACE2, a protein receptor found on the surface of cells in our body. Both the spike protein and ACE2 are then cleaved, allowing genetic material from the virus to enter the host cell. The virus manipulates the host cell's machinery to allow the virus to replicate and spread. Using 3D airway organoids -- 'mini-organs' grown from cells from the airway, which mimic its behaviour the team studied what happens when the virus reaches the respiratory tract. The researchers used both a live virus and a 'pseudotyped virus' a synthetic form of the virus that mimicked key mutations on the Delta variant and used this to infect the organoids. They found that the Delta variant was more efficient at breaking into the cells compared with other variants as it carried a larger number of cleaved spikes on its surface. Once inside the cells, the variant was also better able to replicate. Both of these factors give the virus a selection advantage compared to other variants, helping explain why it has become so dominant, according to the researchers. Professor Anurag Agrawal from the CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi, India, joint senior author of the study, noted that infection of vaccinated healthcare workers with the Delta variant is a significant problem. "Although they themselves may only experience mild Covid, they risk infecting individuals who have suboptimal immune responses to vaccination due to underlying health conditions and these patients could then be at risk of severe disease," Agrawal said. "We urgently need to consider ways of boosting vaccine responses against variants among healthcare workers. It also suggests infection control measures will need to continue in the post-vaccine era," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
07-09-2021||India||Supreme Court grants more time to for filing response on pleas seeking Pegasus probe||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted some more time to the Centre for filing its response to a batch of pleas seeking an independent probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping matter and fixed them for further hearing on September 13. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana had issued a notice to the Centre on the pleas on August 17, while making it clear that it did not want the government to disclose anything which compromises national security. As soon as as the matter came up for hearing before the bench, which also comprised justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said that due to some difficulties, the affidavit, sought by the bench, could not be filed and sought listing of the case either on Thursday or Monday. There is some difficulty with the affidavit. We had filed one and you had enquired if we want to file another one, some officers were not there...if this matter can be kept on Thursday or Monday, the law officer said. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for senior journalist N Ram, said that he does not have any objection to the request. List it on Monday, the bench said. The court is hearing as many as 12 pleas, including the one filed by the Editors Guild of India, seeking an independent probe into the matter. They are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
07-09-2021||India||New education measures will make youth future-ready, says Narendra Modi at Shiksha Parv conclave||The teaching-learning process in the country has to be constantly redefined and redesigned to make our education sector world-class, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday. The prime minister also launched several initiatives in the education sector, asserting that they will play an important role in shaping India's future. Addressing the inaugural conclave of 'Shikshak Parv' through video-conferencing, he expressed confidence that these measures will not only make our education system globally competitive but also make the youth future-ready. "We have to constantly redefine and redesign our teaching-learning process in order to make our education sector world-class. In this rapidly changing era, our teachers also have to learn about new systems and techniques rapidly. The country is preparing its teachers for these changes," he said in his address. "During Covid, we have all witnessed capabilities of our education sector. There were a lot of challenges, but you solved all challenges swiftly. Online classes, group video calls, online exams - terms such as these weren't heard by many earlier," he added. Modi launched the Indian Sign Language Dictionary (audio and text embedded sign language video for the hearing impaired, in conformity with Universal Design of Learning), Talking Books (audio books for the visually impaired), School Quality Assurance and Assessment Framework of CBSE, NISHTHA teachers' training programme for NIPUN Bharat and Vidyanjali portal (for facilitating education volunteers, donors and CSR contributors for school development). "Today, on the occasion of Shikshak Parv, many new schemes have been started. These initiatives are also important because the country is currently celebrating the nectar festival of freedom. Taking new resolutions for how India will be after 100 years of independence," the prime minister said. "For development of any nation, education needs to be both equitable and inclusive. For the same, the country is including talking books and audio books as part of education. Based on UDL, an Indian sign language dictionary has been developed. "You all are aware that for the progress of any country, education should not only be inclusive but should also be equitable. That is why, today the country is making technology like talking books and audio books a part of education, he added. People participation has been a key aspect of the government's decision-making in the seven years, he said and cited programmes like 'Swachh Bharat' and move to boost digital transactions among the poor to assert that the kind of work done during this period could not have been imagined otherwise. "When the society does something together, then the desired results must be met. Public participation is again becoming the national character of India. In the last six-seven years, due to the power of public participation, such things have been done in India, which no one could have imagined. "From the formulation of the New Education Policy (NEP) to its implementation, there has been contribution of academicians, experts, teachers, at every level. You all deserve praise for this. Now we have to take this participation to a new level, we also have to involve the society in it," he said. The theme of the Shikshak Parv-2021' is Quality and Sustainable Schools: Learnings from Schools in India . On the occasion, Modi also lauded performance of the Indian players in the Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics, saying they have inspired youngsters. He said he has asked the players to visit at least 75 schools each during the ongoing 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav' programme, and that they have accepted his request.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
07-09-2021||India||78 Afghanistan evacuees released from ITBP quarantine centres||Seventy-eight people including Afghan nationals, who were evacuated from Afghanistan after Kabul fell to Taliban last month, were on Tuesday discharged from an ITBP facility here after they completed a 14-day quarantine rule in place to check the spread of coronavirus infection. The group includes 53 people from Afghanistan (34 men, nine women and 10 children), and 25 Indians (18 men, five women and 12 children), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said. They were handed over medical certificates and a red rose as they left the facility. These people were brought to this COVID-19 quarantine facility located in south-west Delhi's Chhawla area on August 24 after they landed here onboard an evacuation flight operated by the Indian Air Force. The Afghan nationals have been sent to a designated location in south Delhi while the Indians are expected to go to their homes, a senior officer said. The facility still has 35 people, who returned from Afghanistan, under quarantine that includes 24 Indians and the rest from Nepal. This group is also expected to be discharged similarly on Wednesday, at the end of their 14-days quarantine period as mandated under existing COVID-19 medical protocol, the officer said. This ITBP quarantine centre was operationalised last year soon after the outbreak of COVID-19 and it has hosted over 1,200 people including foreigners from at least eight countries till now. The first batch of Indians and some foreigners returning from Wuhan in China were also quarantined here last year. The ITBP is a border guarding force under the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and it is primarily tasked to guard the 3,488 km long Line of Actual Control with China apart from rendering a variety of roles in the internal security domain of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
07-09-2021||India||India records 31,000 new Covid-19 cases, active infections decline||India logged 31,222 fresh cases of coronavirus infection taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,30,58,843, while the active cases were recorded below four lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll has climbed to 4,41,042 with 290 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The active cases have declined to 3,92,864 comprising 1.19 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.48 per cent, the ministry said. A decrease of 12,010 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 15,26,056 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 53,31,89,348. The daily positivity rate was recorded as 2.05 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last eight days while the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.56 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 74 days, the ministry said. With more than 1.13 crore vaccine doses administered in the last 24 hours, the cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has reached 69.90 crore according to the ministry. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 290 new fatalities include 135 from Kerala, and 37 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,41,042 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,37,811 from Maharashtra, 37,426 from Karnataka, 35,036 from Tamil Nadu, 25,082 from Delhi, 22,861 from Uttar Pradesh, 21,631 from Kerala and 18,515 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
07-09-2021||India||Rahul says government blind to students' distress, asks to postpone NEET||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday called for the postponement of the NEET examination, and alleged that the government is "blind" to students' distress. The former Congress chief also urged the government to let the students "have a fair chance" in the exams. Gandhi's remarks come a day after the Supreme Court refused to defer the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET)-UG examination scheduled for September 12, saying it does not want to interfere with the process and it will be "very unfair" to reschedule it. The advocate for the petitioners argued that medical entrance exam NEET-UG 2021 be deferred as many other examinations are scheduled around September 12. "GOI is blind to students' distress. Postpone NEET exam. Let them have a fair chance," Gandhi tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
07-09-2021||India||Nipah: Close contacts of deceased child test negative for virus||Kerala heaved a sigh of relief on Tuesday as the test results of those who came in close contact with the 12-year-old child who succumbed to Nipah virus infection returned negative. State Health Minister Veena George said the test results of the samples taken from the child's eight close contacts are negative. "The samples of parents and healthcare workers, who were symptomatic, have been tested negative. It's a moment of relief that the results of those who were in close contact with the child came out negative," the minister said at a press meet. George said there are currently 48 people in the high risk category who are at a medical college isolation ward and their health condition is "stable". Five more samples are being tested in the facility arranged at the medical college by Pune NIV, the minister said. Out of the 48, 31 people are from Kozhikode, four from Wayanad, eight from Malappuram, three from Kannur and one person each from Palakkad and Ernakulam districts. The minister also informed the media that more samples will be tested on Tuesday. Officials from the animal husbandry department and forest department launched a massive drive to identify the source of the infection that killed the boy who is suspected to have eaten rambutan fruit grown in the area. Veterinary experts from the animal husbandry department collected swabs and blood samples from a goat from the child’s home since he had tended to the animal that had fallen sick recently. But deputy director of the department K.A. Baby told reporters that there was no precedence to a domestic animal testing for the virus. “Samples of body fluids from domestic animals were collected just to rule out any possibility although we don’t have any evidence of them being the host for this virus,” Baby said. He said work was on to trap wild boars and fruit bats to collect fluid samples. While fruit bats are known to be hosts of Nipah, wild boars could have traces of the virus if they consumed fruits contaminated by the bats. Health workers had already secured samples of rambutan fruits to test if they carried any trace of the Nipah virus possibly transmitted by an infected fruit bat. The health department on Monday said 251 contacts of the child had been identified, of which 129 are healthcare workers. The department has been on a high alert since the 12-year-old boy from Kozhikode succumbed to Nipah virus infection on Sunday. The area within a three-kilometre radius from the house of the deceased child has been declared a containment zone. This includes wards from five panchayats. The health departments in four districts -- Kozhikode, neighbouring Kannur, Malappuram and Wayanad -- have been put on high alert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
07-09-2021||India||Survey underscores alarming levels of learning in unprivileged kids||Over one third pupils of Classes III to V belonging to unprivileged sections living in hamlets and slums were unable to read a sentence, a survey has found, underscoring the alarming learning levels because of the pandemic-induced school closure. The SCHOOL survey conducted by nearly 100 volunteers under the supervision of academicians and researchers Nirali Bakhla, Jean Drèze, Vipul Paikra and Reetika Khera also found a trend of children switching from private to government schools because of the inability to pay fees. “The first step should be to start reopening schools and having a discussion about how to reopen them safely,” Dreze told The Telegraph. A few states have started opening schools, mostly covering higher classes from Classes IX to XII. Some, such as Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, have opened schools for all grades. The survey was held last month in Assam, Bihar, Bengal, Jharkhand, Odisha, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh and the Union Territory of Chandigarh. The survey covered 1,362 households, 60 per cent of which belonged to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Over 500 households were in urban slums and 842 in rural hamlets where most children usually attend government schools. One child from each family enrolled in any grade between Classes I and VIII was interviewed with their parents. The survey found that 28 per cent of rural children were studying regularly, 37 per cent were not studying at all while 35 per cent were studying from time to time. In the urban areas, 47 per cent were studying regularly and 19 per cent were not studying at all. The survey included a reading test in which children were asked to read a sentence in Hindi printed in a large font: “Jab se corona mahamaari chal rahi hai, tab se school bandh hai (Ever since the coronavirus pandemic is on, the school has been shut).” The children of non-Hindi speaking states were given the same sentence in their respective state language. About 42 per cent rural children of Classes III to V were unable to read a single word while 35 per cent of urban kids of the same grades clocked the same performance. About 31 per cent urban and 26 per cent rural children could read the sentence while the remaining students had difficulty in reading or could read only some words. Even at the upper primary level (Classes VI to VIII), the proportion of children who could read fluently is just over half, in both rural (57 per cent) and urban areas (58 per cent). About one fifth of the children surveyed were enrolled in a private school when the lockdown began in March 2020. About 26 per cent of children who were initially enrolled in private schools had switched to government schools during the lockdown. Many private schools started online education and continued to charge the same fees, following which parents were reluctant to pay, either because of the fall in their earnings or because online education did not work well for their children. Other costs like smartphone and recharge also added to their burden. The Union education ministry has claimed to have started digital platforms for providing e-content to children to study. For instance, DIKSHA provides such e-content while Swayam Prabha TV channel offers educational content for school students. The survey found the reach of online education was very limited. The proportion of surveyed children who were studying online “regularly” was just 24 per cent and 8 per cent in urban and rural areas, respectively. One reason for this is that 49 per cent rural households and 23 per cent urban households surveyed had no smartphone. Even among households with a smartphone, the devices are often used by working adults. Weak connectivity and lack of money for data also contribute to poor access to online education. About 57 per cent of those accessing online study in urban areas and 65 per cent in rural areas faced connectivity problems. Although regular educational broadcasts for school children are available on Doordarshan, only 1 per cent of rural children and 8 per cent of urban children acknowledged TV programmes as a regular or even occasional mode of study. Among the parents whose children were accessing online education, 65 per cent in urban areas and 70 per cent in rural belts said their child’s reading and writing abilities have declined during the lockdown. Among those parents whose children were left to study on their own, 82 per cent urban parents and 76 per cent rural parents had the same opinion. Among those who were not studying online at the time of the survey, a large majority are either not studying at all or just studying on their own at home from time to time. In states like Assam, Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh, virtually nothing has been done to help offline children to continue studying since March 2020. In states like Karnataka, Maharashtra, Punjab and Rajasthan, worksheets have been given to children for homework. Teachers have been instructed to visit parents’ homes from time to time for advice. The survey found that the educational support from the local school was very sporadic or virtually nil in rural areas. Among the children studying without online access, 39 per cent in rural areas and 25 per cent in urban areas said they were given homework. Among such children, about 51 per cent in urban areas and 58 per cent in rural areas had not met their teacher at all during the 30 days preceding the survey. The pupils up to Class VIII in government and aided school are entitled to midday meal support. As schools are closed, states are largely providing dry ration and monetary allowances to meet the cooking cost. About 80 per cent parents reported having received some food, mainly rice or wheat, during the preceding three months. Anita Rampal, former dean of faculty of education at Delhi University, said that school reopening was the way forward. “Parents in urban areas, especially among the better-off sections, seem hesitant to send their children to schools. But the situation in rural areas is different. As reflected in this survey, parents are eager to send children to schools. Schools should be reopened for the elementary grades,” Rampal said. She described the government’s claim of starting various technological measures to take education to the doorstep of children as an attempt to cover up the situation of children being deprived of learning opportunities. “All the online interventions have limited reach. The education television channels are yet to be used except in a few states like Kerala. The government is trying to abdicate its responsibility of providing quality education to all,” Rampal said In any case, online lessons cannot pass off as meaningful education for any child, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
07-09-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Karnal announces internet shutdown before gherao ||The district administration of Karnal in Haryana on Monday announced an Internet shutdown from half past midnight on Tuesday in view of a call given by protesting farmers to gherao the mini-secretariat. The gherao is in protest against the BJP-led Haryana government’s decision to back former sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha, who was caught on camera ordering the police to break the heads of farmers if they tried to breach a security cordon on August 28. Late on Monday night, the  Haryana government issued an order suspending mobile Internet services for 24 hours in the adjoining districts of Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Jind and Panipat. According to the shutdown order for Karnal, all forms of telecom Internet services (2G/3G/4G/CDMA/GPRS) and SMS services provided on mobile networks will remain suspended for the next 24 hours. Only voice calls will be possible during the shut down in Karnal, which has already been brought under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Monday said they would go ahead with their protest action and hold a kisan mahapanchayat in Karnal. Farmers have been told to assemble at the grain market and then proceed to gherao the mini-secretariat. The Congress has stepped in to urge the Haryana government to withdraw the prohibitory orders, restore Internet services and allow the farmers to hold their planned mahapanchayat, besides take action against the erring officials. After Sinha’s video went viral and several farmers were injured in the lathi charge that took place at the Karnal toll plaza on August 28, the SKM had given a call to lay siege of the mini-secretariat on September 7 if their demand for dismissal of the former SDM is not met by Monday. Subsequently, following the death of a farmer — who had suffered injuries in the lathi charge — the SKM has been pressing for Sinha to be booked for murder. The family of the deceased farmer, Sushil Kajal, has alleged that he was denied treatment by the police. The Haryana government eventually transferred Sinha out of Karnal to Chandigarh but this has failed to cut any ice with the farmers as no disciplinary proceedings have been initiated against the former SDM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
07-09-2021||India||SC warns Narendra Modi govt of contempt proceedings||The Supreme Court on Monday warned the Narendra Modi government of contempt proceedings if it failed to take steps to immediately fill 250 vacancies in various tribunals. A special bench headed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said the Centre had scant respect for the country’s highest court whose “patience” it was “testing”. Instead of making appointments to the tribunals, the government is coming out with fresh pieces of legislation which were nothing but a “replica” of what was already struck down by the apex court earlier, the court noted. An act rushed through Parliament last month seeks to vest the Centre with powers in the appointment and removal of the quasi-judicial members in various tribunals. Tribunals — adjudicatory quasi-judicial bodies like the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, National Green Tribunal, the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal and the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal — were set up with retired judges to decongest the regular courts and deal with specialised issues. On Monday, the CJI said: “You (the government) are bent upon not respecting the judgment of this court. This much is very clear. We have only three options left now. “One is staying the legislation or whatever act that you have made and direct you to go ahead with the appointments. Or, close down the tribunals and give the power to take up the matters. Third is we ourselves will appoint the people to the tribunals. We could consider initiating proceedings for contempt of court.” The bench, which includes Justices L. Nageswara Rao and D.Y. Chandrachud, gave vent to its ire after noting that despite its earlier directives, the government had not taken adequate steps for filling the vacancies. Both Justices Rao and Chandrachud are members of the collegium, too. On Monday, the court issued a formal notice to the Union government on a fresh petition filed by Congress leader Jairam Ramesh challenging the constitutional validity of various provisions of the tribunal reforms act. The act has already been challenged by the Madras Bar Association, which has contended that the legislation is an attempt to scuttle the apex court’s earlier judgments upholding the independence of the tribunals. Justice Chandrachud referred to a proviso in the new legislation under which a person aged below 50 is ineligible to be appointed as chairperson or a member of a tribunal. The amended provision was contrary to the Supreme Court rulings in the earlier judgment, Justice Chandrachud said. Justice Ramana told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, who is appearing for the Centre: “There is no respect for the judgments of this court. It is unfortunate. Last time, you have said that you have appointed some members in the tribunals. How many you have appointed? Show us the details.” The bench declined to adjourn the matter for two weeks as sought by Mehta. The CJI pointed out that the special bench had been constituted with senior judges and the court’s time could not be frittered away with frequent adjournments. “You are testing the patience of this court…,” Justice Ramana told Mehta after the solicitor-general read out a government notification stating that some of the appointments would be made in the next two weeks. On August 16, too, the apex court had castigated the Centre for rushing through the Tribunals Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Services) Bill, 2021, without proper debate in Parliament. The Opposition has been complaining that bills were being passed in the House without any discussion. In 2019, a five-judge constitution bench had struck down an amendment incorporated to the appointment and removal process made by the government. Undeterred, the Modi government brought in an ordinance with similar provisions, which was struck down again by the apex court in April this year on a petition filed by the Madras Bar Association. Subsequently, a three-judge bench headed by Justice Rao, while iterating the opinion of the constitution bench, struck down some amendments made by the Centre in 2020 to dilute the effect of the 2019 judgment. However, the Centre came up with fresh legislation to override the ruling of both the constitution bench and the subsequent one by the apex court. “The judgment was passed with the law in place then. All recommendations were made keeping all parameters in mind, why were the appointments not made?... The recommendations were strictly in accordance with law,” Justice Nageswara Rao pointed out. Justice Chandrachud told the solicitor-general that several cases were being adjourned in the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission for over year because of the absence of tribunal members. He cited the instances of several petitions coming up before his bench relating to company law adjudication because of vacancies in the National Company Law Tribunal. “We don’t want confrontation with the government and we are happy with the way the names of nine Supreme Court judges were cleared by the government. But then these tribunals are collapsing with no members or chairpersons…. Tell us your plans. What is that you want? Do you want to close down tribunals?” Justice Ramana asked Mehta. Mehta said the government, too, did not want any confrontation with the judiciary. “I think you never advised (the government) on the legislation. This judgment is passed now, you pass another legislation. We are upset, we will give you another three or four days to come back and say what you want to say,” the CJI told Mehta.. The CJI also regretted that the Centre had so far failed to constitute the CGST council to adjudicate disputes pertaining to the levy of GST. Later, the court adjourned the matter for next Monday by when the government is expected to come out with details of the appointments made to various tribunals whose vacancies are pegged at nearly 250, accounting for 50 per cent of the sanctioned strength.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
07-09-2021||India||Delhi University  set for phased opening of colleges, depts & centres||Delhi University  is set for phased opening of colleges, departments and centres. On Monday, it issued a notification suggesting the theory classes for all the Under-Graduate (UG) and Post Graduate (PG) would be continued online till further order. For laboratory and practical classes, the UG and PG students will be able to come to departments and colleges on voluntary basis from 15th September. But only 50 per cent students will be called at a time. The other half can be called some other time. Final year students can come for consultation too. The library is opened from Monday. If sitting arrangements are not ensures under Covid protocol, at least books can be issued. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority has allowed opening educational institutions with 50 per cent attendance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
07-09-2021||India||LAC: China continues construction in 'occupied' territory||The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is continuing construction activity in the “occupied” territory in Depsang Plains and has been building additional military camps at the friction point, sources in the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) have said. “The latest ground reports from Depsang Plains suggest the PLA has intensified construction works in the occupied zone and has been building concrete shelters and additional military camps for its soldiers,” said an ITBP official. The PLA, he said, has so far refused to disengage from the remaining friction points within India claimed lines – Depsang Plains and Hot Springs. ITBP is the first line of defence along the 3,488km China frontier, which passes along Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. The army remains behind it. The Chinese army is said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines on the strategically crucial Depsang Plains. It has cut off the Indian Army’s access to five traditional patrolling points — PPs 10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13 — since the border standoff began in May last year. The border standoffs in Hot Springs and Depsang Plains is continuing even though there has been “partial” disengagements from the Galwan Valley, Pangong Lake and Gogra, by creating a demilitarised “buffer zone” with the Chinese stepping back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines. Military veterans have questioned the government’s “concessions” in agreeing to create a buffer zone, saying such buffer zones within India claimed lines meant territory loss for the Indian Army. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has also accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of ceding territory to China. Sources in the defence ministry said India has also undertaken several infrastructure development projects within its claimed territory along the China frontier and has been building nearly 70 roads of operational significance. China, too, has also been enhancing its border infrastructure by building roads, bridges, a railway network and airports, sources in the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
07-09-2021||India||BJP cites online poll to claim Modi as 'most popular leader'||A day after more than five lakh farmers gathered in Muzaffarnagar and vowed to defeat the BJP in the coming elections if it did not repeal the three farm laws, the party cited an online poll to claim Narendra Modi was the “most popular global leader”. The survey in India covered 2,126 respondents. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra also hit out at Rahul Gandhi for a tweet he had posted in support of farmers. “Dataa hai, nidar hai, idhar hai Bharat Bhagya Vidhaata. (The maker of the country’s destiny is firm, is fearless and is here),” Rahul had posted with a picture of a farmers’ rally and the hashtag  #FarmersProtest. “Today, Rahul Gandhi has once again resorted to politics of illusion. He has tweeted an old photo of the farmers’ protest to show the present picture,” Patra said.  The BJP’s IT department head Amit Malviya tweeted: “That Rahul Gandhi has to use an old picture to claim success of the Mahapanchayat just shows how the propaganda to call it a well attended ‘farmer’ agitation hasn’t worked.” He suggested that the picture was from a February meeting. Rahul had neither referred to the Mahapanchayat nor put any date to the picture, which only showed a crowd at a rally. On Saturday, when he had tweeted a picture from the gathering at Muzaffarnagar, he had tagged it #Muzaffarnagar Kisan Mahapanchayat. Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Jayant Chaudhary responded to Malviya’s tweet, saying the photograph posted by Rahul was from a farmers’ meet organised by his party in Shamli and asked what the BJP leader had to say. “Friends, on one side is Rahul Gandhi and on the other side is Hindustan’s pradhan sewak Narendra Modi. The kind of place he has achieved among the people of the country and in the world is unparalleled,” Patra said. “Recently, the United States’ global leader approval rating has come. It has given a rating of around 70 per cent to Narendra Modi ji,” he said. “An approval rating of 70 per cent is in itself a big thing, a big achievement,” he added. The rating has been given by Morning Consult, a US-based private company, that tracks the approval ratings of leaders of 13 countries on a weekly basis. Its online sample size in India was 2,126 respondents. Patra said Modi had emerged as the “vishwa ke sabse chahete leader” (most loved global leader) among the heads of state of 13 countries. “Be it Joe Biden or Germany’s Chancellor Merkel, if there is one leader ahead of them in the world then it’s PM Modi,” Patra said. He said Modi’s approval rating had increased from 66 per cent to 70 per cent because of the government’s service towards the poor and the farmers. The BJP leaders have gone all out to use this rating to underscore that Modi’s popularity remains unaffected by the farmers’ protest and privately claim that the party will retain both Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand despite the efforts of the Opposition. “The farmers’ agitation is a politically motivated campaign against Modi ji,” a BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
07-09-2021||India||Nipah virus outbreak easier to contain, say experts||A Nipah virus outbreak, although deadlier, is easier to control, and even douse, in contrast to Covid-19, virologists said on Monday amid uncertainty about the size of Kerala’s second and India’s fourth Nipah flare-up. The Nipah virus has documented human kill rates 50-fold or higher than the 1.3 per cent average case fatality rate recorded among Covid-19 patients in India, but both viruses demand similar strict infection control measures, the researchers said. Kerala, already battling a large Covid-19 epidemic, has started contact tracing, containment efforts and testing of the close contacts of a 12-year-old boy who died from Nipah infection in Kozhikode district on Sunday. Two healthcare workers, among the boy’s 20 close contacts, have developed symptoms. The public health measures to control both infections are similar — trace and quarantine all the close contacts of patients, test and isolate anyone who may show symptoms, and create a perimeter zone to prevent the spread of infection. Health authorities have cordoned off the Chathamangalam panchayat and adjacent areas and imposed lockdown-like restrictions within 3km radius of the boy’s house and are currently looking out for anyone else with symptoms. “Nipah is harder to catch than Covid-19,” said T. Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. Person-to-person spread of the Nipah virus requires touch or close contact with infected persons through nasal or respiratory droplets, urine, or blood. But SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, is transmitted through the air, albeit only short distances. Virologists say this makes SARS-CoV-2 spread faster across a community. The reproductive number — a measure of how many persons get the infection from one infected person — of the two viruses are quite different. The reproductive number value for the SARS-CoV2 Wuhan strain was 2-3, while the value for the highly contagious Delta variant is 5-6. But the reproductive number for the Nipah virus calculated on the basis of 248 patients during several outbreaks in Bangladesh between 2001 and 2014 is 0.33. In other words, it would take 10 Nipah patients to infect three more persons, while 10 Delta infected patients could spawn 50 more infections. Strict adherence to infection control, efficient contact tracing, and surveillance can help contain and douse out Nipah outbreaks relatively quickly, John said. But SARS-CoV-2 is likely to remain circulating among humans, become endemic, causing a trickle of cases for years to come, he said. Nipah is largely considered a zoonotic disease — an infection that humans get from contact with animals or birds — with poor person-to-person transmissibility, a prerequisite for a pandemic. But outbreak investigations have shown that it does spread from person to person. The Nipah virus, which resides in fruit bats, has caused sporadic outbreaks in Malaysia, Singapore, Bangladesh and India over the past two decades with severe disease and death and mortality rates reaching an average of 70 per cent. The virus jumping from bats to humans appears to be a “rare event,” said Sudanshu Vrati, a senior virologist and the director of the Regional Centre for Biotechnology, Faridabad (Haryana). It is believed to occur through contact with bat droppings or bat saliva or contaminated fruit. The previous outbreaks in India had occurred in Bengal’s Siliguri in 2001 and Nadia in 2007 and in Kozhikode-Malappuram area in 2018. The 2018 Kerala outbreak had claimed the lives of 21 of the 23 patients, a mortality rate of 91 per cent. The high mortality actually curbs the infection from spreading because, experts say, a patient if appropriately isolated from others, doesn’t get a chance to pass it to others. “But we need to remain vigilant as the Nipah virus too has the potential to evolve,” said Vrati. “If the virus gains mutations that allow it to spread easily from person to person, we could face the risk of a Nipah pandemic.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
07-09-2021||India||Kerala: Number of high risk people for Nipah virus rise to 32||The number of people categorised as high risk primary contacts of the Nipah victim rose to 32 as 251 people have been so far found to have had some proximity to the 12-year-old boy who died in Kerala in the latest outbreak of the deadly zoonotic virus. Kozhikode district collector N. Tej Rohit Reddy informed on Monday that all 32 high-risk contacts have been admitted to a specially created Nipah ward at the Government Medical College in the north Kerala city. Eight of the high-risk contacts, including the child’s mother and two nurses have developed fever although their condition remained stable. State health minister Veena George who has been camping in Kozhikode since Sunday told reporters that samples of the eight symptomatic cases have been sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune. The medical college set up a special lab to test fluid samples of contacts and any suspect case. “The availability of a lab (in Kozhikode) is helpful to quickly decide on shifting the patients to the special ward and begin treatment,” said George. Officials from the animal husbandry department and forest department launched a massive drive to identify the source of the infection that killed the boy who is suspected to have eaten rambutan fruit grown in the area. Veterinary experts from the animal husbandry department collected swabs and blood samples from a goat from the child’s home since he had tended to the animal that had fallen sick recently. But deputy director of the department K.A. Baby told reporters that there was no precedence to a domestic animal testing for the virus. “Samples of body fluids from domestic animals were collected just to rule out any possibility although we don’t have any evidence of them being the host for this virus,” Baby said. He said work was on to trap wild boars and fruit bats to collect fluid samples. While fruit bats are known to be hosts of Nipah, wild boars could have traces of the virus if they consumed fruits contaminated by the bats. Health workers had already secured samples of rambutan fruits to test if they carried any trace of the Nipah virus possibly transmitted by an infected fruit bat. Local police barricaded a 3km area around the child’s home in Chathamangalam with no one allowed to leave or enter the area until further notice. “We have created this containment zone to ensure everyone remains in their homes and outsiders do not have access to this part of the town,” sub-inspector of Mukkam police station Sajith told reporters on Monday after surveying the place. He said shops selling essential commodities could stay open from 7am to 2pm in the containment zone. The state had two earlier outbreaks of Nipah in 2018 and 2019. While 17 people died in the 2018 outbreak in Kozhikode, a college student who contracted the virus in 2019 in Ernakulam district was completely cured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
07-09-2021||India||Supreme Court issues notices to the Centre on medical quota||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notices to the Centre and the Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) on a plea by a group of doctors to quash the July 29 notification allowing reservation for OBCs (Other Backward Classes) and EWS (Economically Weaker Section) in the all-India quota for medical seats from 2021-22 academic year. The all-India quota comprises 15 per cent of the total available undergraduate seats and 50 per cent of postgraduate seats in government medical colleges. In the petition, the group of doctors has alleged that the policy is unconstitutional and contrary to some of the assurances given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the pandemic. NEET PG Exams are scheduled to be held from September 11 and the MCC has announced that 1,75,063 students will appear for the tests. This is the first time such reservation benefits are being extended to the OBCs and EWS categories in higher medical education. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli sought the Centre’s and MCC’s response to the petition within two weeks which argued that the notification was arbitrary, unconstitutional and illegal as the rules cannot be changed once the examination process has been initiated. Senior advocates Vikas Sing and Arvind Datar appeared for the doctors. The petitioners have moved the court against the MCC’s July 29 order providing for the said quota although the NEET PG exam process had commenced in April. However, the exam had to be postponed to September because of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
07-09-2021||India||Covid: Kerala High Court allows early second dose of Covishield ||Kerala High Court has allowed a garment manufacturer to administer the second dose of Covishield vaccine it has purchased for its employees without waiting for the 84-day gap since the government had permitted several sections of people to complete their vaccination schedule after 28 days of the first dose. The court, in its order dated September 3, directed the Union government to make necessary alterations in the CoWIN portal to schedule the second dose four weeks after the first. Currently, the portal does not accept entry of second shots before the prescribed time period. But the single bench of Justice P.B. Suresh Kumar said: “I have not considered the question whether a person is entitled to make a choice between early protection and better protection from Covid-19 infection in the matter of accepting the free vaccine provided by the government.” The petitioner, Kitex Garments Ltd, one of the biggest garment manufacturers in Kerala, had sought permission to administer 10,000 second doses of Covishield it had procured and stored through a private hospital in Ernakulam before 84 days. Sajeev T.K., general manager of the company based in Kizhakkambalam in Ernakulam district, told The Telegraph on Monday that plans were afoot to start the second dose of vaccination from Tuesday. “This is a huge relief for us since we have been waiting to get all our employees and their families to get the second dose. While some of them have already taken the second dose since they completed 84 days, a huge majority of them would benefit from this judgment,” he said. Assistant solicitor-general of India P. Vijayakumar had filed a statement on behalf of the Union government seeking the dismissal of the petition since the “the decision to increase the dose interval of Covishield vaccine was based on scientific evidence and expert opinion as per available efficacy data”. The court considered the petitioner’s argument that several sections, including students and workers travelling abroad, members of the Indian Olympic team and government officials, were among those who were exempted from the 84-day mandate and allowed to get their second shot of Covishield after four weeks. The court ruled that the stand taken by the Union government against shortening the gap “cannot be accepted, for, as indicated, the very premise on which the present writ petition is instituted is that the decision of the government in providing relaxation in the protocol regarding administration of second dose of vaccine to certain classes of persons alone amounts to discrimination and the directions sought are directions to extend to the petitioners also the same relief”. “If the government can permit persons who are intending to travel abroad to exercise a choice between early protection and better protection from Covid-19 infection, there is absolutely no reason why the same privilege shall not be extended to others who want early protection in connection with their employment, education etc.” The court pointed out that when there was no compulsion on the people to get vaccinated, there was no reason for the government to stop them from taking an early second dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
07-09-2021||India||M.K. Stalin govt allots Rs 1,500 crore for temple administration||The DMK government in Tamil Nadu has announced a package of over Rs 1,500 crore to spruce up temple administration and declared that it does not exploit “bhakti (religiosity)” to stoke violence or for personal gains. The M.K. Stalin government’s focus on places of worship and the broadside at the milking of religion for the wrong reasons appeared aimed at countering the Hindutva plank. Tamil Nadu Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR & CE) minister P.K. Sekar Babu, while speaking during the debate on the state budget in the Assembly on Saturday, said Rs 1,512 crore had been set aside for improving temple infrastructure. This was part of 112 announcements made by the minister at one go, appearing to stun the AIADMK-BJP Opposition. “We (the DMK) are not a government that uses bhakti (religiosity) to incite violence, nor do we exploit bhakti for personal gains. The government headed by… Stalin will nurture the finer aspects of culture and spiritualism with a humanitarian approach,” Sekar Babu told the Assembly to the thumping of desks by the Treasury benches. “We have a chief minister who does not bend to the north, a quality even saints like Pattinathar and Vallalar would laud if they were alive now,” he said, adding that “spirituality” had nothing to do with “Hindutva”. The HR & CE department administers over 44,200 temples across Tamil Nadu. The proposed package of Rs 1,512 crore will be dedicated to measures to improve the temples’ upkeep and administration, increase cash assistance for archakas (priests), oduvars (musicians) and other shrine staff, renovate temples and provide more amenities to devotees. Pilgrims will no longer need to pay to get their heads tonsured at temples. The shrine administration will pay the barbers. Disabled couples won’t be charged for temple weddings. A Rs 200-crore “master plan” has been drawn up to give a facelift to 40 big temples in places such as Rameswaram, Madurai, Palani, Tiruttani, Samayapuram, Srirangam, Tiruvannamalai and Chennai. An all-day annadana (free food) scheme for devotees will be in place at 10 major shrines from September 17. Jewel plan Minister Sekar Babu announced the revival of a scheme to efficiently manage the gold jewels, gems and precious stones offered by devotees to temples. Amid complaints of loss of donated jewels, the government now plans to keep only the basic and most valuable jewellery that adorns the deities at the respective temples, besides the precious stones in their vaults. Sekar Babu said that after a thorough stock-taking of the huge quantities of unused smaller jewellery, such as earrings, nose studs and chains donated by devotees over the past 10 years and lying in temple vaults, they would be sent to the government gold mint in Mumbai to be melted and converted into gold bars. These bars will be deposited in stable banks to yield revenue in the form of interest. An official later said about 2,000kg of unused jewellery could be turned into gold bars. The HR & CE department will establish 10 arts and science colleges at various places, including Chennai, at a cost of Rs 150 crore. Periyar birthday Chief minister Stalin on Monday said the DMK government has decided to celebrate September 17, the birthday of late rationalist leader and social reformer Periyar E.V. Ramaswami, as Social Justice Day every year as an act of thanksgiving for his ideals and social reforms that helped to build a modern, inclusive and progressive Tamil Nadu. “Wherever we are today, we all owe it to the Dravidian Movement spearheaded by Periyar and the ideals of self-respect, rationalism, equality and women’s empowerment and there is a big responsibility cast on us to take forward his legacy,” Stalin said in the Assembly. Even as all the political parties welcomed Stalin's announcement, the DMK government's decision is seen in political circles as yet another strategic counter to stem the rising tide of Hindutva and communally divisive politics by the BJP, ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
07-09-2021||India||Six-member central team lands in Patna to assess flood situation ||A six-member team from the Centre on a two-day visit to assess the devastation brought by four rounds of floods in Bihar so far this year, landed in Patna on Monday. The state government greeted it with a demand of Rs 3,764 crore assistance required to deal with the situation, while chief minister Nitish Kumar asserted that the team arrived late despite request that it should come and see the situation. “We request the central government every year to come and see the flood situation and how much area has been affected in the state. We had been asking the Centre to send a team to come and see everything, but it came late this time,” Nitish told media persons when asked about the visit of the assessment team. Speaking further on the sidelines of his ‘janata durbar’ Nitish pointed out that the floods started early this year in the month of June, but the government has to stay alert about it till the end of September. He also said that the deluge has hit areas in south Bihar also, apart from the usual north Bihar areas. “As per our assessment conducted a week ago, floods in the state have affected around 57 lakh people this year. We are conducting relief works for all of them. If the central team sees the affected places and feels that help should be provided to the state, it will do so,” Nitish added. The assessment team led by Union home ministry joint secretary Rakesh Kumar Singh held a meeting with Bihar chief secretary Tripurari Sharan, disaster management department additional chief secretary Pratyaya Amrit, road construction department principal secretary Amrit Lal Meena and other senior officers over the issue. A presentation on the devastation by floods in the state this year was shown to the visiting central officials. Of the Rs 3,764 crore assistance demanded by the Bihar government, Rs 1,470 crore is for the water resources department, Rs 1,169 crore for the disaster management department and Rs 661 crore for the agriculture department. The rest of the amount is for road construction, rural works, energy, public health and engineering, and animal husbandry and fisheries resources departments. These are the departments that bear the brunt of the floods brought by the Ganga and the rivers flowing into the state from neighbouring Nepal, which destroy crops, roads, electricity supply system and other infrastructure.  “This is a preliminary demand by the state,” Amrit said. The assessment team left for an aerial survey of the flood-affected areas after a meeting with the Bihar officials. It will halt at Darbhanga on Monday evening and continue its work on Tuesday to fly over the deluge-hit areas in and around Bhagalpur. Floods have hit 27 out of 38 districts in the state this year in which 53 people have lost their lives so far. At present, 13 districts — Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Khagaria, Saharsa, Vaishali, Bhagalpur, Saran, Katihar, Samastipur, Sitamarhi, East Champaran, Gopalganj and Madhepura are still reeling under floods. The state government has spent Rs 477 crore to proved gratuitous relief of Rs 6,000 to 7.96 lakh families so far apart from the usual rescue and relief operations, distribution of dry ration to the affected families and running community kitchen for the displaced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
07-09-2021||India||Naveen gives Odisha model schools 10-year road map  ||The Odisha government has come up with an ambitious 10-year plan for the state-run Odisha Adarsha Vidyalaya scheme (Odisha Model School scheme). The road map will focus on making model schools centres of excellence in studies so that students stop migrating to English medium schools run by private bodies. The state had earlier announced 15 per cent reservation for students in the state-run engineering and medical colleges who pass out from government schools. The 314 model schools across the state will be given achievement targets for the next 10 years. They will also be asked to promote yoga, sports and healthy living. As per the announcement of chief minister Naveen Patnaik on the occasion of Teacher’s Day on Sunday, Odisha Adarsha Vidyalayas (OAVs) will be made talent centres and will ensure that at least one student can crack one of the national entrance examinations each year. OAVs aim to impart free quality education in English through the CBSE curriculum to students from Class VI to Class XII especially in rural and semi-urban areas. Minister Samir Ranjan Dash told The Telegraph: “The chief minister has a vision for the students. He wants the overall development of the personality of each student. Earlier, the students had a complex about reading in Odia medium schools. Now they will overcome that complex and can be at par with the students of the English medium schools. We will convert all the 8,000 government-run high schools into model schools in a phased manner.” Meanwhile, all the high schools in the constituency of Naveen — Hinjili — have been refurbished and turned to model schools. According to the road map, all OAVs will have green campuses and comply with net zero emission standards by 2025. In order to make the students aware that blood is precious and it saves lives, all OAVs will be asked to conduct at least one blood donation camp in collaboration with Rotary and Lions’ Club this year, subject to Covid rules and regulations by the government. The state has also decided that each OAVs will conduct a mock UN session to highlight global issues and interconnections in sustainable climate planning. Besides, OAVians will carry out community service of “each one teach one” to gain practical experience in the field of education. In order to meet the rising demand of skilled people in Odisha as several industrial houses including ArcelorMittal are going to set up industries in the state. The government has decided to set up skill centres in the schools. “Skilling in schooling to be promoted for the needy,” said officials. Besides, every OAV will have an interactive and dynamic web page that will be a source of learning and expression for the teaching and student community. They will also be asked to publish a monthly newsletter namely OAVS NEWS/OAVians. On the occasion of the Teacher’s Day on Sunday, Naveen laid the foundation stone for construction of Adarsha Vidyalaya on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar. The school will come up with a budget of Rs 100 crore and it will be developed as a centre to provide quality education to the meritorious students. The schools will enroll 1,000 students with 500 each for Class IX and Class X. The students will be selected from 314 model schools in the state. It will have 26 classrooms and eight science laboratories. Two hostels, one for girls and another for boys, will be set up on the premises. Earlier in July 2019, Dash had visited Delhi Schools to see the transformation made by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. However, Dash maintained the state government had nothing to do with Delhi government’s transformation on schools. “We had inspected their schools. But our planning to transform the education sector has not connected to the Delhi model,” he said. Initially, the schools will function from a rented house from academic year 2022-23. “We will ensure that the school buildings are completed as soon as possible,” Dash said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
