08-09-2021||India||In this era of OTT Platforms, how this Bangalore-based platform is bridging the gap between a good story idea and its execution||Writing a script or a book requires ideas that are crafted with precision but are also thought of with a lot of dedication and love. With ideas being penned down, it deems to be a waste if they are not put to action. Realizing that it is not easy to get on board with a publication or have authorized screenwriting partners, Script A Hit, a first-of-its-kind platform in screenwriting and publishing was launched in April 2021. The platform headquartered in Bangalore is founded by Jaishankar Krishnamurthy that helps young minds who have ideas but not the proficiencies, time, or resources to turn their thoughts into a novel to be published or into scripts for audio-visual content production. The founder through some light about the impeccable journey of his brand and the details involved in acing the industry with his thoughtful strategies. 1.         When was Script A Hit launched and how did you get the idea to start the brand? Is the company funded or bootstrapped? We launched Script A Hit’s website amidst the pandemic in April 2021.Launching the platform was my idea as I was aspiring to write a novel for 4 decades but somehow could never complete penning a single book. Being married to a successful writer, Krishna Udayasankar, who is also the co-founder and who has published many bestsellers, I pitched to her a plot, which she then worked on using her exceptional skills. Now, my first book, FARSIDE, co-authored with Krishna is forthcoming from Penguin Random House in October 2021. I have also completed my second novel in collaboration with another writer. The book, MIND GAMES, is currently being pitched to various publishers by the reputed Redink Literary Agency. For my third book, I engaged a writer to bring to life his concept of an intriguing financial thriller to life. He now has three complete manuscripts, with a fourth in the works, in a span of less than two years. As a result of these experiences, I realized that there are several individuals like me who may not have the time or skills to write, or the resources to convert their unique ideas into novels. Script A Hit is a unique platform for such individual to realize their dreams of becoming an author or the creative mind behind an audio-visual production – be it a movie or an OTT series. Currently it is being funded by investment from friends and relatives. 2.What is the concept of Script A Hit. And how is it different from a publishing company? Script a Hit does not aim to publish manuscripts, rather, our aim is to help people transform their ideas into manuscripts that can then be submitted to leading publishers, to be published as books. As a result, what we look for in terms of submissions is not the entire manuscript, but a concept note - the seed of what can be a spectacular novel. Many people may have amazing ideas but do not have the skills, time or resources to turn that idea into a complete novel. We cater to these individuals by helping bridge the process between idea and manuscript. As a result, once we accept the submitted idea, we employ professional writers to convert the idea into a novel. We then will approach reputed publishing companies to publish the novel. In short, we see ourselves as adding value by serving as a bridge between the ideator and publishing houses, thereby serving both their needs  3.         Who is the target audience of Script A Hit Our target audience is any person who has an idea for a story. The person could be a homemaker with an untold story of challenges and emotions, a police force member who has seen the best and darkest of criminal minds, a migrant worker whose trials and difficulties the world needs to hear about, a single parent struggling against a society full of expectations, a daily laboureror a billionaire. We target an ordinary person with a great idea. At Script a Hit, we believe that art imitates life, and that fiction comes from reality.  4.         How does the idea work? Any person who has an idea can submit a detailed synopsis of their idea by registering at the website. If the idea is selected by the Script A Hit team, we enter into a legal contract with the submitter acquiring the idea with initial payment of INR 10,000. We then employ professional writers, chosen with care to fit the particular genre and proceed to write out the entire manuscript. We will then pitch the manuscript to reputed publishers. Depending upon the idea, we will also simultaneously present a detailed pitch to (audio-visual) content producers. 5.         How many entries have we received till now? Please explain the kind of entries you receive and where are they majorly from? We have received over 200 registrations and have received 100 story ideas. Right now we are accepting submissions in English, Hindi and Tamil. Except for one submission in Hindi, two in Tamil, the rest have been in English. The genre of stories range from romance, science fiction and fantasy to crime and thrillers.  6.         How do you think your platform is providing a great opportunity to people who have ideas in their minds and would like to sell their ideas to OTT platforms? Also, how the brand generates revenue through this The demand for content, especially in the form of webseries available on OTT platforms is growing at an exponential rate, supported also by a change in lifestyles in recent times. A recent PriceWaterhouseCoopers report projects India to become the sixth largest OTT market by 2024, with the OTTvideo segment’s share in the overall entertainment and media sectordoubling from what it was in 2019. The report says that “Subscription VOD will be the prime driver of revenue, increasing at a 30.7 per cent CAGR from $708 million in 2019 to $2.7 billion in 2024.” We have unique advantage of having on board an accomplished writer, Krishna Udayasankar, who has optioned all of her novels to date to content producers, including the likes of Disney Hotstar and Phantom Films. She has also been engaged to write screenplays for web series, which are currently being pitched to leading OTT Platforms. Also on board is Neha Lamba Grover, formerly of Star TV and now working with HCL Technologies in their Media Telecom sector in the US, dealing with a broad content-production client base. She brings both her contacts and considerable expertise in the audio-visual content production to the table. These, combined with our vision unique vision, make us a game-changer brand in the world of literary and audio-visual entertainment. We get a portion of the royalties from the publishers and amounts paid by content producers and that is the source of our revenue. 7.         How can a person submit an idea on the website? All an author has to do is submit an idea in the form of a synopsis on the official ‘Script A Hit’ website. Signing up is free. Submissions in English, Hindi, and Tamil are currently accepted. If a person's idea is shortlisted, that person signs a co-development agreement and receives a signing fee of Rs 10,000. When the company gets into the process of manuscript development with a team of professional writers. Once the manuscript is ready, we pitch it to established publishers and entertainment platforms. Finally, if the manuscript gets published, the original idea submitter will receive co-author or concept credits and also a share of the advances and royalties 8.         What is Script a Hit's expansion plan or anything else you want to share Our aim is to sign up for 10 stories in FY22 which we hope to increase to 25 in FY 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
08-09-2021||India||CCS clears purchase of 56 C-295 medium transport aircraft ||India’s Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) on Wednesday cleared the much-delayed purchase of 56 C-295 medium transport aircraft to replace the Indian Air Force’s ageing fleet of Avro-748 planes, the defence ministry announced on Wednesday. The deal is expected to be worth $2.5 billion. Airbus Defence and Space and Tata Advanced Systems Limited (TASL) will jointly execute the project to equip the air force with the new transport aircraft under the Make-in-India initiative in the aerospace sector. Airbus will supply the first 16 aircraft in flyaway condition while the remaining 40 will be assembled in India by TASL. The Avro replacement project was in the works for almost a decade. “Sixteen aircraft will be delivered in flyaway condition from Spain within 48 months of signing of the contract and 40 aircraft will be manufactured in India by Tata consortium within ten years of signing of the contract. This is the first project of its kind in which a military aircraft will be manufactured in India by a private company,” the ministry said in a statement. While the C-295s are meant to replace the Avro-748 transport planes, the new aircraft will also be suitable for demanding roles that the AN-32 currently undertakes. The aircraft can operate from short, unprepared airstrips and carry out a variety of missions in all-weather conditions. “We have made good progress with the light combat aircraft and a variety of helicopters. But transport aircraft is one area where a lot needs to be done. The C-295 project will help create an ecosystem for building transport aircraft in India,” said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. The defence acquisition council accorded its acceptance of necessity (AoN) to replace the Avro planes with 56 new aircraft in 2012. Under India’s defence procurement rules, AoN by the council is the first step towards buying military hardware. The Avro-748 entered service in the early 1960s and has been long due for replacement. “All 56 aircraft will be installed with indigenous electronic warfare suite. The project will give a boost to aerospace ecosystem in India wherein several MSMEs spread over the country will be involved in manufacturing parts of the aircraft,” the statement said. The programme will allow the Indian private sector to enter into the technology intensive and highly competitive aviation industry and will augment domestic aviation manufacturing resulting in reduced imports and expected increase in exports, it said. “The programme will act as a catalyst in employment generation and is expected to generate 600 highly skilled jobs directly, over 3,000 indirect jobs and an additional 3,000 medium skill employment opportunities…It will involve development of specialised infrastructure in the form of hangars, buildings, aprons and taxiway,” it said. The project will involve setting up servicing facilities for the C-295 in India. “It is expected that this facility will act as a regional MRO (maintenance, repair and overhaul) hub for various variants of C-295 aircraft,” it added. The contract will also have an offset clause. India’s offset policy stipulates that in all big-ticket capital purchases, the foreign vendor has to invest at least 30% of the value of the purchase in the country to boost indigenous capabilities. “The original equipment manufacturer (Airbus) will also discharge its offset obligations through direct purchase of eligible products and services from Indian offset partners giving further boost to economy,” the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
08-09-2021||India||India's criticism of Infosys, Tata worries businesses||A public diatribe against two Indian business giants by Prime Minister Narendra Modi's officials and his ideological allies has unnerved the business community, several industry executives told Reuters. Over the weekend, a magazine run by members of the Hindu nationalist Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) launched an attack on Indian tech giant Infosys for failing to resolve glitches in the income tax website it manages. The group, which is the ideological parent of Modi's ruling party, called Infosys "anti-national" for letting down the tax system, sending a chill through Indian industry wary of falling on the wrong side of the Modi government. Just last month, the finance ministry "summoned" Infosys' CEO over the tech issues and in an unusual step took to Twitter to announce the summoning, heightening a media frenzy around a company that has been the face of India's IT's prowess. And in August, the commerce minister publicly lashed out at the $106 billion Tata Group for criticizing proposed stringent rules for e-commerce and said local companies should not only think about profits. In India, safeguarding domestic businesses has been Modi's priority. While government or RSS criticism of foreign businesses like Amazon and Monsanto is common, local businesses are rarely caught in the crossfire. But the latest events have raised concerns among business leaders about whether Modi is now taking a hardline approach towards domestic giants as well, five industry sources said. One venture-capital executive said the criticism was akin to "harassment" of businesses and risks souring investor sentiment. Another executive working at a global consultancy said "everyone is scared" as businesses don't want to run foul of the government. "The frontal attack on iconic elements of Indian businesses have only buttressed the need for companies to ensure they are conforming, not just with tax issues, but with other government initiatives," said Dilip Cherian, an image guru and co-founder of leading Indian PR firm Perfect Relations. R.C. Bhargava, chairman of Maruti Suzuki, defended Infosys, saying it had played a key role in building India's software reputation globally. "It needs to explain the glitches, but it doesn't mean there is a conspiracy to damage the country," he told Reuters. A senior member of RSS, however, said there's nothing wrong in the way the companies have been criticized, saying they must be thick skinned and held accountable. "Why should questions not be raised, have corporates become a holy cow?" said the RSS official who declined to be identified. Infosys and Tata didn't respond to a request for comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
08-09-2021||India||Farmers continue sit-in outside Karnal secretariat as another round of talks fails||Another round of talks between district officials and farmers protesting over a police lathi-charge last month failed Wednesday and the protesters said they will continue their sit-in "indefinitely" at the district headquarters here.  Into the second day of the dharna, farm leaders said they will stay put at the gate of the complex but will not stop officials and the public from entering it.  Their demands centre around the suspension of IAS officer Ayush Sinha, who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to break heads of farmers if they cross the line during their August 28 protest.  About 10 farmers were hurt that day when police used force to stop them from marching to the venue of a BJP event in Karnal.  The sit-in outside the Karnal mini-secretariat, following a mahapanchayat in the same city, began Tuesday evening after talks between district officials and the farm leaders failed .  The farmers then began marching towards the office complex. Along with some Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders, many spent the night outside its main entrance.  In the morning, volunteers at the protest site were seen preparing tea and serving breakfast, including 'langar' from the nearby gurdwaras.  The district administration invited a delegation of SKM leaders -- including Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav and Gurnam Singh Chaduni -- for a meeting at 2 pm in another bid to end the standoff. But the standoff continued.  We have to say this with regret that the talks failed completely because the government is adopting an adamant and insensitive attitude, Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav told reporters after the three-hour meeting.  There is no change in their attitude from what was witnessed yesterday, he charged.  Yadav said the deputy commissioner and the superintendent of police were at the meeting, joined later by the Karnal divisional commissioner.  He and Tikait claimed that the local administration was taking directions from Chandigarh , a reference to the BJP-led Haryana government.  Yadav said the farmers had earlier demanded the registration of a murder charge against the IAS officer.  Leave alone registering a case against him despite sufficient video evidence, the government is not even ready to suspend him, he said.  This indicated, Yadav claimed, that he was not giving instructions to policemen on his own but had directions from the government.  Karnal is Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's home constituency.  Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait too charged that the state government is trying to save the officer.  So we have decided that our dharna will continue here at the same site. Farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Punjab will also keep joining the dharna site here, he said.  He said the protest will continue until the government agrees to the demands or the issue is resolved.  The western Uttar Pradesh-based leader said the farmers will take care that work at the secretariat is not disturbed and the public is not inconvenienced because of their protest. He said farmers are putting up tents at the dharna site.  Haryana BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni said the dharna will continue indefinitely round the clock.  The protest leaders had also claimed that a farmer died after the August 28 violence, an allegation rejected by the administration.  Sub Divisional Magistrate Sinha was transferred days after the controversy over his break heads remark, but the move was part of a larger bureaucratic shuffle in Haryana.  Meanwhile, the movement of traffic on the Delhi-Karnal-Ambala National Highway-44 remained normal.  Security had been beefed up on Monday, a day before the mahapanchayat at Karnal's New Anaj Mandi where farmers arrived, riding tractors and motorcycles.  From there, in the evening, they marched on foot to the mini-secretariat about five kilometres away.  The Haryana Home Department had extended the suspension of mobile internet services in Karnal until Wednesday midnight as the situation was "still volatile".  Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) banning gathering of people had been imposed in the district on Monday.  For month now, farmers have been sitting on dharnas at Delhi's borders demanding that the three agri-marketing laws enacted at the Centre should be withdrawn. Union leaders claim the law will lead to the dilution of the minimum support price (MSP) at which farmers sell their crops to government agencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
08-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi a 'pseudo expert', says education minister in jibe on NEET postponement ||Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Wednesday hit back at Rahul Gandhi for demanding the postponement of medical entrance exam NEET, saying the Congress leader was a "pseudo expert" with an "overflowing vanity and a misplaced sense of entitlement". Criticising Gandhi for "questioning the wisdom" of the Supreme Court and experts on the NEET schedule, Pradhan said that "yuvraj (prince)" should stick to "his expertise of concocting lies than issuing statements on matters he has no understanding of". The minister's response came after the former Congress President called for the postponement of the NEET examination as many other examinations are scheduled around September 12. Alleging that the government is "blind" to students' distress, Gandhi had urged the Centre to let students "have a fair chance" in the exams. On Monday, the Supreme Court refused to defer the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET)-UG examination scheduled for September 12, saying it does not want to interfere with the process and it will be "very unfair" to reschedule it. "Rahul Gandhi perceives himself to be an expert on everything without having an iota of knowledge. Overflowing vanity & misplaced sense of entitlement of a failed crown prince is no alibi to meddle into the schedule of examinations, give undue stress & make the students suffer," Pradhan tweeted. "Even the Hon'ble Supreme Court has not entertained the plea to reschedule the #NEET examination citing the deferment as being unfair to a large number of students. "What makes @RahulGandhi the pseudo expert' question the collective wisdom of the bench and actual experts?" he added. A section of medical aspirants has been demanding postponement of the exam citing the schedule of NEET closely clashing with several other exams. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 12 improvement and compartment exams are set to be held between August 25 to September 15. The next day after the medical exam is the mathematics exam on September 13. Other state-level entrance tests such as Maharashtra Common Entrance Test (MHT CET) 2021, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), Karnataka CoMEDK, Odisha JEE are also scheduled around the same time. While ICAR is scheduled to be held on September 13, MHT CET 2021 will be held from September 4 to 10 and from September 14 to 20 and CoMEDK will be on September 14. "Yuvraj should stick to his expertise of concocting lies, peddling half-truths and being the antagonist to anything progressive, rather than issuing sweeping statements on matters he has no understanding of," Pradhan further said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
08-09-2021||India||Chirag Paswan and Tejashwi Yadav meet raises political temperature in Bihar||Bihar's political temperature rose by a few notches on Wednesday as Lok Janshakti Party MP Chirag Paswan met RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav in Patna to invite the latter to an event marking his father Ram Vilas Paswan's first death anniversary a few days later. While politicians and pundits speculate a strong possibility of their coming together, the two young leaders, however, told prying journalists their meeting was a result of "family relations" that went back to ties shared by their fathers. "I still remember having learned some of my early lessons in managing an election campaign from late Ram Vilas Paswan in the assembly polls of 2010 which he had fought along with my father Lalu Prasad," Yadav said. "Chirag said that he is scheduled to meet Lalu ji at Delhi tomorrow. If father's health permits, he may even come down to Patna to attend the barkhi (function held upon one year of death)," the RJD leader said. He said that Lalu Prasad's imprisonment, besides poor health, prevented him from attending Paswan's funeral last year. Convicted in several fodder scam cases, Prasad was released from jail earlier this year upon obtaining bail from the Jharkhand High Court. He has since been convalescing in the national capital, occasionally interacting with party workers here through video conferencing. Yadav was also asked about his contention that Chirag, who has been cornered in his own party following a split engineered by uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, should consider crossing over to the Grand Alliance headed by the RJD. "Nothing remains to be said by me when Lalu ji himself has expressed the wish that both of us come together," quipped Yadav, while Chirag smiled cryptically. "I must make it clear that today's meeting between me and Tejashwi bhai has nothing to do with politics. Had my father been alive, he would have certainly liked Lalu ji and his family to be a part of any function taking place in my family. I am just carrying forward the tradition," said the Jamui MP who has been left cornered in the party floated by his father even as his rebellious uncle has landed a Union cabinet berth. Chirag was asked whether he has also extended an invitation to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, towards whom his hostile stance has become a part of contemporary political folklore. "I have sought an appointment with the chief minister. Making a demand on his time is tough, especially when it involves me," the LJP leader remarked sarcastically. Yadav, who is the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, indirectly referred to the matter and said, "On such occasions, one must not hesitate in taking some time off to meet people." Paswan's 'barkhi' is to be held at the late Union minister's residence in the city on September 12. Chirag had on Tuesday shared screenshots of the invitation cards printed for the occasion. The names of Paras and cousin Prince Raj, both of whom have turned their backs on him and sought to remain in the NDA, figured among the RSVP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
08-09-2021||India||Move high court to quash FIRs, SC tells journalists||The Supreme Court Wednesday said it does not want freedom of press to be muzzled or stifled but it cannot create a separate avenue for journalists to approach it directly for quashing of FIRs lodged against them. The apex court stated this while hearing a plea filed by Foundation for Independent Journalism, which publishes digital news portal The Wire, and its three journalists seeking quashing of three FIRs lodged against them in Uttar Pradesh. A bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao asked the petitioners to approach the Allahabad High Court to seek the quashing of FIRs and granted them protection for two months. "You go to the high court and argue for quashing. We will protect you in the interim," said the bench, also comprising justices B R Gavai and B V Nagarathna. "We cannot create a separate avenue for journalists to directly come to this court under Article 32 for quashing of FIRs," the bench observed. The top court said it understands the importance of right of free speech and "doesn't want freedom of press to be muzzled". The apex court told the counsel appearing for the petitioners that it will grant protection and they can approach the high court on the issue. The plea was filed by Foundation for Independent Journalism and three journalists -- Seraj Ali, Mukul Singh Chauhan and Ismat Ara -- who have sought quashing of three FIRs lodged against them at Rampur, Ghaziabad and Barabanki in Uttar Pradesh as well as the proceedings arising out of them. The petition, filed through advocate Shadan Farasat, said these FIRs have been filed solely on account of journalistic reporting of various events and occurrences of public relevance. It said FIR at Rampur was lodged in January this year while the other two FIRs were registered in June. "No part of the matter published is even remotely an offence, although it may be unpalatable to the government or some people, it said, adding that FIRs have been lodged against the portal and its scribes in Uttar Pradesh. The plea said that FIR lodged in Barabanki was in connection with a news story on the demolition of a mosque in the area in May 2021 by the police on the orders of the district administration. "A news story is entitled to record and convey the aspirations, anguish, and perspective of the people, even if these are not in accord with the thinking of the State or its agents. This is precisely what the media in a democratic country is meant to do," it said. Besides seeking quashing of the three FIRs, the plea had also sought a direction restraining UP Police from taking any coercive action against the petitioners in connection with these cases. It had also urged the apex court to lay down guidelines to prevent the alleged misuse of Indian Penal Code provisions, including sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race etc) and 505 (statements conducing to public mischief), particularly against media houses and journalists exercising their constitutionally protected right to free speech and expression while reporting. The plea said it is not for the police to "sit in judgment" over the media for its reports. "The media is meant to ventilate the problems of ordinary people, the nature and effect of administrative policy, and differing world views," it said. It alleged that relevant IPC provisions which deals with actual offences against communal harmony are presently being "subverted and misused" and used to "gag any media reportage" on incidents that may have a communal, religious or political angle. It said role of media reflects the citizen's right to know and ensure accountability in governance and if this routine duty becomes easily vulnerable to criminal process, democratic institutions will suffer. "The petitioners also pray for appropriate guidelines to prevent this manner of use of the criminal process, which has a chilling effect on media freedoms and the right of the people to be informed," it said. The plea has also referred to the May 31 order of the apex court which had granted protection to two news channels which were booked under the sedition law. "We are of the view that the ambit and parameters of the provisions of sections 124A (sedition), 153A and 505 of the Indian Penal Code 1860 would require interpretation, particularly in the context of the right of the electronic and print media to communicate news, information and the rights, even those that may be critical of the prevailing regime in any part of the nation," the apex court had said in its May 31 order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
08-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu Assembly passes resolution urging Centre to repeal CAA||The Tamil Nadu Assembly on Wednesday adopted a resolution urging the Centre to repeal the Citizenship Amendment Act 2019 to protect and ensure unity and communal harmony and uphold the secular principles enshrined in the Constitution. The resolution moved by Chief Minister M K Stalin said the CAA passed by the Parliament in 2019 "is not in tune with the secular principles laid down in our Constitution and also not conducive to the communal harmony that prevails in India." As per established democratic principles, a nation should be governed taking into consideration the aspirations and concerns of the people belonging to all sections of the society. "But it is clearly seen that the CAA was passed in such a way that it does not accord a warm support to the refugees considering their plight, but instead discriminate them according to their religion and their country of origin." Hence, to "protect and ensure the unity and communal harmony in this country and to uphold the secular principles enshrined in the Constitution of India, this August House resolves to urge the Union government to repeal the Citizenship (Amendment) Act 2019." The Bill was adopted. The main opposition AIADMK's members were not in the House during its passage. They staged a walkout over issues they tried to raise during the zero hour. Leader of the Opposition K Palaniswami told reporters that they could not raise key issues in the House as they did not get the nod from Speaker M Appavu and even some views expressed by them -the following permission for a brief while- were later expunged. Condemning this, Palaniswami said, his party staged a walkout. Listing schemes like two-wheeler scheme for women beneficiaries, he said the DMK government has "given up" this scheme and one after the other, such welfare schemes of the AIADMK regime were being scuttled, he claimed. Opposing the resolution, the BJP MLAs staged a walkout and later speaking to the media, the party's legislature party leader Nainar Nagendran said the CAA has absolutely nothing against Muslim people. "The CM today speaks of communal harmony, but does not even greet people for Hindu festivals including Ganesh Chaturthi and Deepavali," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
08-09-2021||India||Women will be able to join NDA, Centre informs Supreme Court||The Centre informed the Supreme Court on Wednesday that the armed forces have decided to induct women into the National Defence Academy (NDA). Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Centre, told a bench headed by Justice S K Kaul that a decision has been taken at the highest level of the armed forces as also the government that females will be inducted for permanent commission through the NDA. The ASG sought apex court's permission to place the details on record through affidavit and sought status quo in this year's exams as this needs procedure and infrastructural changes. The top court said it has been periodically nudging the authorities to do it themselves and it believes that they are best suited to evolve the whole. "The idea is when nothing happens, the court steps in. Let me assure you it's not a happy situation to step in and we would like the armed services to do it themselves. They are very respected forces of the country but on gender equality they have to do more and sometimes the resistance does not come out well," said the bench, also comprising Justice M M Sundresh. "I am happy that the heads of armed forces have taken a positive decision. Put on record, we will take up the matter. We are happy with the stand. let us hear the matter next week. Reforms cannot happen in a day. We are also conscious of that," it said. The ASG told the bench that the thought was already there in their minds but it was only in the seeding stage. The matter is listed after two weeks. The apex court was hearing a plea filed by advocate Kush Kalra raising the issue of exclusion of eligible and willing female candidates from joining the prestigious NDA solely on the ground of sex which allegedly is a violation of fundamental right of equality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
08-09-2021||India||Courts cannot presume that every Covid-19 death during second wave is due to negligence, says SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that courts cannot presume that all deaths due to Covid-19 in the second wave of the pandemic were due to negligence as it refused to entertain a plea seeking compensation for the kin of the victims by treating it as medical negligence. A bench of Justices DY Chandrudach, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli asked the petitioner Deepak Raj Singh to approach the competent authorities with his suggestions. The bench said, "To assume that each death due to Covid-19 took place due to negligence is too much. The second wave had such an impact across the country that it cannot be presumed that all deaths happened due to negligence. Courts cannot have a presumption that all Covid deaths happened due to medical negligence, which your petition does." The top court referred to a recent verdict of June 30, in which it had directed the National Disaster Management Authority to recommend within six weeks appropriate guidelines for ex-gratia assistance on account of loss of life to the family members of persons, who died due to Covid-19. It said, "In that verdict, the court has taken a view with regard to humanity and not due to negligence. The government is yet to come out with the policy. If you have any suggestion with regard to implementation of that policy, you can approach the competent authority." At the outset, advocate Sriram Parakat, appearing for the petitioner, said that his petition is different as it brings into account an element of negligence and compensation for the deaths which have happened due to medical negligence. The bench noted that since the petition was filed in the month of May, a lot of developments have taken place. "We have taken suo motu cognizance on Covid preparedness and a National Task Force has been constituted by this court which is looking into several aspects," the bench said. The bench further told Parakat that, It was such a wave that it affected the entire country and the court cannot make a general presumption of medical negligence. The top court, while disposing of the petition, asked the petitioner to withdraw his plea and amend it and if any suggestions are there, then the petitioner can approach the competent authority. The government, during the Monsoon Session of the Parliament, had however told the Rajya Sabha that it had not received any report of patients dying because of shortage of oxygen and lack of hospital facilities during the second wave of the pandemic from any state or Union Territory. The matter-of-fact statement aimed at tamping down the widespread despair over lack of oxygen during the second wave of Covid-19 had the opposite effect as it brought back to mind the stark images of patients gasping for breath in ambulances, hospital corridors and cars. The government was technically correct as the states were never asked by the Union health ministry to compile data on oxygen deaths. The state governments were only asked to tabulate Covid deaths and not register them as cardiac or nephrology case if the deceased person had tested positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
08-09-2021||India||Congress leader and former Bihar Assembly speaker Sadanand Singh passes away||Former Bihar Assembly speaker and veteran Congress leader Sadanand Singh died here on Wednesday after a prolonged illness, party sources said. He was 76. Singh breathed his last at a hospital here where he had been admitted for more than a month. A die-hard Congressman, Singh made his debut in 1972 winning the Kahalgaon assembly segment which he came to represent a number of times during his five-decade-long political career. An OBC leader in a party which has been associated mostly with the upper castes, he was chosen for the speaker's chair by the party leadership in 2000 when it was seeking to reinvent itself by projecting a pro-backward image in alliance with the RJD. Later, he also served as the leader of the Congress legislature party in the state but gave up electoral politics ahead of the assembly polls last year when his seat went to his son Shubhanand Mukesh. The party, however, lost the seat to the BJP. Condolences have been pouring in from across the political spectrum for Singh. Those who have expressed grief over the demise include Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, former chief ministers Lalu Prasad and Jitan Ram Manjhi besides leader of the opposition Tejashwi Yadav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
08-09-2021||India||Supreme Court upholds order to extend ED director's tenure||Observing that reasonable period of extension can be granted to facilitate completion of cases of ongoing investigations, the Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a plea challenging retrospective change in the 2018 appointment order of Sanjay Kumar Mishra as director of the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Upholding the Centre's decision, a bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao, however, made it clear that extension of tenure of officers who have attained age of superannuation should be done in rare and exceptional cases. The court made it clear that no further extension can be given to Mishra. The top court said that a reasonable period of extension can be granted to facilitate the completion of cases of ongoing investigations only after recording reasons by the committee constituted under section 25 of the Central Vigilance Commission Act. "Any extension of tenure granted to persons holding the post of director of ED after attaining age of superannuation should be for a short period. We do not wish to interfere with the post of second respondent in the instant case as the tenure is coming to end in November 2021. We make it clear that no further extension shall be granted to the second respondent," the bench also comprising Justice B R Gavai, said. The judgement came on a plea filed by NGO Common Cause challenging retrospective change in the 2018 appointment order of Mishra as director of the ED. Mishra, an Indian Revenue Service officer was appointed as the ED director for a period of two years by an order of November 19, 2018 and later by an order of November 13, 2020, the appointment letter was modified retrospectively by the Central government and his term of two years was replaced by three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
08-09-2021||India||Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations at public places in Delhi disallowed in view of Covid-19 ||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has said that Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations at public places will not be allowed in the national capital in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. In an order issued on Tuesday, the DDMA said that district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police will ensure that idols of Lord Ganesha are not set up in a tent or pandal. Further, it should be ensured that crowds do not gather at any religious or social place. Permission will also not be granted for any procession, it said. The DDMA advised people to celebrate the festival at home. Ganesh Chaturthi will be celebrated this month and considering the prevailing restrictions on gatherings and congregations and the present situation of the Covid-19 pandemic, it has been decided that the celebrations of the festival may not be allowed in public places, the order stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
08-09-2021||India||Farmers stay put outside Karnal district headquarters, demand action against IAS officer||A large number of farmers stayed put outside the gates of the district headquarters here on Wednesday as they remained firm on their demand for action against IAS officer Ayush Sinha, who ordered a police lathi-charge on a group of peasants last month. Locked in a showdown with the Haryana government over the lathi-charge, the farmers squatted at the gates of the mini-secretariat on Tuesday evening after talks with the local administration failed. Many spent the night outside the mini-secretariat. The protesters are demanding action over the police lathi-charge here on August 28. Their main demand centres around Sinha, former Karnal SDM. He was later transferred out as part of a larger bureaucratic shuffle. The officer, whose suspension farmers' union leaders are demanding, was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to "break heads" if the protesters crossed the line. About 10 protesters were hurt in the clash with police as they tried to march towards the venue of a BJP meeting. Their leaders also claimed that a farmer died later, an allegation rejected by the administration. A number of farmers along with many leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) spent the night outside the main entry of the mini-secretariat. In the morning, volunteers at the protest site were seen preparing tea and serving breakfast. "We are not going anywhere from here until our demands are met," Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni told reporters on Wednesday. On the demand for Sinha's suspension, he said, "First, we are saying transferring him is not a punishment. We are also saying when farmers are booked for even road blockade, why not take action against the officer who ordered (police) to break heads. Is there any law under which such an order can be given?" The movement of traffic on the Delhi-Karnal-Ambala NH-44 remained normal. Security had been beefed up here on Monday, a day before farmers' mahapanchayat, and central forces deployed. The gherao began on Tuesday evening, several hours after farmers from Haryana and neighbouring states reached Karnal's New Anaj Mandi for the mahapanchayat, riding tractors and motorcycles. They marched on foot from the mahapanchayat venue to the mini-secretariat about five km away. Protest leaders Rakesh Tikait and Yogendra Yadav are also at the gherao site. Karnal Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav had on Tuesday said that the administration had invited the farm leaders for another round of talks and that it was hopeful of resolving the issue. The Home Department has extended the suspension of mobile internet services in Karnal until Wednesday midnight as the situation is "still volatile". Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) banning gathering of people have been imposed in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
08-09-2021||India||Pakistan continues to foment culture of violence across nations, says India at UN||Slamming Pakistan, India said the country continues to foment a "culture of violence" at home and across its borders as it hit out at Islamabad for using the platform of the United Nations for hate speech against it. "A Culture of Peace is not just an abstract value or principle to be discussed and celebrated in conferences, but needs to be actively built into global relationships between and among member states," First Secretary in India's Permanent Mission to the UN Vidisha Maitra said in the UN General Assembly Tuesday during the high-level forum on the Culture of Peace 'Transformative role of the Culture of Peace: Promoting Resilience and Inclusion in Post-COVID Recovery'. "We have witnessed yet another attempt today by the delegation of Pakistan to exploit a UN platform for hate speech against India, even as it continues to foment a 'culture of violence' at home and across its borders. We dismiss and condemn all such efforts," she said. India's strong response came after Islamabad's envoy to the UN Munir Akram raked up the issue of Jammu and Kashmir and spoke about the late pro-Pakistan leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani in his remarks in the General Assembly hall that focussed almost entirely on India and not on the forum's theme. Maitra said there can be no doubt that terrorism, which is a manifestation of intolerance and violence, is the antithesis of all religions and cultures. "The world should be concerned by terrorists who use religion to justify these acts and those who support them in this quest," she said. Underlining that India will continue to spread the message of humanity, democracy and non-violence, she said India reiterates its call for the application of the principles of objectivity, non-selectivity and impartiality to form the basis of discussions in the United Nations especially on the issue of religion. "The United Nations including UN Alliance of Civilizations and Member States should refrain from selectivity on such issues which hinders a Culture of Peace," she said. While noting that the COVID-19 pandemic has underscored the interconnectedness and interdependence of humankind like never before, she said even during the pandemic, "we have witnessed an upsurge in intolerance, violence, and terrorism. "Even in the midst of the pandemic, we face the 'infodemic' challenge which has been responsible for a rise in hate speech and in seeding hatred within communities," she said. Last year in June, India along with 12 countries had co-sponsored the Cross-Regional Statement on "Infodemic" in the Context of COVID-19 a first of its kind statement by UN Member States. Maitra told the high-level forum that the principles of democracy, pluralism, compassion, cultural diversity, dialogue and understanding form the basis of the Culture of Peace. "India is called a country of 'unity in diversity'. Our concept of pluralism is based on our ancient ethos of 'Sarva Dharma Sambhav' which means 'equal respect for all faiths'," she said, as she referred to the 1893 speech by India's great philosopher Swami Vivekananda at the Parliament of World Religions in Chicago where he had impressed upon India's civilisational ethos of accepting the greatness of all religions. "India is not just the birthplace of Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism and Sikhism, but is also the land where the teachings of Islam, Judaism, Christianity and Zoroastrianism have taken strong root," she said. "Culture of Peace is the cornerstone of any global order to build inclusive and tolerant societies. Since the adoption of the UN Declaration and Programme of Action in 1999 at Bangladesh's behest, the Culture of Peace aPakistagenda has provided an effective blueprint for multilateral action to promote solidarity and understanding," she said. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
08-09-2021||India||India records over 37,000 Covid-19 cases in a day as active cases further decline||India logged 37,875 new cases of coronavirus infection taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,30,96,718, while the active cases declined to 3,91,256, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll climbed to 4,41,411 with 369 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 1.18 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.48 per cent, the ministry said. A decrease of 1,608 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 17,53,745 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 53,49,43,093. The daily positivity rate was recorded as 2.16 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last nine days The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.49 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 75 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,22,64,051, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 70.75 crore according to the ministry. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 369 new fatalities include 189 from Kerala, and 86 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,41,411 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,37,897 from Maharashtra, 37,441 from Karnataka, 35,055 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,863 from Uttar Pradesh, 21,820 from Kerala and 18,522 from Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
08-09-2021||India||Nipah: Test results of 30 people comes back negative, says Kerala health minister||Test results of 30 people, who had come in close contact with the 12-year-old child who succumbed to Nipah, have been negative, till now, for the virus infection, Kerala Health Minister Veena George said on Wednesday. The minister, speaking to media persons here, said with negative test results of 20 more people being reported in the morning, the total number of people who are in the clear was 30. On Tuesday, 10 had tested negative. Samples of 21 others have been sent for testing and the results of the same are awaited. The minister further said that presently 68 people were under observation and their health condition was stable. A team from the National Institute of Virology, Bhopal would be coming here to collect samples of bats and other animals for ascertaining the source of the virus. Intensive tracing, surveillance and awareness campaigns were being conducted to prevent the spread of the deadly virus, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
08-09-2021||India||Plea to Chief Justice of India to make farm report public||The farmers’ representative in the Supreme Court-appointed committee on the contentious farm laws on Tuesday urged the Chief Justice of India to make the panel’s report public as the “recommendations will pave the way to resolve the ongoing farmers’ agitation”. Anil Ghanwat, the president of the Sangathana that is in favour of the three farm laws whose scrapping the farmers have been demanding for over a year now, made the request in a letter to CJI N.V. Ramana dated September 1. The committee was set up by the Supreme Court in the first fortnight of January while staying the implementation of the three farm laws. The panel was given two months to submit its report, which it did on March 19. Since all four members of the committee were in favour of the three farm laws, which the farmers believe would rob them of their land and livelihood and allow corporate houses to take over agriculture, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha decided not to participate in its deliberations. The SKM, an umbrella outfit of over 40 farm unions, has been spearheading the peasants’ protests since November. Stating that the four-member committee had consulted a large number of farmers and several other stakeholders, Ghanwat claimed that the committee’s report submitted to the Supreme Court on March 19 had addressed all the apprehensions of the farmers. “The committee was confident that the recommendations will pave the way to resolve the ongoing farmers’ agitation,” he wrote. Ghanwat explained why he was reaching out to the CJI at this juncture. “As a member of the committee, especially representing the farmers’ community, I am pained that the issue raised by the farmers aren’t yet resolved and the agitation is continuing. I feel that the report has not been given any attention by the Hon’ble Supreme Court,” Ghanwat wrote. Ghanwat told The Telegraph that the committee report should be made public so that there was a proper debate on the subject. “We reached out to the SKM and its members also, asking them to send in their views on the subject. Every conversation we had with different stakeholders has been videographed. We had a questionnaire and got written submissions. All of this is recorded. Let it be in the public domain so that people realise there are various viewpoints on this subject. The farmers sitting at Delhi’s borders are not the only farmers in the country. There are others also who have views.” About the SKM’s criticism of him and the other three members in the committee being in favour of the laws, Ghanwat said: “ The Shetkari Sangathana has been in favour of such laws from its very inception. It is not a case of us supporting the government’s position, but the government finally supporting what we have been demanding for years.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
08-09-2021||India||Covaxin doses administered lower than health ministry expectations||Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer of India’s homegrown Covid-19 vaccine, says all is well, but the count of Covaxin doses administered is lower than what the Union health ministry had expected would be available eight months into the vaccination campaign. The campaign that started on January 16 had up to September 6 administered around 84 million doses of Covaxin, compared with 616 million doses of Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India, and 8,00,000 doses of the Russian-made Sputnik V. The health ministry had told the Supreme Court in an affidavit in early May that Bharat Biotech has increased production of Covaxin from 9 million doses per month to 20 million doses per month and a further increase to 55 million doses per month was expected by July. In early January before the start of India’s vaccination campaign, a Bharat Biotech official had said the company had already stockpiled 20 million doses. If the company’s Covaxin production capacity was 9 million doses from January through April and 20 million doses from May through August, it should have released 116 million doses by August-end. With the doses stockpiled by January, the count of doses by August-end should have been 136 million. Health ministry officials and Bharat Biotech executives have independently asserted that the vaccine production and release process involves a lag of some weeks during which samples from each batch get tested in central drug testing labs. “We are on track, there is no problem,” a Bharat Biotech spokesperson said on Tuesday, responding to a query from The Telegraph asking about the difference between the 84 million doses administered and the 136 million doses expected as indicated in the affidavit and the company’s January statement. The company did not respond to a query about the current production per month. Two Covaxin doses administered 28 days apart are required for full immunisation. A senior health official had earlier this year indicated that supply constraint was the only reason why the count of Covaxin doses administered is 10 to 13 per cent of the Covishield doses administered. Health experts tracking Covid-19 vaccination initiatives in different countries and vaccine industry executives have said the current limited supplies in India are primarily the result of lack of advance investments by the Centre in vaccine production last year. Covaxin relies on a traditional platform that uses inactivated (killed) virus to produce vaccines and requires sophisticated so-called BSL3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) facilities earmarked for lethal microbes that can cause potentially life-threatening diseases through inhalation route. “The production of the inactivated vaccine is challenging and would require a large BSL3 facility as part of infrastructure that would need to grow the virus in large amounts,” a senior executive in the vaccine industry not associated with Bharat Biotech told this newspaper. Bharat Biotech had said earlier this year that the “sheer complexity” of Covaxin’s production process should be evident from the fact that it requires about 10,000sqm area to manufacture around 200 million doses of the vaccine annually. The same amount of live virus vaccines can be made in 1,500sqm. “Due to the highly contagious nature of the live virus, the stringent BSL3 containment facilities are required for Covaxin manufacture,” the company had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
08-09-2021||India||Atal-beater royal drives Modi's hope in UP Jat belt||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation of a university in Uttar Pradesh in the name of a Jat king who had defeated Atal Bihari Vajpayee in an election over half a century ago. The decision to flag off the Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh University in Aligarh on September 14 is being seen as an attempt to mollify the Jats, who are among those driving the ongoing farmers’ protest against three farm laws of the Centre. Jats make up a significant portion of the population of western Uttar Pradesh, where Aligarh is located and which has over 150 Assembly seats. The community can sway elections in 120 constituencies. Constructing a university in the name of Raja Mahendra Pratap also complements the BJP’s campaign that Aligarh Muslim University does not recognise his donation of land for setting up the institution. Raja Mahendra Pratap had contested the Lok Sabha election from Mathura in 1957 as an Independent and won. Vajpayee, the BJP veteran who later went on to become Prime Minister, had also contested on a Bharatiya Jan Sangh ticket and come fourth. The move to build the state university comes at a time the farmers’ struggle has brought together the Jats and the Muslims ahead of next year’s Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. The long-standing amity between the two communities was sundered during the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots, which helped the BJP make gains in Uttar Pradesh with the Jats siding with the party. The Uttar Pradesh unit of the BJP tweeted on Tuesday evening: “There will be a university in the name of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh, who had formed an interim government of India from Afghanistan.” The Raja, whose memory the BJP is trying to revive, had challenged the British and on December 1, 1915, declared the formation of an “interim government of India” from Afghanistan. The BJP has unveiled a poster of the Raja and Modi. Raja Mahendra Pratap was a Jat king of the Mursan principality of Hathras district. The BJP alleges that despite his donation of land, AMU didn’t give him due respect. An AMU official said the university remembered all those who had contributed to its formation on its foundation day every year and wondered what more could be done. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had said in 2019 that he would establish a state university in the name of the king. The Raja, who was popular in the area as Aryan Peshwa, had also formed an army known as the Azad Hind Fauj, not related to the one founded by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Disregarding Raja Mahendra Pratap’s secular credentials, a BJP leader told this newspaper in Lucknow: “The king was famously known as Jat Raja. AMU didn’t remember him but now our government is restoring his honour as a real hero of the freedom struggle.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
08-09-2021||India||Farmers' protest: SKM opens front near Karnal mini-secretariat||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Wednesday evening opened a new front near the Karnal mini-secretariat after the Haryana government refused to initiate disciplinary action against the then sub-divisional magistrate for ordering the police to break the heads of protesting farmers on August 28. The farmers began picketing near the Karnal mini-secretariat only by evening after talks between the farmers’ leaders and the administration broke down and peasants walking towards the mini-secretariat after a mahapanchayat faced police water cannons. The SKM, the umbrella organisation of 40-odd farm unions leading the peasants’ struggle against the Centre’s contentious farm laws, had given a call for gherao of the mini-secretariat. As the protesters appeared to settle in for the night, their leaders said the gherao would continue until their demands were met. When the mahapanchayat began on Tuesday morning, the local administration invited 11 farm leaders for talks. Over three hours later, SKM leaders announced that the administration had refused to give in to even their watered-down demand of suspending the then SDM Ayush Sinha pending an inquiry, prompting the farmers to proceed towards the mini-secretariat. Sinha was on Wednesday transferred as an additional secretary to Chandigarh after the Haryana chief minister himself had supported him. The administration, which had ordered an Internet shutdown in not just Karnal but also four adjoining districts for the day, had in the morning allowed the farmers to congregate at the local grain market amid tight security in an apparent bid to avoid a face-off given the number of participants. Several SKM leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav, Gurnam Singh Chaduni and P. Krishnaprasad, had reached Karnal in the morning. The administration refused to allow them to march towards the mini-secretariat and, instead, invited a delegation of 11 farmers for talks. Since the SKM has always maintained that it is open to talks, the farmers went to the session but there was no meeting point. Once the talks failed, the union leaders decided to proceed with the gherao and the farmers began marching towards the mini-secretariat. Tikait and Yadav were briefly detained by the police but were eventually released. The police water-cannoned the farmers as they forced their way through the barricades and reached close to the mini-secretariat. The leaders told the farmers not to get into any confrontation with the police. They were asked to squat on the road wherever they were stopped. “The gherao of the mini-secretariat has started. We will sit here peacefully. Despite all obstacles, we have gheraoed the mini-secretariat,” SKM leader Yadav said later. “We don’t have to enter the mini-secretariat. We will only gherao it from outside,” he told reporters. Once the farmers breached the barricades and got close to the complex, appeals were sent across to the farming community and supporters for supply of drinking water and food to the protest site. Additional reporting from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
08-09-2021||India||Communal campaign targets idli-dosa batter maker in Bangalore||A city-based food start-up that sells packaged idli and dosa batter across  India and abroad is the latest target of a communal campaign that has accused the company of using cattle bones and calf rennet in its products and urged “every single Hindu” not to use them. The campaign, started by Chennai-based Twitter user Srinivasa S.G., who proclaims to be a “proud Hindu/Indian” on the social media platform, also referred to the religious identity of the company promoters and employees. The claims about the Bangalore-headquartered start-up iD Fresh Food (India) Ltd, which were not backed up with proof, were shared widely, commented upon and also circulated on WhatsApp. iD Fresh Food called the allegations “baseless and fake propaganda” aimed at undermining the trust of millions of customers. “We would like to clearly specify that iD uses only vegetarian ingredients to make its products. iD Idli-Dosa Batter is made from rice, urad dal, fenugreek and RO-water only, which are 100% natural and vegetarian agri-commodities. There are no animal extracts used in any of our products,” the firm said in a Facebook message. Srinivasa SG, who identifies himself on Twitter also as an “Indian Air Force veteran”, “a soldier always” and “entrepreneur”, had tweeted on September 4: “All the Chennai stores or supermarkets are selling the Idli/Dosa paste produced and marketed by iD Foods!! Do you know they mix Cows Bones & Calf Rennet to make Volume of the Batter? How many really know that this company employs only Muslims and it is Halal certified?” “Every single Hindu should refrain from iD batter & products…,” Srinivasa said in another tweet. In another tweet, Srinivasa wrote: “iD Fresh Food, a private limited company, was founded in 2005 by P.C. Mustafa and his four cousins — Abdul Nazer, Shamsudeen T.K., Jafar T.K., and Noushad T.A….” iD Fresh Food, which has units in multiple Indian cities including Calcutta, West Asia, the Far East and the US, was founded by P.C. Mustafa, who is the CEO. The company offers a wide range of ready-to-cook products like idli-dosa batter, Malabar parotta, curd and paneer, vada and filter coffee decoction. “We proudly manufacture healthy and authentic Indian products — with no chemicals or preservatives inside our world-class, state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities that fully comply with the Food Safety Management System. Such baseless and fake propaganda is unfortunate and it undermines the trust of millions of iD customers,” the company said. The communal campaign against iD has broadened a disturbing trend of attacks based on religious identity that has now permeated into the most basic of human services. Last month, a Muslim bangle-seller in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhopal and two Muslim brothers selling dosa in Uttar Pradesh’s Mathura were assaulted by groups whose sole grouse was their religious identity. The Bhopal youth was accused of “posing as a Hindu” while the Agra brothers were roughed up as their stall was named Srinath Dosa Corner. iD founder and CEO Mustafa’s is a rags-to-riches story. The son of a coolie at a village in Kerala’s Wayanad district, Mustafa made it to the National Institute of Technology-Calicut, where he graduated in computer science, and IIM Bangalore. He started the venture with four of his cousins from a 50sqft establishment in Bangalore with just one grinder and Rs 25,000 in 2005. iD Food raised Rs 35 crore from its first round of funding from Helion Venture Partners in 2014, by when the Bangalore-based firm had become a popular brand in south India. iD Food raised another $25 million (Rs 170 crore) from Premji Invest headed by Wipro founder Azim Premji. ID Food had clocked revenues of Rs 100 crore in 2015-16 and never looked back. It has plants in half a dozen countries. While the hate campaign did receive a lot of support through WhatsApp shares, many questioned the motive of the propaganda by Srinivasa against a hugely successful company. “Could you please share the source of this information? You, sir, are spreading hate and I hope @Twitter takes cognisance of this and blocks the account for spreading false news,” Twitter user Arvind Krishna Murthy responded to Srinivasa’s tweet. “No, there is nothing like adding additives or animal fat. It’s only rice & dal. I have visited the plant and seen myself the process,” tweeted Pandurangavittal V.N. But there were others who declared they would not buy iD products. “Will never purchase such items…. N inform others too,” tweeted Pranaw Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
08-09-2021||India||Pegasus: Solicitor-general seeks time on govt's affidavit decision||The solicitor-general has sought time to submit before the Supreme Court whether the Centre wanted to file a fresh affidavit on the Pegasus snooping controversy. “Your Lordships, there is some difficulty regarding the affidavit. I could not ensure the stand so far…,” solicitor-general Tushar Mehta told the bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and A.S. Bopanna while pleading for a brief adjournment on the hearing of petitions seeking a court-monitored probe into the Pegasus question. The Supreme Court then adjourned the hearing till September 13. CJI Ramana reminded Mehta that the Centre had already filed an affidavit during the last hearing on August 16. Mehta replied that the court had then suggested that if the Centre wanted to file an additional affidavit, it could do so. “Your Lordships had enquired if we would like to file a further affidavit. But for some reasons our officers were not there. I couldn’t meet them…,” he told the bench. The law officer, however, did not make any commitment on whether at all a fresh affidavit would be filed. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for journalists N. Ram and Sashi Kumar, said the lawyers had no objection to a short adjournment. The bench said it was posting the matter for further hearing to September 13 (Monday). At the last hearing on August 16, the court had told the Centre to decide if it wanted to file a fresh affidavit on the Pegasus snooping row as the petitioners had rejected outright the two-page affidavit of the government in which it “unequivocally” denied the allegations of spying, dubbing them mere “conjectures and surmises”. The apex court and the batch of petitioners had also turned down the government’s plea for appointing an “experts committee” to inquire into the allegations. Justice Ramana had wondered how the committee would go into the various constitutional and legal issues. Justice Ramana had also told senior advocates Sibal, Shyam Divan, Rakesh Dwivedi and others appearing for the petitioners that the court could not compel the government to file a new affidavit but would certainly pass orders on the petitions. The bench had said that the petitioners wanted the Centre to answer whether the government had ever bought or used the Israeli spyware Pegasus, and if not what steps had it taken to inquire into the allegations of snooping on judges, politicians, activists, journalists and others. “If you want to file a detailed affidavit, you can take time and do so,” CJI Ramana had told the government. On August 5, the Supreme Court had orally observed that the allegations of surveillance on Indian citizens were “serious” and that the “truth has to come out”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
08-09-2021||India||Tokyo Olympics: Odisha Assembly lauds hockey teams||Odisha legislative Assembly on Tuesday passed a resolution congratulating the Indian Women and Men’s Hockey Teams  for their spectacular performance at the Tokyo Olympics. The Indian Men’s team won the Bronze medal. Moving the resolution on the floor of the House, Odisha sports minister Tusharkanti Behera said: “The Indian women’s team performance was beyond all expectations and showed great fighting spirit.” The resolution said the game brought together the whole country and made Indians across the world feel proud of the achievement at Tokyo. “It’s a matter of pride for all of us that Odisha has been recognised as the force behind the success of the Indian teams,” Behera said. The resolution said, “Never before in the history of the state, Odisha was praised so much across the country.   It’s the result of the vision of chief minister Naveen Patnaik to support the revival of hockey in India. The decision of the chief minister to partner with Hockey India and sponsor the Indian Teams and organise all major tournaments in Odisha including the Hockey World Cup 2018, led to this great success for the country.” Odisha is organising the Men’s Hockey World Cup in January 2023. “Chief minister has taken another historic step by announcing the support to Indian Hockey for 10 more years (till 2033). Odisha will be the home of Indian Hockey and will continue to support the game towards making India the World Champion,” the resolution said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
08-09-2021||India||Odisha: Manda buffalo gets recognition as unique breed||The Manda buffalo found in the Eastern Ghats and the Koraput plateau region of Odisha has got national recognition as a unique breed. The National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources (NBAGR) has declared it as the 19th unique breed of buffaloes found in  the country. “With national recognition of Manda buffalo, all efforts will be made by the government of Odisha and Government of India to conserve this unique buffalo genetic resource of Odisha, efforts will be made to enhance their productivity through breeding strategy and market the produce — milk, curd, ghee — at a premium price resulting improvement of stakeholders in the native tract,” said a media release issued by the Odisha government. Manda buffaloes are small-sized, sturdy animals and both male and female are used for ploughing agricultural land in the native tracts of Koraput, Malkangiri and Nabarangpur districts in southern Odisha. “The buffalo germplasm was first identified and a detailed survey conducted by the animal resources development department in collaboration with Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology under the leadership of then director Bishnupada Sethi (now working as principal secretary, revenue and information and public relations) and Sushant Kumar Das, an animal geneticist. “The finding of the project was put to NBAGR for recognition of the indigenous unique buffalo Manda at the national level. Now it has been declared as the 19th breed of buffalo in the country,” an official said. The buffalo has ash grey and grey coat with copper colour hair. The lower part of the legs upto elbow is light coloured with copper colour hair at the knee. Some animals are silver white in colour, the release said. There are around 100,000 buffaloes of this breed in the native tracts mostly contributing to the family nutrition of the households and all the agricultural operations in the undulating landscape of the hilly terrain of Koraput. “Average milk yield of these buffaloes is 2 to 2.5 litres in single milking with more than 8 per cent fat. However, a few of those yield upto four litres. Manda buffaloes mature at around 3 years and drop the first calf at around 4 years. Every 1.5 to 2 years they give birth to a calf for the whole life of around 20 years,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
08-09-2021||India||Pure water might hold back certain flavours of tea: Study||Pure water might hold back certain flavours of tea, a study has found. Scientists have discovered that water hardness caused by minerals such as calcium or magnesium carbonates or bicarbonates can influence the formation of so-called thin films on the surface of tea and change its flavour. The researchers at ETH Zurich, the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, studied the brittle or elastic nature of the thin films that often form on the surface of tea at the air-liquid interface and measured how water hardness changes the film’s strength. “Thin films on tea may appear unsightly but it can also alter surface phenomenon which can change evaporation and aromatics in the tea’s scent,” Caroline Giacomin, the study’s co-author, told The Telegraph. A thin film on the surface means that for evaporation to occur and for aromatics to be released into the air, they must transfer across the film or around the islands of film if the film is already cracked or patchy. “The scent would be the same scent, but less strong with a thick film present, especially when not broken up yet,” she said. Giacomin and her colleagues assessed the mechanical properties of thin films on tea which the scientists knew from earlier research is affected by water hardness, acidity, sugar or milk, the concentration of tea and brewing temperature. The earlier studies had established that calcium carbonate in water contributes to the formation of the thin films on the surface of tea. Many households use water purifiers or softeners that significantly reduce such minerals in drinking water. “If you were to make a cup of tea in perfectly pure water, it would not form a thin film at all, but the tea would taste quite bitter,” Giacomin said. “The bitterness of very pure water is called astringency and has to do with the saliva-water interaction.” The formation of thin films does not eliminate the bitterness but is an indicator that the water has sufficient ions to avoid the bitterness caused by the astringency. The astringency, she said, explains why tea from de-mineralised water might not be ideal. “There is a nice middle range of water that is not too pure and not too hard to balance the bitterness and the film formation.” The idea for the study, she said, came through her observations during travel to several places that the same brand of tea formed thin films in some locations but didn’t form thin films in other locations. She also noticed a change in tea flavour. The researchers found that chemically hardened water — that contributes to the formation of the strongest thin films — may be industrially useful in packaged tea beverages for prolonged shelf life. But less hardened water that forms weak films would be useful for dried tea mixes. The study’s findings were published on Tuesday in the research journal Physics of Fluids.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
08-09-2021||India||Modi sees 'easy' online study switch||Narendra Modi on Tuesday waxed eloquent on how “easily (sehejta se)” students, teachers and parents had taken to online learning amid the pandemic, prompting an academic to say that the Prime Minister “is either unaware of the schooling crisis or is in denial of it”. A survey released on Monday had revealed that children from the marginalised sections had been largely excluded from Internet education, with students from Classes III to V unable to even read a simple sentence in Hindi or their mother tongue after a year of schools remaining shut. “Friends, in these times of corona, you all have shown how robust our education system is. There were a lot of challenges, but all of you swiftly got around them. Online classes, group video calls, online projects, online exams — earlier many people had not even heard these words. But our teachers, parents and our youth easily made all these a part of our daily life,” Modi told the education ministry-organised Shikshak Parv conclave attended by teachers and students. When The Telegraph reached out to academic Jean Drèze, one of those behind the survey whose findings were released on Monday, he said via email: “The PM’s statement today suggests that he is either unaware of the schooling crisis, or (is) in denial of it. Both ways, it is very worrying.” The Prime Minister stressed on taking online education forward. “Now is the time to take these capabilities forward and give a new direction to what we have learned in this difficult time. Fortunately, on one hand, the country now has an environment for change and at the same time there is a modern and futuristic policy like the new National Education Policy,” Modi said. Multiple surveys point to how online education has failed to reach the marginalised and impoverished sections and how they had fallen behind. Erratic or non-existent Internet in India’s vast hinterland and lack of devices to participate in online classes have together kept millions of children out of the ambit of online learning. The SCHOOL study released on Monday, guided by academics Nirali Bakhla, Drèze, Vipul Paikra and Reetika Khera, found that about 42 per cent rural children and 35 per cent urban kids of Classes III to V were unable to read a single word of a simple sentence. The survey pointed out that the reach of online education was extremely limited. The proportions of surveyed children who were studying online “regularly” were just 24 per cent and 8 per cent in urban and rural areas, respectively. One reason for this was that 49 per cent rural households and 23 per cent urban households surveyed had no smartphones. The parliamentary standing committee on education headed by BJP leader Vinay Sahasrabuddhe has quoted several surveys to underline the limited reach of online education and the learning loss due to school closure since March 2020. Prof. N.K. Ambastha, former chairman of the National Institute of Open Schooling, said certain improvements had been noticed in the past one-and-a-half years in the expansion of the reach of online education, but there was still ground to cover. “There is no concrete data on the percentage of pupils unable to access online education. The reach of online education has increased no doubt. Yet there are some villages that may not have sufficient facilities for online education. It is not all success or all failure,” Ambastha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
08-09-2021||India||Bihar: JDU  versus BJP over petrol raid||A senior leader of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United has written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to remove BJP MP Janardan Singh Sigriwal from the standing committee on petroleum and natural gas, accusing him of using the position to get his petrol pump raided multiple times. Kameshwar Singh, 70,is a member of the advisory committee of the JDU and was a vice-president and general secretary of the party earlier. He alleged that Sigriwal had cheated him of his SUV and retaliated with raids when he pressurised him to return it. “Sigriwal has been very close to me and my family. He requested me for a SUV so that he could tour various areas during Assembly elections held in October–November 2020. My son bought one and gave it to him for use. We demanded it back once the elections were over. He (Sigriwal) kept making excuses and did not return the vehicle,” Singh wrote in the letter to Birla. “We turned up the heat on Sigriwal so that he would return the vehicle. Instead, our petrol pump located on Chhapra–Marhaura road in Saran district was raided thrice. “The officials with the raiding teams confided that the action was taken on the request of Sigriwal, who is a member of the Lok Sabha standing committee on petroleum and natural gas. He should be removed from it so that he does not mentally or financially exploit or trouble others due to his position,” Singh added. The JDU leader also asserted that he and his son were in danger from Sigriwal, who could either get them killed or get the petrol pump closed. The SUV was bought on EMI from an automobile dealer in Chhapra on August 17 last year and allegedly given to Sigriwal on the same day in the run-up to the Assembly elections. The polls got over in November and Singh started demanding the vehicle back. The raids on his petrol pump were conducted on December 29 last year and February 8 and 14 this year. “No other Indian Oil Corporation Limited petrol pump was raided in the area. The officials found nothing wrong at our petrol pump. We later came to know that Sigriwal was boasting about the raids saying that they were vengeance for our gall to demand the vehicle back,” Singh told The Telegraph. Meanwhile, the SUV surfaced at a servicing centre in Bangalore last month for repair and Singh’s son received a message on his mobile about it. The family contacted the police about the development and registered an FIR about the missing vehicle on August 22. A team was sent to bring it back. Sources in the Bihar police said that they found out that a doctor, Sachin Kundra, had brought the vehicle to the servicing centre. He said that Sigriwal’s son Raj, who is enrolled in a medical course in a Bangalore college, had given the vehicle to him to get it repaired. The SUV is currently kept at Mashrakh police station in Saran district. When contacted by this newspaper, Sigriwal termed the allegations as baseless. “All the allegations against me are false and baseless. If Singh gave me the vehicle to use, I must have used it at some point of time. He must furnish evidence about it. As far as raids on the petrol pump are concerned, it must have happened due to complaints from the public about adulteration in fuel,” Sigriwal said. The Maharajganj MP added that Singh wanted to contest the Assembly elections, but did not get the ticket because the Baniapur seat he wanted went to NDA partner Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) instead of the JDU. “Singh thinks that all this happened because of me and is accusing me of various things,” Sigriwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
08-09-2021||India||Covid: Oxygen shield for third wave||As Covid-19 cases and deaths exploded in India in April and May, New Delhi’s premier Sir Ganga Ram Hospital and several others ran so short of oxygen that many patients in the capital suffocated. Hospitals have learned from the bitter experience during the second Covid wave, when funeral pyres burned non-stop and bodies littered the banks of the Ganga. Ganga Ram is raising its oxygen storage capacity by 50 per cent, has laid a one-kilometre-long pipeline carrying the gas directly to Covid ICUs, and is installing equipment to keep the oxygen flow high. It has also ordered an onsite oxygen-generation plant, which are mostly made in Europe. “In light of the possibility of the emergence of coronavirus mutants, with higher transmissibility and immune escape, the hospital continues to prepare for the worst,” said Satendra Katoch, medical director of the hospital. The crowded private hospital, however, said it had no scope to add more beds. During the peak of India’s second wave, Ganga Ram expanded its capacity by nearly 50 per cent to about 600 beds, but even so, some 500 patients per day had to be put on a waitlist for admission, according to physician Varun Prakash, who managed its war-room during the crisis. Nationally, India has  imported more than 100 oxygen carriers to raise the total to about 1,250. Companies such as Linde are planning to lift the country’s overall output of oxygen by 50 per cent to 15,000 tonnes a day. Linde told Reuters it had retained 60 of some 80 cryogenic containers — meant to hold super-cooled oxygen — it had brought in from the company’s overseas operations, in case demand shot up again. “The distribution infrastructure and logistics fell short during the second wave,” Linde South Asia head, Moloy Banerjee, said. Almost all states are readying special paediatric wards as some experts warn unvaccinated children could be vulnerable to any new virus mutations. But with a government survey estimating as many as two-thirds of Indians already have Covid-fighting antibodies through natural infection, and 57 per cent of its adults with at least an initial vaccine dose, many health experts believe any new outbreak could be less devastating than the second wave. “The number of susceptible persons will be less now, as many persons have been infected or vaccinated,” said epidemiologist and cardiologist K. Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
08-09-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections 2022: AIMIM to field 100 candidates||Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi on Tuesday said that his All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen will field 100 candidates in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections scheduled to be held in March 2022. “We will fight and win in Uttar Pradesh. Our target is to defeat the BJP,” Owaisi told the media in Lucknow on Tuesday, the first of his three-day tour of the state. Iqbal Ansari, a Muslim leader of Ayodhya, said: “Owaisi is team B of the BJP. I call on the Muslims of the state to ask Owaisi to stay in Hyderabad and spare Uttar Pradesh.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
08-09-2021||India||Chirag Paswan faces eviction from a Lutyens’ bungalow||Chirag Paswan, who had proclaimed himself to be Narendra Modi’s “Hanuman”, faces eviction from a Lutyens’ bungalow that had become synonymous with his late father, veteran Dalit leader Ram Vilas Paswan. Chirag, struggling to survive a coup by his uncle Pashupati Paras, who walked away with five of the six party MPs and is now trying to take over the Lok Janshakti Party formed by Ram Vilas, has been asked to hurry up and vacate the bungalow on 12 Janpath. The young Paswan, who had declared himself Prime Minister Modi’s “Hanuman” and gone solo in the Bihar elections late last year to defeat chief minister Nitish Kumar, is now requesting that he be given some more time. Chirag has sought the time to be able to observe the first death anniversary of his father early next month at the address that shaped the Dalit leader’s politics for over three decades. But this concession too appears to be difficult to get from the Modi government. A bust of Ram Vilas has now come up in the front lawns of the bungalow with party leaders indicating it was aimed to thwart an eviction amid silence from Chirag. “We don’t intend to occupy the bungalow permanently but the government has to give us some more months,” one party leader close to Chirag said. “12 Janpath has been associated with Ram Vilas Paswan’s legacy and the government can’t just throw us out,” the leader added. The installation of Paswan’s bust has put the government in a tricky situation. “Chirag could demand that 12 Janpath be turned into a memorial for Ram Vilas Paswan,” a BJP leader said. The Dalit issue being politically sensitive, the bust is worrying the BJP, particularly before the Uttar Pradesh polls. The BJP had appeared to be fully behind Chirag’s solo drive in Bihar to undercut its ally Nitish. After the Bihar poll results that saw the JDU-BJP return to power, the party changed track. The BJP has now aligned with Paras, who has been made a minister in the Modi government. “Hanuman did everything possible for his Ram. I did everything possible for my PM.… I was expecting my PM to stand by me,” Chirag had said, upset that the BJP didn’t back him against his uncle. On the eviction issue, he is silent. 12 Janpath shares its boundary wall with 10 Janpath, the official residence of Sonia Gandhi, and has been allotted to railway and IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. Ram Vilas had stayed at 12 Janpath since 1989. In early 2004, Sonia had walked up to his house and sought his support in building the UPA. Ram Vilas had quit the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government over the 2002 Gujarat riots. In 2009, he dumped the Congress and lost badly. Ahead of 2014, Paswan aligned with the BJP on the insistence of his son, according to insiders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
08-09-2021||India|| 150 citizens back Naseeruddin Shah and Javed Akhtar||Over 150 eminent citizens have come out in support of actor Naseeruddin Shah and lyricist Javed Akhtar who have faced vitriolic criticism for standing up to extreme elements in religions while speaking on the Taliban. The 152 signatories “strongly disagreed” with the trolling and pointed out that “Right-wingers — be they Hindu, Muslim, Sikh or Christians — share a common majoritarian worldview”. In an interview to NDTV last week, Akhtar had said: “I think people who support organisations like the RSS, VHP or the Bajrang Dal need to do some introspection. Of course, the Taliban are reprehensible…. They are barbarians. But the people whom you are supporting, how are they different from them?” Besides online abuse, Maharashtra BJP MLA Ram Kadam threatened to prevent the release of films featuring Akhtar in the credits until he apologised. A video of Shah that was last week widely shared on social media showed the veteran actor saying: “Even as the Taliban’s return to power in Afghanistan is a cause for concern for the whole world, celebrations of the barbarians in some sections of Indian Muslims is no less dangerous. Every Indian Muslim should ask themselves if they want reform and modernity in Islam or the barbarian values of the past centuries.” Shah was slammed by fundamentalist Muslim trolls. The signatories to the letter in their support include former navy chief L. Ramdas, academics Zoya Hasan, Shamshul Islam, Prabhat Patnaik, filmmaker Anand Patwardhan and activists Lalita Ramdas and Teesta Setalvad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
