09-09-2021||India||CCS clears Rs 11,000 cr DRDO project to develop six new early warning jets for IAF||The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) on Wednesday cleared a nearly Rs 11,000 crore project of the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) to develop six new Airborne Early Warning and Control (AEW&C) aircraft for the Indian Air Force, reported various agencies. This is in addition to the nearly $3 billion deal for procuring 56 C-295MW transport aircraft for the IAF, which was also cleared by the Committee, to replace the ageing fleet of Avro 748 transport aircraft that first flew in 1961. The IAF inducted its first indigenously developed AEW&C system, mounted on a Brazilian Embraer-145 jet, in February 2017, beefing up its capability to detect enemy aircraft and missiles. The Netra AEW&C system was developed by the DRDO and has a range of around 200 km. The new AEW&C system, most likely to be mounted on the Airbus A321 aircraft, is expected to be more advanced than the Netra system, the official said. Currently, two Netra systems are in service. While the CCS decision on the C-295 was the budgetary clearance for the actual signing of the contract, the Committee has cleared the “Acceptance of Necessity” (AoN) for the DRDO project, sources in the defence and security establishment familiar with the development said. This means that the DRDO will now be able to issue a “Request for Proposal” (RFP) for further work on the aircraft. The six will be taken from the Air India fleet, which means they will be A-319s and A-321 variants, according to the plan. The original plan, which had also got an AON clearance, was to procure two larger A-330 jets, which were then to be modified and fitted with the AEW&C systems. However, now the six Airbus aircraft will be modified and the indigenous Active Electronically Scanned Array (AESA) radar will be mounted on them. The DRDO will now issue RFP seeking bids for modification for the six passenger aircraft. Since Airbus is the original equipment manufacturer (OEM), the firm is the frontrunner to bag the contract. The actual cost of the aircraft is less and would come to about Rs 1,100 crore for the six since this is a book transfer within the government itself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
09-09-2021||India||No pandal visits, no processions: Prohibitory orders in Mumbai during Ganesh festival||Citing the COVID-19 situation, police on Thursday imposed orders under CrPC section 144 in Mumbai, prohibiting assembly of five or more persons during the Ganesh festival between September 10 to 19.  No processions of any kind would be allowed in the city during this period and devotees would not be allowed to visit Ganesh pandals either, an official statement said.  All prominent Ganesh mandals would be offering the online 'darshan' facility, police said. Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure empowers the authorities to issue prohibitory orders for preventive purposes.  The Maharashtra home department had issued a circular the day before banning visits to pandals so as to prevent the spread of the viral infection.  Mumbai on Wednesday recorded 530 new coronavirus cases, the highest since mid-July.  The order issued by Deputy Commissioner of Police S Chaitanya referred to the directives of the home department as well as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).  People can have `darshan' of Ganesh idols installed in pandals through the online mode or through other electronic media (such as TV), the police release said.  Any person violating the orders would face action under IPC section 188 (disobeying order lawfully promulgated by public servant) and other relevant laws, it said. City police commissioner Hemant Nagrale also issued a video message, appealing Mumbaikars to observe safety precautions during the festival. A surge in COVID-19 cases has been observed in Mumbai and neighbouring areas in the last few days, he pointed out. All prominent Ganesh mandals in the city have made arrangements to offer online darshan facility, and the permission for `mukh darshan' (seeing idols by visiting pandals in person) is not given anywhere, Nagrale added. Also, no public cultural events should be organized during the festival, the police commissioner said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
09-09-2021||India||Afghan territory must not be used for carrying out terror activities in other countries: BRICS||The territory of Afghanistan must not be used to carry out terror attacks against other countries, the five-nation influential grouping BRICS said on Thursday and strongly called for combating terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, including the cross-border movement of terrorists. The grouping held extensive deliberations on pressing issues including the situation in Afghanistan at a virtual summit chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The summit, hosted by India, was attended by Russian President Vladimir Putin, Chinese President Xi Jinping, South African President Cyril Ramaphosa and Brazil's Jair Bolsanaro. The BRICS (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa) brings together five of the largest developing countries of the world, representing 41 per cent of the global population, 24 per cent of the global GDP and 16 per cent of the global trade. In a declaration issued at the end of the summit, the grouping called for refraining from violence and settling the situation in Afghanistan by peaceful means. "We call for refraining from violence and settling the situation by peaceful means. We stress the need to contribute to fostering an inclusive intra-Afghan dialogue so as to ensure stability, civil peace, law and order in the country," the BRICS said. The grouping also condemned in strongest terms the terrorist attacks near Kabul Airport recently that resulted in a large number of deaths and injuries. "We underscore the priority of fighting terrorism, including preventing attempts by terrorist organisations to use Afghan territory as a terrorist sanctuary and to carry out attacks against other countries, as well as drug trade within Afghanistan," the BRICS said. "We emphasise the need to address the humanitarian situation and to uphold human rights, including those of women, children and minorities," it said. Referring to the threat of terrorism, the BRICS said it is committed to combating the menace in all its forms and manifestations, including the cross-border movement of terrorists. The summit also endorsed the BRICS Counter-Terrorism Action Plan for implementing the grouping's Counter-Terrorism Strategy that was adopted by the NSAs of the member nations of the grouping. "We express strong condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations whenever, wherever and by whomsoever committed. We recognize the threat emanating from terrorism, extremism conducive to terrorism and radicalisation," it said. Reiterating that terrorism should not be associated with any religion, nationality, civilization or ethnic group, the leaders said, "We reaffirm our unwavering commitment to contribute further to the global efforts of preventing and countering the threat of terrorism on the basis of respect for international law". "We reject double standards in countering terrorism and extremism conducive to terrorism. We call for expeditious finalisation and adoption of the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism within the UN framework," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
09-09-2021||India||lmlibenla Wati Nienu - A model turned into a Social activist||Imlibenla Wati Nienu has been dealing with numerous fronts to forestall the spread of Coronavirus and guarantee admittance to administrations, for example, teletherapy. Being a Social specialist it is an exceptional situation to advance illness anticipation endeavours and to assist with tending to nervousness and different worries that are emerging because of this general wellbeing emergency. She is working day and night to assist individuals with the best of her insight. Imlibenla is a much popular model who turned into a social activist during the pandemic to help the people in need. She is a person who works beautifully for the public welfare. She tries to fulfil all the needs of patients. Being a model and a social worker on the other hand it is a tough job that is perfectly played by her without any wrong. During the Covid-19 crisis, people ran out of everything not only luxury but also all the basic needs of a person. Covid-19 pandemic has thought us to live with all the types of possibilities. Post Pandemic period is a new life with all the new normals. As health centre has told about the third wave. Imlibenla Wati Nienu is all set to put her hands on the work for the betterment of people. Working hard with constant efforts is something which she never fails. She sponsored many front line workers from various towns and villages with the many PPE kits, N95 masks, gloves, sanitisers and all the things which one needs to protect their selves during working hours. She also worked on providing food for the patients as well as workers. Providing them with all the necessities is what one can do as a social activist and here lmlibenla proved that working for the public benefit gives you more calm and happiness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
09-09-2021||India||Centre: No scientific unit suggests vaccinating kids a condition to reopen schools||The Union government on Thursday said no scientific body suggests that vaccination of children against Covid-19 should be a condition for reopening schools, but inoculation of teachers, school employees and parents is desirable. At a press conference, NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said whether children have to be vaccinated and who among them should get the jabs is an evolving scientific and public health discourse. Only a limited number of nations have introduced vaccination of children so far, he said. Besides the aspect of vaccination, the overall epidemiological situation has to be safe for opening schools, he said. Most importantly, following standard operating procedures about ventilation, seating arrangements, staggered classes and wearing masks among others will be critical when schools reopen, Paul stressed. "No scientific body, epidemiology, no evidence suggests that vaccination against Covid-19 should be a condition to reopen schools. However, inoculation of teachers, other school employees and parents is desirable," he told the press conference. "There is no WHO recommendation also that we should move in that direction for reasons such as low mortality and high incidence of asymptomatic infection. We as a nation and government are working actively in the direction of scientific validation of our vaccines for potential use in children." Paul said that Zydus vaccine has also already been licenced for children. How and when it will be administered is being discussed by scientific bodies, Paul said, adding that the trial of Covaxin on children is nearing completion. Hyderabad-based Biological E Limited has been given permission to conduct the phase two/three clinical trial of its indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine on children and adolescents aged between five and 18 years with certain conditions. In July, India's Drug Regulator also granted permission to Serum Institute of India (SII) for conducting phase two/three trials of its Covovax vaccine on children aged two to 17 years with certain conditions. "One vaccine (Zydus) has been made available for potential use in children and we are waiting for a decision from NTAGI in this regard," Paul said. According to sources, NTAGI will chalk out a roadmap for introducing the three-dose ZyCoV-D vaccine in the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive and will also develop a priority list with the focus being on adolescents aged 12-18 years with comorbidities. NTAGI will provide the protocol and framework for the introduction of this vaccine in the COVID-19 immunisation drive, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
09-09-2021||India||BRICS adopted a counter-terrorism action plan, says Modi at summit||The BRICS has adopted a counter-terrorism action plan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday while chairing a virtual summit of the five-nation grouping. The summit, which was hosted by India, was attended by Russian President Vladimir Putin, Chinese President Xi Jinping, South African President Cyril Ramaphosa and Brazil's Jair Bolsanaro. The BRICS (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa) brings together five of the largest developing countries of the world, representing 41 per cent of the global population, 24 per cent of the global GDP and 16 per cent of the global trade. In his opening remarks, Modi said India has received full cooperation from all BRICS partners during its chairmanship and listed various achievements of the grouping. "Today we are an influential voice for the emerging economies of the world. This platform has also been useful for focusing attention on the priorities of developing nations as well," he said. The BRICS has created strong institutions like the New Development Bank, the Contingency Reserve Arrangement and the Energy Research Cooperation Platform, he noted. "These are all very strong institutions," he added. "However, it is also important that we do not become too self-satisfied and we must ensure that BRICS is even more result-oriented in the next 15 years," he said. The Prime Minister said the grouping has achieved several "firsts" and referred to the holding of the first-ever BRICS digital summit recently. "This is an innovative step to increase health access with the help of technology. In November, our Water Resources Ministers will be meeting for the first time under the BRICS format. It is also the first time that BRICS has taken a collective position on 'Strengthening and Reforming Multilateral Systems'," Modi said. "We have also adopted the BRICS Counter-Terrorism Action Plan," he said. The Prime Minister said with cooperation between the customs departments, intra- BRICS trade will become easier. "There has also been a consensus with regards to starting a virtual BRICS vaccination research and development centre. BRICS Alliance on green tourism is also another new initiative," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
09-09-2021||India||Amit Shah reviews Jammu and Kashmir sitution amid Taliban concerns||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday reviewed the security situation in Jammu and Kashmir and development projects being implemented there, official sources said. His meeting with top functionaries of the central government and the Union Territory administration came two days after the Taliban announced its interim government in Afghanistan. There have been reports that Pakistan-based terror groups Jaish-e-Mohammad and Lashkar-e-Taiba -- both active in Jammu and Kashmir and involved in a large number of terror attacks in the past -- have shifted their bases to Afghanistan with a friendly Taliban regime in place. The home minister reviewed the security situation in Jammu and Kashmir and steps being taken to check infiltration from across the border and maintain peace in the union territory, official sources said. Sirajuddin Haqqani, the new acting interior minister of Afghanistan, is the head of the terror group Haqqani network, which was responsible for attacks on Indian assets, including the Indian embassy in Kabul, in the past. Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen last week had said "As Muslims, we also have a right to raise our voice for Muslims in Kashmir, India or any other country". Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha, NSA Ajit Doval, Army Chief General M M Naravane, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, Director of Intelligence Bureau Arvinda Kumar, R&AW chief Samant Goel, BSF DG Pankaj Singh and CRPF chief Kuldip Singh attended the meeting. The meeting is believed to have discussed about the political and security implications in the Kashmir valley following the death of hardline Hurriyat Conference chairman Syed Ali Shah Geelani. The group has already elected Masarat Alam Bhat, currently in jail, as its chairman. Shah also reviewed various development initiatives being implemented in Jammu and Kashmir, including the Rs 80,000 crore package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2015. Shah had said in the past that all-round development and welfare of the people of the Union Territory are on top priority list of the Modi government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
09-09-2021||India||Uncertainty has spread across the world, Afghanistan one such example: Rajnath||Uncertainty has spread in everywhere in the world and the current developments in Afghanistan is one such example, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday. "Whether it is South China Sea, Indian Ocean region, Indo-Pacific region or Central Asia, we can see uncertainty everywhere. The current developments in Afghanistan is one such example," he said at an event here where medium range surface-to-air missile MRSAM was inducted into the Indian Air Force (IAF). The global scenario is changing very quickly and in an unexpected way, he stated. "Amid this changing global scenario, the equations between the nations are also changing quickly as per their interests," Singh said. He also said that the changing geopolitics is affecting trade, economy, as well as the current security scenario. "In such a situation, the strength of our security and our self-reliance is not an achievement, but a necessity," he noted. The Taliban seized control of Afghanistan in mid-August, ousting the previous elected leadership which was backed by the West. An interim Cabinet was formed comprising high-profile members of the insurgent group. In his speech, Singh also said that from being tagged as number one defence importer in the world, India today is supplying defence systems and sub-systems to foreign countries and it is something worth to be proud of. "We are taking all such measures that will help our defence sector to stand on its legs," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
09-09-2021||India||Over 58 per cent of India's adult population got least one dose of Covid vaccine: Govt||The government on Thursday said 58 per cent of India's adult population has received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine while 18 per cent got both the shots as the total number of jabs administered in the country crossed 72 crores. Addressing a press conference, officials said India is still going through the second wave of coronavirus infections and it is not over yet. They said 35 districts in the country are still reporting a weekly Covid positivity rate of over 10 per cent while in 30 districts it is between five to 10 per cent. Providing data about the number of COVID-19 cases reported from different parts of the country, officials said 68.59 per cent of the total infection reported in the country last week was from Kerala. About the vaccination drive, the government said in Sikkim, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Himachal Pradesh all people above 18 years got at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine. "Eighteen per cent of India's adult population received both the doses of anti-coronavirus vaccine while 58 per cent were administered at least one dose," an official said. The cumulative Covid vaccine doses administered in India crossed 72 crore on Thursday, he said. About resuming physical classes in schools, the government officials said no scientific body or evidence suggests that vaccination of children should be a condition for reopening schools. However, vaccination of teachers, school employees and parents is desirable, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
09-09-2021||India||Farmers at fault should face action as well, says Haryana minister||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Thursday said the government is ready for a probe into last month's clash between farmers and police but warned that farm leaders too could face action if they're found to be at fault. Vij offered an "impartial" inquiry into the "entire Karnal episode" as farmers continued their dharna outside the Karnal district headquarters for the third day demanding action over the August 28 lathicharge. Their main demands centres around the suspension of then SDM Ayush Sinha, who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to "break heads" of farmers if they cross the line. The minister made it clear that "nobody can be hanged without a probe just because someone demands it". "We are ready for an impartial probe, but this will not only be related to (former Karnal) SDM (Ayush Sinha), but the entire Karnal episode. In this (probe), if farmers or their leaders are found guilty, then whatever action is deemed fit will be taken," Vij told reporters in Ambala. The minister, however, said, "Only genuine demands (of farmers protesting in Karnal) can be accepted." "We cannot hang anyone because someone says so... Is the country's IPC (Indian Penal Code) different and the farmers' IPC different? It cannot be like this and punishment is always given as per the offence committed. To find out the offence, a probe has to be conducted," said Vij referring to their demand of suspending the IAS officer. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha had earlier said a murder case should be registered against Sinha over his alleged remarks to policemen. About the farmers protesting in Karnal, he said anyone has the right to hold a protest in a peaceful manner. "Farmers are holding an agitation in Karnal which is their democratic right," said Vij, while adding "our officials are regularly holding talks with them. Dialogue is an integral part of any democracy". The Haryana government has extended the suspension of mobile Internet services in the district till Thursday midnight, an order issued by state Home Department said. "Mobile Internet services in Karnal district will remain suspended from 07:00 hours till 23:59 hours of September 9," said the order issued on Thursday. Another round of talks between district officials and farmers protesting over the police lathicharge had failed on Wednesday after which the protesters said they will continue their sit-in "indefinitely" at the district headquarters. Meanwhile, into the third day of the dharna, protesters are staying put at the gate of the mini-secretariat complex in Karnal, though farm union leaders have said officials and the public won't be stopped from entering it. A mahapanchayat was held in the city and then the dharna began on Tuesday evening after an earlier round of talks between district officials and the farm leaders had also "failed". Farmer union leaders had earlier sought registration of a case against those involved in the lathicharge in Karnal. The protest leaders had also claimed that a farmer died after the August 28 violence, an allegation rejected by the administration. The farm leaders had demanded a compensation of Rs 25 lakh and a government job for the family of the deceased farmer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
09-09-2021||India||Govt unveils 100-day plan for civil aviation sector||Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Thursday announced a 100-day plan for the country's civil aviation sector, including policy measures and development of airports as well as heliports. The civil aviation minister said the plan would focus on 16 areas. Addressing a press conference here, Scindia said the plan has been prepared after "combined consultations". Out of the 16 areas, 8 relate to policy and 4 pertain to reforms. Among others, six heliports would be developed in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand under the regional air connectivity scheme UDAN. A new policy for Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) activities has also been announced. The civil aviation sector has been adversely impacted by the coronavirus pandemic and is slowly coming on the recovery path.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
09-09-2021||India||My statement on Taliban deliberately distorted, says Mehbooba Mufti||Stating that most countries claiming to uphold the Sharia have failed to imbibe its true values, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday said her statement on the Taliban is being deliberately distorted and used as clickbait' because Muslims are always expected to prove they don't stand for violence. On Wednesday, she had said the Taliban has come to the fore as a reality and advised them to follow the true Sharia law that guarantees rights to women, children and the elderly if they want to govern Afghanistan. The comments led to criticism in sections of the media as well as social media platforms. A day later, the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said she was not surprised her statement on the Sharia had been deliberately distorted. "Can't point fingers since most countries that claim to uphold Sharia have failed to imbibe its true values. They are only fixated with restricting women through do's & don't's, dress codes etc," Mehbooba wrote on Twitter. She said the real Medina Charter stipulates equal rights for men, women and minorities. "In fact, women have been granted property, social, legal & marriage rights. Non-Muslims have the same rights inc religious freedom & equality of law which is the essence of secularism," she said. "Islamic history, Mehbooba said, is full of examples of emancipated and empowered women. Hazrat Khadija Tul Kubra, Prophet SWA first wife was an independent & successful businesswoman. Hazrat Ayesha Siddique led the Battle of Camel & headed a force of 13000 soldiers (sic)," she added. "However, at a time when India has become so polarised, there is increasing Islamophobia and Afghanistan crisis has only worsened it," she said. "Muslims are always expected to prove that they don't stand for violence. I can see why my statement is being used as clickbait to further this impression," the PDP chief said. On Wednesday, she told reporters that the Taliban should shun the hardline interpretation of Islam and Sharia if they want to do business with the international community.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
09-09-2021||India||Delhi riots: Court discharges man, cites common sense||Discharging a man of an offence in the northeast Delhi riots last year, a court here said that even though communal riots cases have to be considered with the utmost sensitivity, common sense should not be given a go-by. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav discharged 22-year-old Javed for the offence of causing "mischief by fire or explosive substance", after noting that the complainant's statements do not show that the particular act was committed. The judge said, "This court is conscious of the fact that cases of communal riots have to be considered with utmost sensitivity, but that does not mean that common sense should be given go-by; the mind has to be applied even at this stage with regard to the material available on record." Accused Javed was arrested in April 2020 based on complaints filed by four people who claimed that their house, godown and shops were vandalised and looted by a riotous mob on February 25, 2020. The judge observed however that there were no eyewitnesses, CCTV footage or photographs of the incident. He also took note of the fact that the complainant did not state a single word regarding mischief by fire or explosive substance by the mob. "I'm afraid that the investigating agency cannot cover up the said flaw by way of recording the supplementary statements of complainants, if the ingredient(s) of section 436 IPC [mischief by fire] was not there in their initial written complaints made to the police, ASJ Yadav said. "I am of the considered view that ingredients of Section 436 IPC are not at all made out from the material produced on record by the investigating agency. Except Section 436 IPC, all the offences invoked in the matter are exclusively triable by the court of learned Magistrate," he added. Communal clashes had broken out in north-east Delhi in February 2020, after violence between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and its protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
09-09-2021||India||IIT Madras ranked best institution in India: NRIF ranking||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras retained the top spot among institutes in the country, while the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru ranked the best among research institutions, according to the Ministry of Education's NIRF ranking announced on Thursday. In the sixth edition of the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) announced by Union Education Dharmendra Pradhan, eight IITs and two national Institutes of Technology (NITs) figured in the top ten engineering institutions in the country. The Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Ahmedabad ranked as the best B-School, while Jamia Hamdard was declared the top institution for pharmacy studies. In the colleges category, Miranda House in Delhi bagged the first rank followed by Lady Sri Ram College for Women, Delhi and Loyola College, Chennai. As per the NIRF ranking, AIIMS Delhi has bagged the top spot among medical colleges followed by PGIMER Chandigarh and Christian Medical College, Vellore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
09-09-2021||India||EC declares bypolls to seven Rajya Sabha seats in six states||The Election Commission (EC) on Thursday announced dates for bypolls to seven Rajya Sabha seats that have fallen vacant due to various reasons like resignations, death and end of tenure of members. According to a notification issued by the EC, there are two such seats in Tamil Nadu and one each in West Bengal, Assam, Maharashtra, Puducherry and Madhya Pradesh. The Madhya Pradesh Rajya Sabha (RS) seat got vacant after BJP leader and former Union cabinet minister Thaawarchand Gehlot was elevated as the Karnataka Governor in July. The polls to all these seven seats will take place on October 4, the EC said. The two seats in Tamil Nadu fell vacant due to the resignation of AIADMK leaders K P Munusamy and R Vaithilingam who are now members of the Tamil Nadu legislative assembly. The West Bengal Rajya Sabha seat fell vacant after the resignation of TMC leader and cabinet minister in West Bengal government Manas Ranjan Bhunia. In Assam, the seat held by assembly speaker Biswajit Daimary fell vacant after he resigned from the membership of the upper house of Parliament and his earlier party, the Bodoland People's Front, and joined the BJP before the recent polls in the state. The BJP may field Union minister Sarbananda Sonowal from the Assam seat as he is yet to become a member of either house of Parliament. The Maharashtra seat got vacant due to the death of Congress leader Rajeev Satav in May this year due to COVID-19 infection. In Puducherry, the RS seat will fall vacant soon as the term of incumbent member N Gokulakrishnan ends on October 6. The EC said in its order that all "broad guidelines of COVID-19" have to be followed during the election process, that is from the time of issue of notification to the counting of votes. "The chief secretaries of states concerned are being directed to depute a senior officer from the state to ensure that the extant instructions regarding COVID-19 containment measures are complied with while making arrangements for conducting the election," the poll panel said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
09-09-2021||India||Modi hosts India Paralympic contingent||India's Paralympians presented Prime Minister Narendra Modi with an autographed stole on Thursday during a breakfast hosted by him to felicitate the contingent at his residence here. The Indian para-athletes returned from Tokyo on the back of a sensational campaign that saw them win an unparalleled 19 medals, including five gold, eight silver and six bronze. This was the country's best-ever Paralympics campaign as it finished 24th in the overall tally. The PM was presented with a white stole signed by all the medal winners, which he was seen wearing around his neck. Modi, who has been the first to congratulate the para-athletes on call after their medal winning feats, was seen talking to shuttlers Suhas Yathiraj, the District Magistrate of Noida, who won a silver, gold medallist Krishna Nagar (badminton) and young Palak Kohli (badminton). Indian shuttlers bagged four medals including two gold, in para-badminton, which made its debut in the Paralympics. Shooters Avani Lekhara and Singhraj Adana, who both won two medals each in the Tokyo Games, also chatted with the PM. Lekhara, who was paralysed waist down after being involved in an accident, had scripted history by becoming the first Indian woman to win a Paralympic gold before adding a bronze to her kitty. The 39-year-old Adana, who is afflicted with polio, clinched a silver and a bronze. The PM also interacted with veteran javelin thrower Davendra Jhajharia and high jumper Mariyappan Thangavelu, who won gold medals in 2016 Rio Games. The duo finished on podium again, this time with silver medals. Also present were table tennis player Bhavina Patel, who won a silver, and bronze medallist recurve archer Harvinder Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
09-09-2021||India||SC dismisses plea seeking directions to fill vacant posts in NHRC||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed a plea seeking directions to fill vacant posts at the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). A bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao noted that former apex court judge Justice Arun Mishra has been appointed as the chairperson of the National Human Rights Commission. "In view of subsequent events of appointment of chairman and members this petition has become infructuous," the bench also comprising Justice B R Gavai said. During the brief hearing, the petitioner told the bench that chairperson and members have been appointed and only two posts are lying vacant. The apex court then asked, "Chairperson has been appointed, why should we keep it pending. The matter has become infructuous." The top court was hearing a plea filed by lawyer Radhakant Tripathi seeking a direction to fill vacant posts at the National Human Rights Commission. Justice Mishra is also the first non-CJI to be appointed to the NHRC chief post since the amendment of the Protection of Human Rights Act in 2019. The post of NHRC chairperson was lying vacant after Justice H L Dattu, a former Chief Justice of India (CJI), completed his tenure in December last year. Rajiv Jain, former director of the Intelligence Bureau, and justice M M Kumar, former chief justice of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court have also joined as members of the commission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
09-09-2021||India||Rajnath, Gadkari inaugurate emergency landing strip for IAF planes||Union ministers Rajnath Singh and Nitin Gadkari inaugurated an emergency landing strip at Satta-Gandhav stretch on National Highway 925 here on Thursday for Indian Air Force (IAF) planes. A Hercules C-130J plane of the IAF, carrying the two ministers and Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, conducted a mock emergency landing on the national highway on Thursday. NH-925 is India's first national highway to be used for emergency landing of IAF aircraft. The two ministers also witnessed multiple aircraft operations on the emergency landing facility (ELF) of NH-295 on Thursday. Sukhoi-30MKI fighter jet also conducted a mock emergency landing at the ELF in front of the two ministers. An-32 military transport aircraft and Mi-17v5 helicopter of the IAF also landed at the ELF, showing its complete operational readiness to act as an auxiliary military airbase. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has developed the 3-km section of Satta-Gandhav stretch of NH-925 as an ELF for the IAF. In October 2017, fighter jets and transport planes of the IAF had conducted mock landings on the Lucknow-Agra Expressway to show that such highways can be used by the IAF planes for landing in case of an emergency. The Lucknow-Agra Expressway, which is not a national highway, comes under the Uttar Pradesh government. Officials told PTI a total of 27 other highways, apart from the one in Barmer, are being currently studied jointly by the IAF and the NHAI to see if emergency landing strips can be developed on them. The emergency landing strip, which was inaugurated on Thursday, is part of newly developed two-lane paved shoulder of Gagariya-Bakhasar and Satta-Gandhav section having total length of 196.97 km and costing Rs 765.52 crore under the Bharatmala Pariyojana. This highway project will improve connectivity between villages of Barmer and Jalore districts located on the international border. Apart from the emergency landing strip, three helipads (size 100x30 metres each) have been constructed in Kundanpura, Singhania and Bakhasar villages under this project, according to the requirements of the IAF and the Indian Army. The ELF and three helipads have been developed so as to strengthen the security network on the western international border of the country. During normal time, the ELF will be used for smooth flow of road traffic and during the operations of ELF for the IAF, the service road will be used for smooth flow of road traffic. The ELF was constructed in 19 months. The work commenced in July 2019 and was completed in January 2021. The work was carried out by GHV India Pvt Ltd under the supervision of the IAF and the NHAI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
09-09-2021||India||HC dismisses Kangana's plea seeking quashing of defamation case||The Bombay High Court on Thursday dismissed the plea filed by actor Kangana Ranaut seeking quashing of the criminal defamation proceedings initiated against her by a court here based on lyricist Javed Akhtar's complaint. High court judge, Justice Revati Mohite Dere, who had on September 1 reserved her order on the plea, said the applicant's (Ranaut's) petition "stands dismissed". Ranaut, through her counsel Rizwan Siddiquee, had challenged the defamation proceedings that were initiated by the Andheri Metropolitan Magistrate's court earlier this year, saying that the court had failed to apply its mind to the case. Akhtar's counsel Jay Bharadwaj, however, told the high court that the magistrate had directed for the police inquiry after going through the lyricist's complaint and excerpts of Ranaut's interview, in which she had made the alleged defamatory comments. Akhtar had filed the criminal complaint against Ranaut in November last year before the Andheri metropolitan magistrate for allegedly making defamatory and baseless comments against him in a television interview given to journalist Arnab Goswami. In December 2020, the court directed the Juhu police to conduct an inquiry into Akhtar's complaint against Ranaut and then initiated criminal proceedings against her and issued summons to her in February this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
09-09-2021||India||India logs over 43,000 fresh Covid cases, 338 casualties in a day ||India recorded 43,263 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,31,39,981, while the active cases increased to 3,93,614, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,41,749 with 338 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 1.19 per cent of the total infections and the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.48 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 2,358 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Less than 50,000 daily cases have been reported for 74 consecutive days. As many as 18,17,639 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 53,68,17,243. The daily positivity rate was recorded as 2.38 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 10 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.43 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 76 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,23,04,618, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 71.65 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 338 new fatalities include 181 from Kerala, and 65 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,41,749 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,37,962 from Maharashtra, 37,458 from Karnataka, 35,073 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,863 from Uttar Pradesh, 22,001 from Kerala and 18,531 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
09-09-2021||India||Uttarakhand HC notice to Facebook, Centre on cyber blackmailing||The Uttarakhand High Court has sent notices to Facebook, the Centre and the state government on a PIL filed by an advocate alleging that he was a victim of cyber blackmailing. Hearing the petition on Wednesday, Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma directed Facebook India Head and central and state governments to file their replies within three weeks. The Uttarakhand DGP and the Haridwar additional superintendent of police have also been sent notices by the division bench of the high court. The PIL was related to obscene videos on Internet made using pictures from hacked Facebook IDs and by fraudsters having fake Facebook IDs. These videos and accounts were being used to blackmail people and extort lakhs of rupees from them. The petitioner, an advocate based in Haridwar, said in the petition that friend requests are sent from fake Facebook IDs and once these requests are accepted the photos are edited into obscene videos. After this people are blackmailed for money, he said, adding a similar video was sent to him. He filed a complaint before the SSP Haridwar, DGP and the home secretary but no action was taken, the petitioner said. He, then, filed an application under RTI, asking the police department about the number of FIRs registered in such cases. Forty-five victims have lodged complaints in similar cases so far and their complaints are under consideration, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
09-09-2021||India||Light to moderate rainfall likely in Delhi||Another spell of rain is set to commence over Delhi starting with light precipitation towards the afternoon on Thursday, the India Meteorological Department said. Light to moderate rainfall is expected in Delhi-NCR over the next three days, when the monsoon trough will shift slightly towards the north, an IMD official said. The precipitation is likely to bring the maximum temperature down to 30 degrees Celsius. The capital recorded a minimum of 27.2 degrees Celsius this morning. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 33 degrees Celsius. The capital has already recorded 243.5 mm rainfall this month so far, surpassing the September average of 129.8 mm precipitation by a big margin.Usually, it gauges only 58.3 mm rainfall on the first nine days of the month. Delhi recorded 117.7 mm rainfall in 24 hours ending at 8:30 am on September 2, the highest on a day in the month in 19 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
09-09-2021||India||BJP claims Centre set up 2 colleges a day since 2014, devil lies in detail||The BJP’s claim that the “Modi government set up two colleges every day since 2014” is not borne out by data published by Narendra Modi’s own administration. That is, unless one counts all the colleges set up by the state governments and private players too and credits the Narendra Modi government for their establishment. “Focusing on higher education, Modi government set up two colleges every day since 2014. First ever forensic university and Rail & Transport University also established,” the BJP tweeted on Tuesday. A survey by the Union education ministry shows the Centre set up only 72 higher education institutions — five central universities and 67 Institutions of National Importance (INIs) — between September 30, 2013, and September 30, 2019, a period the country spent mostly under Modi’s rule. (The All India Survey on Higher Education or Aishe is conducted annually and gives figures up to September 30 for a particular year. The figures for the year 2013-14, for instance, describe the situation up to September 30, 2013.) There were 1,953 days between May 26, 2014, when Modi formally assumed office, and September 30, 2019. At the rate of two colleges a day, the Modi government would have had to set up 3,906 colleges within this period. Instead, it established 72 institutions — assuming for argument’s sake that the UPA did not set up even one in the period between October 1, 2013, and May 26, 2014. This is less than 1.84 per cent or a fifty-fourth of the two-a-day figure. The survey seems to have somehow missed the “forensic university” mentioned in the tweet while the “Rail & Transport University” came into being after September 30, 2019, when the survey period ends. The BJP seems to have arrived at the two-a-day ratio by attributing to the central government the credit for all the institutions set up between September 30, 2013, and September 30, 2019. A graphic showing the findings of the relevant Aishe surveys was attached to the tweet. It shows there were 36,634 colleges on September 30, 2013, and 42,343 on September 30, 2019 — a difference of 5,709 that meets the target of 3,906 comfortably. Not every college provided data, including that on whether it was a private or government college. Data was shared by 29,330 colleges in 2013 and 39,955 colleges in 2019. From the available data, the survey counted an increase of 1,335 government colleges during the six-year period. However, an education ministry official clarified to The Telegraph that each of these colleges had been established by a state government. “Some of them get funds from the University Grants Commission for certain infrastructural facilities but they are largely managed by the states,” the official said. Even adding these 1,335 colleges to the 72 new central institutions raises the figure just above one-third of the six-year target of 3,906. It’s clear, therefore, that the BJP counted the new private colleges too. According to the available data, the number of private colleges went up from 22,100 on September 30, 2013, to 31,390 on September 30, 2019 — an increase of 9,290 colleges. Educationists said the Centre could claim no credit for the market-driven boom in private colleges, and added that most of these institutions were substandard, anyway. “These days, every school board records a 90 per cent pass rate in Class XII. So there’s a huge pool of candidates looking for higher education opportunities. The private sector has come up with institutions to fill this gap,” said G.R.C. Reddy, former director of NIT Warangal. “The quality of education in most private institutions is substandard,” he added. S.S. Mantha, former chairperson of the All India Council for Technical Education, said: “There’s been a sharp increase in the number of colleges because of initiatives by the private sector and the state governments. They must be given equal credit.” He expressed concern at the steady decline in the Centre’s spending on higher education.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
09-09-2021||India||Ajit Doval holds talks with CIA chief, intelligence head of Russia||National security adviser Ajit Doval is reported to have held unacknowledged talks with the CIA chief and followed it up with an announced meeting with the intelligence head of Russia. Much of the back-to-back deliberations in New Delhi apparently revolved around Afghanistan where a Pakistan-midwifed interim government has been set up with a number of UN-blacklisted terrorists, including Prime Minister Mullah Muhammad Hassan Akhund. The purported visit by CIA chief William Burns, who was en route to Pakistan, was kept hush-hush by both India and the US. But the meeting with the secretary of the Security Council of the Russian Federation, Gen. Nikolay Patrushev, was announced in advance by the Indian external affairs ministry. Burns is reported to have met Doval on Tuesday. Neither country confirmed the visit but news reports on the visit were not denied either. The visit comes close on the heels of Pakistan spy chief Lt Gen. Faiz Hameed’s very public visit to Kabul over the weekend, after which there was a full-scale assault on the Panjshir resistance groups whose representatives alleged that Pakistani aircraft were used against them. Within a day of the Taliban claiming control over Panjshir — a claim contested by the National Resistance Front (NRF) of Afghanistan -— the insurgents announced their caretaker government, in which most senior positions have gone to the old guard. The new ruling arrangement has four members from the Haqqani network, which has close ties with the Pakistani deep state and has targeted both the US and India in the past. Acting Prime Minister Hassan Akhund is a UN-blacklisted terrorist, as are several other government seniors. During the Doval-Patrushev meeting, the two sides discussed the prospects of a Russian-Indian joint effort at creating conditions for the launch of a peaceful settlement process on the basis of an intra-Afghan dialogue. According to a statement from the Russian embassy, the two delegations agreed to coordinate the approaches of Russia and India in multilateral formats on an Afghan settlement. “The importance of defining parameters of the future state structure of Afghanistan by the Afghans themselves, as well as the need to prevent the escalation of violence, social, ethnic and confessional contradictions in the country, were emphasised,” the statement said. From the Indian side, representatives of the external affairs ministry, the defence ministry and security agencies participated in the meeting. Later, Patrushev — who has been secretary of the Security Council since 2008 — met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and external affairs minister S. Jaishankar. In a tweet, Jaishankar said he held “very useful discussions on Afghanistan” with Patrushev. Addressing a conference on Afghanistan jointly convened by the foreign ministers of the US and Germany, Jaishankar said: “Resumption of travel out of Kabul is a priority. Use of Afghan soil to promote terrorism in any manner by any country is unacceptable. The Taliban must live up to its declarations to that effect. “The world should not countenance interference by external players, especially those intensifying violence at this difficult time. Our collective approach should be guided by UNSC resolution 2593.” Resolution 2593 -- adopted by the UNSC late last month under India’s rotating presidency – calls for ensuring that the territory of Afghanistan is not used for terrorism against any country, enhancing efforts to provide humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan, and upholding human rights. Russia and China had abstained as their concerns, especially about terrorist groups directed against them, were not taken on board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
09-09-2021||India||Cloud on Mamata's Rome peace conference trip||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said she would be unable to travel to Rome to attend an international event on peace next month as she had taken Covaxin, which is yet to get WHO approval for emergency use listing (EUL). “I was invited to Rome. But I am not able to visit as I have been administered two doses of Covaxin. Will the Prime Minister care to explain?” asked the chief minister. EUL is a procedure that WHO uses to assess the safety, efficacy and risk factors associated with a vaccine. If WHO clears it, people inoculated with the home-grown vaccine can travel abroad without any restrictions. Sources said the chief minister’s office had got to know that those administered two doses of Covaxin would have to go through a two-week quarantine on landing in Rome. They added that Mamata, who had not spoken about her vaccination till now, had raised the issue to highlight a problem faced by those vaccinated with Covaxin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
09-09-2021||India||SC grants ED officers extension only in 'rare and exceptional cases'||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ruled that the government can extend the tenure of retired Enforcement Directorate officers only in “rare and exceptional cases” to complete investigations or other pressing commitments as it upheld the Centre’s decision to grant one-year extension retrospectively to ED chief Sanjay Kumar Mishra. The apex court also said that Mishra shall not be granted any further extension beyond his present tenure which comes to an end in November this year. A bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and B.R. Gavai passed the judgment while dismissing an appeal filed by the NGO Common Cause challenging the appointment of Mishra as being illegal and contrary to the rules prescribed under the CVC Act relating to the appointment of senior ED officials. “This Writ Petition has been filed in public interest under Article 32 of the Constitution of India for quashing the order dated 13.11.2020 issued by Respondent No. 1 (the Centre), which extended the tenure of the Respondent No. 2 as Director of Enforcement in the Directorate of Enforcement and for consequential direction to Respondent No. 1 to appoint the Director of Enforcement in accordance with the procedure prescribed under Section 25 of the Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2003 (CVC Act). “The justification given by the Union of India for extension of the tenure of second Respondent (Mishra) is that important investigations are at a crucial stage in trans-border crimes. The decision to extend the tenure of the second Respondent is pursuant to the recommendation made by the high-powered committee. “Though we have upheld the power of the Union of India to extend the tenure of Director of Enforcement beyond the period of two years, we should make it clear that extension of tenure granted to officers who have attained the age of superannuation should be done only in rare and exceptional cases. “Reasonable period of extension can be granted to facilitate the completion of ongoing investigations only after reasons are recorded by the Committee constituted under Section 25 (a) of the CVC Act. Any extension of tenure granted to persons holding the post of Director of Enforcement after attaining the age of superannuation should be for a short period. We do not intend to interfere with the extension of tenure of the second Respondent in the instant case for the reason that his tenure is coming to an end in November 2021. We make it clear that no further extension shall be granted to the second Respondent,” the apex court said. The NGO had contended that Mishra, vide an order dated November 19, 2018, was appointed as the ED director for a period of two years from the date of assumption of charge of the post or until further orders, whichever is earlier. The two-year tenure came to an end on November 19, 2020. Mishra has already reached the retirement age of 60 years in May 2020. However, vide the impugned office order dated November 13, 2020, it was notified that the President has been pleased to approve the modification in the earlier order dated November 19, 2018, appointing Mishra as ED director for a period of “three years”. Hence, the petitioner had sought quashing of the order granting him an extension of one year. Rejecting the argument, Justice Rao, who authored the judgment, while interpreting the various rules, including the CVC Act, said: “…there is no fetter on the power of the Central Government in appointing the Director of Enforcement beyond a period of two years. “Having examined the report of the independent review committee and the judgment of this Court in Vineet Narain’s case (1998), it is clear that the minimum period of two years provided in Section 25 (d) is to prevent extraneous pressure.” “Prescription of a minimum period of two years is to ensure that the Director of Enforcement is not transferred or shifted from the said post during the course of investigation of serious offences. There is no ambiguity in Section 25 (d) of CVC Act and the words ‘not less than two years’ simply mean a minimum of two years.” Justice Rao said while upholding the extension.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
09-09-2021||India||IAF: CCS approves procurement of 56 C-295MW transport aircraft||The cabinet committee on security on Wednesday approved the procurement of 56 C-295MW transport aircraft for the Indian Air Force. Airbus Defence and Space and Tata Advanced Systems Ltd will jointly execute the project to equip the force with the transport aircraft under the Make in India initiative in the aerospace sector. Airbus will supply the first 16 aircraft in flyaway condition from Spain within 48 months of signing the contract. The remaining 40 will be manufactured in India by the Tatas within 10 years of signing the contract. C-295MW aircraft is a transport plane of 5-10-tonne capacity with contemporary technology that will replace the ageing Avro fleet of the IAF. The C-295MW has a rear ramp door for quick reaction and para-dropping of troops and cargo. “This is the first project of its kind in which a military aircraft will be manufactured in India by a private company. All 56 aircraft will be installed with indigenous electronic warfare suite,” the Press Information Bureau, the government’s publicity arm, said in a statement. “The project will give a boost to the aerospace ecosystem in India wherein several MSMEs spread over the country will be involved in manufacturing parts of the aircraft.” A large number of detail parts, sub-assemblies and major component assemblies of aero structure is scheduled to be manufactured in India. “The programme will act as a catalyst in employment generation in the aerospace ecosystem of the country and is expected to generate 600 highly skilled jobs directly, over 3,000 indirect jobs and an additional 3,000 medium-skill employment opportunities with more than 42.5 lakh man hours of work,” the PIB statement said. It will involve development of specialised infrastructure in the form of hangars, buildings, aprons and taxiways, the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
09-09-2021||India||Women can go to National Defence Academy, Centre tells SC||The Centre on Wednesday admitted that it was “nudged” by the Supreme Court into agreeing to induct women into the prestigious National Defence Academy for the post of permanent commissioned officers from next year. The government also informed the apex court that it might not be possible to allow female candidates to appear for this year’s NDA exams in November as the necessary infrastructure was not in place. Appearing before a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M.M. Sundresh, additional solicitor-general Aishwarya Bhati admitted that the latest decision was prompted by the Supreme Court’s nudge. “Your Lordship’s nudge, persuading and pushing us through had made a difference. The decision has been taken at the highest level of the forces and the government last (Tuesday) evening that girls will be inducted for permanent commission through NDA. Please permit us time to place this on record,” Bhati told the court while seeking a short adjournment. During the earlier round of hearing, the apex court had questioned the logic behind not allowing women officers the status of permanent commissioned officers and entry into the NDA as it amounted to gender discrimination. However, it did not pass any order because the issue was related to the country’s defence forces. “We were only nudging the authorities to do certain things themselves. We know that they (defence forces) are best suited to evolve such changes. The court steps in only when nothing happens. It is not a very happy situation for us either to intervene in such matter,” Justice Kaul told Bhati. On Bhati’s request, the court adjourned the matter to September 22 to enable the government file a detailed affidavit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
09-09-2021||India||Bangalore Idli-batter maker complains against communal hate||iD Fresh Food (India) Ltd, the Bangalore-based company that produces batter for idli and dosa, has complained to the cyber crime wing of the city police and WhatsApp’s grievance cell about a communal campaign on social media against its products. Messages have been circulated on social media platforms making the unsubstantiated claim that iD Fresh Food uses cow bones and calf rennet in its idli and dosa batter. Rennet is curdled milk from the stomach of an unweaned calf. “We, at iD Fresh Food India Pvt Ltd, have filed a complaint with the WhatsApp Grievance Cell and Cybercrime, Bangalore, against the misleading and false information being spread about our company and its products,” the firm said in a statement on Wednesday. “We would like to reiterate that iD uses only vegetarian ingredients to make its products,” stated the company that has a range of products including ready-to-cook Malabar porota, curd and south Indian filter coffee decoction. The campaign was apparently started by Chennai-based Twitter user Srinivasa S.G, who had highlighted the religious identity of the company’s founders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
09-09-2021||India||India needs to enhance indigenous defence technology: IAF chief||Indian Air Force chief R.K.S. Bhadauria on Wednesday said the country needed to enhance indigenous defence technology in view of the growing threat from China. “Keeping in mind our northern neighbour, we need a niche technology in the defence sector that is built in-house. This will give us maximum results and spring surprises on the adversary in the next conflict. We have to make our own sensors, weapons, etc,” he said. The IAF chief was speaking at a seminar in Delhi on “Energising Indian Aerospace Industry: Challenges for Atmanirbhar Bharat”, organised by the Society for Indian Defence Manufacturers. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh since May last year. The Chinese army is estimated to have taken over nearly 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. Bhadauria said the IAF was looking at having 350 fighter aircraft from local industry, including 83 light combat Tejas jets. He said Tejas had already generated confidence among the forces. “Self-reliance has to become the strongest pillar of national security,” he said. Last month defence minister Rajnath Singh had said India would emerge as the defence-manufacturing hub of the world under the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative, prompting some military veterans to point to the nascent defence production capabilities of the country. In August last year the defence ministry had announced that it would stop importing items, including weaponry, in a phased manner to strengthen the country’s defence production under Atmanirbhar Bharat. A veteran said India did not have enough indigenous capabilities to produce artillery guns, sonar systems, light combat helicopters and radars. He added that India first needed to develop robust indigenous manufacturing capabilities as importing critical components and assembling in the country would defeat the purpose of self-reliance. Artillery, guns, sonar systems and light combat helicopter radars are still at various stages of development by the Defence Research and Development Organisation. The IAF chief on Wednesday also spoke about drone warfare and the challenges ahead in the wake of a drone attack at an air force base in Jammu in July. “We have placed a lot of orders, including (for) drones, counter-drone systems and jammers,” Bhadauria said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
09-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu Assembly passes resolution opposing CAA||The Tamil Nadu Assembly on Wednesday passed a resolution calling upon the BJP-led Centre to repeal the Citizenship Amendment Act as it was against the Constitution and communal harmony. Moving the resolution, chief minister M.K. Stalin said: “This august House considers that the Citizenship Amendment Act passed by Parliament in the year 2019 is not in tune with the secular principles laid down in our Constitution and also not conducive to the communal harmony that prevails in India.” The resolution said: “…the Citizenship Amendment Act was passed in such a way that it does not accord warm support to the refugees considering their plight, but instead discriminates against them according to their religion and their country of origin.” “To uphold the unity and communal harmony in the country and to uphold the secular principles enshrined in the Constitution of India, the House resolves to urge the Union government to repeal the Citizenship Amendment Act,” DMK leader Stalin said. The chief minister pointed out in his opening remarks that in the original Citizenship Act of 1965, religion was not a criterion for getting Indian citizenship. “But this amendment act brought by the current Union government has effected a fundamental change in making religion a criterion for citizenship,” he said. As secularism is a basic feature of the Constitution, religion cannot be the bedrock of a legal enactment, Stalin said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
09-09-2021||India||WHO urges India to enhance routine children’s immunisation||The World Health Organisation on Wednesday urged India and other Southeast Asian countries to enhance routine children’s immunisation, flagging the need to repair damage caused by Covid-19, amid estimates that millions of kids haven’t received due vaccines. The Covid-19 pandemic has disrupted essential immunisation and surveillance, increasing the region’s vulnerability to vaccine preventable diseases, the chief of WHO South East Asia office said, calling for enhanced routine immunisation without affecting efforts to increase coronavirus vaccination rates. “There is an urgent need to repair the damage caused by Covid-19… and to protect infants, young people and adults with life-saving vaccines,” Poonam Khetrapal Singh, WHO South East Asia regional director, said at the regional committee meeting. Her remarks come amid concerns that disruptions in routine childhood vaccinations during Covid-19 have left millions of children across South Asia without appropriate counts of prescribed vaccines against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis or other infections. India, which had the largest count of partially-vaccinated children — 3.5 million, or a 66 per cent increase over the previous year — is among 10 countries that accounted for 62 per cent of under-vaccinated children worldwide, the Unicef had estimated earlier this year. “Though efforts are being made, much more needs to be done, specially at the sub-national levels and to reach the un-reached and underserved population,” Singh said. The number of unvaccinated or partially vaccinated children in Southeast Asia increased from 3 million in 2019 to 4.9 million in 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
09-09-2021||India||UP Assembly polls: BJP appoints 5 Union ministers on election duty||The BJP on Wednesday appointed a team of eight leaders, including five Union ministers, to micro-manage poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, underscoring the importance of the upcoming elections in the backdrop of the farmers’ agitation, price rise and joblessness. Education minister Dharmendra Pradhan was made the principal election in-charge. The other Union ministers in the team are Anurag Thakur, Arjun Ram Meghwal, Shobha Karandlaje and Annapurna Devi. In addition to the eight-member team, six party leaders were appointed and tasked with specific regions of the state, including a Haryana MP assigned to western Uttar Pradesh. Over five lakh farmers had assembled in western Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar last Sunday and vowed to defeat the BJP in the coming elections if it didn’t repeal the  “anti-farmer” farm laws. The mismanagement of the second Covid wave, rising prices of essential commodities and shrinking job opportunities for the youth have made matters difficult for the BJP. Internally, there is concern with preliminary feedback from the ground indicating anger even among those regarded as natural backers of the party. The BJP will bank heavily on polarisation to counter anti-incumbency. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to celebrate Diwali in Ayodhya, where a Ram temple is being built that would be used in an attempt to sway the majority community voters. Modi is also scheduled to lay the foundation stone of a university named after a Jat king in Aligarh, in an attempt to mollify the community and also stress the Hindutva plank. The Jat community has been spearheading the farmers’ protest. The proposed university would be located in the same region as the Aligarh Muslim University, which faces repeated attacks from the saffron ecosystem. The BJP has been propagating how the Jat king Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh had formed an interim government of India from Afghanistan, another focus of the party to polarise with the rise of the Taliban. Apart from Uttar Pradesh, the BJP also appointed poll in-charges for four other states — Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi was made in-charge of Uttarakhand with Bengal MP Locket Chatterjee as co-in-charge. Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat was tasked with Punjab. Out of the five states, four are ruled by the BJP. The party is determined to retain all to neutralise the defeat in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
09-09-2021||India||Central University of Kerala bans anti-national lectures||The Central University of Kerala has threatened teachers and employees with disciplinary action for any “anti-national” lectures or statements. “The faculty members/employees should abstain from giving any type of provoking lectures/statements that are anti-national and will be against the interest of the nation. Strict disciplinary action will be taken against those who indulge in such activities in future,” a circular, issued by the Kasaragod-based university last week, said. The diktat comes months after assistant professor Gilbert Sebastian of the department of international relations and politics was suspended in May for allegedly saying, in an online class on “fascism and Nazism”, that the RSS-BJP could be considered “proto-fascist”. In the same class, for MA first-year students, Sebastian is alleged to have also criticised the Union government for exporting Covid vaccines at a time there weren’t enough doses for Indians. While student organisations such as the CPM-backed SFI and the Congress-backed Kerala Students Union had supported Sebastian, RSS student arm ABVP had threatened an agitation if the university failed to act against him. A three-member inquiry committee ruled that Sebastian had exceeded his brief but did not describe his remarks as anti-national. Following this, Sebastian was reinstated on June 10. But a university executive committee meeting on June 24 termed Sebastian’s remarks “anti-national” and objected to the vice-chancellor’s “unilateral” decision of revoking his suspension. “EC (executive committee) observed that Dr Gilbert Sebastian’s statements in the class was (sic) anti-national. However the members expressed their concern over the unilateral decision of Hon’ble VC to revoke the suspension based on regret and withdrawal letter submitted by Dr Gilbert Sebastian,” the minutes of the meeting say. Sebastian clarified in an August 5 letter to the vice-chancellor that he had neither regretted nor withdrawn his remarks. He urged the vice-chancellor to expunge from the minutes the mention of regret and withdrawal, saying he had only offered the university cooperation. In the letter, of which this newspaper has a copy, Sebastian wrote that the executive committee’s label of “anti-national” on his statements in the class was “uncalled for and regrettable as it is an unfounded allegation”. A teacher at the university told The Telegraph that the executive committee’s observation on Sebastian’s remarks was the main reason for the recent gag order on “anti-national” comments. “The administration has created an atmosphere of fear on the campus with such decisions, although most of us are against curtailing academic freedom,” the teacher, who declined to be named, said. Earlier in 2018, the university had suspended Prasad Pannian, an associate professor in the department of English and comparative literature, for supporting a Dalit student who had been arrested on the charge of breaking the glass pane of a fire alarm cabinet at the university hostel. Ganthoti Nagaraju, the student, had apparently acted under mental strain caused by his mother’s death. He was later released on bail. Pannian was suspended for writing a Facebook post that said it was “deeply disturbing” that a minor misdemeanour had been “criminalised” and urged the university to get the police to release Nagaraju from custody. “As far as I understand, this is a minor offence that should have been settled on the campus itself. Mr Nagaraju lost his mother a few months back and has been going through severe mental stress and agony for the past few months,” Pannian wrote. Pannian, who remains suspended, has challenged his suspension in court, where the matter is pending.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
09-09-2021||India||Odisha govt to give Rs 6 crore cash prize to Pramod Bhagat||The Odisha government will give Rs 6 crore  cash prize to Pramod Bhagat, who won a gold medal in badminton in the recently concluded paralympics in Tokyo. A formal announcement in this regard will be made after Bhagat meets chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday, sources said. “Besides Rs 6 crore, many more awards will be given to Bhagat who made the state proud at the international level,” said a senior official. Sources said he will be offered a Group A government job. Officials said Naveen had earlier announced that the state government will award gold medalists of Tokyo Olympics with Rs 6 crore, silver medalist with Rs 4 crore and bronze medalist Rs 2.5 crore. Besides Rs 15 lakh will be given to athletes for participating in the Olympics. “That announcement stands for the winner of the paralympics,” said an official. After being felicitated by the Government of India in New Delhi, Bhagat told The Telegraph: “I am indebted to the people of Odisha for their love and the chief minister for his constant support to the players and above all the sports. My achievement will certainly kindle a ray of hope among lakhs of differently abled persons to see dreams and translate them into reality.” Bhagat said: “Union sports minister Anurag Thakur felicitated all the medalists of the paralympics on Wednesday in New Delhi. The Government of India would also share the cash prize as per the government guidelines.” Bhagat said after he meets the chief minister in Bhubaneswar, he would go to Puri to offer his prayers at the lotus feet of Lord Jagannath. The 33-year old Bhagat said: “So far I have been concentrating on a medal in the Olympics. Now I am settled and will share the good news of my marriage in the coming days.” He said: “I have seen poverty at very close quarters. I remembered my parents on the day I won the gold medal. Had they been alive, they would have been the happiest persons at this moment. Now these are things of the past. Now I will buy a house in Bhubaneswar and another in my town Attabira in Bargarh district.” Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh cooked at a dinner hosted by him on Wednesday in honour of the participants of the Olympic Games from the state . The dinner was hosted at Amarinder’s farmhouse at Siswan in Mohali. On the menu were Mutton Khara Pishori, Long Ellachi Chicken, Aloo Korma, Dal Masri, Murg Korma,  Dugani Biryani and  Zarda Rice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
09-09-2021||India||Odisha House witness ruckus from Opposition over mining scam  ||The Odisha legislative Assembly on Wednesday, the penultimate day of the monsoon session, witnessed ruckus as the Opposition demanded that its adjournment motion on the mining scam be taken up for discussion. Both BJP and Congress MLAs gheraoed Speaker Surjya Naryan Patro in his chamber on the Assembly premises. However, the Speaker did not budge, maintaining that the issue of rejection of the adjournment motion could be raised during the Zero Hour and not in the Question Hour. As soon as the Assembly commenced for the day, Congress legislature party leader Narasingha Mishra urged the Speaker to accept the adjournment notice for a discussion on the mining scam in the state. When the Speaker refused to entertain the Oppositions’ demand, the Opposition members stormed into the well of the House and raised anti-government slogans. As the bedlam continued, the Speaker adjourned the House till 11.30am. However, the Opposition was not in a mood to relent. Later, they gheraoed the Speaker in his official chamber. The Speaker maintained that the Opposition members came to his chamber and insisted on allowing the discussion on the mining issue. “I told them why I have rejected their demand to admit the adjournment motion,” Patro said. For the entire day in the morning session, the Assembly could not take up any business as the chaos continued and the House had to be adjourned. Ruling party BJD MLA Pratap Keshari Deb said: “The Opposition is trying to divert public attention from various important issues. The entire state is worried about the farmer’s issues. But the Opposition which is doing politics on the issue, has totally failed to take up the farmers’ issues. “The state government is not afraid of facing any issues and is open for all discussion. They are experts in shifting goal posts to suit their political ambitions.” BJP MLA Mohan Majhi said: “The adjournment motion had been given but the Speaker refused to entertain it. We gheraoed him at his chamber. With this it has been proved that the state government is hand in glove with the mine owners. ” Congress legislature party leader Narasingha Mishra said: “We are not changing the goalposts. We had discussed the farmers’ issue for two days in the assembly. The government is scared of taking up the issue for discussion.” However, in the afternoon, the House resumed. Amid the hullabolla, the treasury bench passed a number of bills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
