10-09-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: 14 districts sign MoU with Hyderabad institute to boost millet production||Fourteen Chhattisgarh districts on Friday signed  MoUs with the Indian Institute of Millet Research, Hyderabad for boosting production of ragi, kodo and kutki in the state as chief minister Bhupesh baghel launched the Millet Mission programme. Addressing the event at his Raipur office, Baghel said that Chhattisgarh will become the millet hub of the country in the coming times. He said that under Millet Mission, an initiative has been taken to give the farmers the right price for small cereal crops, provide input assistance, procurement arrangements, processing. "Like minor forest produce, we want to make small grain crops also the strength of Chhattisgarh," he said. Under the programme, the IIMR will help Kanker, Kondagaon, Bastar, Dantewada, Bijapur, Sukma, Narayanpur, Rajnandgaon, Kawardha, Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi,Balrampur, Koriya, Surajpur and Jashpur with technical know-hows, availability of high-quality seeds and establishment of a seed bank in Chhattisgarh. Arrangements will be made for training the farmers of Chhattisgarh through Krishi Vigyan Kendra for spreading the scientific technology developed at the national level related to millet production by IIMR Hyderabad at the field level. "Minor cereal crops like Kodo, Kutki and Ragi are mostly sown in our forest areas.  Crops like Kodo, Kutki and Ragi are rich in nutrition. There is a good demand for these in the country. These are sold at very good prices in urban areas. But Kodo, Kutki and Ragi grown in Chhattisgarh have not been able to come out of Vananchal," Baghel said. "Till now, neither the support price of these crops was fixed, nor was there any arrangement for its purchase. Even after producing such an important and valuable crop, the farmers who grew it remained poor," he added. Baghel said that the purchase of minor cereal crops would be done through the Van Dhan societies of Chhattisgarh Minor Forest Produce Co-operative Federation. After processing these crops, they will be used in schemes like mid-day meals, public distribution systems and nutrition programmes. With this, arrangements will be ensured to take the finished products to the markets of the metropolitan cities. It has also been decided to manage Rs 170 crore 30 lakh for the next five years of Millet Mission through DMF and other means. He said that under Millet Mission, farmers growing Kodo-Kutki and Ragi crops would be given an input assistance of Rs.9000 per acre and Rs.10,000 per acre for growing Kodo-Kutki and Ragi instead of paddy. The Chief Minister said that like minor forest produce, large-scale employment opportunities would be created at the local level due to value addition of small-grain crops. "Two processing units have been established at Kanker and Durgukondal. Sisters of Self Help Groups are getting employment from this. Like minor forest produce, we also want to make small grain crops the new strength of Chhattisgarh. In the next phase, MoUs will be signed with more such districts, where production of Kodo, Kutki and Ragi is abundant," he said. IIMR  Director Dr. Vilas A. Tonapi said that in the present times, there is a need to increase food diversity in our diet to address the problem of lifestyle diseases and malnutrition. "The Millet Mission starting in Chhattisgarh will prove to be a milestone in this direction. He said that it is a good initiative by the state government to provide input assistance to the farmers engaged in millet production in the state of Chhattisgarh," he said. He added that the year 2023 will be celebrated as the International Year of Millet. Through the Millet Mission, Chhattisgarh will be successful in making a mark as a Millet Hub in the country by the year 2023. The Managing Director of Chhattisgarh State Minor Forest Produce Co-operative Federation, Mr. Sanjay Shukla said that IIMR specialists will be posted in the districts by the State Government who will guide the farmers to increase the production of millets. Senior consultant will also be appointed at the state level. He will act as a master trainer. He said that seed banks for small grain crops would be established in Bastar, Surguja, Kawardha and Rajnandgaon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
10-09-2021||India||Hospitality Placements 2021- A record during the pandemic||NSHM School of Tourism and Hotel Management achieved a record high in their hospitality placements during the ongoing pandemic. The college commenced its yearly placement drive and related Training and Placement activities in November 2019 under the watchful mentorship of Professor Dipnath Mukherjee, Professor Subrata Pal and Professor Nasim Khan. The initiation of the training and placement activity in the pre-pandemic proved immensely beneficial for budding professionals who were set to graduate in July 2020. The college initiated and successfully completed an on-campus interview with ITC Grand Resort Goa on 14th October 2019 where 17 final-year students received job offers. Boosting the confidence of the students and the mentor body, further negotiations for campus recruitment were taken up by eminent brands such as Taj Kovalam and Hyderabad, Grand Hyatt Goa and Ahmedabad, Radisson New Delhi, Ritz Carlton, Pune to name a few. However, with the pandemic spreading rapidly across the globe, the mentor body overseeing the campus placement process, quickly estimated the worst blow hotel industry would face under Covid-19 attack. Anticipating its detrimental effect on the placement prospects of the 130 pass outs, they unanimously decided to speed-up the placement process, exploring new avenues or related industries for placing the students, apart from the conventional industry roles. With a target to place all the 130 students by February 2020, Professor Dipnath Mukherjee, Professor Subrata Pal and Professor Nasim Khan set about exploring avenues for placement beyond hotels. They received wholesome support from Reliance Retail Ltd. and the campus recruitment drive was again held on 12th November, 2019 where several students received offers from the renowned retail brand. In the next three months, final-year students from NSHM School of Tourism and Hotel Management continued to bag recruitment offers from major brands like Taj, Oberoi, Hyatt, JW Marriott, Four Seasons, Renaissance, Sheraton, Ritz Carlton and Park Hyatt to name a few. The placement dashboard reflected 98 per cent of success with few students yet to be placed. However, at the same time China, Europe and America were reeling under Covid-19 and the hospitality sector in those regions were badly affected. The lull started by the end of February 2020 as students were sent back from hotels with early completion certificates for their industrial training. Suddenly, all jobs started drying up and hotels were non-responsive on the job front. By the end of March, the entire Indian hospitality industry went into a long hibernation. Post 9 long months of inactivity, 25 odd students working in the industry, had lost their jobs [during that period]. In the middle of October 2020, the team of Professor Dipnath Mukherjee, Professor Subrata Pal and Professor Nasim Khan had a long list of task – to find re-placement for 25 students; initiate placement cycle for the next batch of 120 final year students and help 86 odd students desperately looking for industrial training opportunities. The bleeding hospitality industry amidst the looming global pandemic brought the team to go for a priority based approach instead of confronting all challenges at once. On priority, the team focussed on helping students looking for industrial training opportunities and get offers for the re-placed students. By December 2020, the team had successfully achieved both the targets. However, the team had to face reluctant parents and students unwilling to go places due to the fear of COVID. Further, different COVID lockdown rules at various parts of the country also proved to be a deterrent. Simultaneously, the team ventured to Gujrat and reached out to Reliance Retail Gujrat division where 19 students got placed. Slowly, the team started placing students across the best brands and by July 2021, achieved a placement figure of 70 per cent. The team aims to place the remaining students in the coming months. Braving the odds and overcoming the struggle, the team continues to work along with students in their placement journey. Keeping an eye on the next 6 months, which can be critical, the team is finding ways to give the best of services and support to NSHM School of Tourism and Hotel Management students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
10-09-2021||India||Punjab govt employees to be sent on compulsory leave upon failure to take Covid jabs||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh announced on Friday that state government employees failing to take even the first dose of Covid vaccine for any reason other than medical will be compulsorily sent on leave after September 15. This strong measure, an official statement said, was announced by Singh to protect the people of the state from the disease and to ensure that those who are vaccinated do not have to pay the price for continued vaccine hesitancy of those who are not. At a high-level virtual Covid review meeting held on Friday, the chief minister said vaccine effectiveness is evident from the data being analysed. Special efforts were taken to reach out to government employees, and those who continue to avoid getting vaccinated will now be asked to go on leave till they get the first dose, he said. In another decision taken in view of the upcoming festival season, Singh ordered extension of the existing Covid restrictions till September 30, with a limit of 300 on all gatherings, including political, and strict enforcement of wearing of masks as well as social distancing. Earlier, the number of people allowed for indoor gatherings was 150 and outdoors was 300. Singh also made it mandatory for organisers, including political parties, to ensure that participants, management and staff at food stalls, etc. in festival-related events are fully vaccinated or at least have had a single dose. The chief minister called for continued vigil in the light of the festivals, and urged all political parties to lead by example, while directing the DGP to ensure compliance of restrictions by all. Punjab goes to polls early next year. Singh, meanwhile, allowed teaching and non-teaching school staff who had taken at least one dose of vaccine more than four weeks ago to resume duties, subject to submission of weekly RT PCR negative test reports. However, all those with co-morbidities shall only be allowed once they are fully vaccinated, he added. School Education Secretary Krishan Kumar earlier pointed out that currently, only fully vaccinated staff members are allowed to come to schools. Punjab Health Minister Balbir Sidhu suggested a gap for the second dose to be reduced for the school staff to 28 days, but Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan informed the meeting that the Centre had rejected the state's request to allow them to be treated as essential services. Singh noted with satisfaction that with aggressive testing, the situation in schools had remained under control. Samples from 3,21,969 school students, along with 33,854 teaching and non-teaching staff, were taken in August across 5,799 schools and a total of 158 tested positive, which accounts for a positivity rate of only 0.05 per cent, he added. Citing the latest sero-survey, he revealed that for children in the age group of 6-17 years, the positivity was at 60 per cent, and it was higher in the age bracket of 14-17 years. It was spread equally across gender and place of residence, according to the survey, which has confirmed "that our children even though affected by Covid have remained largely safe from serious disease", the chief minister said. Sidhu urged Singh to ensure availability of sufficient vaccines to ensure vaccination of all eligible people before the festivals. Singh said he will pursue the matter with the Union health minister, who had earlier assured him of additional supplies. He directed the Health Department to ensure that all staffers at sweet shops, kiosks, dhabas, etc. are vaccinated with at least one dose. Noting that the state had already vaccinated more than 57 per cent of the eligible population, with the first dose administered to 1.18 crore and second to 37.81 lakh people, Singh ordered further intensification of the vaccination drive. The chief minister directed the Department of Social Security to prepare to open anganwadi centres within this month. In terms of variants of concern, the month wise whole genome sequencing sent to National Centre for Disease Control showed that the delta variant remains predominant, the chief minister said, adding that the whole genome sequencing lab at GMCH hospital in Patiala had started operations, and 67 total samples had been tested already and didn't show presence of any new variant. K K Talwar, head of the state's Covid expert committee, urged the chief minister to appeal to all religious organisations to make regular announcements from temples and gurdwaras for wearing of masks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
10-09-2021||India||Rajnath Singh, Australian counterpart hold talks on defence cooperation, other matters||Partnership between India and Australia is based on our shared vision of free, open, inclusive and rule-based Indo-Pacific region, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Friday after holding wide-ranging talks with his Australian counterpart Peter Dutton. Describing the discussions as "fruitful", Singh said bilateral defence cooperation, as well as regional issues, figured in the deliberations. "I have had a very fruitful and wide-ranging discussion with Minister Dutton on our bilateral defence cooperation as well as regional issues," Singh said in a media statement. "Both of us are keen to work jointly to realise the full potential of the India-Australia Comprehensive Strategic Partnership," he said. The talks took place a day ahead of the inaugural 'two-plus-two' dialogue between foreign and defence ministers of India and Australia. Dutton and Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne arrived here on Friday. Singh said the partnership between the two countries is based on "our shared vision of free, open, inclusive and rule-based Indo-Pacific region". "Both, Australia and India have tremendous stakes in peace, development and free flow of trade, rules-based order and economic growth in the region," he said. "Our discussions today focused on our bilateral defence cooperation and expanding military engagements across services, enhancing defence information sharing, cooperation in emerging defence technologies and mutual logistics support," he added. Singh said both sides also noted with happiness that Australia joined the Malabar Exercise in 2020. "In this context we also expressed satisfaction in the continued participation of Australia in Malabar Exercise this year," he added. The Australian Navy was part of the recent Malabar naval exercise that also featured navies of India, the US and Japan. Singh said both sides discussed opportunities to work together in defence science and technology areas. "I invited Australian industry to take advantage of India's liberalised foreign direct investment policies in the defence sector. We both agreed that there are opportunities of bilateral collaboration for co-development and co production," he said. According to diplomatic sources, at the two-plus-two dialogue, both sides are expected to deliberate on further solidifying bilateral defence and strategic ties besides exchanging views on the situation in Afghanistan. The two sides are also expected to discuss ways to boost cooperation in the Indo-Pacific in the face of China's growing military assertiveness in the region, they said. Both Australia and India are part of Quad or Quadrilateral coalition that resolved to work towards ensuring a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. The other two members of the Quad are the US and Japan. The sources said expanding bilateral cooperation in areas of maritime security is expected to be another area of focus at the two-plus-two dialogue. The dialogue between the foreign and defence ministers was instituted as part of an overall goal to expand strategic cooperation between the two countries. India has such a framework for talks with a very few countries including the US and Japan. Defence and military cooperation between India and Australia is on an upswing in the last few years. In June last year, India and Australia elevated their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership and signed a landmark deal for reciprocal access to military bases for logistics support during an online summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
10-09-2021||India||RSS, BJP trying to break J&K's composite culture, alleges Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday accused the RSS-BJP combine of trying to break the composite culture of Jammu and Kashmir. "The feeling of love, brotherhood and composite culture exists among you all. I feel sad that the RSS and BJP are trying to break this culture," Gandhi said in his address to Congress office-bearers and workers at a party function here on the second day of his two-day visit to Jammu. "They (RSS, BJP) attack love and brotherhood You got weakened and as result, they took away your statehood," he added. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) is the ideological fount of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre. The Congress leader exhorted the gathering to chant 'Jai Mata Di', a day after he paid obeisance at the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Katra. "I went to Mata Vaishno Devi shrine yesterday. There are three symbols of mata (pindis) there - Mata Durga, Mata Lakshmi and Mata Saraswati, Gandhi said. "Goddess Durga protects us, Lakshmi is a symbol of power, and Saraswati symbolises education and knowledge," he said. When these three shaktis are in your home and country, your home and country will make progress," he said. However, the BJP government's policies like demonetisation and GST have weakened their powers, he said. Whereas, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Gurantee Act (MGNREGA) and the GDP with a growth rate of 9 per cent under the Congress had increased their powers, he added. Pointing towards his hand, Gandhi co-related the Congress election symbol with Lord Shiva and Guru Nanak Dev, and said it was the symbol of being fearless. "This hand is the symbol that you should not be afraid of anything," Gandhi said, adding that the BJP is afraid of everything".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
10-09-2021||India||I-T department carries out 'surveys' at Newsclick, Newslaundry offices in tax case||The Income Tax department on Friday conducted separate "survey operations" at the premises of online news portals Newsclick and Newslaundry here, officials said. The operations are being conducted to verify certain tax payment details and remittances made by the organisations, they said. Some documents have been found and these are being studied, the officials said. In a survey operation, which is carried out under provisions of section 133A of the Income Tax Act, 1961, tax officials cover only the business premises of an assessee and those linked to it and not their residential addresses. However, tax authorities can seize documents. There was no immediate reaction from the two portals or their promoters, but their social media handles continuously updated news stories and articles. Newsclick and its founders were raided by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in February under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act and that investigation is linked to alleged dubious foreign funding received by its registered company, which runs the news portal. The money laundering case arises out of a Delhi Police FIR alleging that PPK Newsclick Studio Pvt Ltd received foreign direct investment (FDI) of Rs 9.59 crore from Worldwide Media Holdings LLC USA during the 2018-19 financial year. The Delhi High Court has granted interim protection from arrest to Newsclick's editor-in-chief and founder Prabir Purkayastha in connection with the Delhi Police FIR that relates to its probe against the foreign funding of the company. The high court has also granted Purkayastha protection from coercive action in the ED case. Newsclick has argued in its defence in the court that there is no question of siphoning off of funds, as alleged by probe agencies, as the same had been utilised for paying salaries to employees and that there was no loss to the exchequer in the process. The ED had claimed that it is also probing Newsclick and its promoters for alleged transfer of certain funds to activist Gautam Navlakha, accused in the Elgar Parishad case of Maharashtra. It has also questioned Navlakha, lodged in a Maharashtra jail, in connection with the case. Purkayastha had earlier said in a statement that a smear campaign has been launched against the portal, and "selective leaks" from the ED, whose probe is already under challenge before court, reflect the "inherent weakness" in the investigation and the course that it will take in the courts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
10-09-2021||India||Narendra Modi stresses on buffer stock of Covid drugs at high-level meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday chaired a high-level meeting on the Covid situation and vaccination as the government noted high caseloads in states like Kerala and Maharashtra to say that there can be no room for complacency. Modi reviewed the status of augmentation of bed capacity for pediatric care and of facilities supported under "COVID Emergency Response Package II", and it was noted that states have been advised to redesign and orient primary care and block level health infrastructure in these areas to manage the situation in rural areas, a statement said. States are being asked to maintain a buffer stock for drugs used in management of COVID-19, mucormycosis, MIS-C at the district level, it added. "It was discussed that across the world, there are countries where the number of active Covid cases continues to remain high. In India too, the figures from states like Maharashtra and Kerala indicate that there can be no room for complacency," the statement said. However, the weekly positivity was at less than three per cent for the 10th consecutive week, it added. Modi underscored the need to rapidly augment the entire ecosystem to ensure increased oxygen availability, including oxygen concentrators, cylinders and PSA plants. Efforts are also on to install 961 Liquid Medical Oxygen storage tanks and 1,450 medical gas pipeline systems with an aim to support at least one such unit per district, the government said. The ambulance network is also being augmented to ensure at least one ambulance per block. Modi also reviewed the status of PSA oxygen plants coming up across the country and told that around one lakh oxygen concentrators and three lakh oxygen cylinders have been distributed to states. He was also briefed about the concentration of cases in a few geographies, districts with high test positivity as well as the week on week test positivity rate in the country. On vaccines, the statement noted that around 58 per cent of India's adult population has received the first dose and nearly 18 per cent both doses. Modi was also updated about the vaccine pipeline and increased supply of vaccines. He spoke about the need for constant genome sequencing to monitor emergence of mutants. He was informed that INSACOG (SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortium) now consists of 28 labs distributed across the country. The lab network is also linked with a hospital network for clinical correlation. Sewage sampling is also being done for genomic surveillance. States have been requested to share SARS COV2 positive samples with INSACOG regularly. Modi highlighted the need to ensure adequate testing across the country and was told about the support being given to 433 districts to establish RT-PCR lab facility in public health facilities. The principal secretary to the prime minister, cabinet secretary, principal scientific advisor, health secretary, member (health) NITI Aayog and other important officials were present in the meeting. The meeting came a day after Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said India is still going through the second wave of COVID-19 and it is not over yet. He had said 35 districts are still reporting a weekly Covid positivity rate of over 10 per cent while it is between five and 10 per cent in 30 districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
10-09-2021||India||Taliban must adhere to its promise of not using Afghan soil for terrorism, says India at UN||Terming the situation in Afghanistan as very fragile, India has said it is important that the Taliban adheres to its commitment to not allow the use of the Afghan soil for terrorism, including from terror groups designated under Security Council resolution 1267 that lists Pakistan-based outfits Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed. India's Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti said at the UN Security Council Debate on Afghanistan Thursday that as Afghanistan's neighbour, India was privileged to preside over the adoption of a substantial and forward-looking product of the Council during its presidency of the 15-nation UN body last month. The resolution on Afghanistan took into account some of our collective concerns, in particular on terrorism, where it has noted the commitment of the Taliban not to allow the use of the Afghan soil for terrorism, including from terrorists and terrorist groups designated under Resolution 1267. The Security Council resolution has underlined that Afghan territory should not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train terrorists, or to plan or to finance terrorist acts. As witnessed from the deplorable terrorist attack at Kabul Airport last month, terrorism continues to pose a serious threat to Afghanistan. It is therefore important that commitments made in this regard are respected and adhered to, Tirumurti said. Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed as well as the Haqqani Network are proscribed terror entities under UNSC resolution 1267 (1999) concerning ISIL (Da'esh), Al-Qaeda, and associated individuals, groups, undertakings and entities. JeM founder Masood Azhar and LeT leader Hafiz Saeed are also listed as global terrorists under the 1267 Sanctions regime. Resolution 2593 also took note of the Taliban statement that Afghans will be able to travel abroad in an unhindered manner. "We hope that these commitments will be adhered to, including regarding the safe, secure, and orderly departure from Afghanistan of Afghans and all foreign nationals, Tirumurti said. India also called on the international community to rise above any partisan interests and stand together with the people of Afghanistan in their desire for peace, stability and security in the country. The situation in Afghanistan continues to be very fragile. As its immediate neighbour and a friend to its people, the current situation is of direct concern to us, Tirumurti said. He said uncertainties abound about the future of the Afghan people, as well as about sustaining and building on the gains achieved over the last two decades. In this context, we reiterate the need for the voices of Afghan women to be heard, aspirations of Afghan children to be realised and the rights of minorities to be protected. We call on humanitarian assistance to be provided urgently and underline the need to provide unhindered access to the UN and other agencies in this regard, he said. Underlining that Afghanistan has already seen enough bloodshed and violence in recent years, Tirumurti said India calls on the international community to come together, rising above any partisan interests, to stand together with the people of Afghanistan in their desire for peace, stability and security in the country. We need to enable all Afghans, including women, children and minorities, to live in peace and dignity. Briefing the Security Council, Secretary-General's Special Representative for Afghanistan Deborah Lyons said that the new reality in Afghanistan is that the lives of millions of Afghans will depend on how the Taliban will choose to govern. We are faced, as of two days ago, with a de facto administration announced by the Taliban. Those who hoped for, and urged for, inclusivity will be disappointed. There are no women in the names listed. There are no non-Taliban members, no figures from the past government, nor leaders of minority groups. Instead, it contains many of the same figures who were part of the Taliban leadership from 1996 to 2001, she said. Lyons told the Council that what is of immediate and practical importance to those around this table is that of the 33 names presented, many are on the United Nations sanctions list, including the prime minister, the two deputy prime ministers, and the foreign minister. All of you will need to decide which steps to take regarding the sanctions list, and the impact on future engagement. The Taliban announced a hardline interim government led by Mullah Mohammad Hasan Akhund, chief of the Taliban's powerful decision-making body 'Rehbari Shura'. He will be the Acting Prime Minister while Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar will be his deputy in the "new Islamic government , Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said at a news conference in Kabul. The announcement of key figures in the caretaker government comes weeks after the Taliban seized control of war-torn Afghanistan, ousting the previous elected leadership which was backed by the West. UN-designated terrorist Sirajuddin Haqqani is also part of the interim Taliban government. Haqqani, a specially designated global terrorist and son of the famous anti-Soviet warlord Jalaluddin Haqqani who founded Haqqani Network, is the new acting interior minister in the 33-member Cabinet that has no woman member. Haqqani has been one of two deputy leaders of the Taliban since 2016 and has a USD 10 million US bounty on his head. Khalil Haqqani, Sirajuddin's uncle, was appointed as acting minister for refugees. Two other members of the Haqqani clan were also named to positions in the interim government, indicating the hand of Pakistan in the Taliban-run government. Tirumurti stressed India's call for an inclusive dispensation in Afghanistan which represents all sections of Afghan society. A broad-based, inclusive and representative formation attained through an inclusive negotiated political settlement would gain greater international acceptability and legitimacy, he said. He further said that India calls upon all members of the Council that when it decides on the future of the UNAMA (UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan) mandate, we keep our focus centred on Afghan people and their expectations from the international community to stand by them in this hour of crisis. Tirumurti said the world has witnessed dramatic changes in the situation in Afghanistan over the course of the last month. The Security Council met thrice in August under India's Presidency and has collectively pronounced the prevailing situation. In particular, UN Security Council Resolution (UNSCR) 2593 on Afghanistan clearly sets out the Council's expectations on a range of critical and immediate issues, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
10-09-2021||India||CoWIN develops new feature to know vaccination status of individual||Co-WIN has developed a new API called 'Know Your Customer's/Client's Vaccination Status', or KYC-VS, which will enable a verifying entity to know whether a person has been vaccinated against coronavirus or not, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. Over 72 crore vaccine doses have been administered since the vaccination campaign against COVID-19 was flagged off on January 16 this year in the country. To provide proof of vaccination for each of these individuals, Co-WIN is already issuing a digitally verifiable certificate. This certificate can be saved on a digital device (smartphone, tablet, laptop etc), or stored in Digi Locker from where it can be digitally shared as and when required as proof of vaccination, the ministry said in a statement. Similarly, at entry points where such certificate is required (e.g., in malls, office complexes, public events etc), it may be shown in both digital and physical forms. However, there may be instances where an entity does not need to see the certificate in full and would just need to know whether an individual has been vaccinated or not, the ministry said. An enterprise/employer may like to know the vaccination status of its employees to resume functions in offices, workplaces etc, it added. The Railways may want to get the status of vaccination of the passengers who are getting their seats reserved in the trains. Airlines may want to get the status of vaccination of the passengers who are booking their flight tickets, and/or airports may only want to allow vaccinated passengers to pass through. Hotels may want to know the vaccination status of the residents at the time they are checking into the hotel, or at the time of making online bookings, it further said. "As the socio-economic activities are being gradually revived while maintaining everyone's safety, there is a need for a way to digitally convey the status of individuals' vaccination to entities with whom they may be engaging with for any or all reasons, as employees, passengers, residents etc. "Therefore, there is a need to enable an Aadhaar like authentication service for the status of vaccination through Co-WIN. To take care of these cases and others that may come up, Co-WIN has developed a new API called 'Know Your Customer's/Client's Vaccination Status' or KYC-VS," the ministry said in the statement. To use this API, an individual needs to enter his/her mobile number and name. Thereafter, they will get an OTP which they have to enter. In return, Co-WIN will send a response to the verifying entity on the individual's status of vaccination, which will be as follows: -- Person is not vaccinated -- Person is partially vaccinated -- Person is fully vaccinated This response will be digitally signed and can be shared instantly with the verifying entity, the ministry said. The KYC-VS is consent-based and privacy-preserving, it added. Additionally, in order to facilitate quick integration and faster adoption, the Co-WIN Team has prepared a webpage with the API, which may be embedded in any system. This will allow for seamless integration with any system in no time, the statement said. Besides the use cases pointed out, this service may be utilised by any service provider, private or public, for whom verifying an individual's vaccination status is critical for facilitating a service requested, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
10-09-2021||India||August rainfall in India lowest in 19 years, says IMD||Rainfall in August, which recorded 24 per cent deficiency, was the lowest in 19 years, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday. Two major spells of weak monsoon prevailed over the country -- from August 9-16 and August 23-27 -- when northwest, central and adjoining peninsular and west coast of India had subdued rainfall activities. During August 2021, rainfall over the country as a whole was below Long Period Average (LPA) by minus 24 percent. It is also the lowest August rainfall in last 19 years, since 2002, the IMD said. The Southwest Monsoon season officially commences from June 1 and lasts till September 30. The month of June recorded 10 percent more rainfall, but both July and August clocked deficiency of seven and 24 percent respectively, according to the IMD data. The country received 24 percent less than normal rainfall in August. Of the four meteorological divisions of the IMD, the central India division received 39 percent less. The division consists of a large swathe of area from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Goa, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha. The deficiency in the northwest India division, which comprises northern Indian states, was 30 percent. The deficiency was 10 percent in the south peninsula whereas the east and northeast divisions received two percent more rainfall than the normal. The IMD had predicted that the rainfall activity was expected to be normal during August. It has now predicted above-normal precipitation in September. The weather forecasting agency said intra-seasonal variation in terms of week by week rainfall variation over India shows that monsoon rainfall activities were largely subdued consecutively for three weeks -- for week ending on August 11, August 18 and August 25 -- when all India weekly cumulative rainfall for the country as a whole was 35 percent, 36 percent and 21 percent, respectively, below its Long Period Average (LPA). The formation of fewer low-pressure systems (PLS) and their lesser number of days compared to the climatology and absence of their longer westward movements during the month of August 2021 contributed to the large deficient rainfall in central India as well as all India, the IMD said. It said negative Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) over tropical Indian Ocean, unfavourable for Indian monsoon prevailed throughout the month of the August, which also contributed to deficient rainfall over India in the month. A negative IOD is associated with the heating of waters of the Indian Ocean.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
10-09-2021||India||BJP workers to aid vaccination drive on PM's b'day on September 17||BJP workers across the country will run a special campaign on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday on September 17 to help maximum people get inoculated against Covid, aiming to break all previous records of vaccination. Announcing the campaign from his residence, BJP president JP Nadda said party workers at booth level across the country will help people get vaccinated on the day. Also, talking about the party's health volunteers' campaign, Nadda said the BJP had pledged to train 4 lakh volunteers in 2 lakh villages to support the healthcare system. So far, the party has trained 6.88 lakh volunteers in 43 days and hopes to touch 8 lakh very soon, he said. Speaking during the event, BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh said party workers will break all previous records of vaccination on the prime minister's birthday on September 17. Chugh further said nearly 18,000 doctors have been associated with the party's health volunteers' campaign for mitigating any further wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The BJP will also carry out a special course for health volunteers in October, Chugh said. The BJP usually celebrates the Prime Minister Modi's birthday as Sewa Saptah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
10-09-2021||India||HC asks Google, YouTube, Centre to take steps to remove woman's objectionable photos from Internet||The Delhi High Court has asked Google, YouTube and Delhi Police to take steps to remove the sites and links carrying objectionable photos and videos of a married woman from the Internet. Justice Subramonium Prasad made it clear that this was not an adversarial litigation and listed the matter for September 16, while asking Google, YouTube, the Centre and Delhi Police Cyber Cell to file their replies to the woman's plea seeking directions to them to remove the photos and videos. The high court's interim order came on a petition by the woman seeking directions to the Centre to block pornographic sites operating under pseudo names. The plea also sought directions to Google block any nude, sexually explicit or morphed photos of the woman appearing on their sites. It is made clear that this is not an adversarial litigation and it is expected that counsel for Google LLC, YouTube, Centre and Cyber Cell of Delhi Police will take necessary steps to remove the sites and links, carrying objectionable photos and videos of the petitioner, from the Internet before the next date of hearing, the court said. Central government standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia assured the court that the Union of India will take necessary steps for removal of the sites and links from the Internet carrying objectionable photographs and videos of the woman and sought time to file an affidavit. Advocate Mamta Jha, representing Google LLC and YouTube, submitted that all the URLs, which are with the YouTube, have been removed and 10 channels have already been blocked. In order to expedite the process of removing the links and sites from the Internet, the court impleaded the Delhi Police through Cyber Cell as a party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
10-09-2021||India||Mutation entry does not create any right in favour of individual title or interest, says SC||Mutation entry does not confer any property right, title or interest in favour of an individual and is only for the fiscal purpose, the Supreme Court has said. Mutation of a property is the transfer or change of title entry in revenue records of the local municipal corporation. A bench comprising Justices M R Shah and Aniruddha Bose said it cannot be disputed that the right on the basis of the will can be claimed only after the death of the executant of the will. As per the settled proposition of law, mutation entry does not confer any right, title or interest in favour of the person and the mutation entry in the revenue record is only for the fiscal purpose, the bench said. The apex court said that if there is any dispute with respect to the title and more particularly when the mutation entry is sought to be made on the basis of the will, the party who is claiming title/right has to approach the appropriate court. It said that the applicant's rights can only be crystallised by approaching the court and only thereafter on the basis of the decision before the civil court necessary mutation entry can be made. Referring to its earlier decisions, the top court said that mutation of property in revenue records neither creates nor extinguishes title to the property nor has it any presumptive value on the title. Such entries are relevant only for the purpose of collecting land revenue, it said. Entries in the revenue records or jamabandi have only fiscal purpose, i.e., payment of land revenue, and no ownership is conferred on the basis of such entries. It is further observed that so far as the title of the property is concerned, it can only be decided by a competent civil court, the bench said. The order came while upholding an order of Madhya Pradesh High Court which set aside the order passed by the Additional Commissioner, Rewa Division, Rewa, directing to mutate the name of a person in the revenue records, which was sought to be mutated on the basis of the will.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
10-09-2021||India||Mohan Bhagwat on three-day Jharkhand trip||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat reached Dhanbad on Friday morning on a three-day visit to take stock of the organisation in Jharkhand. Bhagwat was given a rousing welcome by state BJP leaders, and ABVP and Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh activists as he reached Dhanbad from Patna on the Ganga-Damodar Express around 4.50 am. The organisers took him to Rajkamal Saraswati Vidyamandir guest house, the main venue for the programmes during his visit. The main focus of Bhagwat's visit is to discuss with activists about spreading RSS to 1,264 mandals and 847 bastis of the state, an official of the organising committee said. "He holds meetings for organisation extension across the country round the year. During the visit to Dhanbad, he will hold such meetings," he said. Bhagwat is scheduled to meet 40 pracharak pramukhs of Jharkhand and Bihar around 2 pm. On Saturday, he would meet officials and members of prantiya karyakarni. On Sunday, he would meet Dhanbad Mahanager RSS shakha chief teachers, shakha karyvah and milan pramukh. During the visit, he would also meet 100 eminent people from different fields.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
10-09-2021||India||Ganesh festival begins in Maharashtra under Covid cloud for 2nd year||Devotees welcomed Lord Ganesh in their homes and public pandals on Friday as the 10-day festival dedicated to the elephant-headed God began in Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra with focus on online 'darshan' amid the coronavirus pandemic and looming threat of a third wave. For the second straight year, the pandemic cast a long shadow on festivities with the Maharashtra government placing a slew of restrictions to avoid gathering and processions. The Maharashtra government has banned physical 'darshan' of Lord Ganesh at community pandals (marquees) and said only online 'darshan' or telecast from pandals would be allowed. Citing the COVID-19 situation, the Mumbai police have imposed orders under CrPC section 144 prohibiting assembly of five or more persons during the festival between September 10 to 19. No processions of any kind would be allowed in Mumbai during this period and devotees would not be allowed to visit Ganesh pandals either, an official statement said on Thursday. People can have `darshan' of Ganesh idols installed in pandals through the online mode or through other electronic media (such as TV), it said. The Maharashtra home department has issued a circular banning visits to pandals so as to prevent the spread of the viral infection. Also, the height Lord Ganesh idols to be installed has been restricted. In Mumbai, there are around 12,000 sarvajanik (community) mandals and nearly two lakh homes where idols of the deity are installed. The usual pomp was missing since processions have been banned. Lord Ganesh made a quiet entry into the homes of his devotees. Naresh Dahibavkar, president, Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti, told PTI that compared to last year, when 90 per cent of the mandals had celebrated the festival in view of the coronavirus outbreak, this year all of them are installing idols of the deity. The samiti is an umbrella body of Ganesh mandals that coordinates the festival between the BMC and government agencies. Last year, Lalbaghcha Raja, Mumbai's most famous mandal, had cancelled the celebration, while Wadala's GSB Sewa Samiti, another well-known mandal, had postponed the celebration to Magh Shudh charturthi in February this year. "The festival will be celebrated with usual fervour and gaiety unlike last year as the COVID-19 vaccination drive is going on and there is awareness among people about the pandemic," Dahibavkar said. "In view of the third wave threat, all government protocols for COVID-19- appropriate behaviour are being observed," he said. Dahibavkar criticised the government for banning physical darshan. "This has been done at the last minute. The stake-holders were not consulted. Physical darshan was banned last year too. We will suffer heavy losses since there will be no devotees to see the banners and posters of our sponsors," he said. Livelihood of people associated with the festival, which generates a turnover of Rs 70 crore to Rs 100 crore (in Mumbai), will continue to be impacted due to the pandemic, Dahibavkar said. He said Ganesh mandals have contributed to the state government's efforts to provide relief to people in flood-affected Konkan region and have also been doing social activities. "The government should have considered our problems too," he said, adding, "The mandals have contributed Rs 40 lakh towards flood relief," he said. The state government has issued an order to ban physical darshan at mandals and said not more than ten people (who have to be fully vaccinated) would be allowed to bring the idol which should not be more than 4 feet in height (at marquees). Home idols should not be more than two feet in height and only 5 people (fully vaccinated) will be allowed to accompany the idol. The administration has put restrictions during immersion of idols as well. In the last two days, markets were overcrowded with people making purchases to welcome the elephant-headed God, raising concerns about the lack of physical distancing. The GSB Sewa Mandal, which installs the idol for five days at Kings Circle in Mumbai, said this year's celebrations will be simple. It said during the last one year, the mandal has distributed food to relatives of patients in government hospitals and was in the forefront of relief and rehabilitation efforts during Konkan floods in July. "We will celebrate the festival religiously like every year but without any devotee visiting the pandal as per government guidelines," the GSB Sewa Mandal said in a statement. Live darshan will be on the mandal's social media platform, it said. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray welcomed Lord Ganesh at his official residence 'Varsha' in south Mumbai. Several celebrities and political leaders also installed the deity in their homes. The festival of Ganesh Chaturthi, also known as Vinayaka Chaturthi, marks the birth of Lord Ganesh, who is revered as an embodiment of wisdom, prosperity and good fortune.It is celebrated in the month of Bhadrapada (August-September). In India, it is a common practice to invoke and chant the name of Lord Ganesh to remove any obstacles in one's endeavours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
10-09-2021||India||Jio to delay roll-out of phone developed with Google to Diwali||Billionaire Mukesh Ambani's Reliance Jio on Friday announced deferring the roll-out of the JioPhone Next - the low-priced smartphone it has developed with Google - to Diwali. The phone was previously to be launched on September 10. Ambani at the shareholder meeting of his flagship Reliance Industries Ltd in June had stated that the JioPhone Next will be available for purchase on September 10. The Jio Phone Next has been designed in partnership with Google and it is for those who are looking to upgrade from 2G to 4G connectivity. Announcing the new timeline, the company, however, did not reveal the pricing of the phone. Reliance Jio and Google "have made considerable progress towards launching the much-awaited JioPhone Next, the made-for-India smartphone being jointly designed by the companies," the statement said. JioPhone Next is a first-of-its-kind device featuring an optimized operating system based on Android and Play Store. "The device and the operating system will offer premium capabilities that have until now been associated with more powerful smartphones, including voice-first features that enable people to consume content and navigate the phone in their own language, deliver a great camera experience, and get the latest Android feature and security updates," it said. Both companies have begun testing the JioPhone Next with a limited set of users for further refinement and are actively working to make it available more widely in time for the Diwali festive season. "This additional time will also help mitigate the current industry-wide, global semiconductor shortages," it said. The JioPhone Next is built with exciting features like the Google Assistant, automatic read-aloud and language translation for any on-screen text, a smart camera with India-centric filters and much more. "The companies remain committed to their vision of opening up new possibilities for millions of Indians, especially those who will experience the internet for the very first time," the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
10-09-2021||India||India adds over 34,000 fresh Covid cases, 260 casualties in a day||India logged 34,973 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,31,74,954, while the active cases declined to 3,90,646, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,42,009 with 260 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 1.18 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.49 per cent, the ministry said. A reduction of 2,968 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 17,87,611 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 53,86,04,854. The daily positivity rate was recorded 1.96 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 11 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.31 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 77 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,23,42,299, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 72.37 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 260 new fatalities include 125 from Kerala and 55 from Maharashtra. Maharashtra has reconciled the data leading to a decrease in total number of cases and discharges as compared to Thursday. A total of 4,42,009 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,017 from Maharashtra, 37,462 from Karnataka, 35,094 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,863 from Uttar Pradesh, 22,126 from Kerala and 18,539 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
10-09-2021||India||Delhi likely to receive light to moderate rainfall||Delhiites woke up to a humid Friday morning with the minimum temperature settling at 25.1 degrees Celsius, normal for this time of the year. The humidity was recorded at 82 per cent. The weather office has forecast a generally cloudy sky for the day with the possibility of light to moderate rain or thundershowers. The maximum temperature is likely to be around 32 degrees Celsius. Parts of Delhi recorded light rainfall on Thursday and more precipitation is likely in the next three days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The capital has already recorded 243.5 mm rainfall this month so far, surpassing the September average of 129.8 mm precipitation by a big margin. Usually, it gauges only 58.3 mm rainfall on the first nine days of the month. Delhi recorded 117.7 mm rainfall in 24 hours ending at 8:30 am on September 2, the highest on a day in the month in 19 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
10-09-2021||India||Covid: Over 250,000 people evicted across India during pandemic||More than 250,000 people were evicted across India during the coronavirus pandemic, and millions more are at risk of being uprooted as authorities eye projects for faster economic growth, housing rights campaigners warned on Thursday. From March 2020 to July 2021, authorities demolished more than 43,000 homes and evicted about 21 people every hour, according to the Housing and Land Rights Network (HLRN), an advocacy group in Delhi. In nearly all the cases, the officials failed to follow due process, including giving sufficient notice, and a majority of those evicted did not receive compensation from the government, the HLRN said in an annual report. “During this lethal ÿpandemic — when people are struggling greatly to survive — acts of eviction and demolition of housing have contributed to a grave human rights and humanitarian crisis,” said Shivani Chaudhry, HLRN executive director. “At a time when people were ordered to stay at home, authorities resorted to unlawful demolitions, probably taking advantage of curfew-like conditions when movement of people and access to remedy, including courts, was limited.” There is no official data on evictions in India. In Delhi, where thousands were uprooted over the past year, authorities only demolished “illegal encroachments”, said Amrish Kumar, a director of the land management unit at the Delhi Development Authority, a federal government agency. “They were on government land, which is meant for public purposes,” he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. Kumar added: “Some of the informal settlements were eligible for resettlement and rehabilitation, but not all — and they were dealt with according to due process.” The world over, homeless people and those living in slums have borne the brunt of restrictions to contain the coronavirus and are at heightened risk of infection because of their dire living conditions, housing experts said. Human rights experts at the United Nations in July appealed to the Indian government to end evictions during the pandemic. More than 4 million people in India are homeless, according to official data, with about 75 million living in slums and informal settlements in urban areas. The Indian government’s Housing for All plan aims to create 20 million urban homes and 30 million rural homes by 2022. But implementation has been slow, and activists say it does not address the issue of homelessness. Nearly 16 million people are at risk of being evicted and displaced, according to the HLRN, including about 2 million whose claims to forestland have been rejected. Last year alone, more than 170,000 people were removed from their homes, it said, compared with about 107,000 people the previous year. Nearly half were uprooted for environmental projects, while infrastructure and city beautification schemes made up most of the remainder. Court orders Many evictions were carried out on court orders, including orders from India’s top court, even though several courts directed authorities not to demolish homes during the pandemic. More than 100 cases related to evictions or rehabilitation are pending with Delhi High Court, said Anupradha Singh at the non-profit Human Rights Law Network, which represents slum dwellers in several cases. “Court orders make it easier to carry out evictions, and slum dwellers often have no legal recourse,” she said. “Court orders for eviction during the pandemic are particularly grievous, as these people have already lost their livelihoods, and to lose their homes on top of that is a failure of the courts to recognise their right to housing.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
10-09-2021||India||Vaccine: Single dose offers same protection as two against death, claims Union health ministry||The Union health ministry on Thursday claimed the Covid-19 vaccines used in India offered nearly the same protective effect against death after the first dose as after the second dose, baffling experts who said the claim contradicted research and observations. At the same time, health officials iterated that people need two doses for full immunisation. An exercise to track deaths among vaccinated and unvaccinated Covid-19 patients nationwide has calculated the vaccine effectiveness levels in preventing mortality at 96.6 per cent after one dose and 97.5 per cent after the second dose, the health ministry said. What this means is that of every 1,000 Covid patients who might have died if they were unvaccinated, 966 would live if they had received one dose of vaccine and 975 would live if they had received two doses. These values have emerged from an exercise to combine three datasets — one of vaccinated people, the second of patients who have tested positive for Covid-19, and the third of Covid-19 patients who have died — linked through mobile numbers and unique identification numbers. Senior health officials said the three datasets had been combined into an online “Covid-19 vaccine tracker” that provided data on vaccination coverage and effectiveness and would be available soon on the health ministry’s website. “The protective effect against death is there in all age groups — 60 years or older, between 45 and 59, and 18 to 44,” said Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the ministry’s apex health research agency. “This was clearly demonstrated when we combined the three databases,” Bhargava said. “If you’re non-vaccinated, death is (relatively) high. If it is first dose and the second dose, the effect is so much that the death rate is nearly zero, or one or two per cent.” The meagre difference in the effectiveness against death after the first dose and the second dose has baffled experts. The experts said the data — one data point showed a higher effectiveness after the first dose than after the second dose — was inconsistent with global experience and observational research from India. “At face value, this data suggests that one dose is almost equally protective as two doses,” a senior health expert who is among the Centre’s advisers on Covid-19 and requested anonymity told The Telegraph. “This flies in the face of existing evidence.” The ICMR’s own peer-reviewed study on over 117,000 vaccinated and unvaccinated police personnel in Tamil Nadu had calculated the vaccine’s effectiveness in preventing death at 82 per cent after a single dose and at 95 per cent after two doses. The tracker is designed to display deaths per million among unvaccinated and vaccinated patients week after week. For instance, it has calculated 17.29 deaths per million among unvaccinated patients, 0.71 in one-dose-recipient patients, and 0.62 among two-dose-recipient patients in the week ending May 30. The tiny differences in the deaths among the one-dose and two-dose recipients, averaged over the period between April 18 and August 15, yield a vaccine effectiveness against death of 96.6 per cent after one dose and 97.5 per cent after the second dose. But the numbers for July 4 are 4.27 deaths per million among unvaccinated patients, 0.12 among one-dose-recipient patients, and 0.15 among two-dose-recipient patients, implying a higher death rate in two-dose recipients than in the one-dose recipients. “This is inconsistent with most other datasets that we have seen,” Jacob John, professor of community health at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, told this newspaper. “All suggest that vaccines, both one dose and two doses, protect against death. But one-dose protection against death should be lower than that with two doses.” Another medical expert who requested not to be named said it would be difficult to verify the health ministry’s calculations on the basis of the limited details it had released. A query sent by The Telegraph to senior ICMR officials asking how they would explain the inconsistency between the tracker’s calculations and earlier studies, including the ICMR’s Tamil Nadu study, did not evoke a response. But one official said the tracker was based on an analysis of the health ministry’s accumulated data while the earlier calculations were based on research studies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
10-09-2021||India||Brawl bares shortage of Covid vaccine in Uttar Pradesh||People from two neighbouring villages in Amroha brawled with each other at a Covid vaccination camp on Wednesday, bringing into focus the shortage of doses and mismanagement blighting the vaccination campaign in Uttar Pradesh. Videos circulating on social media show some 300 men and women punching and kicking one another and pulling each other by the hair. Police said the trouble began when villagers from Lalu Nangla claimed the special one-day camp, held at the village primary school, was meant exclusively for their village and attacked vaccine seekers from adjacent Bagarpur Kalan. The scuffle comes weeks after Prime Minister Narendra Modi praised chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s running of the poll-bound state that had earlier in the summer epitomised India’s mismanagement of the Covid second wave, courtesy the pictures of bodies floating down the Ganga or buried on riverbanks. A state government official in Lucknow said a chronic shortage of doses as well as healthcare workers to administer them had created widespread anger across the state, and Wednesday’s violence was just waiting to happen. “There’s tremendous pressure on us to intensify vaccination across the state. There were 91 booths in Amroha district on Wednesday but we didn’t have enough doctors and nurses to vaccinate all those who had turned up at the booths,” he said. “Hundreds returned home in the evening without receiving the jab. Obviously, they would be angry and restless.” He added: “The people who had reached that particular booth in Amroha outnumbered the available vaccines. While a crowd had gathered there since 9am, there were only two health workers to administer the vaccine. We will organise more counters there next week.” Officials said the camp had only 200 doses. By afternoon, only a few doses were left but the crowd was still growing. “Some people in both villages are still agitated. Elders gathered at the same primary school today and resolved to pacify the people of their respective villages,” a Bagarpur Kalan resident told reporters on Thursday. Umar Farooq, the doctor in charge of the local community health centre, 10km away, said: “The villagers fought with each other over some issue. We didn’t register a police complaint because the health officials there were not involved (attacked).” Local station house officer Sunil Kumar said: “We learnt about the incident from a video clip. Some Lalu Nangla residents attacked people from Bagarpur Kalan first and left a youth injured. We have asked the injured person to submit a complaint with us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
10-09-2021||India||Allahabad HC stays archaeological survey of Gyanvapi mosque ||Allahabad High Court has stayed a lower court order of an archaeological survey of the areas in and around the Gyanvapi mosque complex in Varanasi city to find out whether it was built after a portion of the original Kashi Vishwanath temple had been destroyed. The single bench of Justice Prakash Pandia of the high court listed the case for October 8 while granting three weeks’ time to the respondents to file a counter-affidavit. “Till the next date of listing, further proceedings of the original suit pending before the (Varanasi civil) court shall remain stayed,” Justice Pandia said. The Sunni Central Waqf Board and the Anjuman Intezamia Masjid, or the Gyanvapi mosque, had challenged in the high court the survey ordered on April 8 by civil judge, senior division, Ashutosh Tiwari. Vijay Shankar Rastogi, the petitioner, had filed the original plea in 1991 claiming that a portion of the Kashi Vishwanath temple lay under the Gyanvapi mosque. Rastogi recently submitted that a survey was necessary to ascertain this. The civil court had asked the Archaeological Survey of India to conduct studies with radar technology. The Gyanvapi mosque shares a compound with the Kashi Vishwanath temple. Sangh parivar outfits claim that Mughal emperor Aurangzeb had got a part of the Kashi Vishwanath temple demolished in 1669 and had the mosque built over a well that contained a Shivalinga. Right-wing Hindu groups have long threatened to have the mosque razed to resurrect the supposedly buried temple. The agenda received a boost after the November 2019 Ayodhya verdict of the Supreme Court. The Gyanvapi Anjuman Intezamiya (management) Committee has throughout the pendency of the court case alleged a Right-wing conspiracy to bring the mosque down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
10-09-2021||India||Scribe booked for misappropriating funds for Covid, flood victims||Journalist Ayub Rana has been booked by Ghaziabad police on charges of money laundering and misappropriating donations meant for Covid patients and flood victims in some eastern states. The other charges, under the Information Technology Act, are criminal breach of trust and cheating by using computer resources. The FIR was lodged on Tuesday on the complaint of Vinod Pandey, founder of an NGO named Hindu IT Cell. The police will take further action against Ayub only after investigating the case and if there is evidence against her, city superintendent of police Gyanendra Singh said. Ayub’s name also figures in a recent case of circulation of a video in which a 72-year-old Bulandshahr resident had accused four men of beating him up and chopping his beard to force him to chant Jai Shri Ram. The Ghaziabad police had, however, later found out that the communal allegations made by the elderly Muslim man were false and he had made them on the instigation of a Samajwadi Party worker.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
10-09-2021||India||Delhi High Court allows online marriage registration||Delhi High Court on Thursday said the requirement of personal appearance before the authority concerned for registration of marriage would include appearance through videoconferencing. Justice Rekha Palli, who was hearing a plea by a US-based couple seeking registration of their marriage through videoconferencing, stated that the high court had permitted the registration of a marriage through the virtual mode earlier as well — in 2007 when the use of such technology was at a nascent stage. “I find that… (the requirement of) personal appearance would include appearance through videoconferencing,” Justice Palli said, adding that she would “allow the petition” seeking permission for virtual appearance before the registering authority. “You will get the order in a day or two,” the judge said. The US-based couple had said their marriage was solemnised through Hindu rites and rituals before the registration of marriage was made compulsory in 2014. Since the couple had relocated abroad by then, they were unable to get their marriage registered under the Delhi (Compulsory Registration of Marriage) Order, 2014, it was stated. Considering that their application for a green card was not being processed in the US for want of a marriage certificate, the couple had approached the local authority in New Delhi for issuance of a marriage certificate. The local authority maintained that physical presence of the parties was a mandatory requirement. The couple moved the high court after their representation to the sub-divisional magistrate for virtual appearance remained unanswered. The counsel for the couple stated that several high courts have passed orders allowing virtual appearance of parties for registration of marriages. Considering the Covid-19 pandemic and the travel ban imposed by several countries, the lawyer said that virtual presence ought to be allowed. The Delhi government counsel argued that the physical presence of a couple seeking registration of marriage was mandatory and the process could not be undertaken through videoconferencing as it required taking a “live photo”. It was also submitted that physical appearance helped prevent false registrations, unwanted litigation and ascertain the soundness of mind of the parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
10-09-2021||India||Stop Tripura violence: Sitaram Yechury to Narendra Modi||CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his intervention to stop the “pre-planned” violence targeting party offices in Tripura by “mobs of BJP men”. “In a pre-planned fashion, scores of offices of the CPI(M), including the state headquarters, were attacked by mobs of BJP men. Among the offices which were damaged or burnt down are the Udaipur sub-divisional office, Gomati district committee office, Sepahijala district committee office, Bishalgarh sub-divisional committee office, Santar Bazar sub-divisional office, West Tripura district committee office and the Sadar sub-divisional committee office,” Yechury said. The party chief described the attack on the state committee office in Agartala as the most brazen. “They have ransacked the ground and first floors of the office, burnt two office cars and broken the bust of Dasarath Deb, a revered leader of the people of Tripura,” Yechury said, adding that the houses of many CPM leaders and activists were also attacked, ransacked or set on fire. Yechury claimed police and the CRPF took no action. “The impunity with which the attackers operated shows the connivance of the state government…,” he added. The CPM leader appealed to the Prime Minister: “We strongly urge you to intervene without any delay to stop these violent attacks against the CPI(M) and the Left Front.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
10-09-2021||India||EC announces elections for seven Rajya Sabha seats on October 4||The Election Commission on Thursday announced that elections for seven Rajya Sabha seats and a bypoll to the Bihar Legislative Council would be held on October 4. The Rajya Sabha polls will not significantly alter the balance of power in the Upper House. The polls declared on Thursday are for a seat each from Bengal, Assam, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Puducherry and two seats from Tamil Nadu. The results will be declared on October 4 itself. The Bengal seat fell vacant with the resignation of Manas Ranjan Bhunia who successfully contested the recent Assembly elections. Of the 233 seats occupied in the 245-member Rajya Sabha, the NDA has 116 MPs but is able to pass most bills with the support of or abstentions by parties such as the Biju Janata Dal, YSR Congress and the Telangana Rashtra Samithi. After the polls, the NDA is expected to increase its tally to 119. The EC is likely to declare polls for a vacant Rajya Sabha seat from Bihar after the by-election for a seat that fell vacant after the death of Janata Dal United MLC Tanveer Akhtar. Of the seven seats, three are expected to go to the NDA — while the Assam and Madhya Pradesh berths will be filled up by the BJP, the Puducherry seat will have a claimant from either the BJP or its ally All India Namathu Rajyam Congress (AINRC). Sources said the BJP is likely to field former chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal from Assam. The Congress is expected to get the Maharashtra seat and field former Union minister Mukul Wasnik. Trinamul has the numbers to fill up the Bengal seat, likely to go to Congress defector from Assam, Sushmita Dev.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
10-09-2021||India||Back-up CA exam for Covid opt-outs, ICAI tells Supreme Court||Candidates who opted out of the CA exam conducted in July because of Covid-related difficulties will not lose any opportunity, the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) told the Supreme Court on Thursday. The apex court, which was hearing an application seeking a direction to the ICAI to conduct a backup examination for opt-out candidates, asked the applicants to make a representation to the institute. The ICAI counsel told a bench headed by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar that an appropriate decision would be taken within two weeks. Senior advocate Ramji Srinivasan, appearing for the institute, told the bench that there would be no loss of opportunity to candidates who had opted out of the July exam. “In July itself we had said those candidates who have opted out… will have their backup in November 2021 along with the main cycle. It will not be treated as an attempt and they will not lose any benefits. They will get the benefit of the same old syllabus,” Srinivasan said. On June 30, the court had said a candidate shall be entitled to exercise the option of opting out of the exam if he or she or any family member has suffered Covid-19 in the recent past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
10-09-2021||India||ASI expert claims discovery of two lost vajrasanas in Bodhgaya||An Archaeological Survey of India expert has claimed to have discovered the two lost vajrasanas or “diamond thrones” of the Buddha in Bodhgaya, one lying broken and unnoticed in the Mahabodhi Temple compound and the other installed in a nearby Hindu shrine. Different emperors and kings had down the centuries installed three so-called diamond thrones or enlightenment thrones — stone slabs with intricate engravings — under the famous Bodhi (peepal) tree in Bodhgaya to mark the Buddha’s attainment of enlightenment at the spot. All three were treated as symbolic relics of the Buddha and together formed a focal point for prayers. Currently, only the first of them — built by Emperor Ashoka around 260 BC — is installed there while the other two have been missing for over a century. The Kushanas are believed to have installed the second throne in the first or second century AD while there’s some dispute over who built the third, which was installed in the seventh century AD. By the time Alexander Cunningham, the first director-general of the ASI, began excavations at the Mahabodhi Temple in 1880-81, all three had gone missing from under the Bodhi tree. Cunningham found them underground during his excavations and reinstalled the one Ashoka had built under the Bodhi tree. What happened to the other two remained a mystery until Shanker Sharma, ASI assistant superintending archaeologist who is in charge of the archaeological museum at Bodh Gaya, claimed to have found them. Sharma told The Telegraph he had stumbled on what he believes are the two missing thrones in February this year, but the second wave of the pandemic soon closed the temple and prevented verification by independent experts. Following the reopening of the Mahabodhi Temple in end-August, Sharma has sent invites to archaeologists and historians specialising in Buddhist matters to come and see the two purported vajrasanas he has found. He is also preparing a report for his ASI seniors and will be presenting his findings at the 20th annual conference of the Indian Society for Buddhist Studies, to be held from October 1 to October 3 in Nalanda. “I was going through Cunningham’s excavation records. While he discovered all three vajrasanas and reinstalled the one that belonged to Ashoka’s time, the other two simply fell off the radar and were forgotten,” Sharma told this newspaper. “This got me thinking about their whereabouts.” He consulted Cunningham’s excavation records, Buddhist texts and the travelogues of Chinese pilgrims Fa Hien or Faxian (AD 399-414) and Hiuen Tsang or Xuanzang (AD 637) for descriptions of the thrones and started scouting for them in and around the Mahabodhi Temple. He says he found the Kushan-era throne “at the Vageshwari Devi (Saraswati) temple, located to the east of the Mahabodhi Temple”. “It’s worshipped by the Hindus and matches the descriptions found in excavation records and travelogues,” Sharma said. “It was carved out of grey stone and is largely intact with some signs of weathering and possible marks of vandalism. It’s circular, with a 173cm diameter and a thickness of 21cm.” The third vajrasana too was made of grey stone. Sharma says he found it abandoned under a tree inside the Mahabodhi Temple complex, bearing signs of vandalism and exposed to the forces of nature that have obliterated the intricate designs on it. “Nearly half of it is broken. The part that remains is 146cm long, 68cm wide and 16cm thick,” Sharma said. The carvings on the second and third thrones included those of lotus petals, other flowers, creepers, vajra (thunderbolt), animals as well as geometrical shapes, dumbbells, concentric garlands, scrolls and pillars. All these have a tradition of being used in Buddhist art and architecture. The Ashoka-installed throne is a rectangular one made of red sandstone and is engraved with geometrical designs including diamond shapes. It is 7 feet and 6 inches long, and 4 feet and 10 inches wide. “They are among the most sacred objects of worship in Buddhism. If they are stolen or damaged, it would be a big loss to the nation,” Sharma said, adding that they should be “immediately moved to safety”. Mahabodhi Temple head priest Bhikku Chalinda said the Ashoka-built vajrasana predated the shrine and was the centre of attraction for pilgrims. Asked about the discovery of the two other vajrasanas, Chalinda said: “Archaeologists are saying this. One of them is at a nearby temple, which is not under our authority. The other is under a tree inside our temple compound. We’ll decide in a few days what to do with it.” He said there was no decision yet on retrieving the other throne from the Hindu temple. “The discovery of the two vajrasanas is very important. Now that Shanker Sharma had brought them to light, there will be discussions and further research on them,” Anant Singh, a professor at the School of Buddhist Studies, Nalanda University, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
10-09-2021||India||Haryana govt ready for 'impartial' probe into 'Karnal episode'||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Thursday said the government was ready for an “impartial” probe into “the entire Karnal episode” but warned that farm leaders too could face action if they were found to be at fault. Farmers continued with their dharna outside the district headquarters for the third day, demanding action over the August 28 lathicharge on protesting peasants. Their main demands centre around the suspension of then sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha, who was caught on camera telling policemen to “break heads” of farmers. Minister Vij made it clear that “nobody can be hanged without a probe just because someone demands it”. “We are ready for an impartial probe, but this will not only be related to the (former Karnal) SDM. It will include the entire Karnal episode. In this (probe), if farmers or their leaders are found guilty, then whatever action is deemed fit will be taken,” Vij told reporters in Ambala. The minister added: “Only genuine demands (of farmers protesting in Karnal) can be accepted.” “We cannot hang anyone because someone says so.… Is the country’s IPC (Indian Penal Code) different and the farmers’ IPC different? It cannot be like this and punishment is always given as per the offence committed. To find out the offence, a probe has to be conducted,” Vij said, referring to the peasants’ demand of suspension of Sinha. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella outfit of peasants’ unions leading the protests against three farm laws of the Centre, had earlier said a murder case should be registered against Sinha. About the farmers protesting in Karnal, Vij said anyone had the right to protest in a peaceful manner. “Farmers are holding an agitation in Karnal, which is their democratic right,” the minister said. “Our officials are regularly holding talks with them. Dialogue is an integral part of any democracy.” The Haryana government has extended the suspension of mobile Internet services in the district till Thursday midnight, an order issued by the state home department said. A second round of talks between district officials and farmers protesting over the police lathicharge had failed on Wednesday, after which the protesters said they would continue their sit-in “indefinitely” at the district headquarters. The protesters are staying put at the gate of the mini-secretariat complex in Karnal. Farm union leaders have said officials and the public won’t be stopped from entering the complex. The farm leaders have demanded the registration of a case against those involved in the lathicharge in Karnal. The protest leaders have claimed that a farmer died after the August 28 violence, an allegation rejected by the administration. The farm leaders have demanded a compensation of Rs 25 lakh and a government job for the family of the deceased farmer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
10-09-2021||India||JNU holds on to second spot in govt ranking of universities ||JNU has held on to the second spot in the government’s ranking of universities this year while the Jamia Millia Islamia and Aligarh Muslim University have improved their places despite all three facing campus turmoil and government attempts to dilute their character. The Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, has topped the education ministry’s ranking of varsities under the National Institutional Ranking Framework this year. Delhi’s Miranda House has topped the rankings for colleges for the fifth straight year. IIT Madras tops the “overall institution” category, followed by IISc Bangalore, IIT Bombay, IIT Delhi, IIT Kanpur, IIT Kharagpur, IIT Roorkee, IIT Guwahati, JNU and Banaras Hindu University (BHU). Among the top universities are BHU (third), Amrita Viswa Vidyapeetham (fifth), Jamia (sixth), Manipal Academy of Higher Education (seventh), Hyderabad University (ninth) and AMU (10th). Jamia was 10th last year while AMU was 17th, while JNU has held on to the second spot for the fifth year. The performances by JNU, Jamia and AMU demonstrate the quality of their research and teaching despite the controversies. JNU students have been stigmatised as the “tukde tukde gang” by the Right-wing ecosystem while the government plans to widely introduce undergraduate courses in the varsity. The Centre has decided not to support Jamia’s minority status and taken a stand against AMU’s minority status in court. Both Jamia and JNU faced assaults on campus — by the police and alleged Right-wing goons, respectively — amid the anti-CAA protests in the winter of 2019-20. Delhi University has dropped one place to 12th but five of its colleges figure among the top 10 colleges, implying DU is the best destination for undergraduates. While Miranda House has topped, Lady Shri Ram College for Women has ranked second. St Stephen’s College, Hindu College and Shri Ram College of Commerce bring up the 8th, 9th and 10th places. Loyola College, Chennai, is third; P.S.G.R. Krishnammal College for Women has ranked 6th and Presidency College, Chennai, 7th. Twelve DU colleges are among the top 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
10-09-2021||India||Team IIT Bhubaneswar bags innovation award ||IIT Bhubaneswar has bagged the innovation award at the Green Charcoal Hackathon, a technology challenge organised by the National Thermal Power Plant and Energy Efficiency Services Ltd. The result was announced on September 2 and the award would be given to IIT Bhubaneswar in a separate function to be organised in New Delhi soon, officials said. The Green Charcoal Hackathon event is aimed at bridging the technology gap with the prime objective to clean the air by eliminating farm fire, to produce renewable energy from agro residues, to promote local entrepreneurship, and to increase the income of the farmers. Speaking about the distinctive achievement, Prof. R.V. Raja Kumar, Director, IIT Bhubaneswar, said each faculty member of the institute should strive to foster innovative thinking and creativity among their students, in classrooms, laboratories and beyond. He reiterated that the institute feels proud by constantly raising the standards on all fronts including internationalisation of academic programmes, international collaborations on research of high industrial and societal relevance. The award winning team, Dr Remya Neelancherry, Shardul Narde (MTech student) and Neha Shukla (research scholar) designed a microwave torrifier and pelletizer plant to produce 100kg per day of charcoal from rice straw, one of the agricultural residues. The team presented the complete process and instrumentation of microwave torrifier, torrefaction operation details and business model canvas. The designed technology is capable of converting agro residue to charcoal at a faster rate compared to conventional method. In addition, the charcoal pellets obtained from the process showed heating value comparable to that of coal, a press release issued by the IIT said. Along with this stunning achievement, the team will also receive financial assistance from NTPC for the development of machine prototype on the basis of mutually accepted terms and conditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
10-09-2021||India||Indian Air Force aircraft lands on national highway in Rajasthan||An Indian Air Force C130J Super Hercules aircraft carrying defence minister Rajnath Singh, roadways minister Nitin Gadkari and chief of defence staff Bipin Rawat conducted a mock emergency landing on a national highway in Rajasthan. The landing — on the SattaGandhav stretch of National Highway 925 near Barmer — was the first time the IAF had used a highway to perform a mock emergency landing. The stretch, which will serve as an emergency landing strip for IAF planes, was inaugurated by the two ministers. “This is the first time that a national highway has been used for the emergency landing of a transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force. This landing strip will be able to facilitate the landing of all types of IAF aircraft,” a statement from the defence ministry said. The 3km strip, which is part of the SattaGandhav stretch on NH925 was developed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) specifically for the IAF to conduct emergency landings. The IAF and NHAI are jointly studying 24 other national highways to see if those can also be used in a similar way, sources in the defence ministry said. Singh said the newly inaugurated emergency landing strip near the international border was part of the government’s commitment to protect the unity and sovereignty of the nation. “This highway and landing field will further cement the basic infrastructure along the western border and strengthen national security. Such emergency fields will provide more edge to the operational and civil assistance of our forces. It will also play a crucial role in facing natural calamities,” he said. The NHAI has developed the 3km section as an emergency landing field for the Indian Air Force. It is part of the newly developed twolane paved shoulder of GagariyaBakhasar and SattaGandhav Section having a total length of 196.97km and costing Rs 765.52 crore under Bharatmala Pariyojana. The work started in July 2019 and was completed in January 2021, the the defence ministry statement said. This project will improve connectivity between villages of Barmer and Jalore districts located on the international border. The stretch located in the western border area will facilitate the vigilance of the Indian Army and strengthen the basic infrastructure of the country. During normal times, the facility will be used for smooth flow of road traffic, the statement said. Apart from the emergency landing strip, three helipads have been constructed in Kundanpura, Singhania and Bakhasar villages under this project as per the requirements of the armed forces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
