11-09-2021||India||Centre to SC: Guidelines issued for 'official document' for Covid deaths by health ministry, ICMR||The Centre has told the Supreme Court that the health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have come out with guidelines for issuing "official document" for Covid-related deaths.  In an affidavit filed before the top court, the Centre also submitted that the Office of the Registrar General of India on September 3 had issued a circular to provide a Medical Certificate of Cause of Death to the next of kin of the deceased.  "It is submitted that the guidelines and circular have been issued in respectful compliance of the judgment dated June 30, 2021, in the Reepak Kansal v. Union of India and others, W.P.(C) No. 554 of 2021 and Gaurav Kumar Bansal v. Union of India and others, W.P.(C) No. 539 of 2021," the court said.  According to the guidelines, those COVID-19 cases would be considered which have been diagnosed through RT-PCR test, molecular test, rapid-antigen test or clinically determined through investigations at a hospital or in-patient facility by a treating physician, while admitted at the hospital or in-patient facility.  Deaths occurring due to poisoning, suicide, homicide and deaths due to accident, among others, will not be considered as COVID-19 deaths even if COVID- 19 is an accompanying condition, the guidelines stated.  "COVID-19 cases which are not resolved and have died either in hospital settings or at home, and where a Medical Certificate of Cause of Death (MCCD) in Form 4 and 4 A has been issued to the registering authority as required under Section 10 of the Registration of Birth and Death (RBD) Act, 1969, will be treated as a COVID-19 death, according to the guidelines.  The Registrar General of India will issue necessary guidelines to chief registrars of all states and union territories in this regard.  According to an ICMR study, 95 per cent of deaths take place within 25 days of a person testing COVID-19 positive, it was mentioned in the guidelines.  "To make the scope broader and more inclusive, deaths occurring within 30 days from the date of testing or from the date of being clinically determined as a COVID-19 case, will be treated as 'deaths due to COVID-19, even if the death takes place outside the hospital/ in-patient facility," the guidelines stated.  However, a COVID-19 patient, while admitted at a hospital or in-patient facility, and who continued as the same admission beyond 30 days, and died subsequently, shall be treated as a COVID-19 death, according to the guidelines.  The guidelines state that in cases where the MCCD is not available or the next of kin of the deceased is not satisfied with the cause of death given in the MCCD and which are not covered by the aforesaid scenarios, states and union territories shall notify a committee at the district level.  The committee would consist of an additional district collector, the chief medical officer of health (CMOH), an additional CMOH/ principal or head of department of medicine of a medical college (if one exists in the district) and a subject expert, for issuing of the "Official Document for COVID-19 Death", the guidelines said.  The guidelines also enumerate the procedure to be followed by the committee.  The next of kin of the deceased shall submit a petition to the district collector for issuing of the document, it said.  "The Official Document for COVID-19 Death will be issued in the format annexed to these guidelines by the aforesaid district-level committee after due examination and verification of all facts. The Official Document for COVID-19 death shall also be communicated to chief registrars of states/UTs and Registrar of Birth and Death, who issued the death certificates," one of the guidelines said.  The committee will also examine the grievances of the next of kin of the deceased, and propose necessary remedial measures, including issuance of amended "Official Document for COVID-19 Death" after verifying facts in accordance with these guidelines.  The applications for issuing the document and for redressal of grievances shall be disposed off within 30 days of submission of the application/ grievance.  In its June 30 verdict, the top court had also ordered steps to simplify guidelines for issuance and correction of death certificates/official documents, stating the exact cause of death, that is, 'Death due to COVID-19' for enabling dependents to get benefits of welfare schemes.  The top court's verdict had come on two separate pleas filed by lawyers Reepak Kansal and Gaurav Kumar Bansal seeking directions to the Centre and the states to provide Rs 4 lakh compensation to the families of coronavirus victims as provisioned under the Act.  Four intervenors, who had lost their family members due to COVID have also moved the top court through advocate Sumeer Sodhi contending that there cannot be any discrimination in the amounts being paid by different states to family members of those, who had succumbed to the deadly infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
11-09-2021||India||Kozhikode plane crash: Report finds negligence on pilot's part||The Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) on Saturday released its probe report into the plane crash at Kozhikode airport in August last year that killed at least 20 people and injured several others. The probable cause of the accident was non-adherence to the standard operating procedure by the pilot flying the aircraft but the role of systemic failures as a contributory factor cannot be overlooked, the 257-page report said. The crash of Air India Express's B737-800 aircraft happened on August 7 at the Kozhikode airport in Kerala. The plane coming from Dubai had overshot the runway at Kozhikode airport and later broke into pieces. There were 190 people onboard the ill-fated aircraft and at least 20 people, including the two pilots, were killed and several others were injured. The report, released little over a year after the deadly crash of the Air India Express plane, said the "probable cause of the accident was the non-adherence to SOP (Standard Operating Procedure) by the PF (Pilot Flying)". The PF continued an unstabilised approach and landed beyond the touchdown zone, "half way down the runway, in spite of 'Go Around' call by PM which warranted a mandatory 'Go Around' and the failure of the PM to take over controls and execute a 'Go Around'", it noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
11-09-2021||India||Afghanistan among key issues discussed in India-Australia 2+2 dialogue||India and Australia on Saturday asserted that Afghanistan must not allow its soil to be used in any manner for terrorism and it should never again become a safe haven for "breeding and training" of terrorists, as the two countries held a detailed discussion on the situation in the war-torn country after its takeover by the Taliban.  At the inaugural India-Australia two-plus-two dialogue, the foreign and defence ministers of the two countries also vowed to work towards a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific, a region that has been witnessing increasing Chinese assertiveness.  With the dialogue coinciding with the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 terror attacks that led to the US invasion of Afghanistan in 2001, both sides strongly called for combating terrorism without any compromise.  External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajath Singh held extensive in-person talks with their Australian counterparts Marise Payne and Peter Dutton.  Noting that Afghanistan was a "major subject of discussion", Jaishankar said,"we had a very detailed exchange of views and our approach is very similar in a way it is summed up by the UN Security Council Resolution 2593 which emphasises most of all that Afghanistan must not allow its soil to be used in any manner by anybody for terrorism."  Addressing a joint media briefing along with other ministers, the external affairs minister said there were also concerns relating to the composition of the interim Taliban cabinet as well as about the treatment of women and minorities.  "But apart from that (terrorism), there were issues of concerns about the inclusiveness of the dispensation, concerns about the treatment of women and minorities, matters related to travel of Afghans, issues relating to humanitarian assistance. It is an evolving situation and it was a good exchange of notes," he said.  Jaishankar said both sides agreed that the international community must be united in its approach, guided by UNSC Resolution 2593.  The UNSC resolution, adopted on August 30 under India's presidency of the global body, demanded that Afghan territory should not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter and train terrorists and plan or finance terrorist attacks.  "Today is the 20th anniversary of 9/11. It is a reminder- if one is still needed- of the importance of combating terrorism without compromise," he said.  "Close as we are to its epicentre, let us appreciate the value of international cooperation," he said, apparently referring to Pakistan with India often describing it as the "epicentre" of terrorism. However, he did not mention any country by name.  On her part, Payne said Australia shares a very strong interest in ensuring that Afghanistan never again becomes a "safe haven for breeding or training of terrorists", noting that it is an abiding concern of the international community.  "Along with the ongoing fight of terrorism, the future of Afghanistan remains a central concern to both of us," she said.  "Both of our countries have been victims of appaling terrorist attacks and this day, the 11th of September will be forever remembered for those terrible events 20 years ago when terrorism struck at the heart of our friend the United States, and by extension also a modern pluralist and democratic world," Payne said.  "It is fitting that minister Dutton and I should be here on this anniversary with such an important democratic partner," she added.  About the situation in Afghanistan, Payne said Australia is very much focused on seeking safe passage for Afghan citizens, foreign nationals and visa holders of other nations who want to leave that country.  "We have urged that they be allowed to leave safely. We are very conscious about the impact of violence and breaches of human rights of the Afghan community and would call for fundamental human rights to be observed," she said.  During the talks, the two sides also deliberated on the situation in the Indo-Pacific, South China Sea, ways to further deepen bilateral defence and trade cooperation and to effectively deal with the challenges of coronavirus pandemic.  Jaishankar said the 'two-plus-two' dialogue reflected the comfort that India and Australia have attained in the bilateral relationship, especially in strategic and security spheres, based on the growing convergence based on a shared commitment for a free, open, prosperous and rules-based Indo-Pacific region.  "The peaceful development of the Indo-Pacific region has been a focus of our relationship. Our two countries believe that it should be shaped in a participative and collaborative manner," he said.  Jaishankar said both sides reiterated their commitment to continue to work together for peace, stability and prosperity of all countries in the region.  "This would include a rules-based international order, freedom of navigation in international waters, promoting connectivity as well as respecting territorial integrity and sovereignty of all states," he said.  Jaishankar said the importance of ongoing cooperation in the multilateral arena for preserving the rules-based international order was also emphasised.  In his comments, Singh said both sides discussed various institutional frameworks for wide-ranging collaboration including defence cooperation and the fight against the global pandemic.  "During the discussions, both sides emphasised the need to ensure free flow of trade, adherence to international rules and norms and sustainable economic growth in the entire region," he said.  "On the bilateral defence cooperation we decided to expand military engagements across services, facilitate greater defence information sharing and to work closely for mutual logistic support," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
11-09-2021||India||Courts operate from ‘dilapidated structures’, says CJI||Courts in India still operate from "dilapidated structures, without proper facilities" as good infrastructure for judiciary has been neglected after the British left, rued Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana on Saturday. To address this issue, he championed the cause for setting up of National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation (NJIC). He also talked about the 1975 verdict of Justice Jagmohanlal Sinha of the Allahabad High Court of disqualifying then prime minister Indira Gandhi on charges of electoral malpractices was a judgment of "great courage" that "shook" the nation, leading to imposition of Emergency. "In 1975, it was Justice Jagmohanlal Sinha from the Allahabad High Court who passed the judgment that shook the nation, when he disqualified Smt. Indira Gandhi. It was a judgment of great courage, which could be said to have directly resulted in the declaration of Emergency. The consequences of which I do not want to elaborate now," Justice Ramana said. The CJI, who along with President Ram Nath Kovind took part in programmes including the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Uttar Pradesh National Law University in Allahabad and a new building complex of the Allahabad High Court here, stressed the importance of strengthening judicial infrastructure in the country. “Courts in India still operate from dilapidated structures, without proper facilities. Such a situation is severely detrimental to the experience of litigants and lawyers. It is an unpleasant work environment for court staff and judges, making it difficult to effectively perform their functions. We neglected and failed to focus on providing good infrastructure for courts in India after the British left,” Justice Ramana said. The head of the judiciary, who spoke few lines in Hindi at the start of his speech, said the importance of strengthening judicial infrastructure cannot be overstated. “That is the reason why I am championing the National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation (NJIC), which will develop concepts of the National Court Development Project and its implementation. The NJIC shall be along the lines of different infrastructure development statutory bodies that work towards creating National Assets across the country. One of the design principles that the NJIC will follow, is socially responsible and inclusive architecture,” he said. “Sufficient judicial infrastructure can help improve access to justice, by catering to the ever-rising number of cases and litigants, and their changing needs,” he said. Hinting towards the “very worrying numbers” of pending criminal cases in Allahabad High Court, the CJI referred to the proposed construction of the new multi-level parking and advocates chambers complex and said this would re-energise bar and bench in tackling the huge pendency. “I hope that this new complex will re-energise the Allahabad Bar. I do not want to point any fingers or lay any blame regarding the pendency in the Allahabad High Court relating to criminal cases, which is very worrying. I request the Allahabad Bar and bench, to work together and cooperate to resolve this issue,” he said. The CJI lauded the efforts of President Kovind for his role in helping the cause of poor litigants and said, “It was his idea to translate the judgments of the Supreme Court to vernacular languages to increase access to justice, which has now been implemented.” At the outset, the CJI referred to the rich history of the city and said that this was the home to legendary freedom fighters and gave prime ministers and five chief justices to independent India. “In 1975, it was Justice Jagmohanlal Sinha from the Allahabad High Court who passed the judgment that shook the nation, when he disqualified Indira Gandhi. It was a judgment of great courage, which could be said to have directly resulted in the declaration of Emergency. The consequences of which I do not want to elaborate now,” he said. The CJI also unveiled the portrait of legendary late advocate Anand Bhushan Saran, the father of sitting Supreme Court judge Vineet Saran and termed him as ‘one of the best and most respected senior advocates from Allahabad’ who was well known for his wit and intellect, and for his ability to come up with practical solutions on the spot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
11-09-2021||India||Mansukh Mandaviya, Nitin Patel among frontrunners as next CM after Rupani's resignation||Names of Gujarat Deputy CM Nitin Patel, state agriculture minister R C Faldu and Union ministers Purshottam Rupala and Mansukh Mandaviya are doing rounds amid speculation over who will succeed Vijay Rupani as Gujarat chief minister.  Rupani resigned as CM on Saturday, over a year ahead of Assembly elections in the state, without assigning any specific reason.  "Names of Patel, Faldu, Rupala and Mandaviya are being discussed. But it is impossible to say who will be the chief minister as the decision will be taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a party leader said.  When Anandiben Patel resigned as chief minister in August 2016, there was talk that Patel would succeed her, but in a last-minute decision, Rupani was chosen for the top post.  The demand to make Nitin Patel chief minister began to trend on social media after Rupani's resignation.  Union health minister Mandaviya, who like Patel belongs to the influential Patidar community, is also considered a front-runner. Leaders of the community had demanded recently that the next chief minister should be a Patidar.  State BJP president C R Paatil, who originally hails from Maharashtra, is unlikely to be considered for the CM's post, sources said.  The BJP had replaced Anandiben Patel a year before Assembly polls were due. It has now done the same with Rupani and his successor may lead the party in the December 2022 state elections, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
11-09-2021||India||Dangerous trend of govt agencies intimidating independent media must stop: Editors Guild of India||Expressing concern over the Income Tax 'surveys' conducted at the offices of two news websites, the Editors Guild of India on Saturday criticised the move saying the "dangerous trend of government agencies harassing and intimidating" independent media must stop as it undermines the constitutional democracy. On September 10, teams of IT officials visited the offices of NewsClick and Newslaundry and conducted investigations through the day, the body noted. The Guild said it is deeply disturbed about the I-T 'surveys' at the offices of the two news websites. "The guild is deeply concerned that such indiscriminate seizure of journalists' data, which could include sensitive information such as details of sources, stories under works and other journalistic data, is in violation of free speech and freedom of press," it said in an official statement. While they were officially labelled as surveys by the I-T officials, according to the statement issued by Abhinandan Sekhri, co-founder of Newslaundry, this was a clear intermediately and latent attack on their rights and therefore press freedom, the EGI said. "It is learnt that the I-T team made clones of Sekhri's mobile and laptop, as well as some other office machines, And no hash value was given to them. "This is clearly beyond the mandate of service as defined under section 133 A of the income tax act which only allows data pertaining to the investigation to be copied, and certainly not personal and professional date of journalists. It is also in violation of procedures laid out in the Information Technology Act 2000," it said. This was the second visit by an income tax team at the office of Newslaundry, the earlier one being in June. In case of NewsClick, the Enforcement Directorate had conducted raids at the office as well as homes of their senior journalists and officials in February. "Both NewsClick and Newslaundry have been critical of policies and functioning of the union government," the EGI said. "The dangerous trend of government agencies harassing and intimidating independent media must stop as it undermines our constitutional democracy," it said, adding that in July, income tax raids were conducted at the offices of the country's leading newspaper Dainik Bhaskar as well as a Lucknow-based news channel Bharat Samachar. These raids were conducted against the backdrop of some very critical coverage by both the news organisations on government's handling of the pandemic. "The Guild demands that great care and sensitivity be shown in all such investigations so as to not undermine the rights of journalists and media organisations. Further, to ensure that such investigations are conducted within the prescribed rules and that they don't degenerate into instruments of harassment to intimidate independent media," the EGI said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
11-09-2021||India||India, Australia dismiss criticism on Quad being 'Asian NATO'||India and Australia on Saturday dismissed criticism that Quad was a sort of an 'Asian NATO' with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar asserting that it is important not to "misrepresent" the reality. The assertion came at a joint press event after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajath Singh held the inaugural 'two-plus-two' dialogue here with their Australian counterparts Marise Payne and Peter Dutton. Asked about Quad being referred to as an 'Asian NATO', Jaishankar said,"we call ourselves Quad and Quad is a platform where four countries have come to cooperate for their benefit and for the benefit of the world." "I think a term like NATO is very much a cold war term, looking back. I think Quad looks in the future, it reflects globalisation, it reflects the compulsions of countries to work together," he said. Jaishankar also pointed out that Quad was currently focussed on issues such as vaccines, supply chains, education and connectivity. "I can't see any relationship between such issues and the NATO or any other kind of organisations like that. So I think it is important not to misrepresent what is the reality out there," he asserted. Echoing similar views, Payne said as Australia and India have re-energised relations, there is also the opportunity to work through smaller groups like the Quad and other pieces of regional architecture like the East Asia Summit or the ASEAN regional forum. "Quad members are champions of ASEAN centrality, we actively engage in that ASEAN architecture. We are committed to supporting the practical implementation of the ASEAN outlook on the Indo-Pacific," she said. "We also say that we have a positive and practical agenda -- around vaccines, around climate, around critical technology also trying to address some of the dangerous misinformation that pervades the world experience in relation to the (Covid) pandemic," the minister said. Referring to the Quad, she said the constructive engagement in a normal diplomatic network was overwhelmingly about contributing positively for that "open, inclusive and resilient region in which we all want to live". Speaking at an event here, Payne on Friday had said the Quad has evolved "swiftly" and very "effectively" and that Australia commends India for taking a strong leadership role in the region. In the first Quad summit in March, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, US President Joe Biden, Australian PM Scott Morrison and Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga vowed to strive for an Indo-Pacific region that is free, open, inclusive, healthy, anchored by democratic values, and unconstrained by coercion, in an apparent message to China. Both China and Russia have been critical of Quad. While Beijing has been claiming that the alliance was aimed against it, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov had called it an "Asian NATO" and criticised the grouping.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
11-09-2021||India||Congress gears up for Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls as Priyanka Gandhi holds talks||Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra held a review meeting with party leaders here on Saturday during which discussions were held on several issues, including the farmers' protest over the three agri laws. In a statement, the party said deliberations were held on the poll strategy for western UP and Gandhi sought reports from every village. The farmers' protest over the three agri laws also came up for discussions, the statement said. Thousands of farmers from Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring states had gathered at Muzaffarnagar on Sunday for a 'Kisan Mahapanchayat', months ahead of the crucial UP assembly polls. The event was organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) at the Government Inter College ground in Muzaffarnagar to protest the Centre's three farm laws. In another meeting held for state's Ruhelkhand zone, Gandhi said a strong organisation is needed not only for the party but also for nation building. She also urged the party workers to work for 24 hours during the elections. On Friday, the Congress decided to take out a 12,000 km-long yatra through villages and towns of Uttar Pradesh ahead of the assembly polls next year. The decision to take out the "Congress Pratigya Yatra:Hum Vachan Nibhayenge" was taken at a meeting presided over by Gandhi, and attended by members of the party's advisory and strategy committee here, the Congress had said in a statement. Priyanka had arrived here on Thursday to review the party's preparations in the run up to the polls. The yatra will draw attention of people to issues of corruption, inflation, crime, violence against women, unemployment and poor health services, the party said on Friday. During the yatra, Congress leaders will assure people that they will fulfil promises made by the party in the run up to the polls. Gandhi held discussions about routes and issues that will be taken up during the yatra, the party said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
11-09-2021||India||Delhi rains: 40 passengers rescued from bus trapped in waterlogged underpass||The Delhi Fire Services on Saturday rescued 40 passengers of a private bus which was trapped at a waterlogged underpass here following heavy rains on Saturday morning, officials said. The passengers included women and children. The bus was going to Mathura and got stuck at the underpass of Palam flyover, officials said. The DFS received a call seeking assistance at 11.30 am after which two fire tenders were pressed into service, they said. Atul Garg, Director, Delhi Fire Services said, "A bus with passengers onboard got trapped at an underpass of the Palam flyover due to waterlogging. Two fire tenders were rushed to the spot and all the passengers were rescued safely." Heavy rains lashed the national capital Saturday morning, leaving many parts of the city waterlogged. According to civic agencies, several areas in the city, including Moti Bagh, RK Puram, Madhu Vihar, Hari Nagar, Rohtak Road, Badarpur, Som Vihar, Ring Road near IP Station, Vikas Marg, Sangam Vihar, Mehrauli-Badarpur Road, Pul Prahladpur Underpass, Munirka, Rajpur Khurd, Nangloi and Kirari, witnessed waterlogging. People posted pictures and videos of waterlogged streets on social media. The Delhi Traffic Police also posted tweets informing people about the stretches where they are expected to witness waterlogging.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
11-09-2021||India||India's economy recovered stronger than the impact it faced amid Covid-19, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that India's economy recovered more strongly as compared to the impact it suffered due to the Covid-19 outbreak. He said that when big economies of the world were busy defending themselves during the pandemic, India was engaged in reforms. "Covid-19 affected the economies of the entire world, including that of India. But our economy has recovered more strongly than it was halted by the pandemic," Modi said while virtually addressing a gathering after inaugurating Sardhardham Bhavan here, a complex for providing training to job aspirants. "When big economies of the world were busy defending themselves during the pandemic, we were carrying out reforms. When the global supply chains were disrupted, we introduced the PLI (production-linked incentive) scheme to turn new opportunities in favour of India," Modi said. This scheme has been extended to the textile sector now, he said, adding that the textile sector and cities like Surat can take maximum benefit of the scheme. As per the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Tuesday, India's economic growth surged to 20.1 per cent in the April-June quarter of this fiscal, helped by a low base of the year-ago period, despite a devastating second wave of Covid-19. The gross domestic product (GDP) had contracted by 24.4 per cent in the corresponding April-June quarter of 2020-21. The PLI scheme announced for 10 key sectors, including textile and automobiles by the Centre, is aimed at helping the country's economy recover faster after the pandemic. "We should look upon ourselves as global economic leader as in the 21st century, India does not have a scarcity of opportunities to make it big," Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
11-09-2021||India||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani resigns from office||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday resigned from the post, over a year before the state goes to polls. It is not clear what prompted the development in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home state where elections to the 182-member Assembly are due in December next year. Rupani (65) was sworn in as chief minister his second stint as CM -- in December 2017. "I have resigned as chief minister of Gujarat, Rupani told reporters after meeting Governor Acharya Devvrat and submitting his resignation letter. "I was allowed to serve the state for five years. I have contributed to the development of the state. I will further do whatever is asked by my party, Rupani said. In BJP, there has been a tradition that responsibilities of party workers change from time to time. I will be ready to take whatever responsibility that the party will give me in the future, Rupani said. I thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi for giving a common worker like me this opportunity to serve the people of the state as chief minister, Rupani said. Rupani along with state BJP in-charge Bhupendra Yadav, Union ministers Purshottam Rupala and Mansukh Mandaviya, and state cabinet colleagues deputy CM Nitin Patel, Bhupndrasinh Chudasama and Pradeepsinh Jadeja met the governor and submitted their resignations. Asked about reasons for his resignation, Rupani said, In BJP, it is like a relay race for party workers. One gives the baton to the other. On who will be the next chief minister, Rupani said that the party will decide about it. He denied that he had any differences with state BJP president C R Paatil. Rupani comes from the Jain community which has around two per cent population in the state. There is speculation that his successor may be from the patidar community. He first became the chief minister on August 7, 2016, following the resignation of incumbent Anandiben Patel, and continued in the office after the BJP's victory in the 2017 Assembly elections. Rupani, who completed five years in office on August 7 this year, was present at the inauguration on Saturday of Sardardham Bhavan where Modi was present virtually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
11-09-2021||India||Mumbai woman, raped and brutally assaulted with iron rod, dies during treatment||A 34-year-old woman, who was raped and brutally assaulted with an iron rod in her private parts at suburban Sakinaka here, died during treatment at a civic-run hospital early on Saturday, police said. The victim had suffered serious injuries in her private parts and there was a severe loss of blood in the incident. She was fighting for life at the Rajawadi Hospital since the early hours of Friday, an official said. He said that after raping the woman and brutally assaulting her with the rod, the accused had also attacked her with a knife. The incident had come to light in the early hours on Friday when police received a call about a man thrashing a woman at Khairani Road in Sakinaka, he said. Police had rushed to the spot, where they found the woman lying in a pool of blood, following which she was admitted to the Rajawadi Hospital, he said. "During the investigation, it came to light that the woman was raped and brutally assaulted with an iron rod on her body and private parts inside a tempo parked by the roadside," he said, adding that the police also had found bloodstains on the tempo. While analysing the CCTV footages of the area, police had zeroed on a suspect as he was found in the video leaving the tempo, he said. Police later arrested Mohan Chouhan (45) and an offence was registered against him, he said. The BJP in Maharashtra sought capital punishment for the accused involved in the incident, and also hit out at the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government over the issue of women's safety. Leader of Opposition in the state Legislative Assembly, Devendra Fadnavis, said, "The Sakinaka woman rape case should be tried in a fast-track court so that the accused gets punishment at the earliest. Maharashtra Chief Minister (Uddhav Thackeray) should meet the Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court and request him to hold the trial in the case in a fast-track court." "I know that awarding a sentence is in the hands of the judiciary. But I feel the culprit in the Sakinaka rape should be hanged to death," he said. The Sakinaka incident was an unfortunate reminder of the Delhi rape case, he said, adding that attacks on women was a matter of concern. Fadnavis was referring to the 2012 case in which a young woman - later referred to as 'Nirbhaya' - was brutally gang-raped and assaulted inside a moving bus in Delhi. Asked about the proposed Shakti Act, he said, "Existing laws are sufficient to take tough actions against the culprits. It is the will power of the state to take tough decisions and follow it up till the logical end." Talking to reporters, Leader of Opposition in the state Legislative Council, Pravin Darekar, blamed the state government for the incident. "The onus of this incident is entirely on the state government because there is no respect left for the law (for criminals). It is horrible to know the kind of pain that she had to go through. I am deeply anguished by her death...I can not describe my feelings in words. It is not only shameful, but it has made me angry. The state needs to take some action," he said. "If BJP says anything on this, then it might be alleged that we are politicising the issue of crimes against women, but the number of such incidents are self-explanatory. Several such incidents have occurred in different parts of Maharashtra, wherein women were assaulted. In a couple of incidents, minor girls were raped, but the state government does not seem to be serious about it," he said. Darekar said, When I reached Rajawadi Hospital (where the Sakinaka rape victim was admitted) to see the situation, I spotted Congress leader Naseem Khan there with his party workers. I was shocked to see Congress workers raising slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the premises of the hospital." The BJP is being accused of politicising the incident, but it is the Congress indulging in such practice, he alleged. State BJP vice-president Chitra Wagh called for formulation of a new act on the lines of SC/ST Atrocities Act so that the culprits involved in atrocities against women do not get bail easily. "There are experts, lawyers and state judiciary department who need to come up with better measures that would work as deterrents," she said. She also asked Maharashtra Women and Child Development Minister Yashomati Thakur why she has not appointed anyone on the post of the chairperson of the state women's commission for over a year. "I am told that the file to appoint chairperson on State Women's commission has been sent back eight times by chief minister and deputy chief minister. How is this government going to defend it?" she asked. Wagh said Thakur was now pointing fingers at similar assaults on women that had occurred in the past. "But Thakur should not forget that she is a cabinet minister. She cannot escape from our questions on women's safety. She should tell us the reasons behind not appointing a chairman on the state women's commission. Why so much delay, when the commission's primary duty is to address women's issues," she said. It appears that the Sakinata rape case is just a number for the MVA government, Wagh alleged. Meanwhile, talking to reporters, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar, a Shiv Sena leader, said, "I cannot imagine why some men act so cruelly. I have been told that the police are gathering all the details of the incident and collecting evidence. It will take some time, but the truth will come out."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
11-09-2021||India||Delhi airport forecourt waterlogged briefly after heavy rains||The forecourt of the Delhi airport was waterlogged for a "short period" Saturday morning after sudden heavy rains, its operator DIAL said. Sources said five flights were diverted from the airport this morning due to the bad weather conditions. Four domestic flights -- two of SpiceJet and one each of IndiGo and Go First -- were diverted to Jaipur. One international flight -- Emirates flight from Dubai to Delhi -- was diverted to Ahmedabad, the sources mentioned. Waterlogging was reported from several parts of the national capital including Moti Bagh and RK Puram in south Delhi after rains lashed the city Saturday morning. The Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said on Twitter that "due to sudden heavy rain, for a short period, there was waterlogging at the forecourt". "Our team was immediately aligned to look into it and the issue has been resolved," it added. Operations have been back to normal since 9 am, the DIAL mentioned. An official of the meteorological department said the national capital received 97 mm rainfall since Friday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
11-09-2021||India||Probe into last year's violence on JNU campus delayed due to Covid, says VC||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar said the coronavirus pandemic has delayed the probe into the violence on the campus in January last year that left around 35 people injured. Asked why the committee set up by the university to probe the incident did not conduct online depositions, he said the students are already under a lot of stress and it is not the right time to send them notices for online depositions. A group of masked men armed with sticks and rods attacked students and teachers and damaged property on the JNU campus on January 5, 2020, prompting the university administration to call in the police. JNU Students' Union president Aishe Ghosh was among those injured in the violence. Days after the incident, JNU set up a five-member committee to probe the incident and recommend measures to ensure the safety of students. "The committee is looking into the matter. It has to call the students for deposition. Is it the right time to call them when they are in their hometowns? For this, we need to see the condition. These are our students. Considering the Covid situation, depositions have not been conducted. We are waiting for the situation to normalise," Kumar told PTI on Friday. Asked why the committee did not conduct online depositions, the VC said, "The situation is not conducive. We are waiting. Students are already under a lot of stress. It is not the right time to send them notices for participating in an online deposition. We don't consider our students as criminals. They are our own students." In August this year, the Lok Sabha was informed by Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai that the Delhi Police had not arrested anyone in connection with the JNU violence, even though several people were examined. After the violence, there was a clamour for Kumar's removal as the JNU VC and the Delhi Police came under attack for not acting when the mob was running riot on the campus and especially, for naming student union leaders, including Ghosh, in two FIRs for alleged vandalism. On the Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers' Association's (JNUTA) objection to the renewal of the contract of security agency Cyclops for another two years by the university's Executive Council (EC), Kumar said the contract had not been renewed but extended till the process of appointing a new agency is completed. "If you want to appoint a security agency, then you have to follow the tendering process and the General Financial Rules laid down by the government. During this Covid period, many of our staff members were down (with coronavirus). You cannot suddenly ask the security people to pack their bags and leave and put the security of the campus at risk," he said. "The EC took a decision that the security company will continue," he said. The VC stressed that the contract hasn't been renewed but only extended till the process of appointing a new security agency is completed. This process will require at least six months, he said. In a statement issued on September 9, the JNUTA had said that the EC had renewed the security contract of Cyclops for another two years despite its failure to prevent the violent attack on students and faculty members on January 5, 2020 and the spate of burglaries on campus during the COVID-19 lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
11-09-2021||India||9/11 to be remembered as an attack to humanity, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the world has now realised that a permanent solution to tragedies, like the 9/11 terror attack, would be found through India's human values. He said that 9/11 is a date that is remembered for the attack on humanity and it has taught many things to the world. Modi was speaking after inaugurating via video conference the Sardardham Bhavan complex in Ahmedabad, where job aspirants and students would be given training. He also performed the bhoomi pujan of Sardardham Phase-II Kanya Chhatralaya, a girls' hostel. "Today is September 11, that is 9/11, a date in the history of the world that is also known for attacks on humanity. But this same date also taught a lot to the whole world," he said. It was on September 11, 1893, when on the occasion of the Parliament of the World's Religions held in Chicago, Swami Vivekananda stood on the global stage and introduced to the world the human values of India, he said. "Today, the world is realising that the lasting solution to tragedies like two decades-old 9/11 will be (found) through these values of humanity. Also, if we need to remember lessons learnt from these terrorist attacks, then we also need to keep making efforts for human values with full faith," Modi added. Modi announced setting up a chair for Tamil studies dedicated to Tamil poet Subramania Bharati on the occasion of his death anniversary. The chair will be set up in the Faculty of Arts of Banaras Hindu University, he said. "Today is the 100th death anniversary of India's great scholar, philosopher and freedom fighter Subramania Bharati. The vision of 'Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat' that Sardar (Patel) saheb carried, the same philosophy has been shining with full divinity in the Tamil writings of Mahakavi Bharati," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
11-09-2021||India||IT survey an attempt to stifle independent media, says NewsClick||Online news platform Newslaundry on Saturday said it does business "honestly and with integrity" while another such portal Newsclick said investigation against it by various agencies including the latest Income Tax Department survey is an attempt to "stifle" independent journalism. The tax department surveyed the office of Newslaundry located at Sarvodaya Enclave in south Delhi on Friday along with that of Newsclick in Saidulajab area (south Delhi) on charges of alleged tax evasion. "We have nothing to hide and have done everything by the book and are not in any breach or violation of any law. We conduct our business honestly and with integrity," Newslaundry co-founder Abhinandan Sekhri said in a message posted on his Twitter handle. He said the tax team told him he "cannot" speak to his lawyer and the law requires him to comply "without seeking legal advice" adding that the officials were courteous and professional. He said "no signed hash value of the data copied" was provided to him and that he considered this as violation of his fundamental right to privacy. A hash value is a numeric value that uniquely identifies data. Hash values represent large amounts of data as much smaller numeric values, so they are used with digital signatures. Sekhri said the tax team comprising 6-7 people arrived at their office around 12.15 pm and left around 12.40 am on Saturday. "They searched and looked through all computer devices at the premises. My personal mobile phone, laptop and a couple of office machines were taken control of and all the data on them downloaded by the IT team," he said. Sekhri said this was the second visit by the tax authorities to his office, the first being in June, and they had given "all documents related to our funding and accounts" to the officials then. "We will cooperate in whatever way we are required to by the law. We will also continue to practice public interest journalism which is why we exist," he said. Our support comes from people who value public interest news and chose to subscribe to Newslaundry, not through government or corporate advertisements or public relation exercises, Sekhri said, adding that the online portal is proud of the model it has chosen and championed. Tax officials had said that separate survey operations on the two news portals were conducted to verify certain tax payment details and remittances made by the organisations. As part of a survey operation, carried out under Section 133A of the Income Tax Act, 1961, tax officials cover only the business premises of an assessee and those linked to it and not their residential addresses. However, they are authorised to seize documents, computer and electronic devices as part of the surprise action. Newsclick said the tax team "recorded the statement of its Editor-in-Chief Prabir Purkayastha; impounded his phone; and took away documents what they called loose papers from the premises". "They also took email dumps of Prabir, editor Pranjal, and various administrative and financial accounts related to Newsclick," it said in a statement posted on its Twitter handle. Around 30 employees and support staff of Newsclick were in the office throughout the survey and their phones were temporarily seized, and they were not allowed to use their computers and work, it said. Newsclick said the latest action against them "appears to relate to the same false and unfounded allegations being investigated by the Enforcement Directorate and the Economic Offences Wing, Delhi Police. We have these allegations challenged in the courts". "These investigations by various agencies, and these selective allegations, are attempts to stifle the independent journalism of media organisations including Newsclick," it said. Tax officials who reached the Newsclick office around noon on Friday left at midnight. Newsclick, Purkayastha and other executives were raided by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) earlier in February under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act and that investigation is linked to alleged dubious foreign funding received by its registered company, which runs the news portal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
11-09-2021||India||Karnal standoff ends: farmers call off sit-in||The Haryana government on Saturday ordered a judicial probe into last month's clash between farmers and police and sent the IAS officer who is at the centre of a row over his remarks on leave. Following this, farmers called off their sit-in outside the Karnal district headquarters. Haryana Additional Chief Secretary Devender Singh said the probe will be conducted by a retired judge and will be completed within a month. Former SDM Ayush Sinha will remain on leave during the time, he said. A joint press conference by Haryana government officials and farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni was held in Karnal after both sides reached an agreement, leading to the ending of the stand-off. There was an indication of a possible ending of the impasse between the farmers and the Karnal administration on Friday evening itself as after a marathon meeting both sides had said that it was held in a cordial atmosphere. At the joint press conference, farmer leader Chaduni said they will call off their sit-in outside the Karnal district headquarters. About 10 protesters were hurt in the clash with police in Karnal on August 28 when they tried to march towards the venue of a BJP meeting. Sinha, a 2018-batch IAS officer was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to "break the heads" of farmers if they cross the line. Following the incident, farmers had been demanding the suspension of Sinha. On September 2, he was transferred out of Karnal and posted as additional secretary of Citizen Resources Information Department. Haryana Additional Chief Secretary Devender Singh on Saturday said the meeting between farmer leaders and the government officials was held in a positive atmosphere. He said the Haryana government will get a judicial probe conducted into the August 28 incident by a retired judge of the high court. The probe will be completed within a month and Sinha will remain on leave during the time, Singh added. The additional chief secretary also announced that jobs would be given to two family members of a farmer, who, the protesters claimed, died after being injured during the lathi charge. The administration had earlier rejected this allegation. "The Haryana government will give jobs to two family members of deceased farmer Satish Kajal under sanctioned posts at DC rate in Karnal," Singh announced. Dubbing the farmers as "our brothers", he said it was a "respectable agreement". About former SDM Sinha, farmer leader Chudani said farmers had demanded that an FIR be registered against him and the police personnel involved in the August 28 incident. However, advocated opined that there could be chances of cancellation or quashing of an FIR by the high court if the administration registers it, he said. "But if the FIR is registered after a retired judge of the high court held an inquiry, there is neither any chance of its cancellation nor of influencing the probe." Chaduni further said that they had demanded jobs for two family members of the deceased farmer Satish Kajal and the administration accepted it. He said the deceased farmer's kin would get the jobs within a week. On Thursday, Home Minister Anil Vij said the government was ready for a probe into last month's clash but warned that farm leaders too could face action if they were found to be at fault. He had offered an "impartial" inquiry into the "entire Karnal episode". The Samyukt Kisan Morcha had earlier said a murder case should be registered against Sinha over his alleged remarks. A mahapanchayat was held in the city and then the dharna began on Tuesday evening after an earlier round of talks between district officials and the farm leaders "failed".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
11-09-2021||India||Jaishankar holds talks with Australian counterpart Payne||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday held talks with his Australian counterpart Marise Payne ahead of the inaugural 'two-plus-two ministerial dialogue between the two countries. It is learnt that the developments in Afghanistan and ways to further strengthen cooperation in the Indo-Pacific figured in the talks between the two foreign ministers. "Delighted to welcome my good friend FM @MarisePayne of Australia. We now start our discussions," Jaishankar tweeted. Payne and Australian Defence Minister Peter Dutton arrived here on Friday on a three-day visit primarily to take part in the inaugural two-plus-two ministerial dialogue on Saturday. The Indian delegation at the talks will be led by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Jaishankar. The two defence ministers on Friday discussed the fragile security situation in Afghanistan and their "common concerns" relating possible spread of terrorism from Taliban-ruled Afghanistan. The defence and military cooperation between India and Australia is on an upswing in the last few years. In June last year, India and Australia elevated their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership and signed a landmark deal for reciprocal access to military bases for logistics support during an online summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison. The Australian Navy was part of the recent Malabar naval exercise that also featured the navies of India, the US and Japan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
11-09-2021||India||India logs over 33,000 fresh Covid cases, 308 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 33,376 coronavirus infections, taking the overall tally of cases to 3,32,08,330, while the number of active cases increased marginally since Friday to stand at 3,91,516, according to the Union Health Ministry. The death toll climbed to 4,42,317 with 308 daily fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The number of active cases has increased to 3,91,516, comprising 1.18 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.49 per cent, the health ministry said. An increase of 870 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. On Friday, the country had recorded 3,90,646 active cases. Also, 15,92,135 tests were conducted Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for the detection of COVID-19 in the country to 54,01,96,989. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.10 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for the past 12 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.26 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the past 78 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease increased to 3,23,74,497, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent, the data showed.\ The cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide drive has crossed 73.05 crore, according to the ministry. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore cases on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23. The 308 new fatalities include 177 from Kerala, and 44 from Maharashtra. A total f 4,42,317 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,061 from Maharashtra, 37,472 from Karnataka, 35, 119 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,864 from Uttar Pradesh, 22,303 from Kerala and 18,553 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
11-09-2021||India||Delhiites wake up to heavy rains||Heavy rains lashed Delhi early on Saturday morning with the minimum temperature settling at 24 degrees Celsius, an official of the meteorological department said. According to the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, the minimum temperature settled at 24 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal while relative humidity recorded at 8.30 am was 100 per cent. The city received 97 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours, the Met department official said. The weatherman has predicted a generally cloudy sky with moderate rain and thundershowers for the day. There is also the possibility of heavy rain at isolated places across the city later in the day while the maximum temperature in the national capital is likely to settle around 31 degrees Celsius. Delhi recorded more than 100 mm of rainfall on two consecutive days at the start of the month -- 112.1 mm on September 1 and 117.7 mm on September 2. It has so far received 248.9 mm precipitation this month, surpassing the September average of 129.8 mm precipitation by a big margin. Despite the monsoon embracing Delhi only on July 13, making it the most-delayed in 19 years, the capital had recorded 16 rainy days in the month, the maximum in the last four years. The string of rainy days gave 507.1 mm rainfall in Delhi, which was nearly 141 per cent above the long-period average of 210.6 mm. It was also the maximum rainfall in the month since July 2003, and the second-highest ever. On Friday, the maximum temperature in the national capital settled at 33.2 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal while the minimum temperature settled at 25.1 degrees Celsius, a point below the normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
11-09-2021||India||Modi greets people on Nuakhai||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Saturday greeted people on the occasion of Nuakhai, an agricultural festival celebrated especially in parts of Odisha and Chhattisgarh. He lauded the outstanding efforts of farmers and their role in nation-building.  In a tweet, he said, "Nuakhai Juhar! Greetings to everyone on this auspicious occasion. On Nuakhai we laud the outstanding efforts of our industrious farmers and their role in nation-building. I pray for everyone's good health and well-being."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
11-09-2021||India||I-T department  conducts 'survey' at NewsClick, Newslaundry offices||“Surveys” by the income-tax department that began around noon on Friday continued past midnight in the offices of two news websites deeply critical of the Centre. One of these was NewsClick, whose office and employees’ homes witnessed a five-day Enforcement Directorate (ED) raid in February on charges of money laundering related to a foreign investment. The other was Newslaundry, known for its brutally honest satire shows, Newsance and Tippani, which often lampoon pro-Centre channels. The survey at NewsClick ended around 12.15am on Saturday while it was continuing at Newslaundry. The two websites are among the founders of the Digipub News India Foundation, an association of online news outlets started last year that has challenged the Centre’s proposed regulations on online media this year. NewsClick’s 71-year-old editor-in-chief, Prabir Purkayastha, was kept incommunicado at the website’s office in Said-ul-Ajaib, south Delhi, despite a recent muscular spasm in his lower back that requires him to largely remain flat on his back. “For the last few days, he has been in pain and on medication for a muscular spasm over his lower spine. He is required to lie down flat on his back for it to heal,” author Githa Hariharan, who stays with Purkayastha, told The Telegraph. “Around noon, he got a call from a colleague that IT (income-tax) officials had come to the office. Prabir was lying on a hot pack then; yet he got up, bathed and left around 12.45pm.” Hariharan added: “Prabir was only allowed to talk to me on the landline once today for less than a minute. An IT officer came home with the NewsClick staffer to take Prabir’s mobile phone, which he had left at home to charge. I told him on the intercom that Prabir is in his 70s and has a back spasm. I sent the hot pack along with the phone.” After the survey ended, Purkayastha told The Telegraph: “The adrenaline seems to have helped with my back’s recovery.” He added that his mobile phone was impounded as the IT sleuths claimed that they were unable to download its data. Copies of hard disks of computers were taken, as well as two cartons of documents. “I was asked 40 questions, and made to sign on a notebook impounded that had doodles and some torn pages, so the IT department wouldn’t be held responsible for the torn pages.… The government machinery has a mind of its own. It is unfortunate that I was made to come to the office despite my back problem,” said Purkayastha, who was seen earlier in the evening sitting in a chair, with an orthopaedic support belt, inside the office. Surabhi Ahluwalia, commissioner of income tax (media and technical policy), told this newspaper: “No searches; only surveys are going on…. I don’t know the specific details of this case but ordinarily, when a survey is on at anyone’s premises, the person concerned has to be there until the operation concludes.” She said the two publications were being investigated for unrelated cases of tax evasion, but did not reveal details. A “search” requires more documentation than a “survey” and can be carried out on private or professional premises of a tax assessee. A “survey” is carried out only at a commercial establishment. During a search or survey, an assessee is permitted to call a doctor but is normally not allowed to leave unless he or she needs hospitalisation. In the evening in the NewsClick office, with Purkayastha were editor Pranjal Pandey, Prasanth R, an editor of the Peoples Dispatch, a news website that functions from the same building, and about 20 others. Purkayastha and Pandey are also directors of the company that owns the premises. A NewsClick source said that income-tax officials had visited Hariharan three times during the day to collect electronic devices belonging to Purkayastha. NewsClick faces a Rs 100-crore defamation suit filed by the Adani group. It is also being probed by Delhi police’s economic offences wing (EOW) and the ED. The ED’s case is based on an FIR registered by the EOW last year that accuses the firm of violating foreign direct investment (FDI) rules by receiving Rs 9.59 crore from a defunct US-based firm, Worldwide Media Holdings LLC, in 2018. NewsClick has underlined that this investment was received before the FDI cap of 26 per cent was imposed on digital media in 2019. Purkayastha, a CPM member, was jailed during the Emergency. He suffers from hypertension, diabetes and asthma. In July, income-tax sleuths had questioned him for five hours for alleged tax evasion on the same FDI. NewsClick is currently under the protection of Delhi High Court from coercive action by the ED and the Delhi police, and has asked the court to quash the cases. Last month, the high court questioned the police’s opposition to anticipatory bail despite a report from the Reserve Bank that the company had not violated the Foreign Exchange Management Act. The “survey” at Newslaundry’s office in Sarvodaya Enclave, south Delhi, began at 11.30am. Its CEO, Abhinandan Sekhri, was being kept inside without access to his mobile phone. A colleague of Sekhri told this newspaper: “We have complied with all rules and responded to any queries from IT…. This government survives on media control. Newslaundry has been challenging that very control, punching holes in the mainstream media narrative.” Both websites functioned through the day. Two women employees of NewsClick were allowed to leave after sunset as no women officials were part of the income-tax team. Congress spokesperson Shama Mohamed tweeted: “Income Tax officers visit the offices of news sites NewsClick & @newslaundry today, calling it a ‘survey’ & not ‘raids’. Call it by any name, this is nothing but an undisguised attempt to bully independent media! This is BJP’s governance by intimidation!” Trinamul MP Jawhar Sircar tweeted: “As his popularity sinks, Modi moves towards his Gujarat-2002 form — Unleashes Income Tax & Enforcement raids on NewsClick & Newslaundry — digital media critical of him. Who’s next?” Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani tweeted: “After raiding the VTV Gujarati office yesterday, a fierce critique of Rupani government’s anti-people policies, the Modi government has targeted News Laundry and News Click today. The intimidation tactics are back! What are you so afraid of Mr @narendramodi?” Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who had tweeted his protest when Dainik Bhaskar and Bharat Samachar faced income-tax raids in July, kept mum. He participated in a televised Ganesh puja promoted by his government as the “surveys” rolled on in the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
11-09-2021||India||Supreme Court upholds axe on 38 employees of Bharat Coking Coal||The Supreme Court has upheld the dismissal of 38 employees of the public sector Bharat Coking Coal Ltd in Jharkhand for getting the jobs illegally 35 years ago in connivance with company officials although they were not enlisted with the state’s employment exchange. The court said “fraudulent practices cannot be countenanced” and such beneficiaries must be “prevented from enjoying the fruits of their ill-gotten advantage.” The 38 employees had been recruited as miners and loaders in 1986 but years later an internal probe by the BCCL revealed that they had got in although they had not been recommended by the employment exchange, a must to get government jobs. A BCCL personnel manager and a clerk had been sacked for illegally recruiting the 38 employees, a charge the workmen accepted in court during the long legal process. “Fraudulent practice to gain public employment cannot be countenanced to be permitted by a court of law. The workmen here, having hoodwinked the government undertaking in a fraudulent manner, must be prevented from enjoying the fruits of their ill-gotten advantage,” a Supreme Court bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy said in its judgment. The Supreme Court allowed an appeal by the PSU challenging the 2016 order of a division bench of Jharkhand High Court reinstating the 38 employees with 50 per cent back wages. The bench had upheld the 2005 order of an industrial tribunal, which the staffers had approached through labour unions. The high court division bench had overturned a single-bench order setting aside the tribunal verdict.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
11-09-2021||India||Army chief reviews situation on India-Pakistan border||Army chief General M.M. Naravane on Friday visited the western command headquarters in Haryana’s Panchkula and reviewed the security and operational situation on the India-Pakistan border. Sources said that at the Chandimandir military station Naravane was briefed by Lt Gen. R.P. Singh, the army commander of the western command, on the theatre’s operational preparedness. “The army chief addressed officers of the western command during which he exhorted them to serve with pride and in doing so uphold the military ethos and the rich culture of the Indian Army,” a defence ministry media statement said. During his interaction with the troops deployed in forward areas, Naravane commended them for maintaining a high state of combat readiness despite the Covid restrictions. “He highlighted the various force modernisation measures being undertaken by the army and also emphasised that soldiers must keep themselves abreast with latest trends in information technology and emerging cyber threats,” the army statement said. Sources said the defence ministry was concerned about the spike in Pakistani drones flying into Indian territory to drop arms, ammunitions, drugs and money to fuel terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. On Wednesday, Indian Air Force Chief R.K.S. Bhadauria had highlighted drone warfare and the challenges ahead in the wake of an attack at an IAF base in Jammu in July. Two explosives-laden drones had crashed into the IAF station at Jammu airport, injuring two personnel. Security agencies had suspected the involvement of Pakistan-based terrorists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
11-09-2021||India||Covid: CoWIN develops interface to peek at jab status of individuals||India’s digital platform for Covid-19 vaccination will allow employers, airlines, railways, hotels and other entities to know the jab status of individuals without intrusions into their privacy, the Union health ministry said on Friday. The CoWIN digital platform has developed a software interface that will digitally convey the vaccination status of individuals — such as employees or passengers or hotel residents — to entities whom they may be engaging with for any reason. The interface is called KYC/VS — Know Your Customer or Client/Vaccination Status. Although CoWIN already generates vaccination certificates that fully inoculated individuals can show either in physical or digital formats, the new software interface — also called application programming interface — will eliminate the need for people to show these certificates. To use the interface, a verifier needs to enter an individual’s mobile number and name. This will generate an OTP (one-time password) that will also need to be entered into the application by the individual for the verifier to know the vaccination status. In return, CoWIN will send a response to the verifying entity specifying the individual’s vaccination status. The status will be “0” if a person is not vaccinated, “1” if partially vaccinated and “2” if fully vaccinated. The health ministry said enterprises might wish to know the vaccination status of employees, and railways or airlines might want to know the vaccination status of passengers seeking to reserve journey tickets. Hotels might wish to check the vaccination status of guests checking in. But representatives of the hospitality industry said the Covid-19 pandemic had hit the sector so hard that they were unlikely to turn away guests who are unvaccinated. Pradeep Shetty, joint honorary secretary of the Federation of the Hotels and Restaurants Associations of India, said: “The current revenues are between 30 and 50 per cent of pre-Covid levels. Are hotels or restaurants in a position to decline services to unvaccinated guests? Would they want to know the status?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
11-09-2021||India||‘Saffronisation’ cry in Kannur University in Kerala||Inclusion of books written by Hindutva icons such as V.D. Savarkar and M.S. Golwalkar triggered massive protests at Kannur University in Kerala on Friday as student unions alleged saffronisation of the syllabus for master’s degree in governance and politics. Members of Kerala Students’ Union of the Congress and Muslim Students’ Federation of the Indian Union Muslim League laid siege to the office of vice-chancellor Gopinath Ravindran and burnt copies of the syllabus on Friday. The university had included books by RSS icons such as Golwalkar, Savarkar, Deendayal Upadhyay and Balraj Madhok in the course material. The VC, however, told a news conference that a call on dropping the controversial books would be taken only based on the recommendation of a hurriedly constituted two-member expert committee that would submit its report within five days. The books were among those included recently for a paper titled Nation in Indian Political Thought for the third semester of the MA in governance and politics course that was introduced last year. Hindutva: Who is a Hindu? by Savarkar, We or Our Nationhood Defined and Bunch of Thoughts by Golwalkar, Integral Humanism by Upadhyaya and Indianisation? What, Why and How by Madhok were the books that triggered the row. Other books and essays on the list are Nationalism by Rabindranath Tagore, Nationalism is Religion by Sri Aurobindo, Is Hatred Essential for Nationalism by Mahatma Gandhi, Nationalism and Internationalism and What is Culture by Jawaharlal Nehru and Who Constitutes a Nation by B.R. Ambedkar. “These books (the pro-Hindutva ones) were included for comparative study and critical analysis and not to glorify them,” Ravindran said. Minister for higher education R. Bindu told a news conference that the VC had been asked to provide an explanation on the decision to pick the books. “We are a secular nation. So it’s dangerous to include extremely communal material in our syllabus,” she said. The Left was divided over the issue. While some of them defended the inclusion of the books, describing them as essential in understanding the dangers of Hindutva, a few others opposed it. “There is nothing unusual about this decision because master’s students should study the challenges faced by the freedom movement. They can argue against these books only if they study them,” said university syndicate member and CPI leader P. Sandosh Kumar. “All these books are available in the libraries of the CPI, CPM and the Congress,” he said. University students’ union chairman M.K. Hassan of the CPM’s Students’ Federation of India also disagreed with the protesters. “We have already had a few rounds of debates on these books. How else can one understand the dangers they carry if we don’t learn them?” he said. But SFI state secretary K.M. Sachin Dev said he did not agree with Hassan. “We don’t agree with the chairman’s stand because including such books in the syllabus would make them compulsory for study,” he told The Telegraph. Kannur district KSU president Mohammed Shammas, who was among those who led the protests, said his organisation would settle for nothing less than a complete withdrawal of the books.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
