12-09-2021||India||India to get third set of Swiss bank details in Sept, to include data on real estate assets||India will get this month the third set of Swiss bank account details of its nationals under an automatic exchange of information pact with Switzerland and this will include for the first time the data about real estate properties owned by Indians there, officials said on Sunday.  Marking a key milestone in the Indian government's fight against black money allegedly stashed abroad, India will get this month the complete information on flats, apartments and condominiums owned by Indians in Switzerland as also on earnings made from such properties to help it look into tax liabilities associated with those assets.  The move assumes significance on the part of Switzerland as well as the European Alpine nation is trying hard to reposition itself as a key global financial centre while warding off the long-persisting perception about the Swiss banking system being an alleged safe haven for black money.  While it would be the third time that India will get details about bank accounts and other financial assets held by Indians in Switzerland, it will be the first time that the information being shared with India would include information about the real estate assets.  While the Swiss government has agreed to share details of real estate assets, the information about contributions to non-profit organisations and other such foundations, as also details on investments in digital currencies still remain out of bounds from the automatic exchange of information framework, officials said.  Experts and those engaged in the business of attracting investments to Switzerland said the move would help clear misconceptions about all fund inflows into Swiss assets being illicit and would go a long way in establishing Switzerland as a preferred investment destination, including for real estate properties.  Himanshu, Founder and CEO of Switzerland For You SA, the parent firm of IDDI Investments, which is engaged in the business of attracting investments from India and other countries to Switzerland including in startups and real estate, said transparency has its own virtues and the proposal of the Switzerland government to share information about property ownership of foreign clients with other countries including India is welcome.  "We find no valid reason for Swiss authorities to hide such information. After all, the ownership of property is not something which can be kept under wraps," said the India-origin entrepreneur who goes by his first name only and is settled in Geneva for many years.  "Sharing of such information with other countries under AEOI will bring in more transparency and act as deterrence for those intending to buy Swiss properties from ill-gotten wealth. The move will go a long way in making Switzerland an attractive investment destination," he added.  India had received the first set of details from Switzerland under AEOI (Automatic Exchange of Information) in September 2019. It was among 75 countries to get such information that year.  In September 2020, India received the second set of Swiss bank account details of its nationals and entities, along with 85 other recipient countries with whom Switzerland's Federal Tax Administration (FTA) exchanged information on financial accounts within the framework of global standards on AEOI last year.  From this year, Switzerland's Federal Council, the country's top governing body, has decided to implement a key recommendation of the Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes, under which Swiss authorities will also share details about investments made by foreigners in the Swiss real estate sector.  However, some other recommendations of the Global Forum, including about sharing of information on digital currency accounts and contributions made to foundations and non-profit organisations are yet to be accepted and therefore those details would not be shared by Switzerland with India or any other countries for now.  Hectic lobbying is underway globally to convince Switzerland to start sharing information about digital currency accounts and contributions made to non-profit entities as well.  In each of the last two years, Switzerland has shared details about nearly three million financial accounts with various jurisdictions, while the count is expected to be higher this year.  For the last two years, India has been among prominent countries with which Switzerland has shared details about financial accounts of clients of Swiss banks and various other financial institutions, while it is also expected to figure high this year with regard to details about real estate properties.  Resident and non-resident Indians, as well as Indian companies, would account for a sizeable number in the overall list of those figuring in this year's exchange of information by Switzerland, officials privy to the development said.  Besides, Swiss authorities have already shared information about more than 100 Indian citizens and entities so far this year on receipt of requests for administrative assistance in cases involving probes into financial wrongdoings including tax evasion, the officials added. This count has been similar in the past few years.  These cases mostly relate to older accounts that might have been closed before 2018, for which Switzerland has shared details with India under an earlier framework of mutual administrative assistance as Indian authorities had provided prima facie evidence of tax-related wrongdoing by those account holders. AEOI is applicable only to accounts that are active or were closed during 2018.  Some of these cases relate to entities set up by Indians in various overseas jurisdictions like Panama, the British Virgin Islands and the Cayman Islands, while the individuals include mostly businessmen and a few politicians and erstwhile royals as well as their family members.  The officials, however, refused to share details about the exact number of accounts or the quantum of assets held in the accounts held by Indians, for which the information has been shared with India, citing strict confidentiality clauses governing the exchange framework.  The information shared by Swiss authorities includes identification, account and financial information, such as name, address, country of residence and tax identification number, as well as information concerning the reporting financial institution, account balance and capital income.  The exchanged information allows tax authorities to verify whether taxpayers have correctly declared their financial accounts in their tax returns.  The 86 countries covered under the AEOI in 2020 included 11 new jurisdictions -- Anguilla, Aruba, Bahamas, Bahrain, Grenada, Israel, Kuwait, Marshall Islands, Nauru, Panama and the United Arab Emirates -- in addition to a list of 75 countries, with whom information was shared in 2019.  Switzerland's first such exchange took place at the end of September 2018 and involved 36 countries, but India did not figure in the list at that time.  Nearly 10,000 entities, including financial institutions such as banks, trusts and insurers, as also condominium and apartment owners' associations are expected to have shared details about their overseas clients with the Federal Tax Authority of Switzerland for further sharing with foreign jurisdictions.  Switzerland has committed itself to adopt the global standard for the international automatic exchange of information in tax matters. The legal basis for the implementation of AEOI in Switzerland came into force on January 1, 2017.  However, AEOI only applies to accounts that are officially in the name of Indians and they might include those used for business and other genuine purposes.  The Global Forum of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) reviews AEOI implementation.  According to experts, the AEOI data received by India has been quite useful for establishing a strong prosecution case against those who have any unaccounted wealth, as it provides entire details of deposits and transfers as well as of all earnings, including through investments in securities and other assets.  On condition of anonymity, several officials said the details relate mostly to businessmen, including non-resident Indians now settled in several South-East Asian countries as well as in the US, the UK and even some African and South American countries.  A Swiss delegation was in India in August 2019 before the first set of details could get shared and the two sides also discussed possible steps to expedite the execution of tax information-sharing requests made by India in specific cases.  It is feared many Indians might have closed their accounts after a global crackdown on black money led to Switzerland buckling under international pressure to open its banking sector for scrutiny to clear the long-held perception of Swiss banks being safe haven for undisclosed funds.  Switzerland agreed to AEOI with India after a long process, including a review of the necessary legal framework in India on data protection and confidentiality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
12-09-2021||India||CBI arrests seven in murder case linked to Bengal post-poll violence||The CBI has arrested seven persons on Sunday in connection with a murder case in Cooch Behar linked to post-poll violence in West Bengal, officials said. The family of the victim, Hardhan Roy, had alleged that one Arjun Munda had taken him to Rajaghora river on May 3 where he was found smeared in blood, they said. He was taken to the hospital where he had died during treatment, according to the FIR. The CBI had arrested four persons on Saturday in connection with another murder case in Tufanganj reported during the violence. It was alleged that on May 4 TMC supporters Sahinur Ahmed and Prosenjit were having dinner when four BJP supporters joined them. After the dinner, Sahinur and Prosenjit were attacked resulting in severe injuries. They were dragged to a nearby maize field and left there. Prosenjit survived but Sahinur was found dead, the FIR said. The CBI has taken over the cases on the instructions of a five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court that had entrusted to the agency the investigation of alleged murder and rape incidents reported during post-poll violence in West Bengal, they said. The high court's directives came after a National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) committee submitted a report on the violence in the state that followed the declaration of assembly election results on May 2 in which the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress humbled the BJP in a bitterly fought eight-phase contest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-09-2021||India||UP jails no more ‘fun centres’ for criminals, says Yogi Adityanath||Jails in Uttar Pradesh are no more "fun" centres for criminals and they have turned into "reform homes" for them, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday. The chief minister proclaimed it while inaugurating and laying foundation stones for 122 developmental projects worth Rs 245 crore in Sant Kabir Nagar district. The projects also included the district prison built at Rs 126 crore. "We have converted state jails into reform homes where criminals are being given an opportunity to reform. The UP jails are no more places of fun for criminals, an official statement quoted the chief minister as saying on the occasion. There was a time when the power used to be a slave of mafias. Today the government bulldozers run on their houses," Adityanath said. The chief minister warned that his government will not let mafias have their say. “Our message to mafias is very clear. If mafias want to make the lives of the poor, farmers and traders hell, our government will not let this happen,” he said. Expressing satisfaction over the newly built jail in the Sant Kabir Nagar district, the chief minister said the prisoners from here will not have to be sent to Basti district and this prison would become a model reform home. Adityanath also accused the previous governments of making the state a synonym of dynastic politics, nepotism, appeasement, dacoity, hooliganism and riots . "The jobs for youths were auctioned and the poor were deprived of their morsels. Jobs were earlier mortgaged. If anyone tries to auction a job today, we will get their house auctioned," he added. The UP government has given over 4.5 lakh government jobs to youths on the basis of their merit, with complete transparency, the UP CM said, adding that recruitment for around 90,000 more government jobs is to start soon in UP. The recruitment of 30,000 women policemen is an important step in this direction, the chief minister said, adding the government is continuously taking up several schemes like Mission Shakti, Kanya Sumangala and destitute women pension in their interest. He reiterated that youths preparing for various competitions will get a 'competitive examination allowance' in the state. The Uttar Pradesh government has also decided to distribute tablets along with digital access to youths of the state. The chief minister also envisaged turning Sant Kabir Nagar into a hub of readymade garments. "Once Khalilabad in this district used to be a big centre of looms and handlooms. In such a situation, why can't it become a hub of readymade garments? he asked. If we link women with the market by giving them modern sewing machines, every house will start making readymade garments. In such a situation, we can even overtake Bangladesh and Vietnam in terms of production of readymade garments," he added. Adityanath also recalled another strong point of the district its utensils industry in Bakhira and said it would be another source of growth for Sant Kabir Nagar. "It was forgotten by the previous governments, but we are working towards making Bakhira's utensils industry recognised on the global stage. It will become a major source of employment for youths and women at the local level," he said. Adityanath also announced his government's plan to set up a medical college in the district under the PPP model. Expressing concern over the flood situation in Sant Kabir Nagar, the CM said the government is providing relief kits in sufficient quantities to every victim. Adequate availability of anti-snake venom and the anti-rabies vaccine has been ensured in the flood-affected areas, he added. Sant Kabir Nagar will not lag behind any district now on the scale of development, he said, adding the land of Baba Tameshwarnath and great Sufi saint Kabir was on the path of development. Political announcements were made for development earlier too but they were never implemented. But in the last four and a half years there has been a change, Adityanath said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-09-2021||India||Moily bats for Prashant Kishor's induction in Congress, says some leaders 'misused' G-23||Senior Congress leader M Veerappa Moily on Sunday said some leaders "misused" the G-23 and asserted that if anyone persists with its institutionalisation it would be for "vested interest" as reform of the party was already underway under Sonia Gandhi.  The former Union minister also voiced strong support for poll strategist Prashant Kishor's induction into the Congress and said those opposing his entry into the party were "anti-reform".  In an interview with PTI, Moily, who was among the 23 leaders who wrote to Gandhi last year seeking organizational overhaul, opposed the institutionalisation of the G-23 and said "some of us put our signatures only for reform of the party from within and to rebuild the party, not to destroy it".  "Some of our leaders misused the G-23. No sooner did Sonia ji think of reforming the party from within and from the grassroots level, we did not subscribe to the idea of G-23," the senior Congress leader said, without taking any names.  He said with the initiation of reform under party chief Sonia Gandhi's leadership, the G-23 has "no role and has become irrelevant".  "If they (some leaders) persist (with G-23) that means there is a vested interest for a few of them to work against the Congress party which we don't subscribe to and rather oppose it," Moily said.  Anybody who again uses the instrument of G-23 is doing a great disservice to the Indian National Congress and its legacy, he said, adding such actions would help the Congress' rivals.  His remarks assume significance as many leaders of the G-23 have either distanced themselves from it or have been silent following the letter they wrote last year. Out of that group of 23 leaders who wrote to Sonia Gandhi, Jitin Prasada has switched over to the BJP.  A few members of the G-23 had got together at social gatherings a couple of times at Kapil Sibal's residence recently and reportedly discussed party issues. At one of the gatherings, Sibal had invited a host of opposition leaders as well to his residence.  Moily said the "major surgery" of the party that he has been talking about to revitalize the organisation was already being contemplated by Sonia Gandhi.  "She (Sonia Gandhi) is active and taking decisions, such decisions are needed," he said, adding he was happy with the steps taken by the party chief.  Asked about speculation that Kishor could join the Congress, Moily said it was advisable that he joins the Congress and injects reforms from within.  Moily urged those within the party opposing Kishor's entry into the Congress not to do so, saying it was important for the country and the Congress that the party be reformed, which, he said, was the intention of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi.  According to sources, Congress president Sonia Gandhi will take a final call on the induction of Kishor and has held discussions with several senior leaders on the issue.  Asked if he thinks Kishor's induction will be beneficial for the party, Moily said the poll strategist has proved that he is successful in working out strategies.  "Instead of working from outside, if he joins the party, it will be quite beneficial," he added.  "Let there be strong willpower to join hands with Sonia ji to ensure that the party's organisation is strengthened within a couple of months. This is what I proposed that Prashant Kishor can inject that kind of resurgence of the Congress party (that is needed) by plan and design," Moily said.  He also said the Congress is the main plank of the politics of this country.  "We may lose sometimes but it cannot be said that we will lose forever. For example, in 1977 we lost and in 1980 with all the allegations against her (Indira Gandhi), ultimately the people found that they wanted the Congress and Indira ji came back, this is the history of the Congress," he said when asked about NCP chief Sharad Pawar's remarks suggesting that Congress' situation was now like impoverished landlords.  Moily also pointed out that Pawar himself has acknowledged that Congress was the only party in power in multiple states that could take on the BJP.  "Congress is the fulcrum of the strength of the politics of this country," Moily asserted.  Asked if Congress would be the fulcrum of an Opposition alliance to take on the BJP in 2024 elections, he answered in the affirmative.  "Ultimately the government cannot function to serve the interest of a group of people, few castes or few religions, it cannot be done. Just because the people are silent it does not mean that they cannot stage a political revolution, they can do it but only under the leadership of the Congress," Moily said.  It should be remembered that the integrity of the Constitution of India is under threat under the NDA regime, he alleged.  Hitting out at those alleging that the Congress was all about the benefit of one family, Moily said Sonia Gandhi had sacrificed for the country and never hankered for posts.  The Congress is the backbone of forces to take on the BJP, Moily said.  Asked about calls from within the Congress that Rahul Gandhi should be made the chief of the party again, he said the Wayanad MP was best suited to lead the party but added that presently it was important to turn attention to reorganise and revamp the party.  Moily, who was recently appointed convenor of a seven-member panel of the party to study matters related to caste census, said it was not about polarisation on the basis of caste but demand for equality and not something that would perpetuate the caste system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-09-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear pleas on Pegasus snooping row on Monday||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Monday a batch of pleas seeking an independent probe into the alleged snooping on certain people in India involving Israeli spyware Pegasus. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana had on September 7 granted more time to the Centre to decide on filing a further response on the petitions after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said that due to some difficulties he could not meet the officials concerned to take a decision on the filing of the second affidavit. The Centre had earlier filed a limited affidavit in the apex court saying the pleas seeking an independent probe into the Pegasus snooping allegations are based on "conjectures and surmises or on other unsubstantiated media reports or incomplete or uncorroborated material". On August 17, the top court had issued notice to the Centre on the pleas, making it clear that it did not want the government to disclose anything which compromises national security. In its short affidavit filed in the court earlier, the Centre had said the position on the issue has already been clarified in Parliament by Information Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. With a view of dispelling any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests and examining the issues raised, the government will constitute a committee of experts, it had said. The top court, while issuing notice on the pleas, had said that it did not want the government to disclose anything related to the national security and had asked the Centre what is the "problem" if the competent authority files an affidavit before it on the issue. "Our considered response is what we have respectfully stated in our last affidavit. Kindly examine the issue from our point of view as our affidavit is sufficient," the law officer had told the bench, adding, "The Government of India is before the highest court of the country." The law officer had said if the government of any country divulges information about which software is used and which is not used, then those involved in terrorist activities may take preemptive measures. The pleas are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-09-2021||India||AAP to contest all seats in UP Assembly polls||Asserting that Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) would contest all 403 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh, senior leader Sanjay Singh has said it would be a mistake to consider AAP a minnow as it had emerged "stronger" than the Congress in the recent panchayat polls. The Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP made it clear that it is not in talks with any other party for an alliance in the UP assembly election due early next year. “Our party is stronger than the Congress in the state. While the Congress won 40 seats in panchayat polls, we scored a victory in 83panchayats. AAP got over 40 lakh votes in these polls, where 1600 party candidates contested,” Singh, who is AAP's UP incharge, told PTI in an interview. The Congress was reduced to seven seats in the 2017 election to the 403-member UP Assembly. The AAP had earlier tested poll waters in the 2014 and 2019 Parliamentary elections on some selected seats in UP without any success. After coming to power in Delhi, it emerged as the main opposition party in Punjab and has been trying to expand its base in other states like Goa, Uttarakhand and Gujarat. Delhi Chief Minister Kejriwal had himself contested against Prime Minister Narendra Modi from Varanasi in 2014 and stood second ahead of the Congress and the Samajwadi party nominees. AAP had also contested three seats of Saharanpur, Aligarh and Gautam Budh Nagar in UP but could not do much. "We are preparing to contest on all 403 seats alone. We are presently not in talks for an alliance with any other party. Our focus is to strengthen our base in the state and in the past one and a half months, we have made over one crore members," Singh said. "The party has made Vidhan Sabha incharges in 100-150 seats and our leaders are meeting those who want to contest," said 49-year-old Singh who hails from Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh. Singh, who is a Rajya Sabha MP, said the main issue to be raised by the AAP in the assembly elections "will be BJP's nationalism versus AAP's nationalism". "BJP's nationalism is fake. Its nationalism is full of hatred and communalism. At the same time, the nationalism of the AAP is providing good education, good health, free electricity,free water, women's security and happiness," he said, He hit out at the BJP, claiming it was "afraid" of the AAP's model of governance and was indulging in vindictive politics. "Sixteen cases including that of sedition were filed against me. I got a stay from the Supreme Court in a sedition case. The BJP is doing vindictive politics. Our office here was closed by them. We are facing them strongly," he said. "AAP's model of governance focuses on education, health, education and providing basic facilities to the poor and needs. Our model is an answer to casteist and communal politics played by the BJP," Singh said. Providing jobs, unemployment allowance and better prices to farmers" are among the issues the party will take up, he said. The outcome of the UP assembly polls is considered important as it would reflect on the 2024 general election. The opposition sees an opportunity against the BJP in the bellwether state especially due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. While the SP and BSP have already launched their election campaign to woo various communities, the Congress under the leadership of its General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is sparing no effort to revive the party at the grassroots level. Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi's AIMIM, AAP and over a dozen small caste-centric regional parties ave also announced that they are entering the ring in the politically significant state. Singh said they will highlight the "failures" of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath during the past four and a half years. We are exposing them at the grassroots level. This government as promised during the polls made 'Shamshan' (cremation ground) in every village. In corona pandemic, every village became 'Shamshan' and people died without treatment and lack of medicines," he alleged. "The government failed to control crime and criminal activities. Incidents like Hathras and others exposed tall claims on law and order. There are scams galore and even Kumbh and Ram Temple were not spared by scamsters," he alleged. In the BJP regime, the state went "backwards" as they have "no concept of development", he said adding that without increasing the "purchasing power" of people there will be no economic boost. About the presence of Asaduddin Owaisi's AIMIM in UP polls and other fronts of smaller parties, Singh said, "Everyone has the right to contest in democracy." Kejriwal, who entered politics after gaining the spotlight during Gandhian Anna Hazare's movement for the Lokpal legislation, is also spearheading the party's campaign in neighbouring Uttarakhand, where the AAP is projecting itself as an alternative to the BJP and the Congress. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-09-2021||India||Derek O'Brien accuses BJP of not keeping 2014 poll promise||Trinamul Congress Rajya Sabha MP Derek O'Brien Sunday slammed the Centre over the Women's Reservation Bill, accusing the BJP of failing to pass the legislation despite assurances in the party's 2014 election manifesto. O'Brien also posted a video on Twitter of his recent speech in Rajya Sabha over the issue. "Today makes it 25 years since the WOMEN'S RESERVATION BILL was introduced in #Parliament. 25 years. No Bill passed. MO-SHA's BJP even promised it in their 2014 Manifesto. FAIL," the TMC MP tweeted. The bill aims at 33 per cent reservation for women in Parliament and state assemblies. O'Brien, in the video of his speech, claimed that there is 25 per cent representation of women in legislatures across the world, while the national average is 13 per cent. In the BJP, the number of women MPs in Parliament is around 10-11 per cent, he said. The TMC national spokesman said in contrast, close to 40 per cent of his party's MPs in both Houses of Parliament are women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-09-2021||India||Bhupendra Patel elected to be next Gujarat chief minister||BJP MLA Bhupendra Patel will be the new chief minister of Gujarat. Patel (59) was unanimously elected BJP legislature party leader here on Sunday. His name was proposed by CM Vijay Rupani, whose resignation from the post on Saturday surprised many. Most of the 112 MLAs of the party in the 182-member Assembly were present at the meeting, BJP sources said. Patel won the 2017 Gujarat Legislative Assembly elections from Ghatlodia constituency, defeating Congress candidate Shashikant Patel by over one lakh votes, the highest winning margin in the 2017 Gujarat polls. Bhupendra Patel holds a diploma in civil engineering. Fondly called as ‘Dada’ by many, he is considered to be close to former Gujarat chief minister and now Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel. He represents the Assembly constituency that is part of the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha seat represented by Union minister Amit Shah. In the past, Patel had served as the chairman of Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (AUDA) between 2015 and 2017. Before that, he was also the standing committee chairman of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), the largest urban local body in Gujarat, between 2010 and 2015. With Patel being named the new legislature party leader, the suspense over who will succeed Rupani as Gujarat chief minister has ended. The new leader is scheduled to meet the governor and stake claim to form the government, sources said. BJP's central observers Narendra Singh Tomar and Prahlad Joshi and party general secretary Tarun Chaug were present at the legislature party meet. Tomar met state BJP chief C R Paatil on Sunday morning. There was talk that Praful Khoda Patel, administrator of the Union territories of Lakshadweep and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu and Mansukh Mandaviya, Union Health Minister, were among the contenders. Bhupendra Patel's name was not in the long list of probables being discussed in state political circles and in a way the first term MLA emerged as the dark horse, a political observer said. He belongs to the influential Patel community. Mandaviya is from Patidar community. People close to him know Patel, as a smiling face, who is well-connected to the grassroots. Before contesting the Assembly election, he was active in local politics and became a member of Memnagar Municipality in Ahmedabad district, serving as its president twice. Patel is also a trustee of Sardardham Vishwa Patidar Kendra, an organisation dedicated to the socio-economic development of the Patidar community. Rupani (65) on Saturday resigned from the post, his sudden announcement coming over a year before the state goes to polls. It is not clear what prompted the development in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home state where elections to the 182-member Assembly are due in December 2022. Rupani, the fourth chief minister to demit office in BJP-ruled states during the coronavirus pandemic, was sworn in as chief minister -  his second stint as CM - in December 2017. Rupani, who completed five years in office on August 7 this year, first became the chief minister on August 7, 2016, following the resignation of incumbent Anandiben Patel, and continued in the office after the BJP's victory in the 2017 Assembly elections. • A first-time MLA from Gujarat's Ghatlodiya, he defeated Congress's Shashikant Patel by over 1 lakh votes in the 2017 assembly election • Holds diploma in civil engineering • Served as the chairman of Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority between 2015 and 2017 • Hails from the Patidar Community • Trustee of Sardardham Vishwa Patidar Kendra||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-09-2021||India||Srinagar: Police officer shot dead by militant, incident caught on camera||A police officer was shot dead from point-blank range by a militant in the Khanyar locality of the city on Sunday, officials said. They said the militant fired at the officer and injured him. He was rushed to SKIMS in Soura but succumbed to injuries, they added. The incident took place at around 1.35 pm, the officials said. The deceased officer has been identified as probationary sub-inspector Arshid Ahmad who was posted at police station Khanyar, the officials said. The CCTV footage of the incident shows a militant shooting the officer at least twice from behind from point-blank range at a marketplace in Khanyar, they said. The officials said the area has been cordoned off and a hunt launched to nab the attacker.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-09-2021||India||Swami Vivekananda's religious ideals important for today's youth, says CJI||Swami Vivekananda firmly believed that the true essence of religion was the common good and tolerance and to fulfill the dream of making a resurgent India through these principles there is a need to instill his ideals in today's youth, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana said on Sunday. Justice Ramana while virtually addressing an event to mark the 22nd Foundation Day of Vivekananda Institute of Human Excellence, Hyderabad and the 128th anniversary of the historic Chicago Address of Swami Vivekananda said: "Swami Vivekananda, in his address, propagated the idea of tolerance and universal acceptance. He analysed the dangers posed by the meaningless and sectarian conflicts in society to the nations and the civilisations. There is greater need today, in contemporary India, to pay heed to the words spoken by Swami Vivekananda as early as in 1893." Swami Vivekananda's address in the World "Parliament of Religions" at Chicago in 1893 drew the world's attention to the ancient Indian philosophy of Vedanta. He popularised practical Vedanta as it preached love, compassion and equal respect for all, the CJI said, pointing out that his teachings have great relevance for all times to come. "He was prophetic. Long before the painful churning that took place in the subcontinent during the freedom struggle resulting in framing of an egalitarian Constitution of India, he advocated secularism as if he foresaw the events to unfold. "He firmly believed that the true essence of religion was common good and tolerance. Religion should be above superstitions and rigidities. To fulfil the dream of making resurgent India through the principles of common good and tolerance, we should instil the ideals of Swamiji in today's youth," Justice Ramana said. Swami Vivekananda believed that youngsters in India are the chain that binds our past to a greater future. He believed that anything is possible if one has the required belief, he said. It is imperative for the youth to be aware about the social realities and challenges, the CJI said, adding "Remember, any change in the nation's trajectory always stems from its youth and their participation. It is for you to build the ideal nation and society that you desire to witness." "The democratic rights that we take today for granted are a result of the struggles of thousands of young people who took to the streets fighting authoritarian figures either during the freedom struggle or the dark days of emergency. Many lost their lives, sacrificed lucrative careers, all for the greater good of the nation and society," Justice Ramana said. Trust the youth to check the deviations in a society's journey towards peace and progress, he added. "Although it is desirable to be independent and economically successful, at the same time we must not forget our duties towards our family, our community and the nation," he said. "The youth often perceive every action with a clear set of principles-they don't tolerate injustice either towards themselves or towards others. They don't compromise with their ideals come what may. They are not only selfless but also adventurous. They are willing to sacrifice for the cause they believe in. It is these unadulterated minds and pure hearts which form the backbone of our nation," the Chief Justice said. Justice Ramana further said today resources are available at one's fingertips and there is unlimited access to a world of information. "These advantages come with a heavy burden. The hyper awareness that modern society allows, with the ease of flow of information mandates that students are more socially and politically aware." Justice Ramana also advised youth to focus on their health and engage in physical activities and sports. "Visit the slums to be conscious about the divides that exist even within urban spaces, visit villages to be aware about rural living. Beyond a mere awareness of the issues, you need to have the mentality to find solutions, and take action to make meaningful change in society. You need to be aware that your actions are a part of the process of nation building," he said. He further called upon educational institutions to inform and create awareness in the students about rights and restrictions. They should promote and transmit a culture of lawfulness, of respect for the law. Institutions should equip young minds with knowledge about their rights and duties and empower them to be change-makers in society, Justice Ramana added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-09-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi begins two-day visit to Rae Bareli ahead of Uttar Pradesh polls||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra began her two-day tour of Rae Bareli, her mother's parliamentary constituency, on Sunday and offered prayers at the Hanuman temple in Churuva on the Lucknow-Rae Bareli border. Her visit to Rae Bareli comes ahead of the crucial Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, which will be held early next year. UP Congress media panelist Priyanka Gupta said the party general secretary will be holding organisational meetings throughout the day and the meetings will continue till late night. She may also meet people from different sections of the society, Gupta said. Gandhi visited Bachhravan, Harchandpur, Jagdishpur village and Civil Lines area of the city, where she was welcomed by party leaders and workers. Then her cavalcade proceeded towards the Bhuyemau guest house, a party leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-09-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath advertisement features Calcutta's Ma flyover, sparks row between TMC and BJP||The Trinamul Congress on Sunday took strong exception to the use of a purported image of a Calcutta flyover in an Uttar Pradesh government advertisement to project the economic progress of the state under its Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Noting that it was yet to be confirmed that the image was that of a Calcutta flyover, Bengal BJP claimed that while the UP government constructs expressways, flyovers come crashing down under the Mamata Banerjee regime in the eastern state. The advertisement titled 'Transforming Uttar Pradesh under Yogi Adityanath' showed an image of a flyover painted in blue-and-white colours synonymous with the TMC government along with high-rises and industries juxtaposed below a cut-out of Yogi Adityanath. "Before 2017, UP was not taken seriously with regard to investment, but in his four-and-a-half-year rule, that negative perception has been broken and in 2020, it has emerged as the second largest economy in the country," the message in the advertisement read. The Indian Express, which had carried the advertisement, issued a corrigendum saying, "A wrong image was inadvertently included in the cover collage of the advertorial on Uttar Pradesh produced by the marketing department of the newspaper. The error is deeply regretted and the image has been removed in all digital editions of the paper." The TMC, however, left no opportunity to ridicule the BJP over the episode, claiming that the saffron party has now indirectly accepted the "development spree" under the Mamata Banerjee government and even tried to appropriate it. "Transforming UP for @myogiadityanath means stealing images from infrastructure seen in Bengal under @MamataOfficial's leadership and using them as his own! Looks like the 'DOUBLE ENGINE MODEL' has MISERABLY FAILED in BJP's strongest state and now stands EXPOSED for all!" TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee tweeted. "Mr. @narendramodi is so helpless to save his party that other than changing CMs, he has also had to resort to using pictures of growth & infrastructure seen under @MamataOfficial's leadership, as his own. #BengalModel > #BJPRuledStatesModel Mr Modi?" Mukul Roy, who has returned to the TMC after winning a West Bengal assembly seat on a BJP ticket, tweeted. State Transport Minister Firhad Hakim said, "By posting the image of our pride Maa flyover of Kolkata as one built in Uttar Pradesh, the BJP government in the northern state has touched a new low of falsehood. It also indirectly admitted the spree of development under the rule of Mamata Banerjee in West Bengal and tried to appropriate it as its own." The Bengal BJP tried to save face saying that even if the image was indeed that of Maa flyover, the TMC government does not have any other infrastructural development to flaunt. "Several expressways have been built under the Adityanath government in UP. In comparison, Bengal has witnessed several flyover collapses in the last few years. "It is yet to be confirmed whether the image is that of Maa flyover as claimed by the TMC. But their knee-jerk reaction to the advertisement proves they don't have anything else to flaunt. Even if it is indeed the image of Maa flyover, it was nothing but a mistake and does not take away Adityanath's credit for accelerating UP's growth," Bengal BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
12-09-2021||India||Courts must find out accused's history before granting bail, says SC||Courts should enquire into the antecedents of an accused to find out if he has a bad record and is likely to commit serious offences while out on bail, the Supreme Court has observed. A bench comprising justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and M R Shah made the remarks while setting aside the bail granted by the Punjab and Haryana High Court to a man facing a murder and criminal conspiracy case. The nature of the charge and the evidence are also vital factors while deciding on bail pleas, the bench said, adding the severity of the punishment in case of conviction also bears upon the issue. Referring to its earlier decisions, the bench said the deprivation of freedom by refusal of bail is not for punitive purposes but for the bifocal interests of justice. "Another relevant factor is whether the course of justice would be thwarted by him who seeks the benignant jurisdiction of the Court to be freed for the time being. The Court has also to consider the likelihood of the applicant interfering with the witnesses for the prosecution or otherwise polluting the process of justice. "It is further observed that it is rational to enquire into the antecedents of the man who is applying for bail to find out whether he has a bad record, particularly a record which suggests that he is likely to commit serious offences while on bail," the bench said. The top court said that while granting of bail, the factors among other circumstances which are required to be considered are -- the nature of accusation, the severity of punishment in case of conviction and the nature of supporting evidence, reasonable apprehension of tampering with the witness or the apprehension of threat to the complainant; and prima facie satisfaction of the court in support of the charge. The SC's observations came while it was hearing an appeal against a Punjab & Haryana High Court granting bail to an accused in connection with an FIR at Police Station Sadar Jalandhar, District Jalandhar under Sections 302 (murder), 120-B (criminal conspiracy.), 34 (common intention), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) of Indian Penal Code and section 25 of the Arms Act, 1959. The bench said the high court has failed to appreciate and consider the nature of the accusation and the severity of the punishment in case of conviction and the nature of supporting evidence. "The High Court has also failed to appreciate the facts of the case; the nature of allegations; gravity of offence and the role attributed to the accused. As per the allegations, the accused Inderpreet Singh, respondent no.1 herein is the main conspirator who hatched the conspiracy along with other co-accused and that too from the jail. "The High Court has also failed to notice the serious allegation of hatching conspiracy from the jail. The High Court ought to have considered that if respondent no.1 accused Inderpreet Singh -- can hatch the conspiracy from jail, what he will not do if he is released on bail," the bench said. The apex court said that in the facts and circumstances of the case, the High Court has committed a grave error in releasing Singh on bail and therefore the impugned judgment and order passed by the High Court is unsustainable and the same deserves to be quashed and set aside.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
12-09-2021||India||Shiv Sena will contest Uttar Pradesh and Goa Assembly elections, says Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said his party will contest the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Goa due early next year, and claimed farmers' organisations in western UP are willing to support his party. Talking to reporters here, Raut said the Shiv Sena will field candidates in 80 to 100 seats in UP (which has a 403-member Assembly), while it will contest about 20 seats in the Goa Assembly (which comprises 40 seats). "Farmers' organisations in western UP have expressed their willingness to support the Shiv Sena and we may ally with smaller parties. In Goa, efforts are on to explore a formula like MVA. Let's see if we succeed," the Rajya Sabha member said. Raut further said the Shiv Sena has its cadre in these two states and has been contesting elections, irrespective of success or failure. After the 2019 Maharashtra Assembly polls, the Shiv Sena snapped ties with long-term ally BJP over the issue of sharing the chief ministerial post, and forged an alliance with the NCP and Congress to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state. Asked about the resignation of Vijay Rupani as Gujarat chief minister, Raut said, "It is an internal matter of the BJP, outsiders need not comment. I have known Rupani since he was the Rajya Sabha member with me." "Last time, the BJP just managed to cross the majority mark (in the 182-member Gujarat Assembly). The situation this time is not good for the party," he claimed. To a question on Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray's role at the national level, Raut said, "Thackeray has the capability to become a national leader. A Maharashtra chief minister is a national leader."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
12-09-2021||India||BJP leadership to meet in few hours to decide on new Gujarat chief minister||The suspense over who will succeed Vijay Rupani as Gujarat chief minister will be over after a meeting of BJP legislators here later on Sunday, party sources said. Central observer Narendra Singh Tomar, who will attend the meeting, met state BJP chief C R Paatil on Sunday morning. BJP has appointed Union ministers Tomar and Prahlad Joshi as observers for the legislature party meeting to elect a new chief minister. "We have come here to hold further discussions on the issue (new chief minister). We will discuss it with state BJP leaders," Tomar said at the airport. "I will hold consultations with Gujarat leaders, then the central leadership will take a decision," said Joshi. BJP general secretary Tarun Chaag has also reached Ahmedabad.There is talk that Praful Khoda Patel, administrator of the union territories of Lakshadweep and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, is among the top contenders. Also reportedly being considered are Parshottam Rupala, the Union Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying and Mansukh Mandaviya, the Union Health Minister. Both of them also belong to the Patel or Patidar community. The names of Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel and state agriculture minister RC Faldu, both from the Patel community, are also doing the rounds. Rupani (65) on Saturday resigned from the post, his sudden announcement coming over a year before the state goes to polls. It is not clear what prompted the development in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home state where elections to the 182-member Assembly are due in December 2022. Rupani, the fourth chief minister to demit office in BJP-ruled states during the coronavirus pandemic, was sworn in as chief minister his second stint as CM - in December 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
12-09-2021||India||Mangaluru Airport gets rid of 'Adani' tag in its name||After months of sustained protests by local social activists, the tag 'Adani airports' has been removed from the name boards of the Mangaluru International Airport (MIA). The original name boards, prior to the Adani group taking over the handling of operations of the airport, have now been restored, social activist Dilraj Alva, who took up the issue with the airport authorities, told reporters here on Saturday. Alva said the Adani group had changed the name, adding 'Adani airports' to the name boards after it took over the handling operations. However, as per the agreement for operations and maintenance of the airport, there was no provision to change the airport name, which was revealed through an RTI reply. A legal notice was served in March this year to the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and the MIA director questioning the 'Adani' tag attached to the name boards. The legal battle waged in this regard has now yielded result and the original name board has been restored from Friday. The changes have been made in MIA's official Facebook and Twitter accounts also, Alva said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
12-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi hits out at BJP government over job losses||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi Sunday attacked the government over the issue of employment, saying the difference between a week off and working day has ended under this dispensation as "there are no jobs". Taking to Twitter, Gandhi tagged a media report on US auto major Ford deciding to stop vehicle manufacturing in India which quoted an industry insider as saying that over 4,000 small firms could shut down. "The 'development' under the BJP government is such that the difference between Sunday and Monday has ended," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. When there are no jobs, how does it matter whether it is Sunday or Monday!" the former Congress chief said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
12-09-2021||India||Pensioners organisation seeks PM intervention for release of DA, DR & arrears||Bharatiya Pensioners Manch (BMS) has sought intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the release of dearness allowance (DA) and dearness relief (DR) arrears for central government employees and pensioners at the earliest. In April last year, the Ministry of Finance had put on hold an increment in dearness allowance (DA) till June 30, 2021, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In July this year, the government hiked DA and DR to 28 per cent from July 1, 2021, which benefited more than 48 lakh central government employees, and 65 lakh pensioners. The rate of DA from January 1, 2020, to June 30, 2021, was 17 per cent. Thus no DA and DR arrears were released for central government employees and pensioners respectively. In a letter to the Prime Minister, the BMS stated, "It is urged upon you to kindly intervene into the matter and direct the Ministry of Finance for early release of the freeze DA/DR with effect from January1, 2020 to June 30, 2021. An early and immediate action with a line of reply to this organization will be highly appreciated." The BPM opined that during this period (DA/DR freeze) the retail inflation had shot up and the price of auto fuel, edible oil and several pulses had soared to record level. The very basis of payment of DA/DR is to compensate employees and pensioners for increase in the cost of living. After the cost of living has gone up, it is unfair to deny the compensation to employees and pensioners, it submitted. The most of the pensioners being in their old age are required medical assistance and now the rate of every commodity has risen many-folds due to the crisis of Covid-19. Most of the pensioners are in hand to mouth financial condition, it mentioned. "The pensioners who are senior citizens are most vulnerable in the fight of Covid-19 and any stoppage of DR in their case at this juncture is not an appreciable decision on the part of the government. "No doubt, the country has been passing through a financial crisis due to Covid-19, but most of the pensioners have already contributed one day pension to the Prime Minister CARES Fund," the body stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
12-09-2021||India||Covid: Active cases in India decline by nearly 6,600 in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 28,591 coronavirus infections, taking the overall tally to 3,32,36,921, even as active cases declined by nearly 6,600 in a day to stand at 3,84,921, according to Union Health Ministry data updated Sunday. The death toll climbed to 4,42,655 with 338 daily fatalities reported Sunday, the data released at 8 am showed. The number of active cases declined by 6,595 in a span of 24 hours to stand at 3,84,921, constituting 1.16 per cent of the total infections, while the Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.51 per cent, the health ministry said. Also, 15,30,125 tests were conducted Saturday, taking the cumulative number of tests conducted so far for the detection of Covid-19 in the country to 54,18,05,829. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.87 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for the past 13 days. The Weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.17 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the past 79 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,24,09,345, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 73.82 crore, according to the ministry. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 and 2 crore on June 23. The 338 new fatalities recorded Sunday include 181 from Kerala, and 35 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,42,655 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,096 from Maharashtra, 37,487 rom Karnataka, 35,46 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,874 from Uttar Pradesh, 22,484 from Kerala and 18,567 from Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
12-09-2021||India||Met department predicts moderate rain in Delhi through the day||The national capital Sunday recorded a minimum temperature of 23.4 degrees Celsius, one notch below the season's average, the India Meteorological Department said. The relative humidity was recorded at 94 per cent in the morning, it said. The weatherman predicted a generally cloudy sky with light to moderate rain thundershowers during the day. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 31 degrees Celsius. With record rains on Saturday, the air quality index remained in the "satisfactory" category at 54 at 8.05 am, according to the real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ''good'', 51 and 100 ''satisfactory'', 101 and 200 ''moderate'', 201 and 300 ''poor'', 301 and 400 ''very poor'', and 401 and 500 ''severe''.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
12-09-2021||India||Gujarat chief minister resigns a year before Assembly elections ||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani resigned on Saturday in an abrupt development that betrayed the BJP’s unease in the home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi where Assembly elections are due next year. Rupani is the fourth BJP chief minister to be dropped in six months — after Trivendra Singh Rawat and Tirath Singh Rawat in poll-bound Uttarakhand and B.S. Yeddyurappa in Karnataka. Public anger against the party has been on the rise in Gujarat, ruled by the BJP since 1995 barring a brief interlude, and has been exacerbated by the mishandling of the Covid crisis. Sources said Rupani, said to be home minister Amit Shah’s choice, was also facing an internal rebellion. Shah had recently been on a three-day Gujarat visit and is expected back in the state to preside over the change of guard, likely on Sunday. Both Modi and Shah are known to keep a watchful eye on the state government. After handing over his resignation to the governor, Rupani tweeted: “I believe the journey of Gujarat should go ahead under a new leadership…. Keeping this in mind, I have resigned as chief minister.” Rupani denied any differences with state BJP president C.R. Patil, who was appointed last year and is seen as close to Modi. Gujarat is expected to go to the polls in end-2022 and a change of guard, the party sources said, was needed. BJP leaders said Rupani’s government was seen as “lacklustre, lacking dynamism and an underperformer”. Like in Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat had witnessed overflowing crematoriums and burial grounds during the second Covid wave. The local media, relying on publicly available data, had reported how the Gujarat government was suppressing the ballooning death figures. The soul-stirring poem, Shav Vahini Ganga, that captured the horrors  of Covid mismanagement  was written by a Gujarati poet. In May last year, Dhaval Patel, editor of a local web portal, had been arrested on sedition charges for writing that Rupani would be removed as chief minister for mishandling the Covid crisis and that Union minister Mansukh Mandaviya was likely to replace him. Mandaviya, 49, reached Gandhinagar on Saturday amid speculation that he could replace Rupani. Another name doing the rounds is that of controversial Lakshadweep lieutenant governor Praful Patel, who is believed to be close to Modi.  Another probable is Gujarat deputy chief minister Nitin Patel. The BJP sources said a Patel was likely to be chosen as the next chief minister to woo the numerically, politically and economically powerful Patidar community that is unhappy with the BJP for several years. All three names doing the rounds are of Patidar leaders. Hardik Patel, a popular Patidar leader who has led protests against the BJP government, is the state chief of the Congress. He tweeted that the reason for Rupani’s exit was a BJP-RSS survey in August that predicted a clear win for the Congress in elections. Rupani was picked as chief minister in August 2016 after the sudden resignation of Anandiben Patel, who is now the governor of Uttar Pradesh. Anandiben had taken over after Modi moved to Delhi as Prime Minister in 2014. It was believed that she didn’t share a rapport with Shah. Rupani  continued as chief minister despite the BJP’s narrow win in 2017 because of Shah’s support, party sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
12-09-2021||India||Afghanistan crisis: Kin tormented by Taliban, rebuffed in India||Taliban insurgents celebrating the takeover of her hometown in Afghanistan raped her sister, forced her family out of their home because of their ethnicity and turned it into a military camp. She says she is wanted by the Taliban for writing in a US journal and her plea for visa renewal in India has been rejected. “I can’t apply for a job in India without a work visa and I can’t apply for a work visa here without a job,” the 23-year-old Delhi University pass-out told The Telegraph here. With Afghanistan in turmoil and her facing the prospect of becoming one of the many stateless people, shorn of basic human identity and never quite accepted in their adopted country, the woman broke down while narrating her plight to this correspondent. The young woman, who has recently completed her post-graduation in political science from Delhi University, was unwilling to be named or photographed. She said her family had not spoken about the brutality on her younger sister because of threats from the Taliban. The militants took over her hometown, near the Turkmenistan border, on July 26. “My family decided not to make it public as it is an issue of honour, and they (the Taliban) threatened to kill them if they spoke to anyone about this. The Taliban members who have occupied our town are Pashtun, and we are Uzbeks who they do not consider true Muslims,” the woman said. “My family members have all run away to different places and are in hiding. My sister, who was to join a course in Kabul University, is having a tough time and won’t be joining this semester. I am still traumatised and have told this only to very few close friends.” The woman’s request for visa renewal in India has been turned down on the ground that she has completed her course of study. “We are a secular Muslim family. Just because I wrote for a US military journal, the Taliban have issued a letter against me. Our home is now a military camp for them. As soon as they took over my hometown near Turkmenistan, they started marrying women forcibly and recruiting young boys. A friend of my brother who is in school turned up at the mosque one day with a big gun after being drafted (by the Taliban). My brother, who is 12 years old, was too scared to go to the mosque after that,” she said. The woman has been issued an Asylum Seeker Card by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, and her hearing is scheduled for December next year. She receives no institutional assistance and is surviving on remittances from an elder brother in Russia. She wishes to emigrate to the US but has not received the documentation to prove her employment with the journal that she says she has been writing for. “My flat here was recently burgled and my phone and laptop were stolen. Police have done nothing to solve the crime…. I have been here since I was 17. I go to gurdwaras and my favourite music that I play on my phone is kirtan. But without a visa I shall always be an outsider,” she said. This newspaper spoke to several refugees in the Afghan quarters of Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar on Tuesday, hours after the Taliban had brutally suppressed a women’s protest for their rights on the streets of Kabul. Asked about the violence in Kabul, a woman vehemently refused comment, saying: “Taliban goli maar dega (The Taliban will shoot us).” She was one among several young Afghan women — fashionably dressed and without headscarves — at the bustling Lajpat Nagar market in New Delhi. In Delhi’s Afghan pocket of Lajpat Nagar, dotted with travel agencies, forex dealers and restaurants serving Central Asian food, incomes have been halved as the flow of medical tourists and students from Afghanistan has stopped after the Taliban takeover, as have international flights from that country’s main airports. Most refugees here — usually forthcoming and hospitable to the media — declined comment when this newspaper visited Lajpat Nagar, reflecting the deep insecurity they felt for their loved ones back home. Jamshed Faizi’s father had sent him to Delhi from their village near Mazar-i-Sharif three years ago to prevent him from being forcibly recruited by the Taliban. “The cities have fallen to them only now but they have been harassing us in the village for many years. My father said, ‘Just leave, do anything but get out of here. Our lives are over but you have your whole life ahead of you,’” he recalled. Faizi, 21, is an expert naanwai who bakes Afghan naan breads like Paraki, Lavasa, Roghani, Roht, Bolani, Obi, Uzbeki and Afghani in a spherical earthen oven in a hole in the wall at the Kasturba Niketan Complex in Lajpat Nagar, where several Afghans live. “Our daily sales are down from Rs 10,000 to Rs 5,000. Families that are here for medical treatment used to spend at least Rs 500 a day, but now they somehow make do with Rs 200 to 300 as the Afghan banks have stopped working and there are no remittances,” Faizi said. “Even Indians don’t have enough work, so as a refugee I can’t expect to be allowed to work in the formal sector. What hurts is the extortion. Most landlords charge us double the normal rent. We pay for electricity at a flat rate of Rs 10 per unit to landlords who get it free (waiver for low consumption). But many Indians are very kind to us, like my Sardarji landlord,” he told this newspaper. His landlord stopped on his way back from work to ask if Faizi had read the day’s newspaper. “It’s all bad news,” he replied. “It’s better to die hungry here than live as a slave under the rule of Pakistan and its henchmen.” The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has registered 15,217 Afghan refugees in India. Hundreds more have come over the past month. Refugee groups estimate the total number to be more than 21,000 now. Many are camping outside the UNHCR office as well as the embassies of Australia, Canada and European countries. Faizi had participated in a protest outside the UNHCR office in Delhi for asylum and financial assistance, but got neither. Another naanwai, 20-year-old Naseebullah Khan from Kandahar, came to Delhi five years ago to study at an Industrial Training Institute. He now survives on sales to Somali, Iraqi, Tajik and Uzbek medical tourists. “I wish I could work on the things I learnt at the ITI. But I can’t return to Kandahar. What you see on TV in Kabul is jannat (heaven) compared to the jahannum (hell) in my hometown,” he said. Rohid Afzali from Kabul and Nadeem Obaidi from Mazar-i-Sharif have family in Canada and want to join them there. They have been staying in the Kasturba Niketan Complex for a couple of years, trying for a visa. “We feel bad and helpless for what is happening back home. Women can’t study, those of us who have studied can’t find jobs. We came here as it is believed that emigration is easier from India, and it was too unsafe back home. Little did we know that our countrymen in Delhi have been struggling here for decades,” Obaidi said. Afzali weighed in: “My political science degree is of no use. A travel agency we ran back home has shut, and here too Afghan restaurants have been hit since the pandemic begun. I’m stuck, there’s nowhere to go and I’m totally dependent on funds from relatives in Canada. For how long, I don’t know.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
12-09-2021||India||Kozhikode: Medicine cloud in jet crash in August 2020, says report||The pilot’s failure to adhere to the standard operating procedure resulted in the Air India Express Boeing 737 crash at Kozhikode airport in August 2020, the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau said in its final report released on Saturday. The report also flagged systemic failures that may have played a contributory role. The crash killed 21 people, including the two pilots. The plane was carrying 190 people. “The pilot in command was taking multiple un-prescribed anti-diabetic drugs that could have probably caused subtle cognitive deficits due to mild hypoglycaemia, which probably contributed to errors in complex decision-making,” the report said. The report concluded that the probable cause of the accident was the pilot’s decision to continue with an un-stabilised approach and the failure to carry out a “go around” despite calls to do so by the co-pilot. Low visibility and a faulty windshield wiper led to degraded visual cues upon landing, the report added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
12-09-2021||India||Heavy rains in Delhi leave part of airport, several areas waterlogged||Rain lashed the national capital early on Saturday, flooding streets, neighbourhoods and the forecourt of Delhi airport and raising the total monsoon rainfall at the city’s Safdarjung weather station to 113.6cm, the highest in 46 years. Weather scientists said the rain over Delhi was part of a pattern of excess rainfall across India’s northwest, driven primarily by a low-pressure zone over eastern Rajasthan that had pulled moisture-laden winds from the east. Another low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal is likely to move northwest and intensify into a depression, the India Meteorological Department said on Saturday, predicting “very heavy or extremely heavy” rainfall over Gangetic Bengal on Sunday. (See Metro) Delhi International Airport authorities said that record-breaking rain on Friday night and a high downpour on Saturday morning had caused some waterlogging across the forecourt of Terminal 3, which was “cleared within a few minutes”. Aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia tweeted that he had spoken to airport officials and “was told that the waterlogged forecourt was cleared up within 30 minutes”, PTI reported. By then, a video clip of the waterlogged forecourt was circulating on social media, evoking sarcastic remarks. “When airport turns into seaport,” said a tweet. “Any arrangement for boats?” asked another. An airport spokesperson attributed the waterlogging to a steep slope of 17 metres between a nearby highway and Terminal 3 that drives rainwater towards the terminal, from where it is carried away by a drainage system. The spokesperson said the airport had been requesting state and central government bodies and officials to widen the underground drainage channel for the past few years. “We hope the drainage system will be widened soon,” the spokesperson said. On Sunday, the weather agency said, very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall was likely to cause localised flooding of roads, inundate low-lying areas, and close underpasses in cities and towns across these regions. Traffic is likely to be disrupted because of waterlogged streets. “The excess rainfall across northwest India over the past 24 hours is the result of these two low pressure systems,” said IMD director-general Mrutyunjaya Mohapatra. “This excess will help make up the deficit rainfall in August.” Saturday’s rain has raised the total monsoon rainfall over Delhi’s Safdarjung weather station to 113.6cm, the highest since the station recorded 115.5cm in 1975. The highest that Safdarjung has ever logged was 142cm in 1933. Bikaner in Rajasthan’s desert region received 7.6mm instead of the normal 0.5mm, an excess of 1,424 per cent, while Barmer recorded an excess of 1,445 per cent, and Ludhiana in Punjab an excess of 252 per cent. The IMD has predicted very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall over parts of Odisha and eastern Rajasthan on Sunday, over parts of Odisha, Gujarat and central India on Monday, and over Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
12-09-2021||India||Farmers end gherao of Karnal mini-secretariat as Khattar blinks||Farmers ended their gherao of the Karnal mini-secretariat on Saturday after the Haryana government agreed to send former sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha on leave, pending inquiry by a retired high court judge, and promised compensatory employment to two family members of the farmer who had died, allegedly after suffering injuries in a lathi-charge on August 28. Sinha had been caught on camera ordering police to “break the heads” of those planning a protest against the ruling BJP that day. The breakthrough came after four rounds of talks between the farmers and the Haryana administration amid clear signals from the farming community that they were prepared for the long haul if their demands were not met. The farmers dug their heels in regardless of alleged efforts by the government to make things difficult for them. The farmers had alleged on Thursday that the administration had lopped off trees to rob them of their shade. However, like the farmers sitting at Delhi’s borders for over nine months —  come rain or sunshine —  the peasants at Karnal were determined to continue with their dharna till the government yielded to their wishes. The gherao of the Karnal mini-secretariat had begun on Tuesday. After defending Sinha’s actions for the past fortnight, the government led by Manohar Lal Khattar finally blinked on Saturday morning. On September 2, Sinha had been transferred out of Karnal and posted as additional secretary in the citizen resources information department, a decision the farmers found unacceptable. Footage had shown Sinha instructing the police to “break the heads” of farmers if they breached the security cordon during their protest against a BJP meeting in Karnal on August 28. Subsequently, at least 10 farmers were injured in a police lathi-charge. Elsewhere, too, the farmers’ agitation received a shot in the arm on Saturday. Some of the Olympic medallists, along with Arjuna and Dronacharya awardees, accepted the farmers’ invitation to be felicitated, braving criticism. The sportspersons present at the felicitation at the Kharkhoda grain market in Sonepat included Olympic-medallist wrestlers Ravi Dahiya and Bajrang Punia, hockey player Sumit Valmiki who was part of the bronze-winning team in Tokyo, and wrestler and Olympian Deepak Punia. For the protesting farmers — called “anti-national” by the Right wing — this was a way of reminding the rulers how deep and wide their links were in society. As they often say, even the police, who are ordered to beat them up, are in effect “farmers in uniform”. At Karnal, after the breakthrough meeting between the state government’s representative, additional chief secretary Devender Singh, and farmer union leaders led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (Haryana) head Gurnam Singh Chaduni, they addressed a joint media conference to announce the end of the gherao. Devender, a senior IAS officer, said: “The farmers are our brothers. We have reached a respectable and amicable solution on all the demands that were raised.” He said former SDM Sinha would remain on leave for the period during which the probe led by the retired judge is conducted. In a statement, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha — which has been spearheading the farmers’ agitation at Delhi’s borders and had given the call to gherao the Karnal mini-secretariat — said: “The Khattar government has agreed to suspend Ayush Sinha.… There was also an agreement between the Haryana farm unions and the administration for a judicial inquiry under a retired high court judge who will look into the role of Ayush Sinha for the police violence which resulted in the death of one farmer and injury to countless others. The probe will be completed within a month. “The government has also agreed to compensation to the family of Shaheed Sushil Kajal (the deceased farmer) and support in the form of two jobs to be provided to his family members. Compensation will also be given to the farmers injured in the violence.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
12-09-2021||India||Newslaundry CEO accuses I-T sleuths of privacy violation||The CEO of Newslaundry, one of the two news websites “surveyed” for 12 hours by income-tax officials on Friday, has accused the tax sleuths of downloading personal data from his devices and thus violating “my fundamental right to privacy”. Nor did the income-tax officials give him a “hash value” that acts as a safeguard against device tampering, Abhinandan Sekhri, who had been held at his Sarvodaya Enclave office, said in his statement. Prabir Purkayastha, editor-in-chief of NewsClick — the other website “surveyed” — alleged “attempts to stifle independent journalism” while the Editors Guild condemned the “dangerous trend of government agencies harassing and intimidating independent media”. (See Page 3) Sekhri said: “My personal mobile phone, laptop and a couple of office machines were taken control of and all the data on them downloaded by the IT (income-tax) team.” Sekhri said: “In my understanding this (taking all data from my personal laptop and mobile phone) violates my fundamental right to privacy. No signed hash value of the data copied was provided to me.” A hash value is a unique number that identifies an electronic device. It changes if any change is made to the device’s storage, and is used to ascertain whether a device has been tampered with. Although investigators are not legally bound to give an individual the hash value of a device taken away as evidence, failure to do so can be claimed as grounds by the defence to question the veracity of the electronic evidence if it is presented in court, two criminal lawyers not engaged by these companies told this newspaper. The income-tax department is yet to respond to Sekhri’s statement. Section 133A of the Income Tax Act, under which the surveys were carried out, says: “An income-tax authority acting under this section shall, on no account, remove or cause to be removed from the place wherein he has entered, any books of account or other documents or any cash, stock or other valuable article or thing.” “It is learnt that the IT team made clones of Sekhri’s mobile and laptop, as well as some other office machines, and no hash value was given to them,” the Editors Guild said. “This is clearly beyond the mandate of surveys as defined under Section 133A of the Income Tax Act, which only allows data pertaining to the investigation to be copied, and certainly not personal and professional data of journalists. It is also in violation of procedures laid out in the Information Technology Act, 2000.” Both websites are being probed for alleged tax evasion. Sekhri said: “We have in the past given the IT authorities all documents related to our funding and accounts. We will cooperate in whatever way we are required to by law. “We will also continue to practise public interest journalism which is why we exist. Our support comes from people who value public interest news and choose to subscribe to Newslaundry, not through government or corporate advertisements or PR exercises.” Several Twitter users have shown their support by tweeting that they subscribe to a paid version of the website, known for its news coverage as well as its satire shows. Sekhri confirmed that Newslaundry had witnessed a surge in subscriptions on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
12-09-2021||India||‘I’d rather build a cadre than poach leaders’||The day Sushmita Dev quit the Congress, a disgruntled Kapil Sibal reacted thus in a social media post: “The party moves on with eyes wide shut... While young leaders leave, we ‘oldies’ are blamed for our efforts to strengthen it.” Sushmita, 48, former Lok Sabha MP and till recently president of the All India Mahila Congress, is believed to be a close associate of Rahul Gandhi. Her resignation has been part of the great and continuing unravelling of the grand old party that has in recent times lost young leaders such as Jyotiraditya Scindia, Priyanka Chaturvedi and Jitin Prasada to rivals. “It is not possible to be with the Congress anymore,” says Sushmita. “It’s a completely ideologically messed up party,” she adds with a deep sigh when I finally connect with her, a fortnight after she has joined the Trinamul. Unlike many others, she doesn’t express any grouse against the party’s high command. She’d rather talk about future possibilities. “After the massive victory of the Trinamul in West Bengal, I believe Mamata Banerjee is the strongest national leader. She can fight and vanquish the BJP, the country’s biggest enemy. By joining the Trinamul, I will be able to help her,” she says over phone. She is talking from her home in Tarapur in Silchar. I can imagine her sitting beside a huge portrait of her father and veteran Congress leader Santosh Mohan Dev. Dev Sr was one of Rajiv Gandhi’s most trusted aides and ministers. I had visited the house on a windy evening of February 2019, before the Lok Sabha elections; it is located on a road named after her grandfather, Satindramohan Dev, a freedom fighter and an associate of Jawaharlal Nehru. Apart from legacy loyalties, Sushmita had firmly established her position in the Congress after she ousted Kabindra Purkayastha, a BJP stalwart of the Northeast, in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. It was also sweet revenge; Dev Sr had lost to Purkayastha in 2009. Obviously, it hasn’t been easy for her to sever ties with the Congress. In a letter to interim Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, Sushmita did not mention why she was resigning, just that she cherished her “three-decade-long association” with the party. Soon after Sushmita joined the Trinamul, hordes of Congress cadres followed suit. She, however, insists, “I would rather build a cadre base than poach leaders of other parties. You cannot do politics without cadres.” Over the past few years, the Congress party’s base in Assam’s Barak Valley, as built and consolidated by Santosh Mohan Dev over decades, has been disintegrating. Dev Sr had been instrumental in forming Congress governments in Tripura and other northeastern states in his heyday. But at some point, the RSS-BJP combine’s prolonged fanning of ethnic differences in the region created the context for its own ascent. Since a large number of people in the region are migrants from erstwhile East Bengal, the BJP dangled the carrot of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act or CAA; they promised fast-tracked citizenship to Hindu emigres. This helped the BJP draw Hindu voters to its fold; in 2019, Sushmita lost to greenhorn Rajdeep Roy of the BJP. To add salt to injury, in the 2021 Assam elections, the Congress in Assam decided to forge an alliance with the Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front. This further alienated the Congress’s Hindu vote bank in Assam and the party lost. Says Sushmita, “I had warned against this alliance, but they were desperate,” she laments. “Besides, the Congress sent leaders like Bhakta Charan Das (from Odisha) and Manish Chatrath (from Delhi) for electioneering; they were clueless about the Northeast .” According to her, Himanta Biswa Sarma, the new chief minister of Assam, is hand-in-glove with a section of the Opposition there. These leaders now sing paeans for Sarma instead of standing up to the BJP’s anti-people policies. “He has thoroughly communalised the political space in Assam and the region. He’s been pursuing a politics of chauvinism — linguistic and religious — to impress his boss Amit Shah so that he could become the chief minister,” says Sushmita. It is his chauvinism, according to her, that has resulted in the border disputes between Assam and neighbours Mizoram and Meghalaya. She adds, “Now that he’s CM, he doesn’t bother much about other northeastern states.” Sushmita believes that in this backdrop of strife and chaos, people are looking for a non-Congress and non-BJP alternative. “The Trinamul can fill the political void,” she says. When I ask her whether Mamata Banerjee will be viewed as a typical Bengali leader in the region, she shoots back, “Her influence is no longer confined to Bengal. She’s been in national politics far longer than Prime Minister Modi...” Political observers such as Joydeep Biswas, a political scientist with Assam University, believe Sushmita will be projected as the chief ministerial candidate in Tripura by the Trinamul in the 2022 Assembly elections. Biswas says, “Just like Mamata, she is a street-fighter and hardworking. Give her five-six years and she’ll turn the tide of politics in the Northeast.” As for Sushmita, this is what she has to say. “By foisting a chief minister like Biplab Deb on the people of Tripura, the BJP has sent the message that they just want to grab power and have no interest in governance. I know the state well, thanks to my father, and I can expedite the process here.” Têtevitae 1972: Sushmita is born to Congress leader Santosh Mohan Dev and his wife Bithika in Silchar After her postgraduation from King’s College, London, becomes a Bar-at-law from Middle Temple, UK 2011: Fights Assam Assembly elections and wins 2014: Becomes MP from Silchar 2017: Becomes president of All India Mahila Congress 2019: Loses Silchar Lok Sabha seat to the BJP August 2021: Quits the Congress and joins the Trinamul||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
12-09-2021||India||Odisha government sounds caution during festive season||The Odisha government has urged people to be  cautious during the festive season with the state still reporting over 600 positive Covid cases daily. Special relief commissioner (SRC) Pradeep Jena on Friday called upon people to celebrate Nuakhai, the biggest festival of western Odisha associated with harvesting, by following Covid-appropriate behaviour. Jena asked people not to crowd temples during the festive period as this could lead to a spurt in cases. “Odisha is reporting 600-1,000 new Covid-19 infections daily. All need to be cautious as the second wave is yet to be over,” he added. During this most important agrarian festival of the state, “nabanna” or rice from the newly-harvested paddy crop is offered to the local deity before people eat it in different forms. Jena also said that the restrictions for the festive season announced on August 9 will remain in force. “Odisha will continue to celebrate festivals in a low-key manner in view of the pandemic. The 4-ft cap on idol height at Puja pandal remains,” he said. Amid protests by puja committees over restrictions on the height of the idols for Durga Puja, the state government on September 8 had said that a decision on the issue would be taken in two days. Later, chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra had met a delegation of the puja committees of Cuttack at the Lok Seva Bhavan here in the presence of Jena. The government continues to insist on puja committees not installing idols more than 4 feet high. On the other hand, the state government has made all possible preparations to tackle the possible third wave of the pandemic, which according to experts, is likely to affect children the most. While special paediatric care wards have been set up in hospitals, child specialists have been imparted special training to deal with Covid-19 affected children. Odisha was the first state of the country to set up special Covid hospitals when the first wave of the pandemic hit India in March last year. The state government, which took preventive measures in advance, had established dedicated hospitals to deal with Covid cases. The private sector, too, was involved in the initiative in a big way. The state was able to minimise the adverse effects of the pandemic mainly because of its efforts for the upgradation of health infrastructure. “We are trying to ensure that our good work does not go in vain because of the carelessness of people,” said a senior health official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
12-09-2021||India||HC stands with Knanaya Catholics marrying outside community||Kerala High Court has come to the aid of Catholic members of the Knanaya community who risked expulsion from their Church if they married outside the community, ruling “social values and morals are not above constitutionally guaranteed freedom”. “The said freedom is both a constitutional and a human right. Deprivation of that freedom which is ingrained in choice on the plea of faith is impermissible,” the single-judge bench of Justice V.G. Arun said on Wednesday. It lifted an additional district court’s stay on a sub-court’s ruling in April against the age-old practice by the Kottayam Diocese. The high court cited the landmark Hadiya case in which the Supreme Court had in 2018 affirmed the validity of Hadiya’s marriage with Shafin Jahan. Born Akhila Asokan, Hadiya’s conversion to Islam and marriage to Shafin had been challenged by her father. The 2.5 lakh Knanayas, whose ancestors are said to have migrated from Syria in the fourth century AD, are concentrated in the south Kerala district of Kottayam and its neighbourhood and are mostly Catholic. The majority of them come under the Kottayam Diocese, which enforces endogamy on pain of expulsion. A group of reformists led by the Knanaya Catholic Naveekarana Samithy had challenged the district court’s stay and contended the Kottayam Diocese had expelled many Knanayas even for marrying non-Knanaya Christians. They said the ostracism was extended to children born of such marriages or of non-Knanaya surrogate mothers. This has forced many Knanayas to remain unmarried, they added. The Kottayam Diocese and its archbishop argued that endogamy was a religious practice for the community and was therefore protected under Articles 26(b) and 29(1) of the Constitution. But the high court ruled: “The social values and morals have their space but they are not above the constitutionally guaranteed freedom.” It added: “The issue involved is regarding curtailment of the fundamental right of a citizen to marry a person of his/her choice, by insisting that the partner should also be a member of the Archeparchy of Kottayam.” It further observed that the appellate court had lacked sufficient grounds to stay the sub-court order. The petitioners, who were represented in court by Supreme Court lawyer Kaleeswaram Raj, had argued: “The rights and religious freedom under Article 25 cannot be used in a way to override the rights of others. “Individual autonomy, while in conflict with supposed religious freedom, should override the latter. This is the spirit behind the prohibition of various practices like untouchability under Article 17 of the Constitution.” The Samithy had in 2015 filed a civil suit before the Kottayam sub-court seeking relief from the practice of expulsions for breaking the endogamy rule. On April 30 this year, the sub-court restrained the Kottayam Diocese from ordering such expulsions. But the additional district court of Kottayam stayed the order on May 18 and, in July, extended the stay till the disposal of the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
12-09-2021||India||Income-tax survey an attempt to stifle journalism: NewsClick||The editor-in-chief of one of the two anti-establishment news websites that income-tax officials “surveyed” for 12 hours on Friday has alleged an attempt “to stifle independent journalism”. NewsClick boss Prabir Purkayastha, 71, who is suffering from a spasm in his lower back, was detained in his office through the “survey” that ended after midnight and had his phone impounded. “The raid yesterday appears to relate to the same false and unfounded allegations being investigated by the Enforcement Directorate and the economic offences wing, Delhi police,” Purkayastha said in a statement. “We have these allegations challenged in the courts. These investigations by various agencies, and these selective allegations, are attempts to stifle the independent journalism of media organisations — including NewsClick.” NewsClick faces a Rs 100-crore defamation suit filed by the Adani group. It’s also being probed by the Delhi police’s economic offences wing (EOW) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The ED’s case is based on an FIR the EOW had registered last year alleging NewsClick had violated FDI rules by receiving Rs 9.59 crore from a defunct US-based firm, Worldwide Media Holdings LLC, in 2018. A Reserve Bank report to the police does not support this claim. NewsClick has underlined that this investment was received before an FDI cap of 26 per cent for digital media was imposed in 2019. The Editors Guild too spoke out against the way the “surveys” were conducted. “While they were officially labelled as ‘surveys’ by the IT (income-tax) officials, but as per the statement issued by Abhinandan Sekhri, co-founder of Newslaundry, this was a clear intimidatory and blatant attack on their rights, and therefore press freedom,” a Guild statement said. “The Guild is deeply concerned that such indiscriminate seizure of journalists’ data, which could include sensitive information such as details of sources, stories under works and other journalistic data, is in violation of free speech and freedom of press.” The Guild added: “The dangerous trend of government agencies harassing and intimidating independent media must stop as it undermines our constitutional democracy. In July 2021, income-tax raids were conducted at the offices of (the) country’s leading newspaper, Dainik Bhaskar, as well as a Lucknow-based news channel, Bharat Samachar. These raids were conducted against the backdrop of some very critical coverage by both the news organisations on government’s handling of the pandemic.” Digipub News India Foundation, an association of online news outlets, expressed “great worry that the authorities have potentially gained access to confidential information that the journalists may have been privy to in the course of their work”. The Delhi Union of Journalists condemned “attempts to browbeat media establishments and individual journalists” and also cited the FIR in Uttar Pradesh against journalist Rana Ayyub.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
12-09-2021||India||Bihar: No stretcher, 80-year-old woman carried on plastic sack||An 80-year-old woman suspected to have suffered brain haemorrhage had to be carried around on a plastic sack in the district hospital in Bihar’s Bhojpur on Friday as no stretcher was allegedly available. Videos widely shared on social media show the frail woman, identified as Phuljharo Kunwar, lying on the sack on a dusty road and then being carried by three men, who held the ends of the sack, into the emergency ward of the Sadar Hospital at Ara in Bhojpur. Her weight caused the sack to bulge downwards. Another man filming the episode on a cellphone points out that this is the condition of heath care at Bhojpur, whose minister-in-charge is the state’s health minister, the BJP’s Mangal Pandey. Kunwar’s relatives said she had to be lugged around from one department to another inside the hospital too for tests and doctors’ advice as no stretcher was available. The Opposition tore into Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar over his claims of improvement in health infrastructure. Kunwar had fallen unconscious in the bathroom of her home in Bihta village on Friday. She was rushed to a government referral hospital at Tarari, where doctors suspected that she had suffered brain haemorrhage and referred her to the Sadar Hospital in the district headquarters. Kunwar’s family members could not get an ambulance at the referral hospital and had to hire a vehicle to reach the district hospital. Once there, they were shocked to find that no stretchers were available to take the patient around for tests and treatment. “At first, two of us ran around in different directions in the hospital for a stretcher, but there was none. We asked some hospital employees, but they either did not even bother to answer or told us to wait,” Munna Kumar, Kunwar’s grandson, said. “We did wait for a few minutes, but realised we were losing precision time. We looked around and saw a torn plastic sack. We made our grandmother lie on it and carried her around to doctors, for a CT scan and then back to the emergency ward where she was later admitted. There were just the three of us and we had a hard time carrying her around,” Munna added. He said this was not the rosy picture of health care that politicians often painted. Asked about the incident, hospital manager Kaushal Kishore Dubey said: “The family members of Phuljharo Kunwar had brought her to the emergency here. They asked the medical staff for a stretcher and were told to wait a bit. But they did not wait and carried the patient themselves. There is no dearth of stretchers here.” Prodded further, Dubey said the district hospital had two stretchers, both of which were in use when Kunwar was brought in. Sources said the stretchers were in a pitiable state and were seldom used to carry patients. The mobile phones of the Bhojpur civil surgeon and the Ara Sadar Hospital medical officer in-charge remained switched off on Saturday. Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav shared a photograph of the woman being carried on the plastic sheet and said: “This is chief minister Nitish Kumar’s BJP-type of development during 16 years of (his) rule.” Health minister Pandey’s tenure has been pockmarked with allegations of inefficiency. There have been waterlogging inside buildings, wards and operation theatres, complaints of misbehaviour by hospital staff and doctors with patients and their kin, absence of doctors from duty, lack of ambulances and hearses due to which people have been forced to carry patients and bodies themselves, bungling in tests, especially those pertaining to Covid-19, dearth of investigative facilities at government hospitals and poor nursing. There are around 12,000 government hospitals and health centres in Bihar — 36 district hospitals, 67 referral hospitals, 54 sub-divisional hospitals, 533 public health centres, 9,949 sub-centres and 1,393 additional public health centres. On Saturday, Nitish chaired a review meeting of the health department against the backdrop of a fast-spreading viral fever and cases of dengue and swine flu that have only added to the Covid woes. Health minister Pandey and senior officers of the department were present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
12-09-2021||India||Cong set to take on BJP on religion and nationalism ahead of elections||The Congress is gearing up to confront the BJP on religion and nationalism ahead of the critical elections in Uttar Pradesh and then Gujarat as it expects the ruling party to milk these emotive issues to hide governance failures. The unusual prominence given to the Taliban in the political discourse of Uttar Pradesh, assiduously aided by the electronic media and the RSS-BJP’s WhatsApp network, is being viewed as a precursor to the full-fledged Hindutva agenda being unveiled in the coming months. Congress leaders believe the BJP is tapping into the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan to polarise voters along communal lines and call for a Hindu consolidation. Senior leaders are saying in private conversations that Rahul Gandhi’s visit to the Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu must have been driven by concerns over the BJP’s ability to portray itself as the sole protector of Hinduism and unleash the propaganda that the Congress is anti-Hindu. Although this was not Rahul’s first visit to the important Hindu shrine, the timing appeared linked to the upcoming political battles. That the visit was not just about personal faith got forcefully manifested through the extraordinary projection of the event by the Congress on social media. Addressing a public rally in Jammu after his pilgrimage, Rahul himself used new metaphors to explain the nature of the political crisis. “There is a trinity of Durga, Lakshmi and Saraswati at Vaishno Devi. These three powers protect and make the country flourish. Durga is the power that protects, Lakshmi helps one fulfil objectives and Saraswati gives knowledge,” he said. The Congress leader went on to ask whether demonetisation had enhanced or diminished the power that Lakshmi symbolises and whether knowledge, the power of Saraswati, is bolstered when the government packs universities with RSS activists. While this new language of communication may rile those overtly secular, party workers believe the most urgent task is to dilute the perception of the Congress being anti-Hindu and the BJP being a Hindu party. A Congress MP said: “The BJP will have nothing left to say if we blunt their Hindutva push. Once we are on a par, they will have to explain the failures on the economy, jobs, Chinese intrusion and the corona mismanagement. Rahul always goes to temples but we still have to do a lot to demolish the perception that the BJP protects Hindu interests. “We will have to establish that the BJP uses Hinduism to spread hatred against Muslims while our objective is to unite people, to strengthen the constitutional principles of equality and justice.” Senior leader Digvijaya Singh, who has always dealt with the issue of religion boldly, said at a conference a couple of days ago: “We oppose the RSS because they create religious frenzy to divide the society. We know unity and harmony are essential for progress. They whip up passions through false propaganda about Hinduism being under threat and exploit the Hindu sentiment for vote.” Congress general secretary Tariq Anwar also believes the BJP has filed a case against him in Patna for endorsing lyricist Javed Akhtar’s comparison of the RSS with the Taliban only because they want to prevent any debate on core issues and take political advantage by misleading people. “Javed Akhtar has said there are similarities between the ideology of the RSS and the Taliban. Anybody can see the similarities in mindset. The Taliban want an Islamic state and the RSS wants a Hindu rashtra. We always opposed the RSS concept of nationalism because it is based on religious discrimination while Congress nationalism is based on constitutional principles,” Anwar told The Telegraph. He added: “They think I will be scared of their legal threat. I come from a family of freedom fighters. I will fight the RSS and their Talibani mindset because we believe in the Gandhian philosophy of truth and non-violence. They tried this intimidating tactic against our leader Rahul also. But the Congress is opposed to the RSS worldview and we will always remain so.” Digvijaya supported Anwar’s line through a series of tweets, arguing that the Taliban’s outlook towards women was similar to the RSS’s. Recalling RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s comment that “women should be housewives, men should be breadwinners”, Digvijaya said: “Do the Taliban and the RSS have a similarity of views on working women? Looks like it, unless Mohan Bhagwatji and the Taliban change their views.” The Congress veteran also quoted Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who had been reported as saying that women were incapable of being left free or independent. “The Taliban say women can’t be made ministers. Isn’t there a congruence of views?” Digvijaya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
