13-09-2021||India||Raman Dandyan and Gurinder Baasi are the two superstars emerging in the music industry||Different industries and fields are on a constant rise, especially from the past few years, thanks to the consistent efforts, hard work, and resilience a few individuals have shown over the years. These individuals have been hustling their way to the top in their chosen industries and making the most of the opportunities, and also creating newer ones for them. Raman dandyan and Gurinder baasi are such rare gem amongst these young talents from India, who, for his passion for music has been consistently walking his path, facing the challenges, and emerging as a true winner in the same. It is unbelievable to know that Raman dandyan and Gurinder baasi are the only youngster, who with his pure love, passion, and commitment to music, has been shining brightly as a rising musical artist in the ever-so-evolving and growing music industry. The young guys confesses that from a very young age, while he was still a kid, he realized his heart was inclined the most towards the world of music. Since he understood his true calling early in life, he decided to dive deep into the music industry to emerge as a dynamic young singer and artist. Raman dandyan and Gurinder Baasi, today has given us hit songs such as Phantom, Double Cross, Fame etc. They confesses that they always wanted to do something different as a singer and offer a kind of uniqueness to the audiences and music lovers with his songs. To know more, follow him on Instagram @ramandandyan1, @gurinder_baasi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
13-09-2021||India||NLP Master Yogendra Singh Rathore’s unique approach makes him a preferred coach in India||What makes a coach effective? It is not just their motivation to improve their practice and approach towards mentoring, but ensure that they foster the overall development of an individual. Neuro-Linguistic Programming (NLP) coaching is one such technique that coaches use in reaching the personal goal of an individual. Such kind of technique helps in improving the thoughts, language and behavioural patterns of a person. Bringing a change in people’s lives with his effective method is NLP master Yogendra Singh Rathore, popularly known as YSR on the internet. Since day one, his goal is pretty clear – break the barriers that hinder the overall  development and replace negativity with positivity. For instance, the life coach says that anxiety can be replaced with meditation. “After all, meditation keeps the mind calm and peaceful whereas NLP training keeps the body and behaviour of a person positive. It is interlinked to each other”, says Mr. Rathore. The NLP master through his distinctive training has helped individuals in finding their life purpose and getting out of the limited mindset. Through a holistic approach, Yogendra Singh Rathore has played a significant role in creating solutions for problems. Under his guidance, he has strengthened the leadership capabilities of a person and has also taught people how to overcome the difficulties of life in a rational manner. Mr. Rathore’s one-of-a-kind approach has seen him turn his entrepreneurial dreams into reality. He is the proud owner of startups including Mission Positive World Pvt. Ltd, Guniguru.com, and LEADMONK Digital Pvt. Ltd. Apart from this, YSR is the bestselling author and an award-winning marketing influencer. Converting the negative into positive, and the challenges into opportunities, this NLP master has boosted the overall development of a person. Furthermore, he went on to reveal that identifying the trigger points and understanding the root cause of any problem is of utmost importance.  For the same, Mr. Yogendra strongly urges to follow a positive and healthy mindset. Explaining about it, he said, “Cultivate good thoughts. When you think good, you attract better and have the best things in life.” Being an influential speaker and an affluent writer that he is, YSR has delivered motivational speeches at different workshops and seminars in India and overseas. Besides sharing the stage with notable personalities from different fields, Yogendra Singh Rathore has made an excellent contribution to Ahmedabad’s leading NGO named ‘YUVA-UNSTOPPABLE’. The terrific work ethos of Yogendra Singh Rathore has seen him garner many accolades like the Yuva Gratitude Award at IIM Ahmedabad among other awards and recognitions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
13-09-2021||India||Read how entrepreneur Yash Tuteja’s NGO ‘Aashayien’ is contributing to the welfare of society||The Raipur-based man much before embarking on his entrepreneurial journey had the vision to eradicate poverty from the state India’s economy is touching newer heights, thanks to entrepreneurs who have diversified various business ventures. While expansion has been a key aspect for every entrepreneur to prosper, the ability to give the maximum to society remains one of their best traits. Exercising both these duties brilliantly, Yash Tuteja has been helping thousands of people through his NGO ‘Aashayien’. The NGO was founded by him in 2010 that looks after the public welfare of people. Always passionate about helping underprivileged people under any circumstances, Yash Tuteja has a firm belief in serving the countrymen. In his words, “To bring a change, one must be the change.” And through ‘Aashayien’, he is truly making a difference and bringing a change in society. Mr. Tuteja is the president of the NGO, and he calls these eleven years a fruitful journey. He says, “My friends and I during college collected pocket money to celebrate our birthdays with the poor kids. We all had one common thing among us – a desire to help needy people in any capacity. With this collective approach, ‘Aashayien’ was born.” He then stated that their team is glad to reach the maximum number of people across Chhattisgarh as well as India. The Raipur-based man much before embarking on his entrepreneurial journey had the vision to eradicate poverty from the state. For the same, he has made an array of donations for child education, medical check-ups and many other initiatives. During the lockdown after the coronavirus pandemic, his NGO has helped more than 10,000 people across Chhattisgarh by distributing essential items. Moreover, after the second wave of the pandemic hit the country, ‘Aashayien’ was played a significant role in distributing PPE kits and oxygen concentrators in hospitals across different regions of Chhattisgarh. In the past, ‘Aashayien’ has adopted many small villages of Chhattisgarh, and the NGO has made sure to meet the basic necessities of people ever since. On the professional front, Yash Tuteja is managing Meenakshi Salon & Academy, a luxurious salon that has five outlets spread across Chhattisgarh. Apart from this, he runs a Tuteja Academy in Raipur that was established way back in 1991. While summing it up, the entrepreneur said that his idea is not just about making money but making an impact on people’s lives through his earned money. As of now, ‘Aashayien’ is dedicatedly working towards the betterment of people across the state. To be a part of the heartening journey of Mr. Tuteja, connect with him on Instagram - @yashtuteja1||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-09-2021||India||Meet Rajsinha Rajenimbalkar, A Politician & Activist Who Is A Messiah For People In Osmanabad!||Today's generation has several sectors to start a business thanks to social media and the emergence of various professions. They also have an excellent opportunity to get involved in politics. Rajsinha Eknath Rajenimbalkar is one such person who has mastered both. He began his career as an activist and is now the District President of the BJP Yuva Morcha. Rajsinha Eknathrao Rajenimbalkar was born in Osmanabad and studied Political Science at Vivekananda College in Kolhapur. His mother wished for him to work as an administrative officer. He studied for the MPSC exam while concurrently taking a correspondence MBA course at Pune's Symbiosis College and completing a post-graduate degree in International Politics at Pune University. Rajsinha chose to start a business after being unable to achieve the required results in the MPSC exams. When Rajsinha Rajenimbalkar returned to Osmanabad, he decided to improve his father's property. He also began working in the construction industry. Rajsinha noticed how distinct Marathwada's thinking, living, and working methods are throughout his time in Western Maharashtra. He had the idea that by providing greater possibilities to the youth, he might empower them. Rajenimbalkar thus joined the Nationalist Party 12 years ago and worked as a general worker to achieve his objectives. Rajsinha Rajenimbalkar began his political career under his father's supervision and was a prominent figure at events such as the Jubilee and Essay Competitions, Eloquence Competitions, Dance Competitions, Lecture Series, and district-level honours to the youth. Rajenimbalkar's life changed for the better in 2019 when he joined the BJP Youth Front under the leadership of Rana Jagat Singh Patil. During the pandemic, Rajsinha Rajenimbalkar donated masks, sanitisers, and food to thousands of people as the BJP Yuva Morcha district president. Sanjeevani Hospital has cooperated with the 25-bed Covid Center and the Terna Covid Center on a lease basis under the name of his Terna Charitable Trust in Osmanabad. The District President also assisted youth in participating in various Atmanirbhar Abhiyan Yojana projects. People in his locality were aware of numerous government programmes since he always made an effort to raise awareness about them. Two thousand people were given Rs. 10 loans as part of the Prime Minister's Self-Funding Scheme. Following this, some of the persons who had returned their loans were issued new loans. Rajsinha Rajenimbalkar has been involved in the coordination of blood donation camps and plasma donors. Aside from that, he owns Rajsinha Trading Company and Rajsinha Infra, which he runs independently. Young people, according to the politician, have a good opportunity in politics. He claims that by establishing his own business, he can carve out his niche in this sector. Rajsinha has established several public relations and youth organisations not just in Osmanabad but throughout Marathwada and Kolhapur. Under the leadership of Rana Jagat Singh Patil, MLA Sujit Singh Thakur, and Youth State President Vikrant Patil, he declared he would continue to lead politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-09-2021||India||Afghan crisis: Jaishankar calls for distribution of humanitarian aid ||With a grave humanitarian crisis unfolding in Afghanistan, India on Monday said it is willing to stand by Afghans and called for unimpeded access to aid providers to the country as also a "non-discriminatory" distribution of relief supplies across all sections of the society. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said that as an immediate neighbour, India is monitoring developments in Afghanistan with "understandable concern", and noted that the issue of travel and safe passage that can emerge as an obstacle to humanitarian assistance should be immediately sorted out. In a brief virtual address at the UN high-level meeting on the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan, the minister also heightened the threat of rising poverty levels and said the same could have a catastrophic effect on regional stability. He said India's approach to Afghanistan has always been guided by its historical friendship with its people and it will continue to be the case. “Today, I wish to underline that in the face of a grave emerging situation, India is willing to stand by the Afghan people, just as in the past. To ensure that this happened speedily and effectively, we believe that the international community must come together to create the best possible enabling environment,” he said. “Among the challenges that the current situation poses is that of efficient logistics. It is therefore essential that humanitarian assistance providers are accorded unimpeded, unrestricted and direct access to Afghanistan,” Jaishankar said. The external affairs minister said once relief materials reach that country, the world will naturally expect a “non-discriminatory distribution of humanitarian assistance across all sections of the Afghan society”. “Only the United Nations has the capacity to monitor such endeavours and reassure donors. As the picture becomes clear in respect of the legitimate concerns I am confident that the world will step forward and assist the Afghan people in their hour of need,” he said. His comments came in the backdrop of apprehensions of whether the relief materials, once delivered, will reach the intended beneficiaries under the Taliban regime. “Afghanistan is passing through a critical and challenging phase. There has been a sea change in its political, economic, social and security situation, and consequently, in its humanitarian needs,” he said. “As an immediate neighbour, India's monitoring developments with understandable concern,” he added. Jaishankar said India has consistently supported a central role of the global body on the future of the country as a multilateral platform is always more effective than small groups in building global consensus and encouraging united action. In his comments, he also said the UN Security Council resolution 2593 should guide the international community's approach in the coming days in Afghanistan. The UNSC resolution, adopted on August 30 under India's presidency of the global body, demanded that Afghan territory should not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter and train terrorists and plan or finance terrorist attacks. The external affairs minister also referred to an assessment by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) that there is an imminent threat of the poverty levels rising from 72 to 97 per cent in that country. “This would have catastrophic consequences, not just in our collective fight against poverty, but also for regional stability. Even as we address that, it is important that the issue of travel and safe passage that can emerge as an obstacle to humanitarian assistance be immediately sorted out,” Jaishankar said. He said those who wish to travel into and out of Afghanistan should be granted such facilities without obstruction. “The normalisation of regular commercial operations of Kabul airport would not only assist in that regard but then become the basis for a regular flow of relief material. This would also accelerate activities that would complement domestic relief measures,” he said. Jaishankar also listed India's contribution to the humanitarian requirements of Afghan society in the past. “This included providing more than one million metric tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan over the past decade. Last year too we have assisted Afghanistan with 75,000 metric tonnes of wheat,” he said. The minister said India has also partnered World Food Programme for the distribution of high protein biscuits over several years and that the innovative scheme particularly supported vulnerable school going children of Afghanistan. "India's efforts and helping the Afghan people have been both direct and indirect way of contributing to the livelihood and larger framework as significantly as they have to direct material leads. Our friendship is reflected in Indian development projects that today exist in all the 34 provinces," he said. Jaishankar said India has invested more than US dollar 3 billion for the welfare of the people of Afghanistan. “We have undertaken 500 projects in critical areas of power, water supply, road connectivity, healthcare, education, agriculture and capacity building,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-09-2021||India||Meet Mohammad Matin Hosseinabadi, raring to reach the top of the music world as a true blue professional||A closer look around us will let us know how things have been changing for the better across industries of the world. These changes are brought about by the immense efforts and hard work of certain individuals, who believe in not just attaining their desired success but also in taking those industries to the next level. They make others believe in the power of passion and perseverance. Doing exactly that is one such youngster, who believed in his visions and knew what he sought in life and hence, made every possible effort to get nearer those dreams and take those industries to the next level; he is Mohammad Matin Hosseinabadi. This young guy who hails from Tehran, Iran, was born in 2002. He was always a creative soul, which he realized at a much early age. This early realization helped him pave his own path to success in all those industries that he ever wanted to be a part of. At 19 years, Mohammad Matin Hosseinabadi is already a bitcoin investor, author, and entrepreneur in the world of cryptocurrencies and also an actor. However, what has caught much attention of people all over the world, is his growing inclination towards the world of music. This Iranian young man exudes pure passion for music and is raring to reach the top of the industry soon, showcasing his genuine talents in the same. Mohammad Matin Hosseinabadi has already come up with two tracks, "Love Me" and "Anytime", which are available on Spotify. On Facebook, he is already a verified personality. There is so much that Mohammad Matin Hosseinabadi wants to achieve as a musician, just as he achieved in the world of cryptocurrencies. All of us are really excited about the kind of work and music he wishes to create as an upcoming musical artist. Till then, do follow him on Instagram @hosseinabadimatin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-09-2021||India||Naseeruddin Shah calls out govt nudged 'pro-establishment' films||Actor Naseeruddin Shah said today that while he felt that the film industry had been insulated from religious discrimination and Islamophobia, filmmakers were being encouraged by the government to make "pro-establishment" films. Speaking to NDTV, the veteran actor also said his statement on a "section of Indian Muslims" celebrating the Taliban's return was misunderstood. In comments that went viral earlier this month, he had said: "Even as the Taliban's return to power in Afghanistan is a cause for concern for the whole world, celebrations of the barbarians by some sections of Indian Muslims is no less dangerous." He had also differentiated between what he called "Hindustani Islam" and what is actually practised in other parts of the world. The 71-year-old actor conceded today that "celebration" may not have been the right word to use. "I was referring to those who openly made a statement in favour of the Taliban. The past history of Taliban should make us pretty anxious," said Naseeruddin Shah. "What saddened me was that there are sections of the Muslim community who are in agreement. I also received pats on the back from the rightwing. I don't need any such congratulations or label." Asked whether he had felt any discrimination in the film industry, he said: "I don't know if the Muslim community is facing any discrimination now in the film industry. I think our contribution is far too important. In this industry there is only one god, and that is Mammon. The amount of revenue you can generate makes for the amount of respect that you receive in this industry. The three Khans are still at the very top, they are unchallenged and still delivering. I have never felt any discrimination. I was advised early in my career to change my name. I kept it and I don't know that it would have made any difference." But the discrimination did exist outside, he said. The actor said completely harmless statements by Muslim leaders, union members and students were being penalised yet open statements about perpetrating violence on the Muslim community are not being castigated or commented upon, let alone taken to task. On the backlash over his statements, the actor joked that he had been offered a fully refundable ticket to Pakistan - "Bombay to Colombo, Colombo to Karachi". Though there is no outright bigotry, the film industry is seeing some changes, the actor said. "They are being encouraged by the government to make pro-government films, to make films lauding the efforts of the government. They also being financed, also promised a clean chit if they make movies which are propaganda, to put it bluntly," he said. "In Nazi Germany also this was attempted. Filmmakers who were outstanding, world class, were rounded up and asked to make films propagating the Nazi philosophy." The actor said he didn't have any definite proof but it was obvious from the big-ticket films coming out these days. "The kind of big budget films that are coming. The big ones cannot disguise the jingoistic agenda," he said. He asserted that what he said was "perfectly reasonable" and that he felt sorry for those getting "rabidly angry" at what he had said on the Taliban. "It's not an ordinary time. There is an atmosphere of bottled hate just waiting to be released. People are waiting to take offence to anything. If they had heard my statement, they would have realised there is nothing to get their knickers in a twist about," Naseeruddin Shah said. On the view that he may have exaggerated the scale of people who were speaking in support of the Taliban, he told NDTV that he felt what he said had to be said at that time. "It doesn't take time for a wildfire to spread. It doesn't take time for thoughts like this to penetrate into people's minds. A majority of people were upset about reforms and that bothered me even more. They are against the idea of modernism," he said. "By Indian Islam I meant tolerant Sufi influenced practice of Islam in this country. I was referring to the Islam represented by people like Salim Chishti and Nizamuddin Aulia. Indian Islam is a religion that does not believe in the fundamental execution of the word of the law." The actor shared that his wife Ratna Pathak Shah, also an acclaimed actor, had told their children to say, when asked what religion they practised: "Bhelpuri". "I am not worried about myself, I am worried about the kids," he said. "The establishment wants us to feel afraid. They want us to give into the feeling of fear. I have never been threatened with physical violence. My sympathies lie with those exposed to lynchings, cow slaughter accusations, often without proof. It is even more worrisome that those who inflict the harm are often congratulated."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-09-2021||India||Indians likely to benefit from US Bill proposing Green Card for a supplemental fee||Millions of people stuck for years in the employment-based Green Card backlog in the US, including a sizable number of Indians, can hope for a lawful permanent residency in America by paying a supplemental fee if a new House bill is passed into law.  The move, if included in the reconciliation package and passed into law, is expected to help thousands of Indian IT professionals who are currently stuck in an agonising Green Card backlog.  A Green Card, known officially as a Permanent Resident Card, is a document issued to immigrants as evidence that the bearer has been granted the privilege of residing permanently in the US.  According to the committee print released by the US House of Representatives Judiciary Committee, which has jurisdiction over immigration, an employment-based immigrant applicant with a priority date that is more than 2 years before can adjust to permanent residence without numerical limits by paying a supplemental fee of USD 5,000.  The fee is USD 50,000 for the EB-5 category (immigrant investors). The provisions expire in 2031, the Forbes magazine reported.  For a family-based immigrant who is sponsored by a US citizen and with a priority date that is more than 2 years before , the fee for getting a Green Card would be USD 2,500.  The supplement fee would be USD 1,500 if an applicant's priority date is not within two years but they are required to be present in the country, according to the committee print. This fee would be in addition to any administrative processing fee paid by the applicant.  However, the bill does not contain permanent structural changes to the legal immigration system, including eliminating country caps for green cards or increasing the annual quotas of H-1B visas.  Before becoming law, the provisions would have to pass the Judiciary Committee, the House of Representatives and the Senate and be signed by the president, the report said.  According to a report in CBSNews, if successful, the legalisation plan would allow undocumented immigrants who came to the US as children, Temporary Protected Status (TPS) beneficiaries, farmworkers and other pandemic-era essential workers to apply for permanent US residency, or green cards.  Reacting to the bill, David J Bier, Immigration policy analyst at Cato Institute, said, "employment-based applicants can adjust if they have waited 2 years from their priority date... this is almost like abolishing the EB caps for adjustment applicants who can pay $5K. Awesome!"  "For EB5, it's $50K fee. Even those who can't afford the fees or who are abroad would benefit from freeing up this cap space for others. It's unfair that the bill maintains the country caps as is, so Indians and Chinese will be the only EB applicants required to pay the $5K/50K," he said in a series of tweets.  He said that the base caps for diversity, family, and #H1B all remain the same.  "Since H1B is the feeder for most EB, that's basically like keeping the EB cap the same. No reforms to #H2A, #H2B, or other work programs, so nothing to help unskilled workers/address the border," he said.  "Basically, this bill will help a few legal immigrants abroad indirectly, but the main purpose is integration of existing immigrants. That's a noble cause, but the immigration/migration part of immigration reform is just left out. No new pathways for workers, same system," he tweeted.  US Congressmen, including Indian-American Raja Krishnamoorthi had last month urged their Congressional colleagues to support their move to employment-based Green Card backlog as part of budget reconciliation.  A group of 40 US lawmakers, led by Krishnamoorthi, had written to Speaker of House Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, saying the budget reconciliation package provides relief to these individuals stuck in the employment-based Green Card backlog, thereby strengthening the economy in the process.  They argued that under current law, the American economy is unable to access the full international talent pool of high-skilled workers already present and working in the United States today indeed, the very scientists, inventors, health care workers, entrepreneurs, and other professionals that give the US its edge over its global competitors today.  This is because there is effectively a Green Card ban on high-skilled immigrants from India, China, and other countries with large populations of workers eager to remain in America and power forward our economy and social safety net programs for generations to come, they said.  This arbitrary cap is keeping some of the world's most talented individuals from permanently calling America home, encouraging them to take their inventions, expertise, and creativity to other countries instead.  Most workers in the employment-based Green Card backlog are already in the United States on temporary nonimmigrant visas, such as the H-1B visa for workers in specialty occupations, that are renewable but greatly restrict beneficiaries from reaching their full potential.  Right now, no more than seven per cent of employment-based green cards are available to individuals from a single country, which has created a decades-long backlog for would-be immigrants from India and China.  Indian nationals face a particularly daunting backlog of 80 years, and an anticipated 200,000 will die before achieving lawful permanent resident status, the lawmakers said.  H-1B holders are unable to change jobs or start their own businesses -- despite the fact that they have been shown to boost overall productivity, wages, and new patents, they said.  The temporary nature of the H-1B visa forces beneficiaries to live in a constant state of uncertainty, preventing them from becoming entrepreneurs, buying homes, employing more Americans, or otherwise fully establishing themselves as permanent fixtures within the American economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-09-2021||India||Gujarat rains: 3 dead, several relocated in Saurashtra ||Heavy rains battered parts of Gujarat's Saurashtra region on Monday, leading to the deaths of three people in Rajkot and Jamnagar as rivers overflowed and low-lying areas got flooded, prompting the authorities to issue alerts and deploy NDRF and SRDF teams for evacuation and relief. Indian Air Force helicopters were pressed into service in Jamnagar and Rajkot to airlift people, district authorities said. “Lodhika taluka in Rajkot received 435 millimetres of rainfall in a 10-hour period since 6am on Monday, while Visavadar taluka in Junagadh got 364 mm, Kalavad in Jamnagar 348 mm, Rajkot taluka 305 mm, Dhoraji in Rajkot 202 mm, Kotdasangani in Rajkot 190 mm, Gondal in Rajkot 162 mm,” State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC) officials said. “A woman and two men drowned after their cars were washed away by the intensity of rains in two separate incidents in Kalavad in Rajkot and Jam Jodhpur in Jamnagar districts, respectively,” officials said. “Several teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) were rushed to Rajkot, Junagadh and Jamnagar,” they said. Around 20 people were airlifted by Indian Air Force helicopters from various villages in Jamnagar district, and 30 others rescued as well, Collector Sourabh Pardhi said, while Rajkot Collector Arun Mahesh Babu informed that IAF choppers were preparing to airlift 22 people from three different villages in his district. “So far we have relocated a total 1,155 people to safe places in the district, and the process continues. A team of the NDRF from Bhatinda in Punjab and two teams of SDRF from Banaskantha and Vadodara will be here to help in rescue operations,” Babu said. Pardhi said two teams of the NDRF and one of SDRF were carrying out rescue operations in affected areas in Jamnagar. An SEOC official said a part of the national highway between Jamnagar and Kalavad was blocked due to flooding, while six state highways in Jamnagar, Amreli and Porbandar districts and 58 village roads in different districts were similarly affected. Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department, during the day, forecast widespread rainfall across Gujarat till Wednesday, including ‘heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy rainfall in a few places in the districts of Saurashtra during the next four days’. “Parts of south Gujarat and other districts may also receive heavy to very heavy rainfall during this period,” IMD added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu opts out of NEET with a new Bill||The Tamil Nadu Assembly on Monday adopted a bill to dispense with the National Entrance-cum-Eligibility Test (NEET) and provide for admission to medical courses based on Class XII marks to ensure social justice, as the suicide of a medical aspirant fearing outcome of the test he was to take echoed in the House with the main opposition AIADMK targeting the government over the incident. Chief Minister M K Stalin introduced the Bill and all parties, including the main opposition AIADMK and its ally PMK, besides others like Congress, supported the bill, which seeks to provide for admission to UG courses in medicine, dentistry, Indian medicine and homeopathy on the basis of marks obtained in the qualifying examination, (Class XII). The opposition BJP staged a walkout, protesting against the government move. Earlier, as soon as the House convened, Leader of the Opposition K Palaniswami referred to the suicide of 19-year-old Dhanush in his native Salem district on Sunday and targeted the government on the matter. He said that though the DMK had promised "cancelling" NEET, it was not done and several students had not prepared well. Some of his remarks were expunged by Speaker M Appavu. Palaniswami sought a job for a person from the deceased's family, besides cash assistance. The opposition party MLAs, who came to the House wearing black badges, staged a walkout, led by Palaniswami. On Sunday, hours before he was to appear for NEET for a third time, 19-year old Dhanush, belonging to a village near Salem, died by suicide, fearing the outcome of the test he was to take. The incident triggered a blame game with the AIADMK holding the DMK regime responsible for the death and the state government targeting the Centre. Stalin, replying, said, “NEET was conducted for the first time in Tamil Nadu when Palaniswami was the Chief Minister and it was not held even when the late J Jayalalithaa was the CM.” Recalling the death by suicides of students, including S Anita in recent years, he said, “All these happened when Palaniswami was the CM.” The student, Dhanush, who took the extreme step, could not clear the exam twice when the AIADMK was in power. Stalin also targeted the AIADMK over rejection of Bills enacted during its regime in 2017 to get the state exempted from the ambit of NEET and also for hiding it from the House. Stalin introduced the Bill and appealed to all to support it for social justice, indicating that the present initiative would be fully different from what was done before during the AIADMK regime. The Bill, referring to recommendations of a high-level committee, said the government has decided to enact a law to dispense with the requirement of NEET for admission to UG Medical degree courses and to provide admission to such courses on the basis of marks obtained in the qualifying examination, through "Normalisation methods", to ensure "social justice, uphold equality and equal opportunity, protect all vulnerable student communities from being discriminated and bring them to the mainstream of medical and dental education and in turn to ensure a robust public health care across the state, particularly the rural areas." Stalin, who welcomed the support of the main opposition party to his government's move on NEET, recalled that in the past, when the DMK was in the opposition, it supported the then AIADMK government on the issue of jallikattu, the bull-taming sport. BJP's Nainar Nagenthiran insisted NEET had its benefits like increased pass percentage and led his party's walkout protesting against the bill.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-09-2021||India||India crosses 75 crore Covid vaccine doses, says Health Minister||India has crossed the landmark of administering 75 crore Covid vaccine doses, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said Monday. He said the country's vaccination drive continues to create new dimensions under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and with his mantra of "Sabka Saath, Sabka Prayas (together with everybody, with everybody's efforts". 'Congratulations India! In the 75th year of independence, the country has crossed the figure of 75 crore vaccinations," the health minister tweeted with hashtags #SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine and #AazadiKaAmritMahotsav. So far, all adult people in six states and union territories -- Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Ladakh and Lakshadweep -- have received at least one dose of the vaccine. “India took 85 days to touch the 10-crore vaccination mark, 45 more days to cross the 20-crore mark and 29 more days to reach 30 crore,” Mandaviya said. The country took 24 days to reach 40 crore from 30 crore doses and then 20 more days to cross the 50-crore vaccination mark on August 6. It took 19 more days to go past the 60-crore mark and took only 13 days to reach 70 crore from 60 crore on Sep 7. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated in the first phase. Vaccination of frontline workers started from February 2. The next phase of the vaccination drive commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged over 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand the vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from COVID-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-09-2021||India||BJP busy replacing non-performing CMs, says Chidambaram||Congress leader P Chidambaram Monday said the BJP is busy replacing its "non-performing" chief ministers but the list is long. His reaction came two days after Vijay Rupani resigned as Gujarat chief minister. Bhupendra Patel succeeded him. "The BJP is busy replacing its non-performing Chief Ministers. When did the BJP leadership realize they were non-performing CMs," he asked on Twitter. Before Rupani in Gujarat, the BJP had replaced Lingayat stalwart B S Yediyurappa as Karnataka CM with Basavaraj S Bommai. Uttarakhand got three different chief ministers within four months when the BJP replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat with Tirath Singh Rawat, before bringing in Pushkar Singh Dhami. Chidambaram said the people of the states concerned knew for months that B S Yediyurappa, the two Rawats and Rupani were non-performing . "There are more who must be replaced. In Haryana, Goa, Tripura etc The list is long," he said on Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-09-2021||India||Elgaar Parishad case: HC issues notice to NIA on activist Anand Teltumbde's bail plea||The Bombay High Court on Monday issued a notice to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and directed it to file a reply to the bail plea of activist Anand Teltumbde, an accused in the Elgar Parishad Maoist links case. Teltumbde has approached HC challenging the order of the special court denying him bail on merits in July this year. In his plea, filed through senior counsel Mihir Desai, he has denied charges against him and sought bail. A bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar directed the NIA to file its reply to Teltumbde's plea within three weeks. On July 12 this year, the special NIA court in the city had rejected Teltumbde's bail plea observing in its order that there existed a prima facie case against him under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). "Upon perusal of the documents, including the exchange of emails and the statements of the witnesses relied upon by the prosecution, and after cross-checking the truthfulness of the allegations made against the applicant, this court does not find that the accusations are inherently improbable or wholly unbelievable, the special court had said at the time. Teltumbde, however, challenged the order and said the NIA had picked and chosen electronic evidence to suit its case. Teltumbde also said in his plea that he had cooperated with the probe and was not a flight risk, and, therefore, deserved to be granted bail. He was arrested by the NIA in April last year and has been in judicial custody in the Taloja prison since then.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-09-2021||India||Parth Vekariya an entrepreneur with a cause has made India Proud through his work||India is filled with young talents and the competitions keep increasing every time. From being a great thinker to a huge political marketing individual, Parth Vekariya has made it big in the industry. The idea of building a new India is something that Parth believes in and works towards it to enhance the innovations in India. Parth has been working towards making new activist ideas and working towards knowing more about it and delivering the same is his idea of new India. He has been part of many initiatives and has led many in the past as the major individuals. From working on Political campaigning to being a Youth leader and social activist, Parth has done it all for India that he dreams of. He also started the initiative called Shahid Katha to remember the Paramvir martyrs who received Param Vir Chakra when India was in a state of war to become independent during 1947. Shahid Katha was organized to unite religions and castes. The theme of patriotism during Shaheed Katha was a Rangoli preparation on the stretch of 2.8 km road from Sukan Char Rasta to Bhakti Circle in Nikol. Also, on the first day of the story was welcomed by a bike rally and 3 thousand societies. The unique initiative of Parth has got all heads turning towards him, making him the young entrepreneur who is born with a cause and works for a cause. This is a celebration of a lifetime and organizing such an initiative is something that Parth was able to pull off through his innovative skills. He is inspiring many young individuals to follow their dreams of making it big and according to him, ‘nothing is easy and yes there shall be challenges but never quit. There is no better way than just pushing hard till you achieve what you deserve.’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-09-2021||India||Lyricist Prince Sharma Has An Encouraging Message To Aspiring Song Writers||Prince Sharma's passion for music began at a young age and has only grown since then. After writing songs as a hobby, he pursued it full-time and decided to make songs for people. He knew the journey would have hurdles, but nothing stopped Prince from achieving his dreams.  Blood, Chori Chori, Valentine, Dil Dil Rani, and many more are just a few of his notable songs. There's a whole lot more original music on the way. One of his notable collaborations was with Pranjal Dahiya on the song "Aafat," which went viral with over 3.5 million views in a short period of time. Prince is incredibly gifted, and he ensures that he maintains his energy by zoning into various moods to create the best original music that we all enjoy jamming to.  Prince has a sizable fan base on social media. His fans are always eagerly anticipating his next endeavour. They also want to know who Prince will collaborate with next, whether it's a musician or a singer. All of the love, trust, and admiration for his work from followers, according to the lyricist, motivates him to keep going.  Prince Sharma says, "Writing music has always been a passion for me. It makes me feel calm and content. I want to keep working hard in order to create more intriguing songs that I can share with my audience."  When asked what message he would like to give to aspiring lyricists, Prince says, "Keep writing. Even if you are struggling to finish a song because you are unable to find the right words, take a break but don't stop. If you really want to pursue your career as a lyricist, you should be the first one to believe in your work. Also, the journey is not going to be easy. So don't give up soon. Keep working hard, keep writing and be patient."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-09-2021||India||Centre targeting its leaders through ED, alleges AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday alleged that the Enforcement Directorate has sent a notice to its national secretary Pankaj Gupta under a "fabricated" case under the PMLA and that the BJP-led central government was targeting its leaders as the saffron party was "rattled" by the AAP's growth and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's popularity in other states. “In Delhi, they tried to defeat us with IT Dept, CBI, Delhi Police - but we won 62 seats. As we grow in Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand, Guj - we get an ED notice! The people of India want honest politics- these tactics of BJP will never succeed, they will make us stronger,” Kejriwal said in a tweet. AAP's national spokesperson Raghav Chadha in a press conference said that in the ED notice the party's national secretary Gupta has been summoned to appear before the agency on September 22 at 11.30 AM at its office. In an unending quest to persecute the AAP, the Modi government's favourite agency Enforcement Directorate has been pressed into service and has dispatched a love letter (notice) to the AAP. "They (ED) have sent a notice to party's national secretary under some section of Prevention of Money Laundering Act 2002,” Chadha said. When asked about the case in which Gupta has been served a notice, Chadha said that he has no idea but added it must be some fabricated case . The Rajinder Nagar MLA alleged that the BJP is rattled by the increasing popularity of the party's national convenor Arvind Kejriwal and the rising graph of the party. When you (BJP) can't electorally assassinate us you try to character assassinate us. As soon as opinion polls show that Kejriwal is getting popularity, agencies like ED are pressed into service to seek political revenge and character assassinate AAP, Chadha alleged. They are rattled by the popularity of Kejriwal to an extent that the Modi government has pressed into service all its agencies against AAP leaders. In view of elections in Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and next year in Gujarat, a rattled BJP has pressed all its agencies (ED, CBI, IT, etc) to persecute Arvind Kejriwal and AAP leaders, Chadha alleged. He alleged that a witch-hunt against AAP by the Centre is going on. He said that during Anna Movement in 2012, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) sent a notice under FCRA (Foreign Contribution Regulation Act 2010) to check accounts. Chadha alleged that in past years they had sent the CBI to raid the CM office and Delhi Police to raid the CM house. CBI raided twice at the residence of deputy CM Manish Sisodia but found nothing, he alleged. “The AAP is not going to fear these tactics. We welcome the notice. We believe in rule of law. We pray to God that rule of law should prevail over the rule of vendetta politics,” Chadha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-09-2021||India||Schools closed for two days in parts of Odisha amid downpour||The Odisha government has shut down schools in 12 districts for two days as rain continued to pound the state for the third day on Monday due to a deep depression over the Bay of Bengal.\ School and Mass Education Minister Samir Dash said the 12 districts where schools would remain closed till Tuesday are Khordha, Puri, Cuttack, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Dhenkanal, Nayagarh, Ganjam, Kandhamal Angul Jajpur and Boudh districts. Schools had reopened for classes 9, 10 and 12 following an improvement in the COVID-19 situation. Heavy rain since Saturday clobbered large parts of the state as a depression over the Bay of Bengal intensified into a deep depression and crossed the coast near Chandbali in Bhadrak district. The Met office has issued alerts for 13 districts. Bhubaneswar received 195 mm rainfall over the past 24 hours till 8.30 am, breaking a 63-year-old record, while Puri also broke its 87-year-old record with 341 mm of rain during the period. The Department of Water Resources said it reviewed the flood situation and preparedness, as well status of river gauge and discharge in the low-lying areas of the state. It cancelled holidays and leaves of all employees and asked them to remain present at office. The civic bodies at Cuttack and Bhubaneswar have engaged around 400 pumps to drain out water from the low-lying areas of the twin cities. In Cuttack, dry fruits were distributed among people whose houses have been inundated, civic officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-09-2021||India||Relax restrictions on Durga idol height, says BJP workers||BJP leaders and supporters staged picketing in different areas of the millennium city on Monday wearing raincoats and holding placards to press for their demand to relax the restriction on the height of the Durga idols during the 12-hour Cuttack bandh called by the party. The saffron party had called the bandh to protest the state government's August 9 guideline on festivals where the restrictions have been imposed to keep the height of the Durga idols within four feet and conduct in-door like puja in different pandals across the state. The restrictions were imposed keeping in view the prevailing COVID-19 situation in the state. Most of the shops, commercial establishments, educational institutions remained closed due to deep depression induced heavy rainfall. As most parts of the state's commercial hub was waterlogged, people preferred to remain indoors. A large number supporters of the saffron party wearing raincoats picketed at the Badambadi Bus terminal and other places and courted arrest. "The bandh was successful. The people on their own supported the bandh call as it was organized as a mark of pride for the Cuttack city," said BJP Mananagar president Lalatendu Badu. Badu said that the BJP activists have been picketing in about 100 places across the city. "The people of Cuttack are annoyed over the state government's rejection of request of the puja committees and peace committees to withdraw the restrictions on the Durga idol size," Badu said, adding that the BJP was supporting the puja committees. The state government's recent denial of the relaxation on the height of the Durga Puja idols, has also sparked a political slugfest in the state. While the ruling BJD is divided over the issue, the Opposition BJP and Congress have thrown their weight behind the people who are demanding withdrawal of the restrictions. The row over the Durga idol size has its impact on the ruling BJD too. Cuttack's six-time BJD MP Bhartuhari Mahtab while attending a puja committee meeting in Cuttack, wondered how the government can avoid spread of the infection if the height is limited within 4 feet. "I do not see any reason behind the argument that raising the idol size by another 2 or 2.5 feet will help spread the infection. It's laughable," the veteran Parliamentarian, said. However, senior BJD leader and former MLA Debashis Samantray ridiculed Mahtab and said: "Where was the MP all along with the issue is being debated since a long time? He was not seen anywhere. But suddenly he attended a meeting and kept his views. The decision is taken for the entire state and not alone for Cuttack in view of the pandemic." Incidentally, when the Chief Secretary and special relief commissioner (SRC) held discussion with the puja committees of Cuttack on September 7, all the local BJD MLAs and ex-MLAs were invited, barring Mahtab, a sitting MP, sources said. Barabati-Cuttack Congress MLA Mohammad Moqim also demanded withdrawal of the restriction on the height of the idols. "This is unfortunate that the chief secretary and the SRC did not take any decision on the September 7 meeting and sought two day's time. Later, the government upheld the earlier guidelines without reconsidering the plea of the puja committees," he said. Balu Bazaar Puja Committee, one of the oldest committees organizing the Durga Puja, has planned to move the Orissa High Court challenging the restrictions of the state government. "We have been worshipping the 8 feet height Durga idol since 1914 and it is not possible to change the tradition," said its president Suryakant Sanganeria.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-09-2021||India||Will function as ordinary BJP MLA, says Yediyurappa||Former Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa who attend the legislative assembly session for the first time after demitting office, on Monday said he will function as an ordinary BJP MLA and would make all efforts to ensure Congress leader Siddaramaiah continues to remain in opposition after 2023 assembly polls in the state. The BJP strongman said his successor Basavaraj Bommai was doing a "good job" as the Chief Minister and that he would extend all kinds of support and cooperation to him. "I don't have any such thing, with utmost happiness I will function as an ordinary BJP MLA, there is nothing that I want to function only as Chief Minister. As an MLA sitting in the back benches, I will appreciate the good work of the government and do everything to ensure that the opposition parties continue to remain in opposition in the days to come," Yediyurappa said in response to a question on attending the session as an MLA. Speaking to reporters here, he said he will continue work for the BJP along with other party leaders by travelling across the state after the assembly session. "We will do everything to ensure that Siddaramaiah (now LoP) sits in the opposition, in case he wins the next election...bringing BJP back to power is my resolve and I will travel across the state along with other leaders for it," he added. Interestingly, Yediyurappa who led the ruling side in the assembly till the previous session in March, occupied one of the back seats of the treasury benches on Monday, the first day of the 10-day long monsoon session of the state legislature. "...as someone who was the Chief Minister I had requested the Speaker to allot me a seat next to the Chief Whip, he has agreed to it. I will participate in the proceedings of the assembly from there," he said in response to a question. Yediyurappa is MLA from Shikaripura assembly constituency in Shivamogga district. This is first session of the Karnataka legislature, after the change of guard in the state. The 78-year old BJP veteran had stepped down as the Chief Minister on July 26, as his government completed two years in office, paving the way for Basavaraj Bommai to take charge and form a new cabinet subsequently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-09-2021||India||Congress should take Sharad Pawar's criticism positively: NCP||The NCP on Monday asked the Congress to take in a positive way Sharad Pawar's criticism over the state of affairs in the Sonia Gandhi-led party, and said everyone should contribute towards his efforts to unite the opposition parties against the ruling BJP in the country. Both the NCP and Congress are part of the Shiv Sena-led ruling combine in Maharashtra. Pawar last week told a news portal that the Congress is like an impoverished landlord who cannot look after his house anymore. He had also said that on the issue of leadership, Congress leaders were very "sensitive" and not open to any suggestions. This had later evoked a sharp reaction from Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole. On Monday, Maharashtra minister and NCP spokesman Nawab Malik, without taking any names, wondered why were leaders quitting the party (Congress) and winning state elections on their own? "Pawar highlighted this through his criticism and the Congress should take it positively. Everyone, including the Congress, should contribute towards Pawar's efforts to unite the opposition parties against the BJP," he said. Pawar had last week said, "There was a time when the Congress had presence from Kashmir to Kanyakumari...we agree. But that is not the situation now." "A Zamindar (landlord) in Uttar Pradesh once owned huge tracts of land and a Haveli (mansion). Then he lost most of the land....the Haveli stands but he can't repair it...he says all that land belonged to me, but it is in the past," the NCP chief had said. However, Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole later claimed that leaders who were entrusted with power by the party eventually betrayed it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-09-2021||India||Modi congratulates new Gujarat CM Bhupendra Patel||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday congratulated Bhupendra Patel on taking oath as Gujarat chief minister and expressed confidence that he will enrich the state's growth trajectory. Noting that he has known Patel for years and has seen his "exemplary work", be it in the BJP organisation or in civic administration and community service, Modi extended his wishes to him. He tweeted, "Congratulations to Bhupendra Bhai on taking oath as CM of Gujarat. I have known him for years and have seen his exemplary work, be it in the BJP Organisation or in civic administration and community service. He will certainly enrich Gujarat's growth trajectory." He also lauded Patel's predecessor Vijay Rupani, saying he worked tirelessly for all sections of society. "During his five years as CM, Vijay Rupani Ji has undertaken many people-friendly measures. He worked tirelessly for all sections of society. I am certain he will continue to contribute to public service in the times to come," Modi tweeted. First-term MLA Bhupendra Patel was on Monday sworn in as Gujarat chief minister after Rupani resigned over a year ahead of the Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-09-2021||India||India an attractive destination for global clean energy investments, says Bhupender Yadav||Climate change is the biggest global challenge and India is committed to combat it, Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav said on Monday. Speaking at the launch of Climate Action and Finance Mobilisation Dialogue (CAFMD) under India-US Climate Clean Energy Agenda 2030, Yadav said India is proactively working towards tackling climate change and reducing carbon emissions. John F Kerry, US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, arrived in New Delhi on Sunday for the launch. Yadav said the partnership between India and the US will help strengthen climate action. Climate Action and Finance Mobilisation Dialogue of the Agenda 2030 Partnership launched today will provide both countries an opportunity to renew collaborations on climate change while addressing the financing aspects, Yadav said. The minister said India is already an attractive destination for global clean energy investments. I hope this dialogue will work to mobilise and deliver climate finance primarily as grants and concessional finance, as envisaged under the Paris Agreement to strengthen climate action. I believe this Dialogue will not only strengthen India-US bilateral cooperation on climate and environment but will also help to demonstrate how the world can align swift climate action with inclusive and resilient economic development, taking into account national circumstances and sustainable development priorities, he said. Calling for urgent action to address climate change, Kerry said action needs to be taken now to avoid more catastrophic consequences. Floods, forest fires, record levels of rainfall are happening everywhere and to keep 1.5 degree warming limit in reach, and avoid more catastrophic consequences, we must act now, he stressed. Kerry also said that it was a good time to invest in energy transition. There has never been a better time to invest in energy transition. Renewable energy is cheaper than ever. Investors are flocking for clean energy all around the world. The transition has already rebounded after the pandemic and is now on track to smash the pre-pandemic record of 8.4 billion US dollars invested in one year, he said. Terming the clean energy partnership as a major opportunity for India and the US, Kerry said it is far less expensive to deal with climate crisis now than it will be in the future. The India-US Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership was launched at the Leaders' Summit on Climate in April 2021 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-09-2021||India||Bhupendra Patel takes over as 17th Gujarat Chief Minister||First-term MLA Bhupendra Patel was on Monday sworn in Gujarat chief minister, two days after Vijay Rupani's surprise exit from the post, a year ahead of the Assembly polls. Patel (59), unanimously elected BJP legislature party leader on Sunday, was sworn in as the state's 17th chief minister by Governor Acharya Devvrat at a simple ceremony here. Union Home Minister Amit Shah and chief ministers of some BJP-ruled states were among those present at the Raj Bhavan ceremony. As decided by the party, only Patel took the oath. The council of ministers will take oath during the next few days after their names are finalised, BJP sources said. The governor had on Sunday invited Patel to take oath as chief minister. "The new leader of BJP's Legislature Party Bhupendrabhai Patel presented a proposal to form the government under his leadership. Accepting the proposal, he was invited to take oath as CM on September 13 at 2.20 pm," Devvrat tweeted. At Sunday's legislature party meeting, the proposal to elect Patel the legislative party leader was moved by Vijay Rupani, whose resignation as CM on Saturday, 15 months ahead of the Assembly polls, surprised many political observers. Rupani, the fourth chief minister to demit office in BJP-ruled states during the coronavirus pandemic, was sworn in as chief minister his second stint as CM - in December 2017 and completed five years in office on August 7 this year. With state Assembly polls scheduled in December 2022, the BJP is banking on Patel, a Patidar, for poll victory. In the 2017 Assembly elections, BJP won 99 of the 182 seats and Congress got 77. The Patidars are a dominant caste in Gujarat with a sizeable control over the electoral votes and dominate the political economy with a stronghold over education, realty and cooperative sectors. Patel's elevation - he is the first from the Patidar sub-group to be chief minister - is key to BJP's plans to woo the Kadva Patidar community, which some political observers feel, has drifted away from the party. He is a trustee of Sardardham, the Patidar community organisation that hosted the programme where Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the chief guest on Saturday. Born in Ahmedabad, Patel is an MLA from the Ghatlodia seat, previously held by former chief minister and now Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel. He won the seat by over 1.17 lakh votes in 2017, the highest margin in that poll. Ghatlodia is part of the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency represented by Shah. Patel, who holds a diploma in civil engineering, has served as Ahmedabad municipal councillor and as the chairperson of the Standing Committee of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority. He is also a trustee at Patidar organisation Vishwa Umiya Foundation. Patel has never held a ministerial post, just like Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was never a minister when he became Gujarat CM 20 years ago. Modi was sworn in as CM on October 7, 2001, and became an MLA on February 24, 2002, by winning the Rajkot seat bypoll. Patel is considered close to former Gujarat chief minister and present Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel. His Assembly constituency is part of the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha seat represented by Shah. The BJP's CM choice came as a surprise for many as the low-profile, first-time legislator was not seen to be among the top contenders for the post. Gujarat BJP chief C R Paatil said Patel's work at the grass-root level, his hold on the cooperative sector, association with party workers and administrative abilities were among the factors that led to his elevation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-09-2021||India||HC seeks status of mentally unstable homeless people's Covid vaccination ||The Bombay High Court directed the Maharashtra government on Monday to file an affidavit, giving details of how many mentally ill people, who were homeless or without legal guardians, have been identified and registered for vaccination against COVID-19. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni directed the state government to file the affidavit within three weeks. The bench also directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to file an affidavit, informing the court about the number of such people registered for vaccination and those who already vaccinated in the city. The bench was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL), seeking better access to vaccination against COVID-19 for citizens, including those who were mentally ill or not in a position to give a consent for the inoculation. On Monday, the Union government's counsel, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, told the bench that while the Centre had issued an SoP (standard operating procedure) for vaccinating the homeless and mentally ill people, it was the state police's responsibility to identify them, locate their relatives, or to take them to a shelter home so that they could be registered for vaccination. Singh also said that over 21,000 urban homeless people across the country had been registered for vaccination and more than 8,000 of them were inoculated against COVID-19. The Maharashtra government's counsel, Gita Shastri, submitted an affidavit stating that a total of 1,761 mentally ill people across the state had been vaccinated against COVID-19. The bench, however, noted that the state's affidavit was "silent" on the number of mentally ill people who were homeless, without legal guardians, and not in a position to give their informed consent for vaccination. Such people posed a greater risk of spreading the coronavirus and therefore, must be identified and vaccinated by the state authorities at the earliest, the court said. "Every citizen, no matter in which condition, needs to be taken care of by the state," the HC said. "File an affidavit stating how many mentally ill people who are homeless or found wandering in the community, and what steps are being taken to vaccinate them?" the court said to the state government. The court suggested that the state and the BMC could jointly set up a mechanism to identify and vaccinate such homeless and mentally ill people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-09-2021||India||Delhi: 2 children dead as building collapses in Sabzi Mandi area||A four-storey building in north Delhi's congested Sabzi Mandi area collapsed on Monday, killing two brothers who were passing by with their mother and were trapped under the debris, officials said. The two children were aged seven and 12, the police said, adding that a case has been registered against a man named Mohak Arora who had undertaken the renovation work on the ground floor of the building. The police said, “72-year-old Ramji Das, who was also trapped under the debris and suffered a head injury, was rescued and rushed to a nearby hospital for treatment.” “He is stated to be out of danger,” they said. The ground floor of the building, believed to be 75-years-old, was being used for commercial purpose while the rest was residential. "It is not yet confirmed whether anyone else is trapped under the rubble. Rescue operations are underway to ascertain that," a senior police officer said. N S Bundela, Joint Commissioner of Police (Central), said that the two children, both brothers, were rescued and taken to a hospital where they were declared brought dead. "They were passing by with their mother when the building collapsed and the two bothers got trapped under the debris," he said. The two children -- Somya (12) and Prashant Gupta (7), were residents of Roshnara Road in old Delhi. Their father Nitin Gupta (38) works at a shop in north Delhi's Sadar Bazar while their mother is a housewife, according to the police. A senior police officer said, "A case has been registered under section 304 (Punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 288 (Negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing buildings) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code." The incident comes days after record heavy rains pounded Delhi, throwing life out gear. An old building in Delhi's Narela area, which was declared a dangerous structure by civic authorities, had collapsed recently. However, no one was injured in that incident. Das, a resident of Malka Ganj here had a 'paan' shop near the building. He was at his shop when the structure collapsed, police said. Assistant Commandant, NDRF, Shri Niwas said, "Two teams of the NDRF were at the spot conducting rescue operation. We used cameras to see whether people were trapped under the debris or not. We are not confirmed about the number of people trapped inside it." A car parked nearby was severely damaged as the debris from the building fell on it. The locals who gathered at the spot to help with rescue operations were later removed from the area. Three brothers lived in the other residential floors of the building. An 18-year-old member of one of the families, who was on second floor, had a narrow escape when the building collapsed. Hemantica Aneja (40), a resident of the building and a Supreme Court lawyer said, "Our family has been living here for the last 35 years and it is a well-maintained building. Fortunately none of us were at home when it collapsed and my 18-year-old nephew Aryan who was on the second floor of the building also managed to after when he heard a loud noise. Aneja said for the last 10 days, renovation work was going on at a milk shop on the ground floor of the building which also led to cracks in the walls of the floors. "Usage of electric drill further weakened the structure leading to its collapse," she alleged. D C Chauhan, who saw the building collapse said, "I was present near the spot when the building collapsed. One woman was passing by the area along with her two children.” "They were in front of the building when it collapsed and the two boys unfortunately were buried under the debris. One 'paan' shop owner was also trapped." Ravi Kumar, another local, was terrified and rushed towards the building when he heard a loud noise. "I live on the other side of the street and heard a loud noise. We rushed to the spot and found debris on the road. We then started helping people. From what we heard, some construction work was going on the ground floor of the building which eventually led to the collapse," he claimed. Teams of MCD and the NDRF were also at the spot to undertake rescue operation. The Delhi Fire Service received a call about the incident at 11.50 am, following which which seven fire tenders were rushed to the spot for rescue operations, said Atul Garg, the director of DFS. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said he is closely monitoring the situation. "The incident of building collapse in Sabzi Mandi area is very sad. The administration is engaged in relief and rescue work. Through the district administration, I am myself monitoring the situation," he tweeted in hindi. North Delhi Municipal Commissioner Sanjay Goel said, "Rescue and relief operation is going on, and debris are being removed. We are trying to find out what led to the collapse of the building in which two children have died". The building was located in Malka Ganj ward of Civil Lines Zone of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation. We will probe the cause of the incident and then take appropriate action according to the report that we get," he said. AAP MLA from Timarpur Dilip Pandey also took twitter and said local administration along with party workers are engaged in rescue operations. "Very unfortunate incident, 75-year-old building of Laxman Prasad ji collapsed in Malkaganj. On the spot, QRT team of Delhi government, fire brigade team and local administration, we and AAP workers are engaged in rescue work. "Two people were evacuated safely. About 7-8 more people feared to be trapped inside," he tweeted in hindi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-09-2021||India||Gujarat: Bhupendra Patel meets Vijay Rupani ahead of swearing-in ceremony||Gujarat's Chief Minister-designate Bhupendra Patel on Monday called on Vijay Rupani, who resigned from the top post last week, 15 months ahead of the state Assembly polls. Patel, who is scheduled to take oath as the next CM later in the day, met Rupani at the latter's official residence in Gandhinagar in the morning and held discussions on various issues, a release issued by the state government said. After Rupani resigned on Saturday, Patel, who represents the Ghatlodia Assembly seat in Ahmedabad, was unanimously elected as the BJP legislative party leader on Sunday. Before meeting Rupani, Bhupendra Patel met Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel at the latter's residence in Ahmedabad. In the wake of incessant rains causing a flood-like situation in some parts of Jamnagar, Bhupendra Patel instructed the district authorities to make necessary arrangements to airlift about 35 people stranded in three villages, which have been inundated and cut off from other parts of the district, another government release said. According to Jamnagar district's disaster management wing, the Indian Air Force has been requested to airlift people stranded in some of the villages of Kalavad and Jamnagar talukas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-09-2021||India||Kejriwal  urges Centre to direct states to mandatorily use Pusa bio-decomposer for stubble management||An audit by a central agency in Delhi has found the use of Pusa bio-decomposer, a microbial solution for stubble management, highly effective, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday, and urged the Centre to ask neighbouring states to distribute it for free among farmers. He said stubble burning in neighbouring states in October is a major factor behind the high level of air pollution in Delhi. "The farmers are not at fault. Governments are at fault because they had to offer a solution," Kejriwal said. Last year, the Delhi government distributed the bio-decomposer free of cost which was used by farmers on 1,935 acres of land in 39 villages to convert stubble into manure, he said. A survey by a central government agency, WAPCOS, has come up with very encouraging results on the use of the bio-decomposer. Ninety per cent of the farmers claimed that the solution turned stubble into manure in 15-20 days. Also, the content of carbon in the soil increased by 40 per cent, nitrogen 24 per cent, bacteria seven times and fungi three times. Sprouting of wheat also increased by 17-20 per cent, the chief minister said. "We appeal to the Centre to ask the states to distribute the bio-decomposer free of cost among farmers to stop them from burning stubble," he said. Kejriwal said he would call on the Union environment minister with the audit report and request his personal intervention in the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-09-2021||India||Security forces defuse 6 grenades placed along NH 44 in Srinagar||Security forces on Monday averted a major tragedy by detecting and defusing six hand grenades placed by militants on the busy Parimpora-Panthachowk axis in Srinagar, officials said here. "During a routine road opening exercise along National Highway 44, alert troopers of the 73 Battalion of the CRPF recovered six Chinese grenades from a sandbag placed on a divider of the road," a spokesperson of the force said. He said the troops averted a major incident on the busy highway. "Since there was a lot of rush on the highway, the grenades were not demolished in situ. They were handed over to the police for disposal," the official added. The anticipation exercise along the busy arterial road connecting south Kashmir with north led to a traffic snarl on the highway as well as in other parts of the city. The stretch where the grenades were found is used by security forces to reach places in remote border districts, including Kupwara and Bandipora. The same road is also used to reach Ladakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-09-2021||India||Govt refuses to file affidavit on Pegasus citing national security||The Supreme Court on Monday said it only wants to know whether or not the Centre used Pegasus spyware through illegal methods to allegedly monitor citizens after it stoutly refused to file an affidavit citing national security on pleas seeking an independent probe into the snooping row. Observing that concerns have been raised by journalists and others over violation of privacy, the top court decided to pass an interim order, reiterating it was not interested in knowing issues related to national security. Noting that a detailed affidavit would have helped it in knowing the stand of the Centre, a bench headed by Chief Justice N. V. Ramana also told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that he was beating around the bush after the law officer, in his rejoinder submissions, reiterated his arguments on national security. 'Here is a procedure established under the law which allows interception too. We had to have your affidavit to understand your stand. We do not want to say anything further," the bench said, adding that if a spyware was used by the government then it has to be as per the procedure established by the law. The court then permitted Mehta to mention the matter if the government had a re-think about filing a detailed affidavit as it would take two-three days’ time to finalise the order. "When the matter came up a few days back and the issue of national security arose, we had clarified that no one is interested in knowing about anything related to national security or defence because the information is very sensitive. We were only expecting a limited affidavit since there are petitioners before us who say that their right to privacy has been violated by A or B agency. You had to say whether it has been done or not...National security is not a part of present proceedings," said the bench which also included justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli. The CJI, leading the bench, said, "We are again reiterating we are not interested in knowing matters related to security or defence. We are only concerned, as my brother said, we have journalists, activists, etc, before us to know whether the government has used any method other than admissible under law". During the hearing, which lasted over one hour through video-conferencing, the Centre vehemently referred to the threat to national security and said that it does not wish to file a detailed affidavit on whether a particular software was used or not as it was not the matter for public discussion, and making this a part of an affidavit would not be in national interest. The Solicitor General said the government had nothing to hide and that was why the Centre had on its own said that it would constitute a committee of domain experts to look into these allegations and report to the court. "You (Solicitor General) have repeatedly been saying that the government does not want to file an affidavit. We also do not want any security issues to be put before us. You say that a committee will be formed and the report will be submitted... We have to look into the whole issue and pass an interim order," the bench said. As the law officer, in his rejoinder submissions, reiterated the arguments on national security, the bench said, "Mr Mehta, you have been beating around the bush and that is not the question here". At the outset, the bench took note of the Centre's stand and said, "We thought the government will file a counter-affidavit and will decide further course of action. Now the only issue to be considered is the interim orders to be passed." Mehta began by saying that the government had considered the issue which was very important and could not be made a subject matter of "judicial debate" or "public discourse" by filing an affidavit. Referring to the Telegraph Act and the Information Technology Act, he said the statutes provide for certain acts in some cases and stating that a particular software was being used would alert terror groups as there was counter technology to a technology. "Suppose I am saying that I am not using this software. Then it will alert the terror groups. If I say I am using this software, please remember, every software has a counter-software. The groups will take pre-emptive steps," he said. "Having examined the issue, it is the stand of the government that such issues cannot be a debate on affidavit. Such matters can't be a subject matter of debate before the court. Nonetheless, the issue is important so the committee will go into it," the law officer said, adding that the panel would not have government employees, but rather include domain experts whose reports would be presented to the court. To this, the bench said the report may become public after it is filed in the court. The law officer said that would be the decision of the bench. "Which software was used and which software not used cannot be on affidavit but it will be before the experts," he added, stating that such things "have its own pitfalls and should not become a part of public discourse. This is in the interest and security of the nation". The bench referred to the earlier statement of the Information and Technology (IT) Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad in which the report of snooping through Pegasus spyware was allegedly acknowledged. The law officer referred to the recent statement of the IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw in Parliament which said that the "publication of stories before monsoon session cannot be a coincidence. " "I am not averse to certain individuals claiming invasion of privacy. This is serious and must be gotten into. The question is whether it is Pegasus or something. Our stand is putting this into an affidavit will not serve national interest...Hence allow us to form a committee of domain experts without the government members," he said. "You are going back, again and again. We are not interested to know what you are doing to protect the interest of the country... Your (former) minister had said that the government has taken note of reports that software was used," the court said. "Appointing a committee or making an inquiry is not the question here," the bench said, adding that if an affidavit was filed then it would come to know the stand of the Centre. "We had given a fair opportunity to the Centre to make a statement. Now they do not want to file an affidavit. So we will pass an order," the bench said before senior lawyer Kapil Sibal, appearing for petioners N Ram and Shashi Kumar, initiated his submissions. "This is unbelievable that the Government will say that it will not file the response. It is the bounden duty of the government to tell its citizens the factual position, Sibal said. "If the spyware has been used then the procedure has to be followed and in this case, it has not been done which is evident from the stand of the Centre," he added. Another senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for a petitioner, said that the snooping issue has been an assault on the democracy and the spyware not only snoops but it may also implant some materials into the snooped devices. Several senior lawyers such Rakesh Dwivedi, Dinesh Dwivedi, Colin Gonsalves and Meenakshi Arora also appeared in the case and demanded credible and independent probe into the snooping allegations. The pleas are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-09-2021||India||Jet Airways to resume domestic services in Q1 of 2022||Jet Airways will restart domestic operations by the first quarter of 2022 and short-haul international flights by the last quarter of the next year, Jalan Kalrock Consortium, the winning bidder for the grounded airline, stated on Monday. The first flight of Jet Airways would be on the Delhi-Mumbai route, it mentioned, adding that the airline would now be headquartered in Delhi instead of Mumbai. The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in June this year had approved the Jalan Kalrock Consortium's resolution plan for Jet Airways, two years after the once-storied full-service carrier went into insolvency proceedings. In a statement, Murari Lal Jalan, Lead Member of the Jalan Kalrock Consortium, said, "Jet Airways 2.0 aims at restarting domestic operations by Q1-2022, and short haul international operations by Q3/Q4 2022." Our plan is to have 50-plus aircraft in three years and 100 plus planes in five years, which also fits perfectly well with the short-term and long-term business plan of the Consortium, he noted. "The aircraft are being selected based on competitive long term leasing solutions. It is the first time in the history of aviation that an airline grounded for more than two years is being revived and we are looking forward to being a part of this historic journey," he said. The Consortium's statement read that the revival plan for Jet Airways is being implemented as approved by NCLT and all the creditors will be settled according to the plan in the coming months. The process of reviving the grounded carrier is on track with the existing Air Operator Certificate (AOC) already under process for revalidation, it mentioned. The Consortium is working closely with the relevant authorities and airport coordinators on slot allocation, required airport infrastructure, and night parking, according to the statement. "Senior Members of the Jalan Kalrock Consortium along with Jet 2.0 Operations Team led by the newly appointed Capt. Sudhir Gaur, Accountable Manager, and acting CEO visited key airports last month and held productive meetings with them," it noted. Captain Gaur said, "We will start with domestic operations on an all narrow-body aircraft fleet leased from major global aircraft lessors who have approached us, and with whom we continue to engage." "Jet Airways has already hired 150+ full time employees on its payroll and we are looking to onboard another 1,000+ employees FY 2021-22 across categories," he mentioned. The airline was grounded in April 2019 due to fund crunch and high debt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-09-2021||India||Bhupendra Patel to take over as 17th Gujarat CM today||First-term MLA Bhupendra Patel will be sworn in Gujarat chief minister on Monday, two days after Vijay Rupani's surprise exit from the post, a year ahead of the Assembly polls. Patel (59), who was unanimously elected BJP legislature party leader on Sunday, will be sworn in as the state's 17th chief minister at 2.20 pm, an official said. The party's CM choice came as a surprise for many as the low-profile, first-time legislator was not seen to be among the top contenders for the post. Only Patel will take the oath on Monday and a decision regarding the new Gujarat cabinet will be taken later, party sources said. Gujarat Governor Acharya Devvrat on Sunday invited Patel to take oath as chief minister. "The new leader of BJP's Legislature Party Bhupendrabhai Patel presented a proposal to form the government under his leadership. Accepting the proposal, he was invited to take oath as CM on September 13 at 2.20 pm," tweeted the Governor. Union Home Minister Amit Shah is expected to attend the swearing-in ceremony. I believe that under the guidance of Narendra Modi, the state's sustainable development will keep up its momentum, Shah tweeted. Modi phoned Patel on Sunday and congratulated him, a BJP spokesperson said. Born in Ahmedabad, Patel is an MLA from the Ghatlodia seat, previously held by former chief minister and now Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel. He won the seat by over 1.17 lakh votes in 2017, the highest margin in that poll. Ghatlodia is part of the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency represented by Shah. Patel, who holds a diploma in civil engineering, has served as Ahmedabad municipal councillor and as the chairperson of the Standing Committee of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority. He is also a trustee at Patidar organisations Sardardham and Vishwa Umiya Foundation. With state Assembly polls scheduled in December 2022, the BJP is banking on Bhupendra Patel, a Patidar, to lead the party. In the 2017 Assembly elections, BJP won 99 of the 182 seats and Congress got 77. The Patidars are a dominant caste in Gujarat with a sizeable control over the electoral votes and dominate the political economy with a stronghold over education, realty and cooperative sectors. At Sunday's legislature party meeting, the proposal to elect Patel the legislative party leader was moved by CM Vijay Rupani, whose resignation on Saturday, 15 months ahead of the state Assembly polls, surprised many political observers. Most of the 112 MLAs of the party in the 182-member Assembly were present at the meeting, BJP sources said. Rupani, the fourth chief minister to demit office in BJP-ruled states during the coronavirus pandemic, was sworn in as chief minister his second stint as CM - in December 2017. He completed five years in office on August 7 this year. Patel has never held a ministerial post, just like Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was never a minister when he became Gujarat CM 20 years ago. Modi was sworn in as CM on October 7, 2001, and became an MLA on February 24, 2002, by winning the Rajkot seat bypoll. Gujarat BJP chief C R Paatil said Patel's work at the grass root-level, his hold on the cooperative sector, association with party workers and administrative abilities were among the factors that led to his elevation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-09-2021||India||India records over 27,000 Covid cases, 219 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 27,254 new COVID-19 cases, taking the infection tally in the country to 3,32,64,175, while the count of active cases declined to 3,74,269, according to Union Health Ministry data on Monday. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,42,874, with 219 daily fatalities being recorded, the data updated at 8 am showed. The count of daily new cases has remained below 50,000 for 78 consecutive days now, according to the ministry. The tally of active cases has declined to 3,74,269, which comprises 1.13 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.54 per cent, the ministry said. A reduction of 10,652 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 12,08,247 COVID-19 tests were conducted in the country on Sunday, taking the total of such examinations to 54,30,14,076. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.26 per cent. This has been below three per cent for the last 14 days, and below five per cent for 97 consecutive days now, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.11 per cent. The figure has been below three per cent for the last 80 days, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,24,47,032, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has reached 74.38 crore, according to the ministry. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 219 new fatalities include 67 from Kerala and 46 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,42,874 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,38,142 from Maharashtra, 37,504 From Karnataka, 35,168 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,883 from Uttar Pradesh, 22,551 from Kerala and 18,577 from West Bengal. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-09-2021||India||Telangana to administer Covid vaccine to 3 lakh people daily||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao has instructed Health department officials to take up a special drive of vaccination against COVID-19 and inoculate three lakh people daily as there is a possibility of the state getting required quantities of the vaccine following augmented production. An official release issued on Sunday night, quoting KCR said, though the COVID-19 spread is in control in the State, the special drive of the vaccination should be taken up so that people should not suffer in future due to the pandemic. "Chief Minister Sri K Chandrashekhar Rao has instructed the senior officials of the Medical and Health department to take up a special drive to vaccinate 3 lakh people daily to save people in the Telangana State from coronavirus," it said. The Medical and Health department officials brought to the notice of the CM that despite government and private educational institutions having opened, there is not much impact of the virus and there is no chance of increase of COVID-19 cases. The officials informed Rao that there are 2.80 crore people above the age of 18 and are eligible for vaccination in the state. So far 1.42 crore people were administered the first dose of the vaccine while 53 lakh completed their second dose also and 1.38 crore people are yet to be inoculated. The Chief Minister also instructed the officials concerned to utilise buildings of schools, colleges and other government and private infrastructure as vaccination centres. Rao urged the people to go to the nearest PHC and get them examined if they have any symptoms and take precautions such as wearing masks. According to the release, Rao has instructed the medical and health officials to be on high alert to help people in any eventuality due to COVID-19 or any other seasonal diseases besides setting up Oxygen plants and beds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
13-09-2021||India||Gujarat: First-time MLA Bhupendra Patel picked as CM to woo Patidars ||Bhupendra Patel, a first-time MLA, was picked on Sunday to be the new chief minister of Gujarat, with the BJP leadership shedding its avowed aversion to caste politics to apparently assuage the influential Patidar community ahead of the Assembly elections next year. The new face is being seen as a surprise sprung by the direct intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his home state. It is also being viewed as a revenge of sorts exacted by former Gujarat chief minister and now Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel on Union home minister Amit Shah. Five years ago, when Anandiben had to step down in a huff, the exit was said to have been precipitated by those close to Shah, who was then national president of the BJP. In August 2016, Anandiben, chosen by Modi to succeed him as Gujarat chief minister in 2014, had announced her resignation on her Facebook page a year ahead of the polls, leading to the appointment of Vijay Rupani, who is counted as “Shah’s man”. Now, in a replay, Rupani has quietly resigned as chief minister over a year ahead of the polls. Bhupendra, the successor, is known in Gujarat as a “close aide” to Anandiben and represents the Assembly segment in Ahmedabad district vacated by Anandiben. After he was chosen on Sunday, Bhupendra said: “I have always been under Anandiben’s blessings.” He thanked Modi, BJP chief J.P. Nadda, Shah and other party leaders. In another instance of stark similarity, Bhupendra, 59, is a first-time MLA and so was Rupani in 2016. “Anandiben then had stressed experience and backed Nitin Patel (the deputy chief minister in the Rupani government). Amitbhai, however, firmly rejected it and picked Rupani,” a Gujarat BJP leader said, adding that now “Anandiben has turned the tables on Shah”. Anandiben had to quit in 2016 in the face of the Hardik Patel-led Patidar agitation for reservation and the BJP’s defeat in the local body polls, though she had cited her age (then approaching 75) as a reason for her resignation. A section in the BJP had then accused the state party leadership of engineering the Patidar protest. It’s too early to conclude whether Shah’s standing has been affected by the turn of events in Bengal, BJP sources said. “Modiji intervenes whenever things go out of hand. Reports of intense internal bickering and lack of good governance were coming from his home turf and so he had to act,” a BJP parliamentarian from Gujarat said. Both Modi and Shah used to keep an eye on Gujarat but the latter had been in full control post-2014. But Shah’s reputation for election skills received a big blow with the BJP’s defeat in Bengal, party insiders said, underlining how the powerful leader had been maintaining a low profile since the Bengal result. “What role Amitbhai plays in Uttar Pradesh and other state polls, including Gujarat, will indicate whether he remains as powerful or not,” a party leader said. Politically and electorally, the choice of Bhupendra was seen as an outreach to the influential Patidar community. The Patidars’ anger had seen the BJP struggle in the 2017 Assembly polls, when it won just 99 of the 182 seats, its lowest tally since 1995. Gujarat leaders said that this time, many more issues like the Covid mismanagement, price rise, lack of jobs and internal squabbling had piled up, prompting the leadership to take corrective measures. Under Modi and Shah, the new BJP has been disregarding politically dominant communities in the states to show that it doesn’t believe in caste politics. The choice of a Patidar as the new chief minister suggests that such a stand has been shelved, at least for now. The chief minister-designate’s connection with the Prime Minister has been established with past pictures of Modi taking part in kite flying along with Bollywood star Salman Khan from Bhupendra’s terrace in Ahmedabad. Bhupendra, MLA from the Ghatlodia constituency, was chairman of the Ahmedabad urban development authority and headed the standing committee of the Ahmedabad municipal corporation. Party leaders rubbished the need for administrative experience, recalling that Modi was in a similar position when he was made chief minister in 2001. “Bhupendra Patel, clearly, is Narendrabhai’s choice although Anandiben may have used her influence to get him elected (to the Assembly),” a Gujarat MLA said, attributing the absence of protests against his selection to knowledge that Modi wanted him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
13-09-2021||India||Adityanath government ad features Calcutta's Maa flyover||A front-page advertisement that Yogi Adityanath’s government in Uttar Pradesh took out in the Sunday edition of The Indian Express newspaper, claiming he was transforming the heartland state, showed the Maa Flyover of Calcutta among other visuals. “A wrong image was inadvertently included in the cover collage of the advertorial on Uttar Pradesh produced by the marketing department of the newspaper. The error is deeply regretted and the image has been removed in all digital editions of the paper,” The Indian Express tweeted on Sunday. Mistakes are not unusual and the matter would normally have ended with the clarification and expression of regret. But the BJP’s publicity machinery protested too much, circulating the newspaper’s clarification and saying: “Well done. The chaps in TMC (Trinamul Congress) and assorted opposition jumped up and down in excitement as a result. Who will now compensate for killing their excitement? Double whammy this.” The political irony of the visual could not have been starker: Here’s the poster boy of muscular Hindutva basking in the reflected glory of a flyover Mamata Banerjee had inaugurated and named. Can Maa, Mamata and Bengal aspire to a bigger compliment than this? The flyover project was started in 2010 by the then Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee government and was inaugurated on Mamata’s watch. The towering image of himself over Maa would have been particularly galling for Adityanath, who had aggressively campaigned against Mamata in the Assembly elections. In every election henceforth in Bengal, it is unlikely that Trinamul will allow Adityanath to forget the monumental blunder. Although the newspaper itself took responsibility and the Uttar Pradesh government sought to distance itself from the images, media professionals pointed out that the client (in this case the Uttar Pradesh government) cannot wash its hands of the matter so easily. Uttar Pradesh government spokesperson Siddharth Nath Singh told The Telegraph: “It was an advertorial of The Indian Express; we have taken the matter up with them.” Asked whether the government didn’t vet its advertisements before publication, Singh said: “We obviously pay for such advertorials and there may be some problem but the mistake was committed by the newspaper.” Two grey areas have cropped up here. One, whether it was an advertorial or an advertisement. An advertisement is a straightforward pitch that hard-sells a product, person or an organisation. Its character is all too apparent to laypersons. An advertorial is also an advertisement but it gives information about a product in the manner of a news report or objective article. In order to differentiate between the publication’s own content and that of the advertorials, news organisations insist that the typeface of the letters in the advertorials is different from the publication’s typeface. Besides, the abbreviation “ADVT” or the word “Advertisement” is printed on top of advertorials to tell the readers that the content below is not that of the publication. The distinction between an advertisement and an advertorial holds significance because the full content for the advertisement is usually provided by the client or an agency hired by the client. The publication usually seeks changes only if the content goes against the law. The Indian Express website says that “the responsibility of providing the ad material remains with the agency/client who place the booking for an advertisement”. A separate policy on advertorials was not readily apparent on the website. The content of an advertorial is also largely provided by a client but the publication can demand changes in the typeface and the layout to ensure it stands apart from the editorial matter. Any specific mention of “ADVT” or “Advertisement” is not visible at the top of the front page attributed to The Sunday Express and circulating on social media through the day. A veteran media professional, who did not want to be named, said the front page featuring Adityanath and Maa looks more like an advertisement than an advertorial. The veteran media professional said: “Had it been an advertorial, it would have had some similarity with a regular news page or front page while showing distinctive typefaces and a label denoting it as an advertorial at the top. These are industry standards but I am not familiar with the in-house style of this particular publication.” The second point of contention is whether a client can lay the entire blame at the door of the publication. The content is the responsibility of the client. The publication can only verify whether it goes against the law of the land (such as a wrong map or content disturbing peace). Trinamul national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien, who had been a journalist as well as an advertising professional, said in Calcutta: “It’s a basic advertorial norm that no (state government) ad is released without the consent of the state government.... There has to be one person signing the ad’s content and putting the sign on it before it is released. They cannot get away with this.” Officials of the Uttar Pradesh department of information and publicity, which had issued the advertisement, went incommunicado. Department principal secretary Navneet Sehgal and director Shishir Singh — who re-tweeted The Indian Express post — didn’t respond to WhatsApp messages from this newspaper. Usually, it is Sishir who selects pictures and gives the initial as well as final approval for an advertisement, a source in the department said. “It took three weeks to prepare this advertisement. Initially, it was approved and then supervised by many deputy directors. The text was prepared by a PR agency,” the source said, adding that he was not aware of any departure from the usual process this time. Shishir’s mobile was off when this newspaper called him to ask whether he had selected the picture and approved the final advertisement. Right at the top, the advertisement quotes Adityanath, who came to power in 2017, as saying: “Before 2017, people from outside used to laugh as soon as they used to hear the name of Uttar Pradesh....” Such laughter rang loud in Calcutta on Sunday as O’Brien and Trinamul MLA Samir Chakraborty addressed a news conference on the controversy. “Ajay Bisht, who changed his name to Yogi Adityanath, came to Bengal to campaign against Trinamul 11 times. He last came here in April. Finally, he has acknowledged that development is happening in Bengal. The picture of Maa Flyover as a part of UP’s development project is proof of that,” O’Brien said. “I’ll give him a list of a few other developmental initiatives of the Bengal government so that he can come up with a series of such ads.” Chakraborty claimed the BJP had forced the newspaper to take the blame on itself. Trinamul national general secretary and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee tweeted: “Transforming UP for @myogiadityanath (Adityanath) means stealing images from infrastructure seen in Bengal under @MamataOfficial’s (Mamata Banerjee’s) leadership and using them as his own!” He added: “Looks like the ‘double engine model’ has miserably failed in BJP’s strongest state and now stands exposed for all!” Adityanath did not react to the flyover controversy on Sunday. At a public meeting in Kushinagar, he used the term “Abba Jaan” — a pejorative reference to a community and the Samajwadi Party. Adityanath said “Abba Jaan used to digest rations” before 2017. “Rations meant for Kushinagar used to go to Nepal and Bangladesh,” he said, threatening to jail “anybody who digests the rations of the poor”. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
13-09-2021||India||Centre rejects IIT plea for quota exemption in senior faculty posts||The Union government is learnt to have rejected the IITs’ request for exemption from implementing reservations in senior faculty posts and permission to continue with their policy of de-reserving posts a year after they fall vacant for unavailability of suitable candidates. The department of higher education (DHE) under the Union education ministry is said to have told the parliamentary committee on the welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes that it would not exempt the IITs from the quota law. The committee, headed by BJP parliamentarian Kirit P. Solanki, had a meeting with DHE officials on August 25. Officials of the law ministry and the department of personnel and training were also present. The committee discussed the recommendations of a panel headed by IIT Delhi director Ramgopal Rao that had sought exemption from reservation for the posts of associate professor and professor. The committee also suggested continuation of the de-reservation of reserved posts after a year if they could not be filled for lack of suitable candidates from the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes or economically weaker sections. The IITs have been advertising reserved posts and de-reserving them a year later if suitable candidates cannot be found.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
13-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu to install Tagore statue, Mamata asked to unveil||The Tamil Nadu government will install a life-size statue of Rabindranath Tagore at Queen Mary’s College, Chennai, and plans to invite Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee to unveil it, sources said. A source close to the state government told The Telegraph the statue would be erected to commemorate Tagore’s advocacy of women’s education and empowerment as well as his association with the southern state, which he visited several times. The authorities therefore thought it most appropriate to put up the statute at the QMC, the first women’s college in south India, which began life as the Madras College for Women on July 14, 1914, the source said. “It would take three to four months to erect the statue,” the source added. Tagore had paid several visits to Tamil Nadu. In March 1919, he delivered lectures in the then Madras city, Thanjavur, Trichy and Madurai to try and raise funds for his Visva-Bharati project. At Madurai, culture historian K.R.A. Narasiah said, Tagore delivered three lectures at the American College at the invitation of its then principal, W.M. Zumbro. The topics were the significance of Visva-Bharati, the “spirit of popular religion in India”, and “Indian education”. Tagore’s lectures were a huge draw.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
13-09-2021||India||Chirag gets PM letter, uncle visit on father’s death anniversary||Former Union minister and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) founder Ram Vilas Paswan’s first death anniversary on Sunday marked his son and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan’s coming of age as a politician. Chirag managed to bring the family together after a split in the party engineered by uncle and Union minister Pashupati Kumar Paras, ended his own isolation and left chief minister Nitish Kumar isolated. He had invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi and RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. The Jamui MP revealed that he had unsuccessfully sought time to meet and invite Nitish as well. The invitation card that he had printed mentioned him as the LJP national president and included Pashupati among the hosts. Prime Minister Narendra Modi called him on Saturday night and followed it up with an emotional letter recounting Ram Vilas’s rise as a leader who always remained concerned about villages, the poor, Dalits and the deprived. Making Modi’s letter public on his social media accounts, Chirag said: “This letter provides strength to me and my family at this juncture of sorrow. May your love and blessings always be there.” Taking Modi’s letter as a cue, top BJP leaders. “Ram Vilas Paswan was a stalwart Dalit leader of Bihar and the country. With important elections including in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and other states round the corner, we could not have afforded to lose Chirag to the Opposition. Scheduled Caste votes matter,” a senior BJP leader said. “I was hoping Nitish ji would come, but he did not. No phone, message or letter from him came either,” Chirag said. Pashupati attended the  rituals in the morning and stayed  through the afternoon.  “It is unfortunate Chirag sent me an invitation because till now I used to organise any function in the family. Still, I thank him for the invitation,” he said. RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, who too was invited, visited Chirag and was received with an embrace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
13-09-2021||India||CJI N.V. Ramana evokes Vivekananda’s secularism||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Sunday said “contemporary India” needed to learn from Swami Vivekananda’s teachings how to shun “meaningless and sectarian conflicts” and practise “tolerance and universal acceptance”. “He popularised practical Vedanta as it preached love, compassion, and equal respect for all. His teachings have great relevance for all times to come,” Justice Ramana told an event through videoconferencing. “Swami Vivekananda, in his (Chicago) address, propagated the idea of tolerance and universal acceptance. He analysed the dangers posed by meaningless and sectarian conflicts in society to nations and civilisations. There is a greater need today, in contemporary India, to pay heed to the words spoken by Swami Vivekananda as early as 1893.” Justice Ramana’s remarks came at an event organised by the Ramakrishna Mission’s Hyderabad unit to mark the 22nd foundation day of the Vivekananda Institute of Human Excellence and the 128th anniversary (which fell on Saturday) of Vivekananda’s address at the World Parliament of Religions in Chicago. Justice Ramana, the chief guest, said Swami Vivekananda had advocated secularism and stressed that religion should be above “superstitions and rigidities”. “He was prophetic. Long before the painful churning that took place in the subcontinent during the freedom struggle, resulting in the framing of an egalitarian Constitution of India, he had advocated secularism as if he foresaw the events to unfold. He firmly believed that the true essence of religion was the common good and tolerance,” the Chief Justice said. “Religion should be above superstitions and rigidities. To fulfil the dream of making a resurgent India through the principles of common good and tolerance, we should instil the ideals of Swamiji in today’s youth. I want to utilise this time in reflecting on the huge potential of the youth in our country, and the ways in which we can achieve the greater good.” Justice Ramana said Vivekananda’s Chicago address had earned India respect and recognition at a time it was under colonial rule, and had drawn the world’s attention to the philosophy of Vedanta. He went on to say that an account of India’s freedom struggle would remain incomplete without a mention of youth leaders such as Birsa Munda, who had mobilised tribal communities against the British, or the trio of Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru. The inspiring tales of Alluri Sitarama Raju, who led a tribal rebellion against the British in present-day Andhra Pradesh, still continue to inspire generations, he said. “The democratic rights we take for granted today are a result of the struggles of thousands of young people who took to the streets fighting authoritarian figures, either during the freedom struggle or the dark days of the Emergency,” the Chief Justice said. “Many lost their lives, sacrificed lucrative careers, all for the greater good of the nation and society. Trust the youth to check the deviations in a society’s journey towards peace and progress. Although it is desirable to be independent and economically successful, at the same time we must not forget our duty towards our family, our community, and the nation. “It is imperative for the youth to be aware about the social realities and challenges. Remember, any change in the nation’s trajectory always stems from its youth and their participation. It is for you to build the ideal nation and society that you desire to witness.” Vivekananda believed that India’s youth were the chain that bonded the country’s past to its future, Justice Ramana said. He lauded the Ramakrishna Mission monks. “Swamijis, you are truly the embodiment of sacrifice and service. Your act of renouncing material and worldly pleasures is not easy to emulate. Your life is a message to all of us gathered here,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
13-09-2021||India||Gujarat: BJP operation deepenes anxiety in rudderless Congress||The swift BJP operation to project a new face has deepened anxieties in the rudderless Gujarat Congress, which is waiting for months for a new state unit chief and general secretary in-charge. The Congress, which almost uprooted the BJP in the 2017 Assembly elections, has been on the decline since then even as the disenchantment with the BJP peaked during the pandemic, badly denting even the image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his home state. The lukewarm response to the BJP’s “Aashirwad Yatra” in recent weeks and the feedback from rural areas convinced the Congress that the tide was turning decisively, but there was nobody to plan the political action to exploit the negative sentiment. The Congress central leadership was quick to describe the change of guard in Gandhinagar as a ploy to divert attention from the disastrous governance, amplified during the Covid-19 crisis, but the state leaders unanimously believe that they failed to take advantage. They squarely blame the high command and the leadership crisis there for the miserable state of Opposition in the state which is the wellspring of strength for Modi. Senior leaders of the Gujarat Congress conceded on Sunday that the BJP central leadership had intervened in time to stem the rot while their high command was “shockingly disinterested”. A senior leader told The Telegraph from Ahmedabad: “The BJP has addressed a major demand of the aggrieved Patidars by appointing the chief minister from their community. They are battered and exhausted but still preparing for the journey ahead. We are fast asleep, stubbornly refusing to wake up.” While the outgoing chief minister Vijay Rupani was hardly a factor in Gujarat politics as the entire management was done by Modi and Amit Shah from Delhi, the BJP has assuaged the feelings of Patidar community with the choice of Bhupendra Patel, blunting a lethal electoral plank of the Congress. “The Patidar movement is anyway over but there was dissatisfaction in the community. We hoped to encash that in the election. But that is difficult now,” a Congress leader said. “We tried to tap the Patidar anger by making Hardik Patel the working president. But he hardly did anything. He kept sulking, complaining against lack of free hand in the organisation. Who stopped him from campaigning throughout the state? He had the blessings of Rahul Gandhi. Hardik could have built a political capital during these months but he wasted a great opportunity. Now we will have to build a fresh narrative to counter the BJP,” he said. Pointing to the organisational lull in the party, Congress leaders explained how the BJP has now ironed out the coordination issues in their camp. “Gujarat BJP chief C.R. Patil couldn’t get along with Rupani. Patil was Modi’s choice while Rupani was close to Shah. Now the new chief minister, a confidant of former chief minister Anandiben Patel, who too was opposed to Shah and close to Modi, will work in tandem with the state chief,” the Congress leaders said. “In our organisation, every leader is on his own; there is no attempt by the central leadership to build a cohesive team,” they added. The state Congress chief Amit Chavda and legislature party leader Paresh Dhanani resigned in March after the miserable performance in local body polls. The state committee was dissolved. In May, the general secretary in-charge of the state, Rajiv Satav died of Covid-19.A delegation from Gujarat came to Delhi last month to plead with the high command to make the appointments at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
13-09-2021||India||Cuttack: Political parties oppose Durga Puja idol height cap||Political parties in Cuttack have united against a state government order limiting the height of Durga Puja idols to four feet, saying it would spoil the festival in a city renowned for holding it in a big way. State authorities have argued that big idols attract larger crowds, increasing Covid infections. An all-party team from Cuttack, including members of the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD), are expected to meet chief minister Naveen Patnaik soon and seek a rethink on the height restriction, announced by special relief commissioner P.K. Jena on Friday. The BJP will observe a Cuttack bandh on the issue on Monday. “This cap on the height of idols is not acceptable,” Mahhamed Mouqim of the Congress, MLA from Barbati in Cuttack city, told The Telegraph. “Here people across religions observe the Durga Puja. It’s the biggest festival in Cuttack city. We must celebrate it with the traditional grandeur. No other state, not even Bengal, has capped the height of Durga idols.” The state government had last year too capped the idols’ height to four feet citing the pandemic. All of Cuttack’s 145 Puja committees had fallen in line barring nine whom Orissa High Court had granted exemptions because they had already got their idols built. This time the authorities have ordered the height restriction well in time before the October 11-15 festivities, but the Puja organisers aren’t willing to curtail the event’s glamour two years running. Pravat Tripay, senior BJD leader and secretary of the Cuttack Durga Puja Committee, said the idols have to be at least six feet tall. “In Cuttack, the Durga Puja committees have traditional sets of gold and silver ornaments, including the crown, for the idols. These ornaments were made keeping in mind six-foot-tall idols. Any reduction in height will affect the beauty of the idols and rob the festival of its glamour,” he said. Last year, many of the ornaments could not be used because they were too big for the four-foot idols. “We had a meeting on Saturday evening. An all-party delegation will meet the chief minister on the matter,” Tripay said. A Puja committee member said: “We are ready to abide by all Covid protocols, but there’s no link between the height of an idol and the rise or fall of Covid cases.” Another said: “The Covid situation was grim last year. Now we have lived with the pandemic for more than one year and need to move ahead.” Odisha recorded 649 new Covid cases on Saturday, 630 on Friday and 745 on Thursday. The Durga Puja was first organised in Cuttack in 1509 by a Banerjee family that had arrived in Odisha with Sri Chaitanya Deb from Nabadwip. “The Puja did not stop even when famine gripped Odisha in 1865-66, or when the Spanish flu hit in 1919,” an elderly Puja committee member said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
