14-09-2021||India||Bengal police acting at TMC MP's behest to derail probe in illegal coal mining case: ED to Delhi HC||Enforcement Directorate Tuesday alleged before the Delhi High Court that West Bengal Police is acting at the behest of TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, who enjoys clout in the state government, to derail the probe into an alleged coal pilferage scam. The submission was made by the probe agency in its petition seeking a direction to quash two notices issued against its officers pursuant to an FIR lodged by Banerjee. The High Court said that it will hear the ED's challenge to the police notices issued against its officers, arising from an FIR by the TMC MP, on September 21. Additional Solicitor General S V Raju, appearing for ED, contended before Justice Yogesh Khanna that the notices issued pursuant to the FIR are patently illegal, malafide and a counter blast to the investigation in the coal pilferage case. The Enforcement Directorate (ED), in its petition before the high court, said that in order to pressurize its officers probing the case under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, Banerjee, who is the nephew of chief minister Mamta Banerjee and under scanner in the case, lodged an FIR in April. ED has sought a direction to quash two notices issued against its officers and any other subsequent notices that may be issued in the FIR, saying that they amount to abuse of process of law. The notices will not stand scrutiny even for a minute, Raju told the judge who deferred hearing on the petition, saying that the senior counsel for West Bengal will take care of the notices issued to the ED officers on July 22 and August 21. Once they are saying there is no other notice, we can fix (the plea for hearing) on Friday or Monday. Mr. (Sidharth) Luthra (appearing for West Bengal) will take care of it, said the judge after taking note of Luthra's submission. I don't think there will be a problem. Mr Raju, take it from me, said Luthra who also contended that the legal view was against the ED's stand. In April, on a complaint by the TMC MP, an FIR was lodged by local police in West Bengal under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code for alleged commission of offences of forgery of records, forgery for purpose of harming reputation, defamation etc. The petition, filed through Central government standing counsel Amit Mahajan, said that pursuant to this FIR, two notices were issued by the Sub Inspector, Special Cell (GS), DD of Kalighat Police Station, Kolkata to ED officers performing their statutory functions in the Headquarters in Delhi. The complainant in the instant FIR is a political heavy weight and enjoys clout in the State Government of West Bengal. The West Bengal Police is acting at his behest to derail the investigation being carried out by Enforcement Directorate, the plea said. It is pertinent to mention that the investigation into the illegal coal mining and the role of the complainant therein Abhishek Banerjee is being investigated by the Directorate of Enforcement in exercise of its statutory powers under PMLA in the Headquarters at New Delhi, it added. The petition said that based on reasonable belief and evidences , the probe agency issued summons to Banerjee for his appearance on three occasions, out of which he appeared only once on September 6. In order to pressurize the Petitioners/ IOs investigating the case related to illegal coal mining, Abhishek Banerjee lodged an FIR on date 05.04.2021, against a News Channel and in furtherance of the same, notices have been issued to the IOs investigating the case of illegal coal mining by the West Bengal Police. The said FIR has been registered with a malafide intention to derail the investigation under PMLA being conducted by the Directorate of Enforcement, the plea said. The petition alleged that the issuance of notices against ED officers is malafide and with the oblique motive and intent at stifling the fair and impartial investigation being undertaken by Enforcement Directorate for unearthing large financial scams / frauds taking place in the State of West Bengal and the country. It also argued that the motive behind registration of the FIR and the subsequent issuance of notices is only to harass the officers of the Directorate and to use the State Police Machinery to halt the investigation being conducted by the officers of the Directorate against highly placed persons in the State Government of West Bengal & their suspected role in the offence of money laundering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
14-09-2021||India||Over 700 MoD hutments vacated for PM's new residence ||Over 700 hutments belonging to the Ministry of Defence (MoD) located around Dalhousie Road in Delhi are being cleared by the ministry and the space will be developed for the Prime Minister's new residence and office as part of the Central Vista Redevelopment project. The new offices of close to 7,000 ministry officials will now be located at Kasturba Gandhi Marg in Central Delhi and at Africa Avenue near Chanakyapuri. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the two complexes on Thursday. As per information, over 50 acres, vacated near South Block, will be used to develop the "Executive Enclave" of the Central Vista Project. The new Executive Enclave, apart from the PM residence, will have offices of the Cabinet Secretariat and other senior officers. "All these hutments around Dalhousie Road will be vacated over the next two months and the new offices will be permanent," a senior government official said. According to him, over 7,000 officers and staff belonging to 27 different organizations - attached offices of the Defence Ministry, service headquarters and other subordinate offices - are being shifted. At Africa Avenue in Chanakyapuri, the new MoD complex is a seven-storey building and will house only defence ministry offices. However, the other office in Central Delhi will be an eight-storey building and will be shared by Parivahan Bhawan and Shram Shakti Bhavan till their new offices are operational at the Central Secretariat Complex. The new buildings will also provide modern amenities, connectivity and welfare facilities like canteens, banks, etc. The location and spaces of these buildings have been so designed that they do not disturb the pre-existing trees. As part of the plan, the KG Marg complex will be used to relocate 14 different offices with a built-up area of 4.52 lakh square feet. Thirteen offices are being relocated to Africa Avenue with a built-up area of 5.08 lakh square feet, officials said, adding, these office complexes have been constructed at a cost of ₹ 775 crore provided by the Defence Ministry. "The work has been carried out by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development as part of their Central Vista project. In addition to the office space for the officers and staff, there is provision for multi-level car parking for over 1,500 cars in these complexes," an official told NDTV. Currently under the Central Vista Redevelopment project, work to rebuild the new Parliament is underway at Rajpath. While the Parliament building is expected to be ready by 2022 - in time for celebrations of the 75th anniversary of India's Independence, the Central Vista Avenue is expected to be ready by 26th January 2022||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
14-09-2021||India||Delhi police bust Pakistan-backed terror plot, 6 held ||The Delhi Police's Special Cell on Tuesday busted a Pakistan-organised terror module with the arrest of six men, including two Pak-ISI trained terrorists, officials said. The terrorists were allegedly planning several blasts across the country during the upcoming festivals, police said. The accused, identified as Jaan Mohammad Shaikh (47) alias 'Sameer', Osama (22), Moolchand (47), Zeeshan Qamar (28), Mohd Abu Bakar (23) and Mohd Amir Javed (31), were arrested following raids in Delhi and parts of Uttar Pradesh, they said. Among the arrested, Osama and Qamar, are Pakistan-trained terror operatives working under the instructions of Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). They were tasked to conduct the reconnaissance of different suitable locations in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh for placing IEDs, police said. "The arrest of the four accused has exposed the nexus of the Pakistan's ISI-sponsored and trained terror modules with underworld operatives and averted a slew of serial blasts and targeted killings in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and other states in India," said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah. "Pakistan-organised terror module has been busted and six persons have been arrested, including two Pakistan-trained terrorists," he said. Explosives and firearms have been recovered from Allahabad in Uttar Pradesh in a multi-state operation, Khushwah added. Police said that the arrested men were tasked separately to execute different aspects of the terror plan. The underworld operative Sameer, a close contact of Anees Ibrahim, who is brother of Dawood Ibrahim, was tasked by a Pak-based person connected with underworld operatives hiding in Pakistan, to ensure smooth delivery of improvised explosive devices (IED), sophisticated weapons and grenades to different entities in India. Anees Ibrahim, who is presently based in Pakistan, is stated to be the underworld connect of this module, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
14-09-2021||India||Special CBI court convicts 5 in a 2003 coal scam case||A CBI special court here on Tuesday convicted five persons in connection with a coal scam case related to Lalgarh (North) coal block allocated during the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government in 2003, officials said. The CBI special judge convicted Binay Prakash, the then managing director of Ranchi-based Domco Pvt. Ltd.; the then directors Vasant Diwakar Manjrekar and Paramananda Mondal; chartered accountant Sanjay Khandewal and the company Domco Pvt. Ltd. The court will hear arguments on the quantum of sentences on Wednesday. "This case was registered on the basis of a preliminary enquiry initiated by CBI on the directions received from CVC related to coal blocks allocated during the period from 1993 to 2005. During enquiry, it was revealed that the Lalgarh (North) Coal block was identified in favour of the company by the 19th Screening Committee and accordingly, the company was intimated vide MoC letter dated November 24, 2003," CBI Spokesperson RC Joshi said. The CBI had alleged that Prakash, promoter director of Domco Pvt. Ltd., entered into conspiracy with unidentified persons and submitted false information to authorities while applying for the block. It is alleged that the Prakash made gains of Rs 7 crore by selling shares of the company on premium, after the allocation of the coal block. "After investigation, charge sheet was filed on December 22, 2015 against the accused. The trial court found the five accused guilty and convicted them," Joshi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
14-09-2021||India||Hybrid work will positively impact work-life balance, say Indian professionals||Majority of Indian professionals believe that hybrid work is essential for work-life balance, as this model would allow them to strike the right balance between their personal and professional lives, according to a LinkedIn survey. According to LinkedIn's "Future of Work" Study 2021, nearly 9 in 10 (86 per cent) respondents think that hybrid work will positively impact their work-life balance. Moreover, professionals are prioritising their well-being so much so that half of India's workforce believes that work-life balance is just as important as their salary, the survey that covered 1,108 respondents in the age group of 16 to 68, noted. The survey further said with a majority of professionals continuing to work remotely, 1 in 3 professionals in India is burnt out due to increased workload (35 per cent) and stress (34 per cent) while working remotely in India, the study said. "To shelter from such distressing times, professionals are prioritising their well-being and finding ways to strike the right balance. In fact, half of India's workforce believes that work-life balance (52 per cent) is just as important as their salary (52 per cent) today," it noted. The Future of Work perception study was conducted by research firm Censuswide, and surveyed 1,108 respondents in India, who worked in an office before the pandemic and who had to work from home at some point during the pandemic due to COVID-19 restrictions/guidelines. The respondents were surveyed between July 27 and July 29, 2021. "Long-term remote work has left professionals fatigued in India. This has caused a shift in the idea of what is important in our lives and has led to what we call 'The Great Talent Reshuffle'. Organisations are rethinking their entire work models, culture, and values, while employees are rethinking not just how they work, but why they work. "At this time, we encourage companies to explore stronger flexible offerings and more mental health time off, as professionals are now seeking a greater balance and more fulfillment in their lives," says Ashutosh Gupta, India Country Manager, LinkedIn. As per the survey, professionals in India are keen to go back to the office. The study noted that 72 per cent of respondents think working from home would negatively impact their career growth, while 55 per cent said their professional learnings had already taken a severe hit. The study further reveals that nearly half (46 per cent) of India's workforce wants to go back to the office, full time because it makes them feel more productive and successful in a workplace setting. In fact, 71 per cent of respondents agree that those who choose to work more from the office are more likely to be favoured by bosses or leaders. Around 89 per cent of professionals also think going back to the workplace will help their finances because it will allow them to work more hours and make more money. As per the study, 93 per cent of professionals agree that working from home during the pandemic has positively impacted their physical health. They feel healthier and get extra time to exercise more frequently when working remotely. In fact, two in five professionals say they want to work remotely going forward because it allows them to choose work hours and location', and spend more time with their loved ones', the survey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
14-09-2021||India||Govt mulls increasing monthly stipend of Covid orphans||The central government is planning to increase the monthly financial support given to children who lost their parents to COVID-19 from Rs 2,000 to Rs 4,000, a senior official said on Tuesday. The official said a proposal may go to the Cabinet for approval in the next few weeks. The Women and Child Development Ministry has proposed that the monthly stipend given to children who lost their parents to the pandemic be increased from Rs 2,000 to Rs 4,000, the official said. The government in May had announced that children who have lost both parents or surviving parent or legal guardian/adoptive parents due to COVID-19 will be supported under the 'PM-CARES for Children' scheme. Till now, out of 3,250 applications received under the scheme, a total of 667 have been approved by district magistrates concerned, according to ministry data. The data also showed that applications have been received from 467 districts till now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
14-09-2021||India||Another Tamil Nadu girl dies by suicide after taking NEET exam||A day after she appeared for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test, a 17-year old girl died by suicide at a village near here, police said on Tuesday. The girl, Kanimozhi, took the extreme step when her parents were away on Monday night and they returned home to find her hanging, a police official here said. Daughter of a lawyer, Kanimozhi is the 16th medical aspirant from Tamil Nadu to end her life fearing outcome of the test, coupled with dejection that their dream to pursue medical education may not fructify. She appeared for the national test on Sunday and had told her parents that some questions were tough and that she was concerned about the outcome, he said adding "investigation is still on." Another official told PTI that police received information early today and the body was sent for post-mortem to a government hospital and later handed over to the family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
14-09-2021||India||PM Modi remembers Aligarh’s muslim lock seller||Taking a walk down memory lane, PM Narendra Modi recalled his connection with Aligarh, saying a Muslim salesman dealing in locks made in the city used to visit his village and leave his earnings with his father for safekeeping. Addressing a gathering after visiting an exhibition of the UP Defence Industrial Corridor in Aligarh, Modi said besides the city, Sitapur was the other place about which he had heard in his childhood. Modi said when he was a child, around 55 to 60 years ago, a Muslim salesman dealing in locks of Aligarh used to visit his village after every three months. "I still remember that he used to wear a black jacket," he said. "He used to leave the locks in shops and again come after three months to take money. He used to go to traders in neighbouring villages. He had a good friendship with my father. He used to stop for four to six days in our village and leave the money he had collected with my father. Before leaving the village, he used to collect the money from my father and depart via a train," the prime minister said. "In childhood, two cities of UP were very familiar. One was Aligarh and the other was Sitapur. If anybody from our village had an eye ailment and need to get medical treatment, everybody used to tell him to go to Sitapur," Modi said. "Though I did not understand much. But, we used to hear the word Sitapur and the second one was Aligarh because of the gentleman," Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
14-09-2021||India||Chirag Paswan’s cousin Prince Raj booked in rape case||Lok Janshakti Party MP Prince Raj has been booked on rape charges by the Delhi Police while the lawmaker moved a court here on Tuesday for anticipatory bail alleging that he had been blackmailed by the complainant. The police said a complaint was filed three months ago by the alleged victim, who is a party worker, and the case was registered on the directions of a court under sections related to rape, criminal conspiracy and destruction of evidence. LJP spokesperson Shravan Kumar defended Prince Raj, claiming that the allegations against him are a "political conspiracy" to malign him, and suggested it could be a case of "honey trapping". He said the Member of Parliament from Samastipur in Bihar had lodged a complaint of "extortion and blackmailing" with Delhi Police on February 10 against the woman who has accused him of rape. Prince had in June tweeted denying all the allegations levelled by her. The alleged rape took place in 2020, according to the woman complainant. The court's direction came on September 9 and a case has been registered (against Prince Raj) under relevant sections at the Connaught Place Police Station," a police officer said. Police said that an investigation is underway and nobody has been questioned in this regard yet. On Tuesday, Prince filed an anticipatory bail application which is likely to come up for hearing before Special Judge M K Nagpal on Thursday. The application, moved by advocate Nitesh Rana, claims that the alleged victim and her male friend were extorting money and blackmailing Prince and a case had already been filed in that regard earlier, in which the woman and her associate were granted anticipatory bail. Prince Raj is the cousin of LJP leader Chirag Paswan who, according to police, was also mentioned named in the FIR. The victim alleged that Chirag pressured her not to file the complaint against Prince, the police said. Chirag Paswan had earlier said that he had spoken to his cousin and the complainant when the matter was brought before him. He had asked both of them to pursue the matter with police, he had said. Chirag Paswan and Prince Raj are estranged now with the latter joining the party faction headed by their uncle and Union Minister Pashupati Kumar Paras. Advocate Sudesh Kumari Jethwa, who is representing the woman, said, A complaint was filed at Connaught Place Police Station by the victim in May this year. When no action was taken, we moved an application before Rouse Avenue court in July. The court then directed the police to lodge an FIR and carry out the investigation in a fair and unbiased manner. In her complaint, the victim claimed that she met Prince first at the party office. They later met on many occasions and at one such meeting, the accused allegedly gave her something to drink. When she became unconscious, he made physical relations with her, the police said. When she confronted him later, he showed her a video recorded by him in which he was seen making physical relations with her. She also alleged that he proposed to marry her and threatened her that he would put the video on the internet, they said. She also alleged that Prince then started visiting her at odd hours. Without naming anyone, LJP's Shravan Kumar alleged that it was a political conspiracy and said the police should swiftly probe the case lodged by Prince. "We have absolute faith in the judiciary," he added. In his police complaint filed in February, Prince had alleged that the woman developed a physical relationship with him after taking him into confidence. The act was also videographed by her with the help of a man with whom she was in live-in-relationship, according to police officials. Prince further alleged the woman and the man also demanded Rs 1 crore from him but he gave them Rs two lakh. Later on the advice of his legal team, he approached the police, the officer said. On June 17, Prince had tweeted, "It has come to my knowledge that a certain woman has been making defamatory statements against me before various media houses claiming harassment and abuse. "I categorically deny any such claim or assertion that has been made against me. All such claims are blatantly false, fabricated, and are part of a larger criminal conspiracy to pressure me professionally and personally by threatening my reputation." he said in the post. Such attempts have also been made previously by the same woman along with her fianc . Back in February 2021, I had filed a police complaint against the woman and her fianc . On basis of my complaint, FIR was also registered at the Parliament Street Police Station, New Delhi. I am extremely saddened by these repeated and malevolent attempts to misuse the well-intended laws for the protection of women of our country. I have full faith in the judicial system of our country and if required, will take additional legal recourse as and when advised. I am confident that justice and truth will prevail, he had tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
14-09-2021||India||TMC nominates Sushmita Dev to Rajya Sabha||Trinamul Congress (TMC) on Tuesday nominated Sushmita Dev, who recently joined the party after quitting the Congress, to the upper house of Parliament. "We are extremely pleased to nominate @SushmitaDevAITC to the Upper House of the Parliament. @MamataOfficial's vision to empower women and ensure their maximum participation in politics shall help our society to achieve much more!" the party tweeted. Dev, a Congress veteran, was one of the national spokespersons of the grand-old party and its women's wing chief, till she switched over to the Mamata Banerjee-led camp last month. In the resignation letterShe sent her resignation letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, sources said, but offered no reason for her quitting. She has now been assigned the job of looking after the party's functioning in Assam and Tripura, by the TMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
14-09-2021||India||SC refuses to reopen decision on granting reservation in promotion to SCs and STs||The Supreme Court Tuesday said it would not reopen its decision on granting reservation in promotions to Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) as it was for the states to decide how they implement it. Taking up various pleas pertaining to alleged hurdles in granting reservation in promotions to SCs and STs in various states, a three-judge bench headed by Justice Nageswara Rao directed the Advocate on Records of state governments to identify issues peculiar to them and submit those within two weeks. "We are making it very clear that we are not going to reopen Nagraj or Jarnail Singh (cases) because the idea was only to decide these cases in accordance with the law laid down by the court," said the bench, also comprising Justices Sanjiv Khannna and B R Gavai. The top court noted that in its earlier order, the state governments were directed to finalise the issues which are peculiar to them so that the court can proceed in the matter. The issues framed by Attorney General K K Venugopal and the ones circulated by others are enhancing the scope of cases, it said. "We are not willing to do that. There are certain issues which are already decided in Nagraj that also we are not going to take up. We are very clear that we are not going to permit any arguments for reopening of cases or arguing that law laid down from Indira Sahney is wrong because the very scope of these cases is to apply the law as laid down by this court," the court said. Venugopal submitted before the apex court that nearly all these issues have been covered by judgements of the top court and he would give a background of all the cases on issue of reservation since the Indira Sawhney case. Senior advocate Indira Jaising contended that the issue which remains open is benchmark for adequacy on how a state will decide on which groups are backwards. "It is not a question of disputed facts anymore. In some cases HCs have struck down on the ground that backwardness has not been shown. How any state will establish that representation is adequate and in that sense there will have to be benchmarks for adequacy which will require detailed consideration," she said. Responding to the submission, the bench said, "We are not here to advise the government what they should do. It's not for us to tell the government how to implement policy. It has been specifically held as to how the states have to implement it and consider backwardness and representation. States have to decide what to do subject to judicial review." Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan said he does not want to get into the question of representation as Indira Sawhney judgment is clear that it's not proportionate representation. "In the Madhya Pradesh case it's very that you cannot rely on the census. This is not the first time that a large batch of cases has come. In each case let written submission be given to the court. The State of Maharashtra says we have set up a committee to decide on 'adequacy of representation'. Why was this not done earlier? As far as the principles are concerned they were enumerated in the Nagraj judgment," he said. The Attorney General said the problem of Union of India is that there are three interim HC orders passed out which two say that promotions can continue to be made, while one HC has issued status quo orders on promotions. "The Government of India has 1,400 posts (secretariat level) stagnating where no promotions could be made on a regular basis because all three orders dealt with regular promotions. The issue is whether the promotions for regular appointments can be continued to be made, and whether it affects the reserved seats. "There are another 2,500 posts stagnating for years due to status quo orders relating to regular promotions. Government wants to make those promotions on ad hoc basis without any rights," Venugopal said while seeking a stay on a contempt plea against the government official. Senior advocate Meenakshi Arora said if the matter is being kept after two weeks then the contempt plea can be heard on that date. Senior advocate P S Patwalia, appearing for Maharashtra and Bihar, said the court will have to examine how you arrive at what is the quantifiable data, adding that 60 per cent posts are lying vacant in Bihar. The top court said it has already passed orders on how to consider backwardness and it cannot prescribe policy further. The top court then ordered, "Pursuant to earlier orders passed by this court, AG has circulated a note on the issues that arise for consideration in these matters. Issues identified by the states of Maharashtra and Tripura were also placed before this court. Issues have been given separately to AG by Sr Lawyer Indira Jaising and Rajeev Dhavan. The AG submitted that there is no need for reopening the law laid down by this court. "In respect of interpretation of Article 16 and 16(4)(a) it is submitted that judgment delivered by this court would clear all issues which arise for consideration. It has been brought to our notice that issues peculiar to states can be grouped in 11 categories. There is an order already on order passed by this court that states have to identify the issues which arise in each state and furnish a copy to AG". The bench directed the AoRs of state governments to identify issues peculiar to the states and submit the same before this court in two weeks from today. It directed the counsels to submit written notes not exceeding five pages citing judgments within two weeks and posted the matter for hearing on October 5. Earlier, Maharashtra and other states had said the promotions have been made in unreserved categories, but promotions have not been granted in reserved categories for SC and ST employees. In 2018, a five-judge Constitution bench had paved the way for grant of quota for promotions in the government jobs to SCs and STs, holding that the states were not required to "collect quantifiable data" reflecting the backwardness among these communities. The apex court said that there was no need to revisit its 2006 verdict in the M Nagaraj case on the issue. It had held however that the conclusion arrived at in the Nagaraj case that the states have to collect quantifiable data showing backwardness of SCs and STs was "contrary" to the nine-judge bench judgement in the Indra Sawhney verdict of 1992, popularly known as Mandal Commission case. "Thus, we conclude that the judgment in Nagaraj does not need to be referred to a seven-judge bench. However, the conclusion in Nagaraj that the state has to collect quantifiable data showing backwardness of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, being contrary to the nine-judge bench in Indra Sawhney, is held to be invalid to this extent," the bench had held.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
14-09-2021||India||Modi praises Yogi govt, says UP reaping 'double benefits of double-engine govt'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said Uttar Pradesh was run by gangsters and mafias before 2017, but now things have changed under Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and such elements are behind the bars. He also said that earlier roadblocks were created in the implementation of welfare schemes meant for the poor, but now there are no such hurdles and the benefits of these schemes are reaching the needy. Elaborating on the achievements of the BJP governments at the centre and the state, the Prime Minister further said, "Uttar Pradesh is increasingly emerging as a favourable destination for national and international investors. This happens when a conducive environment is nurtured... and necessary resources are provided. Today, Uttar Pradesh has become a shining example of (the) double benefits of the double-engine government." Modi was addressing a function after laying the foundation stone of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh State University here. The university is being established by the state government in the memory and honour of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh, the great freedom fighter, educationist and social reformer. It is being set up in a total area of over 92 acres at Lodha village and Musepur Kareem Jarouli village of Aligarh's Kol tehsil. The university will provide affiliation to 395 colleges of the Aligarh division. The prime minister also visited an exhibition on the Aligarh node of the Uttar Pradesh Defence Industrial Corridor. He said India was earlier seen as an importer of defence equipment, but today it is considered a leading defence exporter. "Today not only India, but the world is watching how equipment ranging from modern grenades, rifles, fighter planes, drones and warships, are manufactured in the country itself," he noted. Modi also remembered veteran BJP leader Kalyan Singh and said had he been there on this occasion, he would have appreciated a university coming up in the name of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh, in his home district. The Adityanath government's decision to set up the university after the noted Jat figure is being politically seen as part of the ruling BJP's bid to win over the community ahead of the crucial state assembly polls early next year. A section of Jats, who live in sizeable numbers in western Uttar Pradesh, is seen to be aggrieved with the BJP over the farmers issue. Meanwhile, Adityanath and Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma briefed Modi about the upcoming university. Governor Anandiben Patel was also present on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
14-09-2021||India||All regional languages must be promoted, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday said Hindi is a friend of India's regional languages and all of them should be promoted and encouraged. Addressing a function on the occasion of Hindi Diwas, Shah also appealed to parents to communicate with their children at home in their mother tongue even if they study in English medium schools. Otherwise, the children will be cut-off from their roots, he said. Hindi has no difference with any regional language. Hindi is the 'Sakhi' (friend) of all Indian regional languages, he said. Shah said all Indian regional languages complement and complete Hindi and all regional languages must be promoted and encouraged. Since 2014, more MPs are speaking in their own regional language in Parliament and they are being translated verbatim to English and Hindi, he said and added that this has helped people's representatives to highlight the problems of their respective areas in the highest forum. The home minister said people should not only be 'Atma Nirbhar' (self-reliant) in producing goods but also for languages. He cited Prime Minister Narendra Modi's example of speaking only in Hindi at all international forums to convey his thoughts. Hesitation over Hindi is a passe, he said. Referring to the New Education Policy (NEP) envisaged by Modi, Shah said it has provisions for promotion of regional and Hindi languages. On dealing with the pandemic situation, he said India has been successful in handling COVID-19 with minimum damage due to joint efforts of the central and state governments and with the active cooperation of 130 crore population. The prime minister, whenever he addressed the nation, talked with all stakeholders doctors, experts and others in Hindi which resulted in the message reaching the grassroots level, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
14-09-2021||India||Defamation: Court to issue warrant against Kangana if she fails to appear on September 20||A Mumbai court on Tuesday allowed actor Kangana Ranaut's plea seeking exemption from personal appearance for the day in a criminal defamation complaint filed by lyricist Javed Akhtar and said it will issue a warrant against her if she fails to appear on the next date of hearing on September 20. As the matter came up for hearing, Ranaut's lawyer sought that she be exempted from appearance for the day as she was not keeping well. The lawyer submitted a medical certificate before the court and said the actor has been traveling for the promotion of her film and has "developed COVID-19 symptoms". However, Akhtar's lawyer said this is an orchestrated tactic to delay the case proceedings. The lyricist's lawyer further said Ranaut has refused to appear before the court for one reason or the other since summons were issued to her in February this year. After hearing the submissions, metropolitan magistrate R R Khan allowed Ranaut to be exempted from appearance for the day. He then posted the matter for hearing on September 20. The magistrate said if the actor fails to appear on the next hearing, a warrant will be issued against her. Last Thursday, the Bombay High Court dismissed a plea filed by Ranaut seeking the quashing of proceedings initiated against her by the local court on the criminal defamation complaint filed by Akhtar. Justice Revati Mohite-Dere had said in the order that there was no procedural illegality or irregularity in the Andheri metropolitan magistrate's order initiating the proceedings. Akhtar (76) filed a complaint in the magistrate's court in November last year, claiming that Ranaut had made defamatory statements against him in a television interview, which allegedly damaged his reputation. In his complaint, Akhtar claimed that Ranaut dragged his name during an interview while referring to a 'coterie' existing in Bollywood, following the alleged suicide committed by actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
14-09-2021||India||Modi lays foundation stone of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh University in Aligarh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday laid the foundation stone of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh State University in Aligarh. The university is being established by the Uttar Pradesh government in the memory and honour of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh, the great freedom fighter, educationist and social reformer. It is being set up in a total area of over 92 acres at Lodha village and Musepur Kareem Jarouli village of Aligarh's Kol tehsil. The university will provide affiliation to 395 colleges of the Aligarh division. The Yogi Adityanath government's decision to set up the university after the noted Jat figure is being politically seen as part of the ruling BJP's bid to win over the community ahead of the crucial state assembly polls early next year. A section of Jats, who live in sizeable numbers in western Uttar Pradesh, is seen to be aggrieved with the BJP over the issues of farmers. The prime minister also visited exhibition models of Aligarh node of the Uttar Pradesh Defence Industrial Corridor. UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma briefed Modi about the upcoming university. UP Governor Anandiben Patel was also present on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
14-09-2021||India||Nizamuddin Markaz case has cross border implications, Centre tells HC||The case registered in relation to the alleged violation of COVID-19 protocols at Nizamuddin Markaz -- where the Tablighi Jamaat congregation was held in March last year amid COVID-19 pandemic is serious and has cross borders implications, the Centre told the Delhi High Court which Monday remarked that the premises can't be kept locked forever. Justice Mukta Gupta, who was hearing the Delhi Waqf Board's plea to re-open the markaz which has remained shut since March 31 last year, questioned the Centre as to how long it intended to keep the Nizamuddin Markaz locked, saying it can't be kept forever. Counsel for the Centre stated that a legal action to re-open the markaz can only be initiated by the lessee of the property and a resident of the premises has already filed a plea to handover the residential portion of the markaz, which is pending final adjudication before another judge of the high court. Only on legal view, the petition can be disposed of. The Waqf Board has no power to overstep the lessee, said the counsel for the Centre Rajat Nair. However, the judge said some persons were in possession of the property. "Due to the pandemic, an FIR was registered.. (and) you take possession as case property. It has to be handed over. It can't be that the property is kept forever (subject to court orders). What is your stand on the facts of the case? You tell me from whom you took it. How long will you keep it locked as case property?" The court issued notice on an application filed by a member of the Managing Committee of the markaz in question for his impleadment and allowed the Waqf Board to file its reply to the Centre's affidavit and posted the matter for next hearing on November 16. Senior counsel Ramesh Gupta, representing the Board, argued that the petition has remained pending for more than a year and a half and clarified that his petition pertained to the release of the entire markaz property comprising the masjid, the madrasa and the residential portion. "Now they should release the property to us. UOI has no role to play," he stated. Senior counsel Salman Khurshid, representing the intervening member, added that he is on the same page as the Waqf and when allowed to be re-opened, the markaz would adhere to the relevant protocols. In its affidavit affirmed by the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime, the Centre has maintained that it is necessary and incumbent to preserve the Markaz property as the investigation in the case registered for violation of the COVID-19 protocols has cross borders implications and involves the nation's diplomatic relations with other countries. As such, in view of the seriousness of the case which has trans-border implication and diplomatic consideration, it is just and necessary that the case property in such a case is preserved in letter and spirit so that due process of law in dealing with such cases is followed, the affidavit said. Since about 1300 foreigners were found to be residing in the said premises and cases against them have cross borders implications and involves nation's diplomatic relationship with other countries, it is necessary and incumbent on the part of the Respondent to preserve the said premises for the purpose of Section 310 of Cr.PC, it added. It said since the issue of keeping the markaz premises locked is pending adjudication before another bench, it cannot be agitated by the petitioner (Waqf) in guise of its power of superintendence . It added that the right to administer the markaz is subject to law, public order and health and that the authorities have always relaxed the entry norms upon a proper application made by the person administering the religious affair as and when the organizers apply for a relaxation in view of any ensuing religious festival or for any other reason. On April 15, the court had allowed 50 people to offer namaz five times a day at Nizamuddin Markaz during Ramzan, saying there is no direction in the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) notification to close down places of worship. The board, in its plea filed through advocate Wajeeh Shafiq, contended that even after unlock-1 guidelines permitted religious places outside containment zones to be opened, the markaz -- comprising the Masjid Bangley Wali, Madarsa Kashif-ul-uloom and attached hostel -- continues to be locked up. It has further contended that even if the premises as part of any criminal investigation or trial, keeping it "under lock as an out of bound area" was a "primitive method" of the enquiry process. Several FIRs have been registered under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act, Foreigners Act and various provisions of the penal code in connection with the Tablighi Jamaat event held at the markaz and the subsequent stay of foreigners there during the COVID-19 lockdown last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
14-09-2021||India||Odisha orders evacuation from low-lying areas as rain batters state||With heavy rain pounding Odisha for the last 36 hours leading to a rise in water levels in most rivers, the state government on Tuesday asked all the district collectors to evacuate people from low-lying areas as three persons were killed in incidents related to the downpour, officials said. As many as 17 areas in the state received more than 200 mm rainfall each in the last 24 hours till 8.30 AM on Tuesday, the India Meteorological Centre said. While two locations received more than 300 mm of rain -- Talcher (394 mm) and Birmaharajpur (372 mm) 15 other stations received downpour of 200-300 mm. Fearing that more low-lying areas might get inundated, Special Relief Commissioner P K Jena asked the collectors to ensure prompt evacuation of the vulnerable population. "In case water enters villages and habitations, there is a need to evacuate people from such areas and provide them with cooked or dry food and other basic necessities as per the relief code," Jena told collectors, adding that any damage to communication be restored at the earliest. The state government, which had by Monday evening evacuated 3,819 people, issued the fresh instruction as rain continued throughout the night. Baitarani River was flowing at 17.84 m against the danger level of 17.83 m at Akhuapada, while Vansadhara was gushing at 53.92 m against the danger level of 54.6 m, and Jalaka was flowing at 6.22 m against the danger mark of 5.5 m at Mathani, Water Resources Department officials said. Field officials have informed the government that nullahs, ponds and agricultural fields are filled with water which may ingress into low-lying areas. The deep depression over north interior Odisha moved in the west-northwest direction and now laid 50 km from Jharsuguda. It is likely to move across north Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh and weaken into a depression, the weatherman said. The IMD forecast light to moderate rain or thundershowers at most places in the state till 8.30 AM on Wednesday. It issued a yellow warning (be updated) for Bargarh, Jharsuguda, Sundargarh, Mayurbhanj, Bhadrak, Balasore, Kendrapada, Jajpur, Deogarh, Sambalpur, Nuapada, Nabarangpur, Bolangir, and Keonjhar districts. Wind speeds are likely to reach 40-50 kmph gushing up to 60 kmph along the Odisha-West Bengal coast and the sea condition will be very rough, it said, warning fishermen against venturing into the sea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
14-09-2021||India||India logs over 25,000 fresh Covid cases, 339 casualties in a day||India logged 25,404 new COVID-19 cases, taking the infection tally in the country to 3,32,89,579, while the count of active cases declined to 3,62,207, according to the Union Health Ministry data on Tuesday. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,43,213, with 339 fresh fatalities being recorded, the data updated at 8 am showed. The tally of active cases has declined to 3,62,207, which comprises 1.09 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.58 per cent, the ministry said. A reduction of 12,062 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 14,30,891 COVID-19 tests were conducted in the country on Monday, taking the total of such examinations to 54,44,44,967. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.78 per cent. This has been below three per cent for the last 15 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.07 per cent. The figure has been below three per cent for the last 81 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,24,84,159, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has reached 75.22 crore, according to the ministry. \India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one crore-mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 339 new fatalities include 121 from Haryana, 99 from Kerala and 27 from Maharashtra. Haryana's Director General of Health Services Veena Singh had said on Monday that the 121 deaths, which have been added to the daily bulletin, were under audit earlier. A total of 4,43,213 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,38,169 from Maharashtra, 37,517 From Karnataka, 35,190 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,883 from Uttar Pradesh, 22,650 from Kerala and 18,587 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
14-09-2021||India||Goods train derails, falls into river in Odisha||At least six coaches of a goods train running on the Angul-Talcher Road route of East Coast Railways derailed in the early hours of Tuesday and fell into a river, officials said. Six coaches of the train carrying wheat plunged into the river around 2.30 am, but the loco pilot and other staff were reported to be safe as the engine remained on the track, they said. Heavy rain in the wake of a deep depression in the Bay of Bengal is likely to have caused the accident on a bridge over river Nandira when the goods train was on its way from Firozpur to Khurda Road, the officials said. Talcher recorded 160 mm of rainfall on Monday followed by Angul (74 mm). Following the incident, the ECoR has cancelled 12 trains, diverted routes of eight others and short terminated another, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
14-09-2021||India||Delhi likely to experience light rains today||Light rains are likely on Tuesday in the national capital which recorded a minimum temperature of 26.4 degrees Celsius. The relative humidity in the morning was recorded at 90 per cent, according to the India Meteorological Department. Parts of Delhi had received rainfall on Monday.The Safdarjung Observatory in the city, recorded 3.5 mm rainfall from 8:30 AM on Monday to 8:30 AM on Tuesday, an IMD official said. The minimum temperature on Monday had settled at 26.5 degrees Celsius, while the maximum was recorded at 33.4 degrees Celsius. The weather office has forecast light rains later in the day and the maximum temperature is likely to settle around 35 degrees Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
14-09-2021||India||Pegasus: SC gives Centre three days to 'stop beating around the bush’||The Centre on Monday cited “national security” and declined to file a fresh affidavit admitting or denying snooping on citizens with the Israeli spyware Pegasus, prompting the Supreme Court to give it three days to reconsider or face a judicial order. If the Centre misses the deadline, the apex court will have the option of forming a special investigation team (SIT) for a court-monitored probe into allegations of illegal, Pegasus-enabled surveillance on judges, journalists, politicians, activists and others. The bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli handed the ultimatum to solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, who had persistently maintained during the nearly two-hour arguments that the Centre did not want to file a fresh affidavit. When Mehta said the government was instead willing to appoint a committee of “independent” domain experts to investigate the allegations, Justice Ramana said: “Mr Mehta, beating around the bush is not the question here….” The petitioners who have sought a court-monitored SIT probe into the Pegasus controversy have already rejected any investigation by a committee formed by the government “We are not interested to know about national interest issues; we are only (concerned with) allegations that some software was used to snoop on certain citizens like lawyers, etc. We wanted to know if it’s done and, if so, to see if it is permissible under law,” Justice Ramana said. “We also don’t want security issues to be put here.” The court had directed the government to file a fresh affidavit after its two-page affidavit failed to clarify whether the Centre had used Pegasus to spy on citizens. On Monday, the CJI questioned the Centre’s reluctance to file an affidavit, underlining that even if a government-appointed expert committee conducted the probe, it would still have to hand in its report to the court and “everything will be in public”. “We reserve orders. This is for interim orders. You have two-three days, Mr Mehta, if you have any rethinking you can mention before this court,” Justice Ramana said. Justice Kant told Mehta the court had already made it clear it did not want issues relating to national security made public. “We were only expecting a limited affidavit since there are petitioners before us who say their rights have been infringed by A or B agency. You had to say whether it’s done lawfully or unlawfully…. National security is not a part of present proceedings,” Justice Kant said. When Mehta maintained that revealing details “will not serve national interests”, Justice Ramana remarked: “We are going back to, again and again, the same issue. We are not interested to know what you are doing to protect the interests of the country, etc, etc.” “Your minister admitted in Parliament that government has taken note of the software being used…. If you file an affidavit, then we know where you stand as per your minister’s statement,” Ramana added. Justice Ramana then said: “Now they don’t want to file an affidavit. So we will pass an order — what to do?” Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for petitioners N. Ram and Sashi Kumar, had earlier countered the Centre’s national interest line, saying that using Pegasus against citizens was detrimental to justice and the right to privacy. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, representing petitioner Jagdeep Chhokar, said Pegasus enabled not just surveillance but also the implanting of false data in a target’s device. Senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi, appearing for certain other petitioners, cited the Civil Procedure Code to argue the Centre ought to categorically deny the allegations through an affidavit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
14-09-2021||India||Concor: Charge of bid to help suitors of PSU, alleges Congress||The Congress has flagged multiple concerns, including an abrupt cut in a fee, linked to the proposed divestment in Container Corporation of India Ltd (Concor), a profit-making Navratna public sector unit and the market leader in which the Adanis have evinced interest. “The Modi government is considering a change in the lease policy for industrial use of railway land. A change that will bring LLF (land licensing fee) to 2 to 3 per cent from the current 6 per cent,” Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said. On March 10, this year, the railways, which own Concor, came up with the new land licensing fee policy. Under this, the railways propose to levy an annual land licence fee at the rate of 3 per cent of the industrial land value per acre. Piyush Goyal, the then railways minister, extended this policy to Concor and other private train operators who set up terminals on land leased from the railways. Concor boasts the country’s largest network of 60 inland container depots. Land usage rights and terms have been a critical element in the selloff process for Concor. The Modi government has approved selling 30.8 per cent out of its 54.8 per cent stake in Concor and transferring the management control to strategic buyers. The annual report of Concor for 2020-21 says that the corporation has been paying a land licensing fee “at 6 per cent of land value” since April 1, 2020. The latest cut in the fee is being made within one year of the previous change. The Concor annual report says it paid a land licence fee of Rs 652.84 crore for the year ended March 31, 2021 (against Rs 39.65 crore in the previous year, marking an increase of 1,546.51 per cent). After the cut in March this year, the amount any prospective buyer of Concor will have to pay to the railways will be considerably less. Sweetening terms for prospective bidders need not always involve foul play; it can be a business decision meant to attract more investors. Besides, the Centre can contend that under the plan, it will get the money upfront (99 per cent of the amount) rather than have it paid over the entire period of the 35-year lease. Vallabh, the Congress spokesperson, asked: “Once (Concor has been chosen) for disinvestment, why is the government considering changing the LLF and the lease period? Is the proposal to reduce the LLF an indirect way of handing over developed government land to private parties for the long term?” Vallabh said farmers had given their land to the government for railway projects at a concession — even free of cost in many instances. “How can railway land acquired from farmers be handed over to a private party for commercial use in a backdoor arrangement? This valuable land belongs to the farmers of our country and if it is not used by the railways, it should be returned to the original owners,” Vallabh said. Hinting at who the buyer might be, Vallabh said: “It is of more significance when Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Ltd says… it can easily acquire strategic target Concor. Who gave them this idea that they can easily acquire Concor?” (Last month, Karan Adani, the CEO of Adani Ports, had said in response to a question during an earnings call that the company could easily raise debt to pay for the acquisition of Concor without stretching its balance sheet and impairing its credit rating. “In our view, Concor is a very strategic acquisition and we do believe that raising funds and without stretching the balance sheet, we should easily be able to do that acquisition,” Adani had said.) On Monday, Vallabh said: “The same group already has ports and airports; if Concor and its dry ports also go to them, they will have a monopoly over the export-import (sector) of the entire country. What ensures that they will not exploit this monopoly for commercial gain?” In addition to providing rail transport for containers, Concor has expanded to managing ports and air cargo complexes and establishing cold chains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
14-09-2021||India||One year of incarceration of rights defender Umar Khalid||Eminent civil society members addressed a media conference on Monday to mark one year of the incarceration of rights defender Umar Khalid, who was arrested on terrorism charges for allegedly inciting last year’s communal violence in Delhi. Those at the event included RJD parliamentarian and Delhi University professor Manoj Jha, former Planning Commission member Syeda Hameed and legal activist Prashant Bhushan. Khalid and 12 others, including several students, are in jail facing trial in a case registered under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. “(My) thanks to the people of this country, not to any political party, who gave hope to Parliament — which was made defunct on both occasions (during the passage of the Citizenship Amendment Act and the farm laws),” Jha said. “The government could not deal with Shaheen Bagh, only demonise (it). The solution found was Umar Khalid’s speech in Amravati (where he called for peaceful protests against the CAA during then US President Donald Trump’s visit in February 2020, which coincided with the start of the Delhi riots).” Jha called Khalid “one of the brightest and most uncontaminated minds of this age” and asked people not to forget student activists like Meeran Haider — of the RJD student wing in Jamia Millia Islamia — and others who too are in Tihar prison awaiting trial. In an apparent jibe at some Opposition leaders, he said: “You cannot defeat the politics of this regime by being a photocopy of this regime…. Both can’t happen — that I pay obeisance there and say the same things... but the words will be different. People want a clear-cut position. That clarity can only come if civil society puts pressure.... When Shaheen Bagh was at its peak, many political parties felt they had made a mistake by remaining invisible.” Former Delhi Minorities Commission chairperson Zafarul Islam Khan echoed Jha’s views. He spoke about the less well-known undertrials and the police’s inaction against BJP and Sangh parivar leaders accused of fanning the Delhi riots. “All black laws like the UAPA need to be repealed. We regret that the Congress, which repealed the Prevention of Terrorism Act, brought in (made more stringent) the UAPA, which is much worse,” Khan said. Bhushan said: “It seems that the brief to the police was clear — to first target the activists who helped the (anti-CAA) protests, and then target Muslims so we can blame Muslims for the riots…. It is now necessary to demand accountability from the officers who did the (riot) investigations and punish them, and those who ordered them to do so.” Siddharth Varadarajan, editor of The Wire, said: “The reason for criminalising the anti-CAA protesters is to cover up the real perpetrators of the Delhi riots. Umar can be arrested under the UAPA but Hindutva leaders who called for genocide against Muslims were booked under flimsy sections so that they could get easy bail.” Syeda Hameed said: “His (Khalid’s) only fault was to uphold the Constitution and oppose the CAA, NPR, NRC (which represent the new citizenship matrix). He saluted the women of Shaheen Bagh in Amravati and called for upholding Gandhiji’s ideals. He saluted the women who came out on the streets when the students of Jamia were brutally repressed, and stayed outside for 101 days. The regime was scared of this courage. For them an educated Muslim is an eyesore.” Jasbir Kaur Nat of the CPIML Liberation’s Punjab Kisan Union — a prominent women’s organiser of peasants at the Tikri Border — and senior journalist Bharat Bhushan too spoke at the event. Nat said: “The protesting farmers too were branded as terrorists and Khalistanis. They wanted to derail our movement too. Shaheen Bagh, just like the farmer, too had raised its voice against an unjust law. It is (BJP leader) Kapil Mishra and the rioters who should have been sent to prison, not Umar.” Bhushan said: “The BJP is threatened by a young crop of leadership that has emerged from the people’s movement. Devangana (Kalita, a student out on bail), Umar and the others are all part of the educated, articulate, non-institutionalised organic leadership vouching for secularism and constitutionalism, for religious pluralism, ecological justice, gender justice, justice for Dalits. (They) scare this government. That is why he (Umar) is in jail.” Several people tweeted with the hashtag #Umar1YearInjustice, demanding the release of all political prisoners, reversal of the new citizenship regime, and prosecution of the Hindutva activists for the Delhi riots that claimed 53 lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
14-09-2021||India||SC asks Centre to consider Covid suicide aid for families||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre to consider granting compensation to the families of even those who had died by suicide after contracting Covid, saying an exclusionary clause introduced in the health ministry’s recent guidelines needed a rethink. A two-judge bench told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta and additional solicitor-general Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Centre, that while some of the guidelines were fair enough, others needed to be modified to give succour to certain segments of Covid-affected people. “You have specifically stated that irrespective of the fact that the person who had Covid has committed suicide, (they) will not be entitled to compensation. This needs to be revisited,” Justice M.R. Shah, who headed the bench, told Mehta. The bench, which included Justice A.S. Bopanna, was hearing two petitions moved by advocates Reepak Kansal and Gaurav Bansal that have sought compensation for the families of all those who have died after contracting Covid. India’s official Covid death toll is 4.4 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
14-09-2021||India||UP: Modi tapping socialist's legacy to pacify Jats is ironical||The BJP’s attempt to appropriate the legacy of freedom fighter Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh to woo the powerful Jat community ahead of the Uttar Pradesh elections is steeped in irony because the Jat leader was a “proclaimed socialist”, a senior historian told The Telegraph. “He (Mahendra Pratap) is being portrayed as a Jat icon as the community’s votes are slipping out of the BJP’s hands,” historian S. Irfan Habib, former Abul Kalam Azad Chair at the National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration, said. “He was associated with the All India Jat Mahasabha which had many prominent Jats as office-bearers. Yet he never spoke of his Jat identity as he was a cosmopolitan man who spent 32 years outside India striving for our freedom.” Habib added: “He was a proclaimed socialist and was in touch with Lenin as well. Although he never became a Marxist, he remained a Left sympathiser who wanted a pluralist, secular India.” He noted that Mahendra Pratap had defeated Jana Sangh candidate Atal Bihari Vajpayee in the 1957 Lok Sabha polls as an Independent candidate. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation for the Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh University in Aligarh on Tuesday. The city is home to the Aligarh Muslim University, a central university which the BJP accuses of ignoring Mahendra Pratap, considered an alumnus of sorts and a benefactor. The BJP has been championing the cause of celebrating Mahendra Pratap’s birth anniversary ever since the 2013 communal riots in western Uttar Pradesh breached the long alliance between the region’s Jats and Muslims and helped catapult the party to power at the Centre in 2014. Some local BJP politicians had demanded that AMU — not the party’s favourite university at the best of times — be renamed after him. The current farmer agitation draws its strength from the Jats of the region. The establishment of a university in Mahendra Pratap’s name — two years after its announcement by chief minister Yogi Adityanath — is being seen as a BJP attempt to rebuild its image among the community before the Assembly polls, due in March. Habib explained why the BJP was desperate to woo the Jats back. “To weaken the farm agitation, the BJP has tried to project it as a movement by Jat Sikhs and Jat Hindus that other farming communities, such as Gujjars, should keep away from. This has alienated the Jats from the BJP,” he said. The BJP is known for its efforts to appropriate unlikely icons from the freedom struggle – from the socialist Bhagat Singh to the staunch Gandhian Vallabhbhai Patel – to paper over its lack of involvement in the independence movement and to try and embarrass the Nehru-Gandhis. Mahendra Pratap (1886-1979), a Jat noble from the Mursan estate in Aligarh district, is perhaps best known for heading a rebel Indian government-in-exile in Kabul from 1915 to 1919. “His prime minister was (Bhopal’s) Mohamed Barakatullah and his home minister was (Punjab’s) Ubaidullah Sindhi. His work in Europe and Japan laid the groundwork for Netaji (Subhas Chandra) Bose to later raise the Azad Hind Fauj,” said Habib, who had met Mahendra Pratap in 1977, two years before his death. “After Independence, he never joined a party and was elected to Parliament from Mathura in 1957. Vajpayee came fourth.” Mahendra Pratap studied from 1895 to 1905 at the Mohammedan Anglo Oriental College, which became Aligarh Muslim University in 1920. After attending the Congress session in Calcutta in 1906, Mahendra Pratap campaigned against untouchability. He started an indigenous technical institute, the Prem Mahavidyalaya, in Vrindavan in 1909. He left India in 1914 and led the German-backed and short-lived Provisional Government of India in Kabul. As its president, he was received by Lenin and Trotsky in Petrograd (now St Petersburg) in 1917. Unable to return to India where there was a bounty on him, he fled to Japan in 1925 where he published a magazine. He remained there during the Second World War, returning to India in 1946. His family had leased more than 30 acres of land to AMU in 1929 at the rate of Rs 2 a year. This land is now a playground used by a school run by the university. Mahendra Pratap’s father Raja Ghanshiam Singh had donated towards the construction of a hostel in the university. Mahendra Pratap’s family, which has stayed out of politics, however, demanded the return of the land or its cost at the market rate after the lease expired in 2019, by when the rent had risen only to Rs 200 a year. “The BJP tried hard to appropriate Bhagat Singh as well but with his reality, writings and work coming into the picture, they are not talking about him as much,” Habib said. “In the Raja’s case, the Jats have themselves forgotten about him.” In the Hindu Jat pantheon of leaders, Sir Chhotu Ram and former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh have come to occupy the central positions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
14-09-2021||India||Yogesh Singh, frontrunner to become Delhi University VC||Yogesh Singh, vice-chancellor of the Delhi Technological University, is the frontrunner to become vice-chancellor of Delhi University, two government officials have told The Telegraph. They said Yogesh, considered close to RSS teachers wing Bharatiya Shikshan Mandal, was on a panel of candidates that the education ministry had recommended to the President, the Visitor of the university. Yogesh had been appointed vice-chancellor of M.S. University in Baroda in 2009 by the then Gujarat government headed by Narendra Modi. Yogesh has had “a sound career” as academic and researcher, said K.K. Aggarwal, chairman of the National Board of Accreditation and Yogesh’s former PhD supervisor at NIT Kurukshetra. Asked about Yogesh’s performance as a student, Aggarwal said he had come across the younger man first when he enrolled in an MTech course at the NIT after earning his BTech from Pune University in five years, taking a year longer than the normal four years. “He completed his BTech in five years. But I found him a fine researcher. As an administrator, he has been a team player. I’m satisfied with him as an academic,” Aggarwal said. WhatsApp and text messages and a call to Yogesh’s number, to find out whether and why he had needed an extra year to compete his graduation, remained unanswered. Delhi University has not had a regular vice-chancellor since last October when the incumbent, Yogesh Tyagi, was suspended on the charge of non-performance. P.C. Joshi has been functioning as the acting VC. Many central universities and IITs have in recent years spent lengthy periods without official heads, hurting their academic functioning, with government officials attributing the delays in appointments to the Prime Minister’s Office, which they said took the final decision despite lacking any official role in the process. Senior officials have suggested that the delays often resulted from the PMO’s struggles to find ideologically compliant candidates. Yogesh Singh earned his master’s in electronics and communication engineering, and his PhD in computer engineering. He was director of the Netaji Subhas Institute of Technolgy, Delhi, from December 2014 till July 2017, when he was appointed vice-chancellor of Delhi Technological University.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
14-09-2021||India||Scientists demonstrate cattle can be toilet trained||Cows may be potty-trained, scientists have demonstrated through a unique set of experiments that they say reveals an unrealised opportunity to harness the cognitive capacities of cattle to address environmental concerns, including soil and water contamination. Scientists at the Leibniz Institute for Farm Animal Biology, Germany, announced on Monday that they had successfully trained 11 of 16 calves to control their reflexes and urinate only in an area designated as a latrine. “The calves showed a level of performance comparable to that of children and superior to that of very young children,” animal psychologist Jan Langbein and his collaborators said, describing their study’s results in the research journal Current Biology. Cattle excretions, while valued in India for their myriad uses, including a product called Panchgavya made from curd, milk, ghee, cow dung and cow urine, can contaminate soil and water and contribute to earth-warming greenhouse gases through ammonia. The ammonia in cow waste does not directly contribute to climate change but when it leaches into soil, microbes turn it into nitrous oxide, the third most important greenhouse gas after carbon dioxide and methane. Livestock contribute to over half of the ammonia emissions from agriculture. The researchers tried a two-step process to train calves. They first confined the calves into a designated latrine area and rewarded them with food each time the calves urinated. This “in-latrine” training was designed to establish the latrine as the correct area for urination. In the next step, the researchers allowed the calves to access the latrine through an alley. They rewarded the calves with food each time they urinated in the latrine and exposed the calves to an unpleasant experience — a three-second water spray — each time they urinated in the alley. They found that 11 of 16 calves they had tried to train learned to control their urinary reflexes over a period of a few weeks. They have attributed the success to the establishment of strong reward-based control over the reflex and responsiveness to internal reflex cues in the cattle. “Our findings are original and reveal a hitherto unrealised opportunity to harness the cognitive capacities of animals to help resolve environmental issues without compromising animal welfare,” the researchers said in their study. Training cattle to deposit most of their urine in a defined location would enable the development of more effective methods to collect, treat and dispose waste than possible with current technical solutions, the researchers said. “This was only a feasibility study in cattle,” Birger Puppe, professor of behavioural psychology at the institute and the study’s co-author, told The Telegraph. “Our plan is to follow up to test the feasibility of toilet training under real-world conditions on a medium-sized cattle farm.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
14-09-2021||India||Madras High Court orders to drop 2018 Sterlite protest cases||Madras High Court on Monday directed the authorities concerned to drop all the cases registered against the protesters involved in the anti-Sterlite agitation in 2018, in which 13 people were killed in alleged police firing, and ensure their future prospects. The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice T.S. Sivagnanam also orally observed that firing upon the innocent public was a scar on Indian democracy and it should not be forgotten. The protest might not have been legal or legitimate, but citizens could not be fired at on behalf of a corporate body. The State should ensure that this kind of an incident does not happen again, it added. “The cases against the protesters should be dropped and the institution of the cases should not stand in the way of the future prospects of any of the protesters to disqualify them from any employment or other opportunities that may be available,” the bench said. The bench was passing further interim orders on a PIL petition from Henry Tiphagne, executive director of the NGO People’s Watch, on Monday. Protests by locals against Vedanta’s copper unit Sterlite in Tuticorin over pollution concerns on May 22, 2018, had ended in 13 deaths in police firing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
14-09-2021||India||Karnataka BJP lawmaker spills ‘cash’ offer, retracts a day later||A BJP lawmaker in Karnataka has claimed he was offered money to leave the Congress two years ago when the BJP toppled H.D. Kumaraswamy’s Congress-JDS government through defections, only to do an about-turn a day later. The Congress has pounced on Shrimant Patil’s initial statement, claiming vindication of its allegation that the BJP had brought down Opposition governments in Karnataka and elsewhere through bribery, and demanded a police investigation. Patil, the MLA from Kagwad in Belgaum, about 500km from Bangalore, had on Saturday told reporters he had been offered money to defect to the BJP along with other Congress and Janata Dal Secular lawmakers in 2019. “They had asked me how much money I wanted. But I refused to accept a single paisa and sought only a good position (a cabinet berth) to serve the people,” Patil had said at Ainapur in his constituency. But after the Congress played up his statement and his BJP colleagues expressed surprise at his remark, Patil claimed on Sunday that no money had been offered to him. Asked about his reported initial statement, he merely said it was a “mistake” without clarifying whose mistake it was. “I had met BJP leaders on my own. When they asked me about my expectations I told them I needed only a position and nothing else,” he told reporters in Belgaum. “No money was offered to me…. I joined the BJP because I was impressed by Modi’s style of governance.” Patil has been nursing his wounds after being dropped from the cabinet following Basavaraj Bommai’s anointment as chief minister in July in place of B.S. Yediyurappa. He has since been lobbying to be taken back into the cabinet. On Saturday, Patil had said: “I don’t know why they dropped me, but they have promised to re-induct me during the next expansion.” Kumaraswamy’s government had collapsed in July 2019 after a month-long rebellion, with 17 lawmakers quitting the Congress and the JDS and 16 of them joining the BJP. Only Roshan Baig, who quit the Congress, could not join the BJP because of a pending corruption case. Most of the defectors had been flown to Mumbai and sequestered in a top hotel, while the BJP continued to deny it had engineered the defections. As promised by Yediyurappa, most of the turncoats were inducted into the cabinet after they won the December 2019 by-elections. Patil’s about-turn on Sunday came shortly after senior BJP leader Laxman Savadi told reporters: “Patil should identify those who offered him money. I don’t know why he made such a statement.” Former chief minister and senior BJP lawmaker Jagadish Shettar denied his party had offered money to the defectors. “I don’t know in what context he said so,” Shettar said. State Congress president D.K. Shivakumar said: “Patil has revealed the truth, at least now. I thank him for that.” State Congress spokesperson V.S. Ugrappa demanded a police investigation into Patil’s original claim “since taking and offering bribes is a crime”. “He had made it clear there was an offer, but then made a U-turn because of pressure from his party,” Ugrappa, a lawyer by profession, told The Telegraph on Monday. “Even if it was an inadvertent admission, Patil has only reiterated what we have been saying about the BJP using money and other allurements to poach our MLAs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-09-2021||India||Congress leader Oscar Fernandes passes away at 80||Veteran Congress leader and former Union minister Oscar Fernandes, an MP, died at a private hospital in Mangalore on Monday afternoon, family sources said. He was 80. Fernandes is survived by his wife and two children. Fernandes was hospitalised in July after suffering a fall at his house while doing his regular exercise. As he was found to have an internal injury, a surgery was carried out by doctors. Congress president Sonia Gandhi said it is a huge loss for each and every party worker and the country. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet: “It is a personal loss for me. He was a guide and mentor to many of us in the Congress party.” Fernandes represented Udupi constituency in the Lok Sabha five times and was elected to the Rajya Sabha four times. He had served as Union minister for labour and employment from 2006 to 2009 and had held different portfolios in the UPA-II government led by Manmohan Singh. He also served as parliament secretary to Rajiv Gandhi. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda and former chief ministers B.S. Yediyurappa and Siddaramaiah expressed grief over the passing away of Fernandes. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Fernandes was one of the national leaders who always maintained close ties with the southern state. The mortal remains of Fernandes would be kept at the district Congress committee offices at Udupi and Mangalore on Tuesday for the public to pay homage. The remains would be later shifted to the KPCC office in Bangalore for public homage. Sources said the final rites would be conducted at St Patrick Church, Bangalore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-09-2021||India||Teenager hit by a vehicle of cow vigilantes in Rajasthan||A teenager was killed after being hit by a vehicle of cow vigilantes, who were chasing a truck that was reportedly smuggling the bovine animals in Alwar district of Rajasthan, the victim’s family has alleged. The incident occurred on Sunday in the Chupanki police station area in Bhiwadi near the Rajasthan-Haryana border where Sabir Khan, 17, was hit by the speeding vehicle in which the cow vigilantes were chasing the truck, police said. A case of murder was registered against seven persons on the basis of the complaint filed by Khan’s family, police said, adding that three of them have been arrested. “Sonu, Harkesh and Narendra have been arrested while four others are absconding. The matter is being investigated,” station house officer Mukesh Kumar Verma said. Khan’s body was handed over to his family after post-mortem. Bhiwadi circle officer Hari Ram Kumawat said the truck, which was carrying 15 cows, rammed a tree and stopped in Tauru area of Haryan’s Nuh district and the matter was being probed by the Haryana police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-09-2021||India||Gujarat: CM change bares challenges for 'Modi-Shah BJP'||Bhupendra Patel, the low-profile leader believed to have been handpicked by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, took oath as chief minister of Gujarat on Monday, highlighting in the process the challenges for the “Modi-Shah BJP”. Patel was the only one to take oath, underlining that the BJP high command was still in the process of finalising the new council of ministers to strike a balance in the state party unit and send out the right message among the voters ahead of next year’s polls. The change of leadership in Gujarat has once again underlined that Brand Modi may not be enough to turn the electoral tide, even on Modi’s home turf, and diversions were needed to counter governance failures, party sources said. Old-timers said though Modi continued to be popular nationally, he had lost most of his power to influence state elections and the recent change of chief ministers was the result of this realisation. Apart from governance issues, internal bickering in many state party units has been intensifying despite the complete dominance of Modi and Shah, the sources said. “Bhupendra Patel is not a dynamic leader. If Vijay Rupani was Amit Shah’s yes-man, he is Modi’s yes-man,” one old-time party leader, now sidelined, said. “He (Bhupendra) has only been picked to hoodwink the Patels to win the elections and ensure the infighting in the state unit is kept under check,” the leader added. This leader argued that had Modi genuinely wanted a strong Patel leader, he would have picked outgoing deputy chief minister Nitin Patel or some other known Patel face. “If Nitin Patel had been elevated, it would have angered the other prominent Patel leaders,” another leader said. Appearing upset, Nitin Patel said at an event in his constituency on Sunday that he would “not be ousted” as long as he received the love of the people, indicating that the internal problems for the BJP in Gujarat were far from over. Despite Modi pulling off a bigger win in the 2019 general election, the BJP has lost a string of state elections, starting from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh in 2018 to Jharkhand in 2019, Delhi in 2020 and Bengal in 2021. In all these elections, Modi had canvassed tirelessly. In Haryana, the BJP managed to retain power in 2019 only through a post-poll tie-up with regional party JJP. “In Jharkhand, the leadership stubbornly refused to change the chief minister despite unfavourable reports from the ground. Same happened in Haryana,” one party leader said. “Taking lessons from these states, prompt action has been taken in other states based on feedback,” the leader added. Seeking to show that all was well in Gujarat, home minister Amit Shah on Monday participated in the swearing-in of the new chief minister whose elevation has been seen as a snub to his dominance in the state’s affairs. Outgoing chief minister Vijay Rupani was known to be his choice. Shah tweeted pictures with the new chief minister and said he was sure Patel would serve the state’s “poor, farmers and marginalised sections” and take forward Gujarat’s growth story. Modi, besides congratulating the new chief minister, also had good words for Rupani, commending him for undertaking “people-friendly measures” and working “tirelessly for all sections of the society”. Party leaders in Delhi said this was aimed at assuaging the hurt to Shah’s lobby in Gujarat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-09-2021||India||Covid: International experts’ panel rules out the need for booster dose ||Vaccines remain highly effective against severe Covid-19 despite any waning of vaccine-generated antibodies, an international experts’ panel said on Monday, underlining that the current evidence does not show the need for booster doses for the general population. The 18-member expert panel has also said that vaccine efficacy against severe Covid-19 is so high even for the highly contagious Delta variant that booster doses for the general population are not appropriate at this stage of the pandemic. Vaccination had 95 per cent efficacy against severe disease from the Delta and the Alpha variants and over 80 per cent efficacy at protecting against any infection from these variants, the panel said after reviewing available observational evidence. Both these variants are highly transmissible. “Currently available studies do not provide credible evidence of substantially declining protection against severe disease, which is the primary goal of vaccination,” said Ana-Maria Henao-Restrepo, a senior World Health Organisation official and panel member. The current limited supply of Covid-19 vaccines will save most lives if made available to people who are at risk of serious disease and have not yet received any vaccine, she said. Any gain from booster doses will not outweigh the benefits of providing the initial protection to the unvaccinated. The review comes amid findings that vaccine-generated antibodies wane over several months. An Indian study to systematically measure antibodies in vaccine recipients has found a significant decline in antibodies that block the infection about six months after the second doses of Covaxin and Covishield, the main vaccines used in India’s immunisation campaign. Despite the decline, recipients of both vaccines showed detectable antibodies, indicating that their immune systems remained primed to fight the infection, the study by the Indian Council of Medical Research Regional Centre, Bhubaneswar, suggested. “Our findings are on expected lines — antibodies have been seen to wane after full immunisation with other Covid-19 vaccines elsewhere in the world,” said Sanghamitra Pati, a physician-epidemiologist and the director of public health at the ICMR Regional Centre. But the 18-member panel has underlined that even if the levels of vaccine-generated antibodies wane over time, this does not necessarily predict reductions in efficacy of vaccines against severe disease. This could be because protection against severe disease depends not only on antibodies, which might be short-lived for some vaccines, but also through other arms of the immune system called memory responses and cell-mediated immunity that are long-lived. The panel included two Indian health researchers — Narendra Arora, a senior paediatrician and public health specialist who is currently advising the Centre on vaccination policy and Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist at the WHO. India’s Covid-19 vaccination policy makers have said any decision on boosters will depend on the scientific evidence for their need, in line with the WHO’s position that the introduction of boosters should be guided by evidence of waning vaccine effectiveness. “We need to determine through research who would need a booster and when would a booster be needed, particularly in a country where over 70 per cent of the population has already been exposed to the natural infection,” Arora told The Telegraph. The ICMR Regional Centre’s study has shown the impact of natural infections on even vaccine recipients. While antibody concentrations dropped significantly in 533 recipients of Covaxin or Covishield about 24 weeks after the second doses, 81 recipients who had developed post-vaccination infections showed spikes in their antibody concentrations. The ICMR group is currently pursuing a larger two-year follow up of vaccine recipients, hoping to generate more data on the persistence or waning of immune responses to the vaccines and infection. “A decision on booster doses requires evidence,” said Debdutta Bhattacharya, a scientist at the ICMR Regional Centre. “Through this study and other planned follow-ups we’ll look for evidence on whether and when booster doses are required.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-09-2021||India||Congress replies to Adityanath with Taliban barb ||The Congress on Monday said there is nobody in Indian politics who has “such cheap, vulgar and low-grade mentality” as Yogi Adityanath, setting the stage for a bitter confrontation in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh election, which has the potential to define India’s future politics. The sharp reaction follows the Uttar Pradesh chief minister’s statement at a public event on Sunday where he said: “Congress is the mother of terrorism in India. There is no need to tolerate those who inflicted wounds on the country. Only the BJP can ensure respect for everybody, respect for faith.” This left the Congress leaders furious, triggering acerbic responses from many. The official response was the harshest with party spokesperson Gourav Vallabh saying: “I am pained to say this about the chief minister of India’s largest state. But I feel compelled to say this. Yogi Adityanath se sasti, ghatiya aur ochhi mansikta wala vyakti Bharatiya rajniti mein nahin hai.” The BJP does not have the credentials to question the Congress on terrorism, he said, pointing out that the Opposition party had lost Mahatma Gandhi, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi, Beant Singh, V.C. Shukla, Mahendra Karma and many others to terrorism. Asking the RSS-BJP whether they had shed a single drop of blood in the fight against terror, Vallabh said: “Sitting in the lap of the British when the Congress was fighting for freedom was a compromise with terror. Nathuram Godse was the terrorist of independent India. Who patronised Godse? Who escorted Masood Azhar to Kandahar? Who made Asia Andrabi (an extremist Kashmiri) the poster girl?” Many Congress leaders posted on social media the photograph of the incumbent national security adviser Ajit Doval escorting Masood Azhar. The Congress spokesperson then raised a point that will hurt the BJP. “What is the Modi government’s compromise with the Taliban? Why was Narendra Modi silent at the recent Brics summit when Russian President (Vladimir) Putin raised the Taliban issue?” Modi had earlier said there is nothing like good Taliban and bad Taliban, but his government has shown willingness to work with the new regime in Afghanistan. Adityanath did not elaborate on why he described the Congress as the mother of terrorism. Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Monday dared the Prime Minister to a debate on terrorism on facts and asserted that organisations that fomented bigotry and religious fanaticism were responsible for terror. While the Congress leadership has decided to stick to real concerns like Covid mismanagement, unemployment, agrarian distress and rising crimes in the Uttar Pradesh election, they haven’t been able to avoid getting sucked into emotive discourse despite the firm belief that the BJP intends to escape from governance failures. There is always a dilemma whether the party should respond to the BJP’s propaganda on religious issues, nationalism and terrorism. The Congress ridiculed Adityanath for using the photographs from Bengal and the US to show fake development in the state. The party ran a campaign on social media on Adityanath’s Covid mismanagement, crime against women in Uttar Pradesh, infrastructural mess and healthcare crisis to counter his publicity blitz. Priyanka Gandhi, who is leading the Congress campaign in Uttar Pradesh, has asked the party workers to give voice to the people’s concerns and stand with them in their struggles instead of responding to the BJP’s demagoguery. Senior Congress leaders are touring the state to feel the pulse on the ground before finalising the manifesto. Priyanka who wrapped up her two-day visit to the state on Sunday, will return in a week and finally shift to Lucknow by next month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-09-2021||India||Top brass calls for excluding J&K, Ladakh from theatre commands||The top brass in the security establishment have suggested that Kashmir and Ladakh should not be included in the proposed theatre commands of the armed forces, sources in the defence ministry have said. “There is a consensus among officials of the security establishment that the Northern Command in charge of the security in Kashmir and Ladakh should not be part of the Centre’s theaterisation drive of the three armed forces,” a defence ministry official told The Telegraph. He said the Northern Command was too “sensitive”. “Security officials have suggested that Kashmir and Ladakh frontiers are too sensitive to be tinkered with and should be left alone,” the official said. He also cited the ongoing heightened tensions along the Line of Control with Pakistan and the border standoff with China on the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh since May last year. The Udhampur-based Northern Command looks after Jammu and Kashmir, the LoC and Actual Ground Position Level (AGPL) with Pakistan and the LAC with China in Ladakh. Theaterisation means putting specific numbers of personnel from each of the three services — the army, the navy and the air force — under a common commander for a unified military approach through a rationalisation of manpower. Sources in the government said the theaterisation of the armed forces was aimed at ensuring synergy among the tri-services chiefs to deal with security challenges and future wars. The plan, according to sources, is to have five theatre commands. Each will have units of the army, navy and the air force, and all of them will work as a single entity looking after specified geographical territories under an operational commander. At present, the armed forces have 17 service commands across the country, each assigned exclusively to one among the three forces. The Indian Army and the Indian Air Force have seven commands each while the Indian Navy has three. Besides, there are two existing tri-service commands as well — the Andaman and Nicobar Command which is headed by rotation by officers from the tri-services and the Strategic Force Command which is responsible for India’s nuclear assets. The air force is said to have apprehensions about unified commands because of its limited resources compared with the army’s. The IAF does not want to split its assets, which are fewer than the army’s. Besides, the IAF is said to have issues over who would lead the particular theatres and has contended that the nature of its operations is so fluid that all of India is one theatre for it. In the wake of the differences, the Narendra Modi government has formed an expert committee to carry out consultations with the three services to decide the way forward on the theaterisation of the military. “The IAF has said that their apprehensions and concerns need to be addressed first before creation of unified commands,” said an IAF official. The army top brass, however, are in full agreement with the theaterisation plan on the ground that multiple commands lead to confusion. They argue that China has a single Western Theatre Command for the entire Indian frontier. On the other hand, India’s army alone has four commands on the China frontier — Northern, Western (which mainly looks after the Pakistan front), Central and Eastern. The IAF has three commands for the China frontier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-09-2021||India||‘Custody death’ whiff in Bhojpur district of Bihar||A 50-year-old woman was found dead inside a toilet in a police station in Bhojpur district of Bihar after being allegedly detained for three days though there was no complaint or FIR registered against her. Shobha Devi was allegedly found hanging from a gamcha inside the women’s restroom in Piro police station, around 92km southwest of Patna, on Sunday. The incident again raises questions on the claims of chief minister Nitish Kumar about better policing and law and order in the state. According to her family members, the police forcibly took away Shobha and her son Prakash Kumar from their residence at Mothi village on the night of September 9 without giving any reason. They said Shobha was fasting that day on account of Teej festival. Her husband Munna Prasad Chandravanshi, who works as a labourer in Jharkhand, was not at home. He hails from one of the Extremely Backward Castes in the state. “We went to the police station. But the police officials did not allow us to meet my sister or her son. We were threatened and shooed away,” Shobha’s brother Munna Kumar told reporters. “Days passed but we were still not allowed to meet them. The police did not give us any information. Suddenly, some policeman called and informed us on Sunday (September 12) that she had died,” he added. Prakash said that both of them were kept at different places in the police station and alleged that they were beaten up by the officers. Police sources said that Shobha and her son were brought to the police station in connection with the murder of a rural medical practitioner Mantosh Kumar of the same village around 10 days ago. Mantosh’s brother Shekhar Suman had registered an FIR against two persons — one named and another unnamed — but the complaint did not include the names of either Shobha or Prakash. After local people came to know about the woman’s death, they assembled outside the Piro police station in large numbers. Several local CPM leaders also joined them in support. Sensing that a possible law and order situation might arise, senior administrative and police officers rushed to the spot and took away Shobha’s body for post-mortem at Ara Sadar Hospital. Since Shobha died inside the police station, it technically becomes a case of custodial death. The police also did not produce her before any magistrate within 24 hours of taking her away from her house — making it a case of illegal detention. Bhojpur superintendent of police Vinay Tiwari has asked Piro sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Ashok Kumar to enquire into the incident. Several police officials were suspended on Monday on the basis of preliminary findings. “We have suspended Piro station house officer (SHO), another officer on duty and four women constables who were supposed to safeguard her, on the basis of the preliminary findings of the SDPO in the death of Shobha Devi,” Tiwari told The Telegraph on Monday. Asked about Shobha’s detention, Tiwari said: “She was not detained. She was brought for interrogation in the murder case of one Mantosh Kumar. She confessed to her involvement and told the police about four other persons being involved in the crime.” Tiwari admitted that the deceased woman was kept for three days at the police station and the SDPO’s findings also corroborated it. However, he claimed that it was a case of “suicidal death”. The police are yet to receive Shobha’s post-mortem report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
