15-09-2021||India||Farmers demand repeal of three central farm laws in Kisan Sansad at Jaipur||A Kisan Sansad' was organised in Jaipur's Birla Auditorium on Wednesday with the farmers reiterating their demand for the repeal of the three central farm laws.  The event was organised on International Day of Democracy by the Rajasthan Kisan Morcha and attended by hundreds of farmers.  Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act were discussed in detail in the meeting and participants expressed their views on each law.  Disadvantages of the laws were highlighted and the farmers demanded the withdrawal of the three laws, Himmat Singh, a representative of the Kisan Morcha said.  The proceedings of the Kisan Sansad were held like that of Parliament. At the end of the discussion, the chairperson conducted voting and all rejected the laws unanimously.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
15-09-2021||India||Covid will start becoming endemic in India in next 6 months: Expert||Covid will start becoming endemic in India in the next six months, a top expert has said, asserting that a new variant can't alone bring a third wave of infections. "This pandemic has defied most of our predictions but in the next six months, we will approach endemic status," Sujeet Singh, the Director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) told NDTV in an exclusive interview. Dr Singh said Covid becoming endemic would mean the infection becoming more manageable and easier on the health infrastructure. "If the mortality and morbidity is under control, then we can manage the disease," he said, adding that Kerala, which had a large susceptible pool, is also emerging from the raging Covid crisis it was battling a few weeks ago. Vaccination is the biggest protection against the coronavirus, stressed Singh. "75 crore people have been vaccinated. If vaccine effectiveness is 70 per cent, then around 50 crore people in India have got immunity. A single dose gives 30-31% immunity. So the 30 crore people, who have received a single dose, are also immunised," he said. The expert warned that even after vaccination people need to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. Breakthrough infections, or fully-vaccinated people getting infected, will happen in 20-30 per cent of cases, Dr Singh said. "Breakthrough infections are also because of the new variants. Scientists say within 70 to 100 days of vaccination the immunity level starts dropping," he explained. It is through more exposure to the virus and vaccination that the infections would reduce, Singh said. According to the NCDC chief, there is no new variant in India. The C1.2 and Mu strains that are currently raising concern have not been found in the country. "Just a new variant cannot cause a third wave. The factor will be a mix of behaviour and antibodies. There is some worry because of the festival season," Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
15-09-2021||India||Modi, Mamata, Poonawalla in Time magazine's list of 100 most influential ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla have been named among the world's 100 most influential people of 2021 by TIME magazine. TIME on Wednesday unveiled its annual list of The 100 Most Influential People of 2021', a global list that includes US President Joe Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris, Chinese President Xi Jinping, Duke and Duchess of Sussex Prince Harry and Meghan, former US president Donald Trump and co-founder of the Taliban Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar. TIME's profile of Modi says that in its 74 years as an independent nation, India has had three pivotal leaders - Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Modi. "Narendra Modi is the third, dominating the country's politics like no one since them. The profile written by noted CNN journalist Fareed Zakaria alleges that Mod has "pushed the country away from secularism and toward Hindu nationalism." It also accuses the 69-year-old leader of "eroding the rights of India's Muslim minority and imprisoning and intimidating journalists. On Mamata Banerjee, her profile for the 100 most influential list says that the 66-year-old leader "has become the face of fierceness in Indian politics." "Of Banerjee, it is said, she doesn't lead her party, the Trinamool Congress - she is the party. The street-fighter spirit and self-made life in a patriarchal culture set her apart," the profile says. Poonawalla's TIME profile says that from the beginning of the COVID19 pandemic, the 40-year-old head of the world's largest vaccine maker sought to meet the moment. "The pandemic is not over yet, and Poonawalla could still help end it. Vaccine inequality is stark, and delayed immunisation in one part of the world can have global consequences including the risk of more dangerous variants emerging," it says. The Time profile describes the Taliban co-founder Baradar as a "quiet, secretive man who rarely gives public statements or interviews." "Baradar nonetheless represents a more moderate current within the Taliban, the one that will be thrust into the limelight to win Western support and desperately needed financial aid. The question is whether the man who coaxed the Americans out of Afghanistan can sway his own movement," says Baradar's profile. The list also includes tennis player Naomi Osaka, Russian opposition activist Alexei Navalny, music icon Britney Spears, executive director of the Asian Pacific Policy and Planning Council Manjusha P. Kulkarni, Apple CEO Tim Cook, actor Kate Winslet and the first African and first woman to lead the World Trade Organization Ngozi Oko||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
15-09-2021||India||IT officials raid six premises linked to Sonu Sood in Mumbai||Income Tax Department officials descended on the premises linked to actor Sonu Sood in Mumbai and some other places on Wednesday in connection with an alleged tax evasion probe, official sources. They said the action is being carried out in at least half a dozen locations in the metropolitan city and Lucknow. It was not immediately clear if the action was being undertaken at Sood's residence also. “A real estate deal is under the scanner of the department,” they said. The actor grabbed the national spotlight for helping migrants reach their home states during the nationwide lockdown clamped last year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Delhi government, led by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, had recently declared that 48-year-old Sood will be the brand ambassador of the Aam Aadmi Party government's 'Desh ka mentors' programme under which students will be guided in making their career choices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
15-09-2021||India||BJP-RSS 'fake Hindus', they 'use' religion, alleges Rahul Gandhi||The Delhi government on Wednesday banned the storage, sale and use of firecrackers during Diwali owing to the "dangerous pollution levels" in the national capital around the time of the festival. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that like last year, it was essential to implement the ban in order to save lives. "In view of the dangerous condition of pollution in Delhi during the Diwali period for the last three years, and like last year, a complete ban is being imposed on the storage, sale and use of all types of firecrackers. So that people's lives can be saved," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "Last year, a complete ban on firecrackers was imposed late after assessing the seriousness of the situation. This caused losses to the traders. It is an appeal to all the traders that this time in view of the complete ban, please do not stock," he said. Environment Minister Gopal Rai said that the National Green Tribunal had called for a complete ban on firecrackers in poor air quality regions throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. "The data of CPCB for the last three years shows Delhi is almost in the poor pollution index. Last year, besides Delhi - Rajasthan, Orissa, Sikkim, West Bengal, Chandigarh, 13 districts of Uttar Pradesh had imposed a complete ban on firecrackers," he said. Rai said that last year, the Delhi government decided in favour of the complete ban on November 6, which was just before Diwali. "The Delhi Police had already issued temporary licences for sale of firecrackers and because of this, traders and dealers suffered losses. There were also incidents of bursting of firecrackers in Delhi by the residents due to easy availability. To avoid any such situation, we decided that the DPCC, like last year, will issue directions for complete ban on sale, use and storage of all types of firecrackers with immediate effect," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
15-09-2021||India||Delhi govt bans storage, sale, use of firecrackers during Diwali||The Delhi government on Wednesday banned the storage, sale and use of firecrackers during Diwali owing to the "dangerous pollution levels" in the national capital around the time of the festival. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that like last year, it was essential to implement the ban in order to save lives. "In view of the dangerous condition of pollution in Delhi during the Diwali period for the last three years, and like last year, a complete ban is being imposed on the storage, sale and use of all types of firecrackers. So that people's lives can be saved," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "Last year, a complete ban on firecrackers was imposed late after assessing the seriousness of the situation. This caused losses to the traders. It is an appeal to all the traders that this time in view of the complete ban, please do not stock," he said. Environment Minister Gopal Rai said that the National Green Tribunal had called for a complete ban on firecrackers in poor air quality regions throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. "The data of CPCB for the last three years shows Delhi is almost in the poor pollution index. Last year, besides Delhi - Rajasthan, Orissa, Sikkim, West Bengal, Chandigarh, 13 districts of Uttar Pradesh had imposed a complete ban on firecrackers," he said. Rai said that last year, the Delhi government decided in favour of the complete ban on November 6, which was just before Diwali. "The Delhi Police had already issued temporary licences for sale of firecrackers and because of this, traders and dealers suffered losses. There were also incidents of bursting of firecrackers in Delhi by the residents due to easy availability. To avoid any such situation, we decided that the DPCC, like last year, will issue directions for complete ban on sale, use and storage of all types of firecrackers with immediate effect," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
15-09-2021||India||Dissent on the rise, says National Crime Records Bureau report||The Coronavirus pandemic and subsequent lockdown resulted in a drop in traditional crimes like theft, robbery, and assault on women and children in 2020, but there was a drastic jump in disobedience to government orders, primarily arising due to violations of COVID-19 norms, official data showed. According to the latest report of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on 'Crime in India 2020', a total of 66,01,285 cognisable crimes comprising 42,54,356 Indian Penal Code (IPC) crimes and 23,46,929 Special and Local Laws (SLL) crimes were registered in 2020. It shows an increase of 14,45,127 (28 per cent) in registration of cases over 2019 (51,56,158 cases), while the crime rate registered per lakh population increased from 385.5 in 2019 to 487.8 in 2020. During 2020, registration of cases under IPC increased by 31.9 per cent whereas SLL crimes rose by 21.6 per cent over 2019. Percentage share of IPC cases was 64.4 per cent while that of SLL cases was 35.6 per cent of total cognisable crimes during 2020. Major increase was seen in the cases registered under disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant from 29,469 cases in 2019 to 6,12,179 cases in 2020 and under 'other IPC crimes' from 2,52,268 cases in 2019 to 10,62,399 cases in 2020, the report said. Similarly, under SLL category, more cases were registered under 'other state local acts' from 89,553 in 2019 to 4,14,589 in 2020. These together have resulted in 16,43,690 more cases registered in 2020 as compared to 2019. These cases are primarily those arising out of violations of Covid norms. Effectively therefore, there is a decrease in registration of traditional crime by about two lakh cases, it said. During 2020, a total of 55,84,135 IPC cases (13,27,167 cases pending from previous year, 42,54,356 reported during the year and 2,612 cases re-opened for investigation) were under investigation, of which 34,47,285 cases were disposed of by police including 26,11,925 cases which were charge-sheeted, resulting in the charge-sheeting rate of 75.8 per cent. The country remained under complete lockdown from March 25 to May 31, 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic (first wave), during which movement in public space was very limited. The cases registered under crimes against women, children, and senior citizens, theft, burglary, robbery and dacoity declined, whereas Covid-related enforcement resulted in an increase of cases registered under 'disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant (Sec. 188 IPC)', under 'other IPC crimes' and under 'other state local acts', it said. A total of 10,47,216 cases of offences affecting the human body were registered which accounted for 24.6 per cent of the total IPC crimes during 2020, of which hurt (5,78,641 cases) accounted for the maximum cases -- 55.3 per cent -- followed by cases of causing death by negligence (1,26,779 or 12.1 per cent) and cases of assault on women with intent to outrage her modesty (85,392 or 8.2 per cent). The cases registered under offences against human body depict a marginal decrease of 0.5 per cent in 2020 over 2019 (10,52,016 cases) and the crime rate has declined from 78.6 in 2019 to 77.4 in 2020. A total of 29,193 cases of murder were registered during 2020, showing a marginal increase of 1 per cent over 2019 (28,915 cases) with disputes' (10,404 cases) being the motive in the maximum cases followed by 'personal vendetta or enmity' (4,034 cases) and 'gain' (1,876 cases). A total of 84,805 cases of kidnapping and abduction were registered during 2020, showing a decrease of 19.3 per cent over 2019 (1,05,036 cases). A total of 88,590 people (14,869 males and 73,721 females) were reported kidnapped or abducted during 2020, of which 56,591 (8,715 males and 47,876 females) victims were children and 31,999 (6,154 males and 25,845 females) were adult. During 2020, a total of 91,739 kidnapped or abducted people (22,872 males and 68,867 females) were rescued, of which 91,458 people were rescued alive and 281 found dead. A total of 3,71,503 cases of crime against women were registered during 2020, showing a decline of 8.3 per cent over 2019 (4,05,326 cases). Majority of crimes against women under IPC were registered under 'cruelty by husband or his relatives' (30 per cent) followed by 'assault on women with intent to outrage her modesty' (23 per cent), 'kidnapping and abduction of women' (16.8 per cent) and 'rape' (7.5 per cent). A total of 1,28,531 cases of crime against children were registered during 2020, showing a decrease of 13.2 per cent over 2019 (1,48,090 cases). In percentage terms, major crime heads under 'crime against children' during 2020 were kidnapping and abduction (42.6 per cent) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (38.8 per cent) including child rape. A total of 29,768 cases were registered against juveniles during 2020, depicting a decrease of 7.8 per cent over 2019 (32,269 cases). The crime rate also depicts a decrease from 7.2 in 2019 to 6.7 in 2020. A total of 35,352 juveniles were apprehended in 29,768 cases, of which 31,618 juveniles were apprehended under cases of IPC and 3,734 under cases of SLL during 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
15-09-2021||India||Javed Akhtar opposed to Muslim fundamentalists as well as Hindu extremism||Noted film personality Javed Akhtar says he is as opposed to Muslim fundamentalists as he is to Hindu extremism, noting that he has even received death threats from Muslims because of his outspokenness. Defending his recent interview in which he drew parallels between the Taliban and Hindu extremists, he said Hindus are the most decent and tolerant people in the world but while the Taliban have a free hand in Afghanistan, India's secularism is protected by its Constitution and courts. Akhtar expressed the views in a statement to PTI, days after remarking on a TV channel that while the Taliban were barbaric, those in India supporting Hindu right-wing organisations were all the same. "India can never become like Afghanistan because Indians by nature, are not extremists; it is in their DNA to be moderate, to keep to the middle of the road," he said in the emailed statement. "Yes, in this interview I expressed my reservations against organizations affiliated to the Sangh Parivar. I am opposed to any school of thought that divides people on the basis of religion, caste and creed and I stand by all those who are against any such discrimination," he added. The noted screenwriter and lyricist said he finds many commonalities between the mindsets of the Taliban and the Hindu right-wing. "My critics are also outraged that I find a lot of commonalities between the mindsets of Taliban and the Hindu right-wing. As a matter of fact, there is a lot of commonalities. The Taliban is forming an Islamic government based on religion, the Hindu right-wing wants a Hindu Rashtra," Akhtar said. "The Taliban wants to curb women rights and put them on the margin, the Hindu right-wing has also made it clear that they don't like the freedom of women and girls; right from UP, Gujarat to Karnataka young men and women have been beaten mercilessly for sitting together in a restaurant or a garden or any public place." Like the Muslim fanatics, even the Hindu right-wing does not accept the right of women to choose their spouse, he said. Recently a very important right-wing leader said that women are not capable of being left on their own or being independent. Like the Taliban the Hindu right-wing also claims the superiority of faith and astha' over any man-made law or court, Akhtar wrote. "The Taliban has no love lost for any minority; similarly, what kind of thoughts and feelings the Hindu right-wing nurtures for the minority is evident from their speeches and slogans and whenever they get an opportunity, by their actions," he said. The only difference between the Taliban and these extremist groups is that the Taliban today have unchallenged power in Afghanistan with no one to question them while in India there is a huge resistance against the Indian version of this Talibani ideology which is totally in conflict with the Constitution of India, he said. Our constitution does not discriminate on the basis of religion, community, caste or gender. We have institutions like the judiciary and media too. The key point of departure between the two is the Taliban has achieved its goal in Afghanistan. The Hindu right-wing is doing its best to get us there. Fortunately, this is India and there are the Indian people who are providing a stiff resistance, he said. Speaking to NDTV on September 3 about the rising hate crimes against Muslims in India, Akhtar had warned that such incidents were kind of a dress rehearsal for becoming like full-fledged Taliban. Akhtar said he had no idea that his comments would generate such sharp reactions. On one hand, there are some people who have expressed their outrage and anger in the strongest language possible, on the other hand, there are people from every nook and corner of the country who have given me messages of solidarity and expressed their total agreement with my point of view, he said in the statement. "My detractors have said that while I am criticizing the Hindu right-wing I have never stood against fanatics among the Muslim fold. They have accused me of not saying anything about triple talaq, of not speaking on purdah or any other regressive practice within the Muslim community. I am not surprised at the fact that they are totally unaware of my activities over the years," he said. "Over the past two decades, I have been given police protection twice because of the threats to my life from fanatical Muslims: first, because not only had I vociferously opposed triple talaq when the issue was not on the national radar, but I had, along with an organisation named Muslims for Secular Democracy (MSD), toured several cities across India like Hyderabad, Allahabad, Kanpur and Aligarh and from a variety of public platforms spoken out against this retrograde practice," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
15-09-2021||India||Big drop in Covid antibodies within four months of vaccination, finds study||A study of 614 fully vaccinated health workers in India found a "significant" drop in their COVID-fighting antibodies within four months of the first shot. The findings could help the Indian government decide whether to provide booster doses as some Western countries have done. Waning antibodies do not necessarily mean that immunised people lose their ability to counter the disease, as the body's memory cells may still kick in to offer substantial protection, said the director of a state-run institute that did the study. "After six months, we should be able to tell you more clearly whether and when a booster would be needed," Sanghamitra Pati of the Regional Medical Research Centre, based in the eastern city of Bhubaneswar, told Reuters on Tuesday. "After six months, we should be able to tell you more clearly whether and when a booster would be needed," Sanghamitra Pati of the Regional Medical Research Centre, based in the eastern city of Bhubaneswar, told Reuters on Tuesday. "And we would urge similar studies in different areas for pan-India data." British researchers said last month that protection offered by two doses of the Pfizer (PFE.N)/BioNTech (22UAy.DE) and the AstraZeneca (AZN.L) vaccines begins to fade within six months. The Indian study, published in the Research Square pre-print platform but yet to be peer-reviewed, is one of the first such done in the country involving its main two vaccines - Covishield, a licensed version of the AstraZeneca shot, and domestically developed Covaxin. Health officials say though they are studying the evolving science on booster doses, the priority is to fully immunise India's 944 million adults. More than 60% of them have received at least one dose and 19% the required two doses. Till yesterday, the cumulative Covid vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 75.81 crores, the Union Health Ministry said in a bulletin. More than 54 lakh (54,72,356) vaccine doses were administered till 7 pm yesterday, it said. Meanwhile, India on Wednesday recorded 27,176 fresh Covid cases, 284 new casualties. With the fresh cases, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,33,16,755, while the death toll has climbed to 4,43,497, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases declined to 3,51,087 comprising 1.05 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.62 per cent, the ministry said. A reduction of 11,120 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 16,10,829 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 54,60,55,796. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.69 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 16 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at two per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 82 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,25,22,171, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
15-09-2021||India||736 Afghans recorded for new registration in India from August 1 to September 11, says UN refugee agency||A total of 736 Afghans were recorded for new registration from August 1 to September 11, the UNHCR said here, adding that it is scaling up its capacity to meet increasing requests for registration and assistance of Afghans in India. The UN refugee agency said it is in constant dialogue with the government on matters pertaining to Afghan nationals, including issuance and extensions of visa, assistance, and solutions. According to the data, the total number of persons of concern to UNHCR in India stands at 43,157. Among them, 15,559 refugees and asylum seekers are from Afghanistan. "From August 1 until September 11, 736 Afghans were recorded by UNHCR for new registration," the UN body said in a statement. Among those who have approached the UNHCR are Afghan individuals who have newly arrived in 2021, those seeking reopening of previously closed asylum cases, students, businessmen, or people on medical or other types of visa who are unable to go back due to the current situation in Afghanistan. The UNHCR further said that it is scaling up its capacity to meet the increasing requests for registration and assistance of Afghans in India. "UNHCR is increasing its humanitarian response programme for vulnerable new arrivals from Afghanistan. Basic assistance such as food, cash-based assistance and core relief items are being provided to the most vulnerable new arrivals from Afghanistan and those already in India," the UN body said. The UNHCR said it has also set up an Afghanistan emergency cell and a dedicated help page for Afghans with comprehensive information on registration and assistance available. "Additional 24/7 helplines were established to answer queries around the clock and direct engagement with Afghan communities scaled up. Over 130 calls are received per day, mainly enquiring about assistance and registration," it said. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities, including Kabul, against the backdrop of the withdrawal of US forces. India also evacuated people on military transport aircraft of the IAF under the government's 'Operation Devi Shakti'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
15-09-2021||India||Water supply in southwest Delhi to be affected till September 20||Water supply will not be available in several areas of southwest Delhi till September 20 due to a disruption at the Dichaon Kalan underground reservoir because of heavy rains, the Delhi Jal Board said on Wednesday. Residents can call on toll-free numbers -- 18001217744 and 8527995818 -- to book water tankers. "Water will not be available through the pipeline till September 20 tentatively till repairs are completed. Till then, water will be made available to the residents through tankers," the DJB said in a statement. The affected areas are Gopal Nagar, Lokesh Park, Dichaon village, Mitraon village, Kair village, Surakhpur, Shiv Enclave, Hira Park, Najafgarh Park, Nirmal Vihar, Gupta Market, Aggarwal Colony, Ekta Vihar, Gopal Nagar group of colonies, Krishna Vihar and Shri Krishan Colony. Water supply has also been disrupted in Aradhna Enclave, Baba Haridass Nagar, Baba Haridass Colony, Sainik Enclave, Naveen Palace, Vinobha Enclave and Extension, Surya Kunj and Sarswati Kunj, Jharoda village, Mahesh Garden, Janta Vihar and Extension and Satyam Puram and the adjoining group of colonies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
15-09-2021||India||SC asks Centre to make appointments in two weeks in tribunals across nation||The Supreme Court on Wednesday expressed displeasure over non-filling of vacancies at the tribunals across the nation and said the manner in which appointments have been made clearly indicates "cherry picking" of names. The top asked the Centre to make appointments within two weeks to the tribunals which are facing severe crunch of presiding officers as well as judicial and technical members, and apprise it of reasons if persons from the recommended list are left out in the process. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices D Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao said the condition is pitiable at the tribunals due to the vacancies and the litigants cannot be left in the lurch. "The appointment letters which have been issued clearly indicate they have selected cherry picking three names from the select list and others from the waitlist, ignoring others in the select list. In service law, you can't go to the waitlist ignoring the select list. What kind of selection and appointment is this?" the bench asked the Attorney General K K Venugopal. Venugopal assured the bench that the Centre would make appointments in two weeks to the tribunals from the list of persons recommended by the search and selection committee. Senior advocate Arvind datar said that for the ITAT, the search cum selection committee selected 41 people but only 13 have been chosen on basis which "we don't know". "This is nothing new. Every time it is the same story," the bench said. The CJI said the Supreme Court judges undertook an elaborate exercise to shortlist the names during the COVID and the entire efforts are going in vain. "We travelled across the country. We spent a lot of time. During Covid, your government requested us to conduct interviews as early as possible. We wasted so much time," the CJI expressed exasperation. The CJI said that as per the latest appointment the members will have a tenure of only one year and said, "Which judge will go to join this job for one year?" On the issue of the non-acceptance of names recommended by the selection committee, Venugopal said the government has the power not to accept the recommendations made. "We are a democratic country in which rule of law is followed and we are working under the Constitution. You can't say that I don't accept," the CJI said. "What is the sanctity of the process if the government has the last word? The selection committee undertakes an elaborate process to short-list the names," the bench said. There are around 250 posts lying vacant in various key tribunals and appellate tribunals across the country. The top court was hearing a clutch of petitions on the issue of vacancies in tribunals and the new law governing quasi-judicial bodies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
15-09-2021||India||IAF to hold air show over Srinagar's Dal Lake on Sept 26||The Indian Air Force will hold an air show over the famous Dal Lake here on September 26 that will help motivate the youth of Jammu and Kashmir to join the IAF, according to officials. More than 3,000 schoolchildren and college students will attend the show, the officials said. "The main aim of the air show is to motivate the youth of the Valley to join the Indian Air Force and to promote tourism in the region," Divisional Commissioner, Kashmir, Pandurang K Pole said. On Tuesday, Pole chaired a meeting of principals of various educational institutions regarding students' participation in the air show that is being conducted by the IAF as part of the 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav' celebrations. The theme of the show is 'Give Wings to Your Dreams'. More than 3,000 college and school students are expected to participate in the programme to witness the impressive manoeuvres of the IAF aircraft that will motivate them to dream about a career in the IAF and in the aviation sector, an official spokesperson said. "The show will also develop a passion among the students to give wings to their dreams. Along with the students, 700 teachers will also be present at the venue," he said. The spokesperson said Pole directed the heads of educational institutions to ensure the participation of NCC cadets. Stalls will be set up at the Sher-i-Kashmir International Conference Centre and students will be familiarised with the achievements of the IAF, employment opportunities in the force, recruitment rules and eligibility criteria.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
15-09-2021||India||India logs over 27,000 fresh Covid cases, 284 casualties in a day||Daily new cases of coronavirus in India continued to remain below 30,000 with the country recording 27,176 fresh COVID-19 cases, while 284 new fatalities were recorded, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. With the fresh cases, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,33,16,755, while the death toll has climbed to 4,43,497, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases declined to 3,51,087 comprising 1.05 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.62 per cent, the ministry said. A reduction of 11,120 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 16,10,829 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 54,60,55,796. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.69 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 16 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at two per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 82 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,25,22,171, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has reached 75.89 crore according to the ministry. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 284 new fatalities include 129 from Kerala and 52 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,43,497 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,221 from Maharashtra, 37,529 From Karnataka, 35,217 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,884 from Uttar Pradesh, 22,779 from Kerala and 18,599 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
15-09-2021||India||Delhi likely to witness another spell of rain||Having already received a copious amount of rain this month, Delhi is likely to witness another spell of light to moderate precipitation starting Wednesday night, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). An orange alert has been issued for moderate rain in the city on Thursday. Heavy rain is also expected at isolated places. An orange alert is issued as a warning for extremely bad weather with the potential of disruption in commute with road and drain closures and interruption of power supply. The national capital recorded a minimum temperature of 25.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. Strong winds are predicted to sweep the city during the day and the maximum temperature is likely to settle around 34 degrees Celsius, a MeT forecast said. Light rain is likely at night. Moderate rain is predicted over the next two days, which means Delhi is likely to witness another record for monsoon precipitation, an IMD official said. The capital has already recorded 1,146.4 mm of rainfall so far this monsoon season, the highest in 46 years and almost double the precipitation gauged last year. The Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, had gauged 1,150 mm of rainfall in the monsoon season in 1975. Normally, Delhi records 653.6 mm of rainfall during the monsoon season. Between June 1, when the monsoon starts, and September 14, the city normally gets 607.7 mm of rainfall. The monsoon has dumped 390 mm of rainfall in Delhi this month till Tuesday, the highest in September in 77 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
15-09-2021||India||JEE-Main result: 44 candidates score 100 percentile||A total of 44 candidates have scored 100 percentile in the engineering entrance exam JEE-Main this year while 18 candidates have shared the top rank, Ministry of Education (MoE) officials said on Tuesday midnight. The first rank holders included Gaurab Das (Karnataka), Vaibhav Vishal (Bihar), Duggineni Venkata Paneesh (Andhra Pradesh), Siddhant Mukherjee, Anshul Verma and Mridul Agarwal (Rajasthan), Ruchir Bansal and Kavya Chopra (Delhi), Amaiya Singhal and Pal Agarwal (Uttar Pradesh), , Komma Sharanya and Joysula Venkata Aditya (Telangana), Pasala Veera Siva, Karnam Lokesh and Kanchanapalli Rahul Naidu, (Andhra Pradesh), Pulkit Goyal (Punjab) and Guramrit Singh (Chandigarh). Starting this year, Joint Entrance Exam (JEE)-Main was conducted four times a year to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores. The first phase was held in February and the second in March. The next phases were scheduled for April and May but those were postponed in view of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic that raged through the country affecting lakhs. The third edition was held from July 20-25 while the fourth edition was conducted from August 26 to September 2. The ranks of the candidates have been released taking into consideration the best of the four NTA scores in accordance with the policy already made. The examination was conducted in 13 languages -- English, Hindi, Gujarati, Assamese, Bengali, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Odia, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu. Over 9.34 lakh candidates appeared in four editions of JEE-Main.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
15-09-2021||India||Politics overrode science as Covid second wave neared||The forecast was mathematically based, government-approved and deeply, tragically wrong. In September 2020, eight months before a deadly Covid-19 second wave struck India, government-appointed scientists downplayed the possibility of a new outbreak. Previous infections and early lockdown efforts had tamed the spread, the scientists wrote in a study that was widely covered by the Indian news media after it was released last year. The results dovetailed neatly with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s two main goals: restart India’s stricken economy and kick off campaigning for his party in state elections that coming spring. But Anup Agarwal, a physician then working for India’s top science agency, which reviewed and published the study, worried that its conclusions would lull the country into a false sense of security. Dr Agarwal took his concerns to the agency’s top official in October. The response: He and another concerned scientist were reprimanded, he said. In the wake of the devastating second wave, which killed hundreds of thousands of people, many in India are asking how the Modi government missed the warning signs. Part of the answer, according to current and former government researchers and documents reviewed by The New York Times, is that senior officials forced scientists at elite institutions to downplay the threat to prioritise Modi’s political goals. “Science is being used as a political weapon to forward the government narrative rather than help people,” said Dr Agarwal, 32. Senior officials at Dr Agarwal’s agency — the Indian Council of Medical Research, or ICMR — suppressed data showing the risks, according to the researchers and documents. They pressured scientists to withdraw another study that called the government’s efforts into question, the researchers said, and distanced the agency from a third study that foresaw a second wave. Agency scientists interviewed by The Times described a culture of silence. Mid-level researchers worried that they would be passed over for promotions and other opportunities if they questioned superiors, they said. “Science thrives in an environment where you can openly question evidence and discuss it dispassionately and objectively,” said Shahid Jameel, one of India’s top virologists and a former government adviser, who has been critical of the ICMR. “That, sadly, at so many levels, has been missing,” he said. The ICMR declined to answer detailed questions. In a statement, it said it was a “premier research organisation” that had helped to expand India’s testing capacity. The health ministry, which oversees the agency, did not respond to requests for comment. India is hardly the first country where virus science has become politicised. The US remains far short of taming the disease as politicians and anti-vaccine activists, fuelled by disinformation and credulous media, challenge the scientific consensus on vaccines and wearing masks. The Chinese government has tried to obscure the outbreak’s origin, while vaccine sceptics have won audiences from Russia to Spain to Tanzania. India, a vast country with an underfunded healthcare system, would have struggled to contain the second wave no matter what. A more contagious new variant fuelled the spread. People had stopped wearing masks and socially distancing. “Prime Minister Modi has never, ever said to lower the guard,” said Vijay Chauthaiwale, a BJP member. Still, the government contributed to complacency. Modi boasted in January, just months before the devastating second wave hit, that India had “saved humanity from a big disaster”. Harsh Vardhan, then the health minister, said in March that the country was “in the endgame of Covid-19”. Amid criticism over the government’s response, Vardhan stepped down in July. The ICMR, which conducts and reviews research for the government, played a major role in shaping perceptions. India has not released granular data on the virus’s spread, hampering the ability of scientists to study it. In that vacuum, the agency offered projections that often steered debate. Politics began to influence the agency’s approach early last year, according to scientists familiar with its deliberations. In April 2020, in the midst of a nationwide lockdown ordered by Modi, the government blamed an early outbreak on an Islamic gathering at Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz, spurring attacks against Muslims by some Hindu nationalists, who provide the core of the Prime Minister’s support. Amid that anger, some officials within the science agency said the gathering had undermined containment efforts. The gathering “has undone the benefits of lockdown”, said one news outlet, citing an agency source. Raman Gangakhedkar, then the ICMR’s chief scientist, in an interview singled out the gathering as an “unexpected surprise”. In an interview with The Times, Dr Gangakhedkar said he had expressed “anguish” over the government’s statements targeting Muslims but added that the science agency’s director-general, Balram Bhargava, told him that the matter should not concern him. Dr Bhargava did not respond to requests for comment. The lockdown did severe economic damage. Once it ebbed, Modi moved to rekindle the economy and start election campaigning — and government scientists, researchers within the agency said, helped pave the way. In June 2020, a study commissioned by the ICMR concluded that Modi’s lockdown had slowed but would not stop the virus’s spread. Within days, the authors withdrew it. The agency, saying the study’s modelling had not been peer-reviewed, wrote in a tweet that it “does not reflect the official position of ICMR”. One of the study’s authors, along with a scientist familiar with it, said the authors had withdrawn it amid pressure from the agency’s leaders, who questioned its findings and complained that it had been published before they had reviewed it. The move was unusual, the scientists said, adding that the agency’s leadership would typically adjust problematic language rather than demand a paper be withdrawn. In July 2020, Dr Bhargava issued two directives to agency scientists that his internal critics saw as politically motivated. The first called on scientists at a number of institutions to help approve, in just six weeks, a coronavirus vaccine developed by Indian scientists. In a memo dated July 2 and reviewed by The Times, Dr Bhargava said the agency aimed to approve the vaccine — Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech in association with the ICMR — by Independence Day, during which Modi frequently urges the country towards greater self-reliance. “Kindly note that non-compliance will be viewed very seriously,” the directive read. The request alarmed agency scientists. Regulators in other countries were still months away from approving their own vaccines. The ICMR’s top leaders backed off once the timetable became public. (The vaccine was approved by the Indian authorities months later, in January.) Dr Bhargava’s second directive, issued in late July 2020, forced scientists to withhold data that suggested the virus was still spreading in 10 cities, according to emails and scientists familiar with the work. The data came from the agency’s serological studies, which tracked the disease based on antibodies in blood samples. The data showed high infection rates in some neighbourhoods, including Delhi and Mumbai, despite containment efforts. In a July 25 email reviewed by The Times, Dr Bhargava told the scientists that “I have not got approval” to publish the data. “You are sitting in an ivory tower and not understanding the sensitivity,” Dr Bhargava wrote. “I am sincerely disappointed.” Naman Shah, a physician who worked on the studies, said withholding the data worked against science and democracy. “This is a government which clearly has a philosophy and history of trying to assert power by capturing every institution and making it an arena for political struggle,” he said. The data that the ICMR did release helped officials argue incorrectly, to the country and the world, that the coronavirus wasn’t spreading in India as virulently as in the US, Brazil, Britain and France. Then, last autumn, an ICMR-approved study wrongly suggested that the worst was over. Known as the Supermodel in India, the study projected that the pandemic would ebb in India by mid-February. It cited Modi’s lockdown earlier in 2020. It said the country may have reached herd immunity because more than 350 million people had already been infected or developed antibodies. The science agency fast-tracked the study’s approval, said Dr Agarwal and other people familiar with its progress. Scientists inside and outside the ICMR picked the study apart. Other countries were nowhere close to herd immunity. Plenty of people in India still hadn’t been infected. None of the study’s authors were epidemiologists. Its model appeared to have been designed to fit the conclusion, some scientists said. “They had parameters which can’t be measured and whenever the curve was not matching, they changed that parameter,” said Somdatta Sinha, a retired scientist who studies infectious disease models and who wrote a rebuttal. “I mean, we don’t do modelling like that. This is misguiding people.” Dr Agarwal, the ICMR physician, said he took his concerns in October to Dr Bhargava, who told him it was “none of his business”. Dr Bhargava, he said, then summoned another scientist who had raised concerns about the study with Dr Agarwal and reprimanded them both. M. Vidyasagar, chairman of the committee that produced the Supermodel, declined to comment. Indian science officials said in May, as the second wave tore through the country, that the panel’s mathematical model “can only predict future with some certainty so long as virus dynamics and its transmissibility don’t change substantially over time”. One study, published in January 2021, did predict a second wave. Published in the journal Nature, it said that such an outbreak could strike if restrictions were “lifted without any other mitigations in place” and called for more testing. One of its authors worked for the ICMR, but its leadership pressured him to remove his affiliation with the agency from the paper, said people familiar with the matter. The second wave struck in April. With hospitals overwhelmed, health officials recommended treatments that the government’s own scientists had found ineffective. One was blood plasma. Dr Agarwal and his colleagues had concluded months before that blood plasma did not help Covid-19 patients, a finding that echoed others. The agency dropped the recommendation in May. The government still recommends a second treatment, the Indian-made malaria drug hydroxychloroquine, despite overwhelming scientific evidence that it is ineffective. Desperate families scrambled to find both during the second wave, creating black markets where prices soared. Current and former agency scientists said they didn’t speak out because they considered the treatments politically protected. The BJP had organised plasma donation camps last year to mark Modi’s 70th birthday. The government also used hydroxychloroquine as a diplomatic tool, winning points with Donald J. Trump, then the American President, and Jair M. Bolsonaro, the Brazilian leader, who both pressured New Delhi last year to lift its export limits on the drug. “If you want to work somewhere for the rest of your life, you want a good relationship with people,” Dr Agarwal said. “You just be non-confrontational about everything.” Dr Agarwal resigned in October and later worked in Gallup, N.M. Now a physician in Baltimore, he said his experience with the ICMR had driven him to leave India. “You start questioning your work, you know,” he said. “And then, you get disillusioned by it.” Amit Shah said India had been successful in handling Covid-19 with minimum damage because of the joint efforts by the central and state governments with the cooperation of the 130-crore Indians. He said the Prime Minister, whenever he addressed the nation, talked with all the stakeholders in Hindi, which had resulted in the message reaching the grassroots. A social media user felt that had the Prime Minister spoken in Marathi and Malayalam, too, the outbreaks in Maharashtra and Kerala would have been contained faster This is a shorter version of a report originally published in The New York Times New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
15-09-2021||India||Govt engineering college contract teachers fear job loss||Over 100 contract teachers from government engineering colleges in several states, all equipped with IIT and NIT degrees, hit the streets in Delhi on Tuesday to protest an imminent job loss for themselves and about 1,300 colleagues. They alleged they had got caught in a “tussle” between the Centre and state governments after taking up their jobs three years ago on the strength of an assurance that a veteran academic on Tuesday described as “misleading”. “We are facing ouster from our jobs on September 30. We’ll agitate at Mandi House every day until the government promises to retain us in our jobs,” said Amarjeet Jhajhariya, assistant professor at the MLV Textile College in Bhilwara, Rajasthan. Jhajhariya is one of nearly 1,400 contractual engineering teachers whom the Centre recruited in January 2018. Jhajhariya was recruited under the World Bank-assisted TEQIP III scheme to state-run colleges in 12 states and Union Territories where the quality of engineering education was poor. These were Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Assam, Tripura, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. One of the requirements was that the candidates must have earned at least one of their degrees — BTech, MTech or PhD — from either an IIT or an NIT. All the selected candidates, some of whom had given up corporate jobs, were MTech or PhD holders and were appointed assistant professors. The Union education ministry (then human resource development ministry) paid their salary under the Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme (TEQIP) III. Under a memorandum of understanding signed between the Centre and the states, the Union education ministry was to pay the salaries for two years and nine months till the TEQIP III project ended in September 2020. After that, the states would retain the “well-performing faculty hired using the project funds”, the MoU said rather vaguely. Eventually, the Centre gave two six-month extensions to these teachers, the second of which expires at the end of this month. Neither the states nor the Centre are now keen to retain them even as contract teachers, let alone regularise them, the agitating teachers said. Shivam Dubey, a teacher from Ujjain Engineering College, Madhya Pradesh, said he had signed up because he was confident about figuring among the “well-performing faculty” who would be retained. “I was a structural designer at a private company. Before I completed my probation period, I joined the government college because I felt I would serve the country better by teaching there,” Dubey, who did his MTech in structural engineering from IIT Kanpur in 2017, said. “Now I’m on the verge of losing my job. Is this the reward for quitting a corporate job? I would never have taken up the post had there been no provision for retention.” Former NIT Rourkela director Sunil Sarangi, a member of the committee in Odisha that reviews the implementation of TEQIP III in the state, said the provision for retention in the MoU was “misleading” and that the Centre and state governments should have avoided it. “Regular government posts cannot be filled without open competition. The provision for retaining well-performing faculty members after the project period was misleading,” he said. “This provision trapped many candidates. A government is not supposed to use such misleading language in an MoU.” Sarangi said that state governments had sanctioned posts at their engineering colleges; there was no reason for them to engage teachers on contract. Jhajhariya and his peers are paid around Rs 75,000 a month but get no paid leave or the benefits of provident fund, pension or medical insurance. They said a few states had offered them positions as guest faculty with remunerations of Rs 25,000 to Rs 30,000 a month. Jhajhariya said that ironically, the desire for “job security” had prompted him to quit his teacher’s post with a private university in Jaipur and join the government job. “Now I’m in the most insecure of situations. My wife is a homemaker and my son is enrolled in a school there. Where will I go now?” he said. Jhajhariya said his college now had two teachers for 240 BTech students of information technology. If he leaves, the students would suffer because one teacher cannot possibly conduct all the classes and handle other academic work, he said. “The states are saying we have been recruited by the Centre, so the Centre should address our concerns. The Centre is saying the TEQIP project is over. We are caught in the tussle,” said Anshul Awasti, a teacher from a Madhya Pradesh college. He said the teachers had written to the Prime Minister’s Office and the Union education minister. They met the new minister, Dharmendra Pradhan, on Teachers’ Day this month. “There’s no assurance from any quarter; so we have started an agitation,” he said. An email sent to the Union education ministry asking whether it planned any relief for the agitating teachers evoked no response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
15-09-2021||India||Ministry to ease inter-country adoption process under Hama||The women and child development ministry will soon notify a mechanism to deal with inter-country adoptions under the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act, bridging a legislative gap in this 1956 law with the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015. Once the Adoption (Amendment) Regulation 2021 is gazetted, the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act (Hama) — which applies to Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists and Jains — will become compliant with the Hague Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Respect of Inter-country Adoption. Earlier this month, Delhi High Court had directed the ministry to set up such a mechanism and also directed the Central Adoption Resource Authority (Cara) to facilitate inter-country adoptions under Hama. While Cara represents an institutional adoption process that involves rigorous scrutiny of the adoptive parents, Hama mostly relates to family adoption without a State-mandated procedure for verifying whether the adoptive parents are fit to adopt. Since adoption under Hama is private and is carried out without going through Cara, it is not compliant with the Hague Convention. So, the adoptive parents need to go to court for a no-objection certificate if they are to relocate overseas with the adopted child. Now, apart from setting up a new mechanism that will involve the district administration in conducting the verification, the external affairs ministry has been enlisted to get its overseas missions to monitor the adopted children in the countries they have moved to. Since last month, these missions have been drafted in to monitor inter-country adoptions where the adoptive parents have moved out of India within two years of the adoption. Earlier, couples could not leave the country with their adopted child before the completion of two years — a restriction aimed at ensuring that the child had adjusted to his or her new home. Now, that task has been passed on to the diplomatic missions, with which the adoptive parents have to register if two years have not elapsed since the adoption. The women and child development ministry also plans to move a cabinet note seeking an increase in the sum paid monthly, under the PM Cares for Children scheme, to kids who have lost both parents to Covid. Currently, such children who live with their extended family are entitled to Rs 2,000 a month, and those in institutional care Rs 2,160. Till date, 667 children from across the country have been cleared by the district administrations for coverage under this scheme, which seeks to take care of them until they turn 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
15-09-2021||India||Healthcare survey reveals lag in child cancer diagnosis||Three-fourths of parents of children with cancer approach healthcare providers within 10 days of symptoms, yet a quarter receive their diagnosis after more than three months, a research consortium said on Tuesday after a survey across northern and eastern India, including Bengal. The survey by the Indian Paediatric Oncology Group (InPOG), a collaboration among healthcare professionals involved in childhood cancers, has also found that a quarter of a sample of children with cancer had to wait 112 days or longer between the start of their symptoms and their treatment. For some children, the interval between the onset of symptoms and start of treatment stretched to more than a year, the survey has found, quantifying delays parents encounter as they navigate from primary and secondary healthcare providers to a cancer treatment centre. “Once diagnosed, half the children received treatment within three days and three-fourths received it within nine days — but the extent of delay between symptoms’ onset and diagnosis are unacceptable,” said Ramandeep Arora, a consultant paediatric oncologist, InPOG member and the study’s principal investigator. The doctors analysed the time intervals between the onset of symptoms, first visit to healthcare providers, diagnosis and treatment for over 2,700 children registered across 70-plus cancer treatment centres in 19 states, including 528 children from 21 centres across Bengal and the northeastern states. Leukaemia, or blood cancer, made up 53 per cent of the cancers, followed by lymphomas in 13 per cent of the children and malignant bone tumours in 10 per cent. The other cancers diagnosed included brain tumours, tumours of the central nervous system and retinoblastomas. Arora is set to present the findings of the study at the annual meeting of the International Society of Paediatric Oncology next month. The study was supported by Cankids Kidscan, a national society for childhood cancers, and other non-government organisations. The Indian Cancer Society estimates that over 50,000 children are diagnosed with cancer in the country every year. Doctors say that childhood cancers, while rare, are typically curable if detected early and treated effectively. In the developed countries, survival rates are 80 to 90 per cent for some paediatric cancers. While top institutions such as the Tata Memorial Centre have similar survival rates as those in the developed countries, those numbers cannot be extrapolated to the whole of India because delays in diagnosis, quality of treatment and patients abandoning treatment affect survival. A decade ago, data from a nationwide cancer registry suggested a five-year survival rate of 50 per cent. Some oncologists believe that around 50 per cent of children with cancer in India remain undiagnosed and thus have no access to treatment. Cankids Kidscan chairperson Poonam Bagai said the findings of the study and the planned follow-ups were intended to help guide policy to improve access to treatment for childhood cancers. “Our initial findings underscore the need to train healthcare workers at the primary and secondary institutions to facilitate early diagnosis,” she said. Multiple factors could impact the interval between the onset of symptoms and the start of treatment. “Is diagnosis or treatment faster when children access treatment closer to home rather than going to distant hospitals? Is it faster when parents first approach paediatricians rather than other healthcare practitioners — those are future research questions,” Arora said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
15-09-2021||India||US and India discuss staging area for 'over-the-horizon' forces||Washington is discussing with India a possible staging area for “over-the-horizon” forces that are being talked about by the Joe Biden administration for maintaining the security situation in Afghanistan, US secretary of state Antony Blinken has indicated. “Over-the-horizon” operations are missions launched from another country aimed at surveillance or other targets beyond the visual and radar range of the operational base. Blinken referred to the discussions with India while testifying on Monday before the House foreign affairs committee on Afghanistan. The secretary of state had been asked by a Republican Congressman from Tennessee whether, given Pakistani agency ISI’s support for the Taliban, the Biden administration had “reached out to India as a possible staging area for the over-the-horizon forces — I’m talking northwest India as a potential — because we all know Qatar and Doha and the other places are just a little bit too far”. In response, Blinken said: “Let me just say generally, Congressman, we’re deeply engaged with India across the board. With regard to any specifics about over-the-horizon capabilities and the plans that we put in place and will continue to put in place, I’d rather take that up in a different setting.” Blinken used the phrase “across the board” and did not qualify the nature of engagement with India while avoiding specifics. Nearly two decades ago in 2003, the Vajpayee government had come under pressure from the Bush administration to send troops to Iraq but the plan was eventually abandoned. In 1991 during the first Gulf War, a decision by the Chandra Shekhar government to allow US military aircraft to refuel at the airport in the then Bombay had caused an uproar in India. In recent weeks, President Biden and several serving American generals have talked about maintaining “over-the-horizon capacity” to ensure that Afghanistan does not become a threat to other countries. Prior to the collapse of the Afghan National Army and the Taliban takeover, the Pentagon had envisaged over-the-horizon capability as a back-up to the government in Kabul. In a briefing on July 6, Pentagon spokesperson John F. Kirby had said that “as for the over-the-horizon capability”, the department of defence was in active discussion with the state department on the nature of what that capability would be. The US currently lacks any military base in the countries adjoining Afghanistan in Central Asia. Pakistan, which has had to deal with the blowback of facilitating America’s war on terror while providing a safe haven to some terror groups, has said it will not host an American base. Prime Minister Narendra Modi travels to Washington next week for the first physical summit of the Quad leadership on September 24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
15-09-2021||India||Congress leader joins CPM in Kerala||A second senior Congress leader has quit the party in Kerala and joined the CPM in less than two weeks due to differences over organisational restructuring helmed by a new set of leaders. State Congress general secretary K.P. Anil Kumar resigned from the party on Tuesday and immediately joined the CPM where he was welcomed by senior leaders. He is the second Congressman to turn red after P.S. Prashanth, who was the party’s losing candidate in the recent Assembly polls, joined the CPM on September 3. The Congress quickly sacked Kumar from the party. The latest trend is one that precludes the usual practice of moving to a Left ally like the Nationalist Congress Party instead of making a direct entry to the CPM. Party veteran P.C. Chacko who had donned national roles for several years and former state Mahila Congress president Lathika Subhash had resigned ahead of the April state polls. While Lathika contested the polls as an Independent after being denied a ticket before joining the NCP, Chacko worked for the LDF in the election that gave a rare second consecutive term for the alliance. Like Prashanth, Kumar too blamed the new leadership for ignoring him while re-jigging the party organisation. The Congress had earlier suspended both of them for their scathing criticism of the appointment of district party chiefs that had opened a can of worms with even veterans such as Oomen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala expressing displeasure over the changes made by state president K. Sudhakaran. “I am ending my 43-year career with Congress that started when I was in Class 4 since the new leadership is targeting leaders like me. He didn’t even revoke my suspension even after I gave an explanation,” he said, terming Sudhakaran as a dictator. “Sudhakaran’s dictatorial grip on the party is like that of the Taliban. I don’t want to die by getting stabbed in the back,” he said. Kumar said he was joining the CPM since “it is a truly secular party”. A.V. Gopinath was the other senior leader who resigned in the last two weeks. But unlike Prashanth and Kumar, Gopinath who is an influential leader from Palakkad has yet to take a call on joining any party. While heading to the AKG Centre, the state headquarters of CPM, Kumar told reporters that he was making the move without any conditions. “I will work (with the CPM) unconditionally, with dignity and holding aloft my self respect.” He was received by politburo members Kodiyeri Balakrishnan and S.R. Ramachandran Pillai who later held a closed-door discussion with the new entrant. Balakrishnan told reporters that the CPM was not in the business of luring leaders from other parties. “We are not luring anyone. He (Kumar) took the decision without our intervention and decided to join us unconditionally,” he said. To a question on whether the incoming leaders have now found a direct route to join the CPM, unlike Chacko and Lathika, Balakrishnan recalled several others had made similar moves to his party. “AICC member Peelipose Thomas, former district Congress presidents T.K. Hamza and Abdul Khader had joined us directly in the past,” he pointed out alluding to the entrants a few decades ago. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said nothing could be done when someone decides to leave the party. “The Congress is not just a crowd. It is a major institution. So if someone is leaving us we can’t say anything. That is their decision (to leave),” he told reporters on the latest exit. He said the explanations provided by both Kumar and Prashanth were not satisfactory. “The KPCC president said their explanations were not satisfactory,” he said, responding to a query on why the party failed to revoke their suspension.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
15-09-2021||India||Supreme Court to examine quota in govt job promotions||The Supreme Court on Tuesday agreed to examine the contention of the Centre and the states that recruitments for various government jobs have come to a standstill owing to disputes over grant of reservation in promotions to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. A bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao, Sanjiv Khanna and B.R. Gavai asked the states and the Centre to file short notes not exceeding five pages each, explaining the guidelines formulated by the respective authorities for granting quota benefits to SCs and STs. The court posted the matter for further hearing to October 5 for a detailed analysis. The issue relates to interpretation of Articles 16 and 16(4)(a) that provide for reservation in promotions under public employment subject to certain conditions. In all, 133 petitions and applications relating to such reservation have been filed by the Centre, states, Union Territories, individuals and organisations before the bench. They have sought an authoritative pronouncement and clarification from the top court on the grant of reservation in promotions to SCs and STs as multiple high courts have passed conflicting orders. While some high courts have quashed circulars issued by certain states allowing such a quota, some others have permitted reservation benefits in promotions to the two communities. Appearing for the Centre on Tuesday, attorney-general K.K. Venugopal submitted that 4,100 employees have been promoted by the central government on an ad hoc basis subject to the outcome of the case, with no reservation offered to SCs and STs. Another 2,500 posts have remained vacant due to status quo orders on promotions because of conflicting high court verdicts, Venugopal said. The AG said reservation in promotions had been adequately covered by a constitution bench ruling in the 2006 V. Nagaraj case, yet there was confusion on the guidelines to be followed. In the 2006 judgment, the apex court had ruled that the government can provide reservation in promotions to SCs and STs provided it was justified through quantifiable data collected by the State on inadequate representation of the two communities in various posts. This was iterated by another five-judge bench in 2018. Venugopal said all facets had been covered in the earlier judgments, yet it seemed there was confusion over their interpretation, which needed to be sorted out by the top court. Justice Rao, heading the bench, made it clear that there would be no reconsideration of the Nagaraj judgment. “My problem, the government of India’s problem is that there are three high court orders passed which say that promotions can continue to be made, while one high court has issued status quo orders on promotions. This opens up the government to contempt,” Venugopal submitted. He also wanted the court to recall a notice issued by it in 2019 to the Union home secretary in a contempt petition relating to one such petition filed in Bihar. Senior advocate P.S. Patwalia, appearing for Bihar and Maharashtra, said the Supreme Court would have to decide the core issue of how the states should quantify data and provide adequate reservation benefits to SC and STs. “That question has been answered in the Nagaraj case. We are not going to handhold the government and say how it will be implemented,” Justice Rao remarked. Patwalia, however, said that in Bihar about 60 per cent posts were lying vacant in government departments on account of the confusion. Senior advocate Indira Jaising, appearing for some of the petitioners, said the top court had to examine the benchmarks to be evolved by the states for ensuring implementation of the quota policy in promotions. The bench replied: “It is not for us to tell the government how to implement the policy. Directions have been passed in the Nagaraj judgment and it is for each state to finalise how they will implement it.” The court agreed with the suggestion of senior advocate Rajeev Dhawan, appearing for some pro-reservation petitioners, that the petitions could be segregated into batches and heard on different dates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
15-09-2021||India||NHRC directs Centre and states to file reports on farmers’ protests||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Tuesday directed the Centre, the governments of Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, and various statutory authorities to file reports on the farmers’ protests and their fallout on people, industrial production and jobs. Farmers have been picketing Delhi’s borders since November last year to protest three controversial central farm laws. The movement has spread to other states as well. The peasants believe the new laws will deprive them of their land and livelihood and facilitate a corporate takeover of agriculture. In a statement issued in New Delhi, the NHRC said it had received several complaints regarding the farmers’ protest. “There are allegations of adverse impact on industrial units, seriously affecting more than 9,000 micro, medium and large companies. Allegedly, transportation is also adversely impacted, causing commuters, patients, physically challenged people and senior citizens to suffer due to the heavy congestion on roads,” the rights panel said. “There are also reports that people have to travel long distances to reach their destinations due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation and barricades have been put on the borders,” it added. The commission issued notices to the chief secretaries and the police directors-general of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi (police commissioner), calling upon them to submit action-taken reports. “There is an allegation that there is breach of corona protocols by the agitating farmers at the protest sites. There is further allegation that the inhabitants are not being allowed to move out of their houses due to the blockade of the passages,” it said. “Since the agitation involves the issue of human rights whereas the right to agitate in a peaceful manner is also to be respected. The commission needs to take care of various human rights issues,” the NHRC said in its statement. The commission also took the following actions: ⚫ The NHRC requested the Institute of Economic Growth to examine the adverse impacts of the farmers’ agitation on industrial and commercial activities and production, and how it has disrupted transport services and affected commercial and normal consumers, including inconvenience and additional expenditure. The IEG has to submit a report by October 10. ⚫ The National Disaster Management Authority and the ministries of home affairs and health are to submit reports on the adverse impact of the farmers’ movement on adherence to Covid protocols. ⚫ The NHRC reminded the district magistrate of Jhajjar in Haryana to file by October 10 a report whether compensation had been paid to the family of a human rights activist allegedly gang-raped at a protest site. ⚫ The commission requested the Delhi School of Social Work of Delhi University to conduct a survey and submit a report assessing the disruption of livelihood, lives and the impact on the aged and the infirm due to the farm protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
15-09-2021||India||Modi plays on fear of displacement in Uttar Pradesh speech ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday referred to people being “forced to flee leaving behind their ancestral houses” some “four-five years ago” as he laid the foundation stone for the Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh University in Aligarh town. The comment prompted many to wonder whether Modi was repeating the discredited allegation by late BJP lawmaker Hukum Singh in 2016 about Hindu families being forced out of Shamli, a district adjacent to Aligarh. Most of what Modi said could be construed as a pat for chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s handling of law and order, especially crime against women. The Prime Minister had dispensed such praise earlier too although Adityanath’s rule has been marked by the horrific Hathras and Unnao rapes and official records have shown no decline in crimes against women in the state. “There was a time... (pause) I especially want to remind you of four-five years ago when families used to live in fear in their own houses. Sisters and daughters would be scared to step out of their homes; they would be afraid to go to school and college,” Modi said. “Parents would be restless till their daughters returned home. The atmosphere was such that many people ran away, leaving behind their ancestral houses. They were forced to flee (palayan karna pada). Today, criminals think a hundred times before doing this.” It’s the part about people running away “leaving behind their ancestral houses” that appeared to some to contain a more sinister implication than merely questionable praise for a party chief minister. “Since Modi has not done anything worthy of mention in seven years, he is raising the old communal and fake issue of forced migration,” Samajwadi Party spokesperson I.P. Singh said. Hukum, MP from Kairana in Shamli, had claimed in 2016 that 409 Hindu families had fled the district for fear of Muslim criminals. This was parroted by many BJP leaders. The then Akhilesh Yadav government had dismissed the allegation, saying a physical verification by the local administration had found it to be false. Investigations by media outlets had corroborated the state government findings. The 2013 riots breached the long alliance between the region’s Jats and Muslims and helped catapult the BJP to power at the Centre in 2014. But the farmers’ agitation appears to have brought the two communities together again. The BJP is hoping to woo the Jats with the establishment of the university in the name of Mahendra Pratap, a freedom fighter who was a Jat, before the Assembly polls. However, Mahendra Pratap — a secular and cosmopolitan socialist  — was always going to be difficult for the BJP to appropriate. Modi on Tuesday briefly mentioned Mahendra Pratap as a great freedom fighter and educationist but did not dwell on his Jat identity. Sitapur claim Modi said that during his childhood days, Sitapur in central Uttar Pradesh was famous in Gujarat as a hub of eye treatment. The statement appeared to conflict with his repeated assertions in the past that Uttar Pradesh had nothing to boast of in the 70 years before Yogi Adityanath became chief minister in 2017. “We used to know two cities of Uttar Pradesh. One was Sitapur, as everybody would say if you need eye treatment you should go to Sitapur. The second was Aligarh….” However, authorities at the Sitapur Eye Hospital said they were facing so much “humiliation” getting the annual donation of Rs 80 lakh from the Adityanath administration that they had decided not to seek it any more. Colonel (retired) Ranbir Singh Bhadauria, the hospital director, said: “We have decided not to demand the annual donation any more.” Dr P.K. Singh, deputy chief medical officer of Sitapur, said: “We don’t delay their payments.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
15-09-2021||India||PM Modi holds meeting in the Rashtrapati Bhavan auditorium||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday held a meeting of his council of ministers in the Rashtrapati Bhavan auditorium, the first time the venue had been used for such a session. Officially no reason was cited for opting for the auditorium at the President’s residence. Sources in the government, however, said the sprawling venue was chosen for better adherence to Covid protocols. Meetings of the Union cabinet and the council of ministers are usually held at the Prime Minister’s Office or his residence or Parliament (when it is in session) or some other government facility. “The council of ministers has a strength of more than 75 and so we needed a big hall to maintain physical distancing. Nothing more should be read into it,” a government official said, adding that Rashtrapati Bhavan has a big auditorium. However, big meeting auditoriums are available at government facilities such as Vigyan Bhavan. This was the first physical meeting of the council of ministers since the expansion and rejig in July. Meetings were being held virtually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
15-09-2021||India||Vigilance reveals crorepati anganwadi worker in Odisha||Odisha vigilance sleuths on Tuesday conducted simultaneous raids on the houses owned by Kabita Mathan, an anganwadi worker, on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar. Raids revealed property worth more than a crore. An official release from the state vigilance said that raids were on at six places in Khordha, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur districts. So far the vigilance has unearthed four buildings, including two three-storeyed buildings, one two-storeyed building and one single-storeyed building owned by the anganwadi worker. It has also seized a four-wheeler and a two-wheeler from her.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
15-09-2021||India||Four killed in Odisha rain; goods train derails in Angul||Incessant rains triggered by a deep depression over the Bay of Bengal have claimed four lives in Odisha in the past three days. The latest casualty was a six-year-old girl who reportedly died when the wall of a house collapsed on her on Tuesday morning. The rain has left a trail of devastation in the state. Nine coaches of a goods train were derailed and one of them fell in a rivulet in Angul-Talcher single line section around 2.30am on Tuesday. Following the derailment, several trains were diverted and 12 were cancelled. The goods train was travelling from Ferozepur to Khurda Road. Six coaches of the train were carrying wheat. The rains have thrown normal life out of gear in large parts of the state with most of the urban areas, including smart city Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Puri witnessing heavy water logging because of lack of a proper drainage system. The situation is likely to be worsened as the meteorological department predicting another low-pressure system over the Bay of Bengal on September 17. In the last two days, 10 districts of Odisha received over 200mm rainfall and the highest over 500mm rainfall was reported in two blocks of Puri district. Odisha experienced a severe water logging and flood-like situation. However, the situation is still under control. The state government has empowered the collectors to initiate steps to evacuate people from the low lying areas if the situation gets worsened. The block level officials have been asked to provide food to the distressed and displaced people. Special Relief Commissioner P.K. Jena asked the collectors to furnish the damage assessment report within a week by September 22 positively for allotment of funds, for disbursement. Geo-tagged and time-stamped photographs of damaged houses and crop area must be taken during assessment. Agriculture land in 28 districts except Ganjam and Sundergarh have been inundated and houses have been damaged. Livestocks have also been killed. However, the matter of relief at this point is the deep depression weakened into a depression.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
15-09-2021||India||Delhi police books Chirag's cousin for  allegedly raping a woman||The Delhi police have registered an FIR against Lok Janshakti Party MP from Samastipur, Prince Raj, for allegedly raping a woman. The FIR also named LJP leader and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan for allegedly conspiring to save his cousin Prince from lawful action. The case was registered on September 9 at Connaught Place police station after a Delhi court expressed displeasure over the delay and directed the police to lodge an FIR. The victim, who claims to be an LJP worker, had submitted a complaint to the police around four months ago. The charges slapped in the FIR are under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 376 (sexual assault), 376(2)(k) (persistent sexual assault), 506 (criminal intimidation), 201 (removing evidence, screening of offender from legal action) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). According to the complainant, she had joined the LJP in 2019 and Prince first met her in January 2020. Later both met at Western Court at Janpath in New Delhi where Prince allegedly sexually assaulted her after drugging her, and also made a video of the incident. The FIR states that Prince started visiting her regularly and threatened her when she tried to stop him. She then apprised Chirag of the issue, who assured to look into the matter and persuaded her not to approach the police. She left the LJP in February 2020 when no action was taken. Later in the same month, Prince filed an FIR against her, allegedly detained her forcefully in collusion with the police and tampered with the evidence against him. The victim approached the Parliament Street police station in May 2021 and submitted a formal complaint. When no action was initiated against Prince, she moved court in July. Efforts by this newspaper to contact Prince proved unsuccessful as his mobile phones were switched off. One of his aides at his Delhi residence said that he was visiting Ladakh on an official tour. However, in June, Prince had issued a media release over the matter. “I categorically deny any such claim or assertion that has been made against me. All such claims are blatantly false, fabricated, and are part of a larger criminal conspiracy to pressurise me professionally and personally by threatening my reputation,” he had said in the release. Prince got elected from Samastipur in a bypoll in 2019 riding a sympathy wave after the death his father and then MP Ram Chandra Paswan (younger brother of former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan). The 31-year-old is a postgraduate in international business, and apart from different parts of the country, has also studied at the University of Hertfordshire in the UK. Prince had sided with uncle and Union minister Pashupati Kumar Paras, who split the LJP around two months ago, walking away with five of the six Lok Sabha members of the party, and leaving Chirag to fend for himself. Chirag had mentioned the allegations against Prince at a news conference soon after the split. LJP’s Bihar unit chief Raju Tiwari said: “The allegations against Chirag trying to brush the case under the carpet are baseless.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
