16-09-2021||India||Govt's Rs 30,600 crore-guarantee for NARCL for buying stressed assets a landmark development: India Inc||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's announcement of Rs 30,600 crore-government guarantee for the National Asset Reconstruction Company Limited (NARCL) for acquiring stressed loan assets is a landmark development and will help unclog the capital locked in the form of bad assets, India Inc said on Thursday. The decision to provide sovereign guarantee for security receipts issued by NARCL was taken at a meeting of the Union Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. Chandrajit Banerjee, Director General of CII, said that with this step, the initiative to clean up the books of the public sector banks which started with the asset quality review in 2015, has come a full circle. "PSBs being saddled with high NPAs has been one of the key reasons behind their risk averseness towards lending, leading to poor credit growth. With the mechanism of bad bank expected to be functional soon, this major roadblock in the recovery of the credit cycle is removed," Banerjee said. The announcement also re-assures the industry and investors that the government will keep on pushing ahead with bold reforms, he added. PHDCCI President Sanjay Aggarwal said the government's approval to provide the guarantee is "highly appreciable" as it would result in faster resolution of non-performing assets in the country. "This will unclog the capital locked in the form of bad assets that can be further leveraged for lending and spending on other priority areas. Since the guarantee is in a form of contingent liability, it will not lead to immediate cash outflow and therefore is unlikely to impact the fiscal position in near future. "This initiative will boost investments and unleash the 'animal spirits' to strengthen high economic growth," Aggarwal said. Ficci said it was a landmark development and signified the continuation of the reforms process in the banking sector of the country. "The government has over the last few years adopted a well thought out strategy to address the challenges facing the banking sector on account of NPAs and with the setting up of the NARCL this process will get a major boost," it said. Amongst the notable features attached to the setting up of NARCL, two areas stand out in particular, it said and that the backstop provided on the securitised receipts will ensure that a secondary market gets developed for such receipts and banks will be able to trade the same.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
16-09-2021||India||Difficult to say how to bring people back until Kabul airport resumes: MEA||Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi, at a media briefing on Thursday, said it is difficult to say about bringing back remaining Indians and some other Afghan nationals till flight services are resumed in the Kabul airport. "Till operations at Kabul airport is not resumed, it is difficult to say how to bring them back. Our focus is that operations at Kabul airport resume. Then, it will be easier for us to bring back the people," Bagchi said. In its last update on August 27, the ministry had said that over 550 people, including more than 260 Indians, were evacuated from Afghanistan by India under the operation Devi Shakti. The airlift was carried out in six separate flights either from Kabul or Dushanbe. Bagchi had said that the number was excluding the Indian embassy personnel who were also being evacuated simultaneously. Further, Indian nationals were also evacuated through other “countries and partners,” he said. The ministry had also said that its focus was on evacuating Indian nationals from Afghanistan. On Thursday, India said it is in touch with all concerned following reports that an Indian national has been kidnapped from Kabul. According to reports, Bansri Lal Arendeh was kidnapped at gunpoint on Tuesday in the Afghan capital city. "We are in touch with all concerned. We have seen reports about local authorities undertaking investigations into this matter. We will continue to monitor the situation," Arindam Bagchi said at a media briefing. When specifically asked whether Arendeh is an Indian national, Bagchi said, "I am given to understand that he is an Indian citizen but we are also checking that part." Reports said that Arendeh's family lives in Faridabad, and he has been engaged in business in Kabul for the last two decades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
16-09-2021||India||Let thousand flowers bloom: SC on plea for uniform vaccine code||“Let a thousand flowers bloom. Let wisdom come from any source,” the Supreme Court said on Thursday as it allowed a political party to intervene and give its suggestions in a matter on Covid preparedness. The top court refused to entertain a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) by the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) seeking a direction for a uniform pan-India free Covid vaccination policy and setting up a panel of epidemiologists and virologists to ascertain the impact of the virus and suggest measures to check its spread. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud, Vikaram Nath, and BV Nagarathna said that though the PIL was filed amid the second wave of Covid, "your purpose is subserved through our orders. We have already passed orders in the suo motu case on Covid preparedness. You can intervene in that matter and give your suggestions. Justice Chandrachud added that though the expression was used in a different context in World Political History, it can be used in this case in different contexts. In 1957, Chinese leader Mao Zedong had first used the expression, "Let a hundred flowers blossom" to invite different views of the intelligentsia on the country's political system. Justice Chandrachud told advocate A Selvin Raja, appearing for SDPI, "You can come and give your suggestions in that (suo motu) matter. We will allow your intervention. You are most welcome". The bench noted in its order that the petition was filed on May 10 and by several orders passed in the suo motu matter (taken up by the court on its own) on Covid preparedness, the concerns have been taken care of. “There has been a modification of the vaccination policy of the Union of India to ensure its maximum possible coverage. A National Task Force has also been constituted of prominent doctors across the country, virologists and epidemiologists by the orders of the court in suo motu proceedings,” it said. The top court said the petitioner does not press the plea at this stage and is reserving liberty to assist the court in the suo motu proceedings, if the need arises in the future, he can intervene in the matter. While disposing of the plea, it told Raja that the National Task Force constituted by the court has doctors from all over the country and they are experts in their domain, and the union cabinet secretary is its convenor. On May 8, the top court constituted a 12-member National Task Force of top medical experts to formulate a methodology for allocation of oxygen to states and union territories for saving lives of Covid-19 patients and to facilitate a public health response to the pandemic. On May 31, it criticized the vaccination policy and said that the Indian Constitution does not envisage courts to be silent spectators when the rights of citizens are infringed upon by executive policies. The top court had said that in grappling with the second wave of the Covid pandemic, it does not intend to second-guess the wisdom of the executive when it chooses between two competing and efficacious policy measures. It had added however that it would continue to exercise jurisdiction to determine "if the chosen policy conforms to the standards of reasonableness, militates against manifest arbitrariness and protects the right to life of all persons". On June 7, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that the central government will provide free coronavirus vaccines to states and union territories to inoculate all above 18 from June 21. He had said that the Centre will take over the 25% state procurement quota while asserting that vaccine supply would be increased significantly in the coming days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
16-09-2021||India||Narendra Modi to hold review meeting with secretaries on Sept 18||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a review meeting with secretaries of various ministries and departments on September 18, according to sources.  The meeting comes days after Modi chaired a meeting with his council of ministers, which was termed as 'Chintan Shivir'.  The sources said the meeting with the secretaries is scheduled to be held in the evening on September 18.  Specific details about the meeting could not be immediately ascertained.  Against the backdrop of the coronavirus pandemic that has ravaged lives and the economy, the government has been taking various measures to revive the situation, including steps to boost economic growth.  In July, Modi effected a reshuffle of his Cabinet ahead of seven states going for polls next year. Out of them, BJP is in power in six states, including Uttar Pradesh.  At the meeting with the ministers on September 14, Modi stressed that simplicity is the way of life.  Four more such 'Chintan Shivirs' will be held for further improving governance, sources had said.  At the meeting, Modi asked the ministers to learn from the best practices of their colleagues.  Stating that sharing is caring, the prime minister had also spoken about tiffin meetings during his Gujarat days where everyone used to bring their own tiffins in meetings and shared the food as well as ideas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
16-09-2021||India||PM Modi to hold bilateral talks with Joe Biden during US visit: Centre||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold bilateral meetings with Quad leaders including US President Joe Biden and other foreign leaders during his US visit later this month besides attending the first-in person meeting of Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Thursday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is visiting the US next week. “PM (Modi) will participate in the first in-person Quad leaders’ summit in Washington on September 24. On September 25, he will address the general debate of the UN General Assembly at its 76th session. While the PM is in Washington, he will also have a bilateral meeting with President Biden,” MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said during a press briefing. “We also look forward to bilateral meetings with other Quad leaders as well as bilateral meetings with some other leaders while he is in New York on September 25,” he added. Prime Minister Narendra Modi would be participating, along with Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga of Japan and US President Joseph R Biden, in the Leaders' Summit of the Quadrilateral Framework in Washington DC, USA, on September 24, 2021. During the discussion, the leaders will discuss regional issues of shared interest and will also review the progress made since their first virtual Summit that was held on 12 March 2021. Prime Minister is scheduled to address the General Debate of the High-Level Segment of the 76th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) on September 25 in New York. The theme for this year's General Debate is 'Building Resilience through hope to recover from Covid-19, rebuild sustainably, respond to the needs of the planet, respect the rights of people, and revitalise the United Nations'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
16-09-2021||India||Bhupendra Patel allocates portfolios to new ministers, keeps Home department among others||Gujarat Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel on Thursday allocated portfolios to 24 newly-inducted ministers, keeping a host of departments including Home with himself and without appointing any deputy. Kanubhai Desai was allocated Finance and Energy and Petrochemicals portfolios. Besides the Home ministry, CM Patel will hold the charge of General Administration Department, Information and Broadcast, Industries, Mines and Minerals, Capital Projects, Urban Development, Urban Housing and Narmada and Ports, an official release said. The allocation was announced in the first cabinet meeting held in Gandhinagar after the ministers were sworn in earlier in the day. Rajendra Trivedi, who was Assembly Speaker during the previous Vijay Rupani government, was allocated Revenue, Law and Justice, and Legislative and Parliamentary Affairs departments as a cabinet-rank minister. Jitubhai Vaghani was given the Education portfolio as cabinet minister, while Rishikesh Patel was given Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education as well as Water Resources and Water Supply. Purnesh Modi will handle Roads and Building, Transport, Civil Aviation, Tourism and Pilgrimage Development. Raghavji Patel will handle Agriculture and Animal Husbandry. Another cabinet-rank minister, Kiritsinh Rana, has been given Forest, Environment, Climate Change, and Printing and Stationery departments. Naresh Patel will hold Tribal Development and Food and Civil Supply. Pradip Parmar has been made Social Justice and Empowerment Minister while Arjunsinh Chauhan was allocated the Rural Development and Rural Housing. Harsh Sanghavi, youngest member of the ministry, would be the Minister of State (MoS), Home. He would also handle the Disaster Management and Police Housing. Sanghavi was also allocated independent charge as MoS of Sports, Youth and Cultural Activities, NRI, Excise and Prohibition, Border Security and Prisons. MoS Jagdish Panchal has been given independent charge of Cottage Industries, Cooperation, Salt Industry and Protocol. He will also handle Industries, Forest and Environment, Climate Change and Printing and Stationery portfolios. MoS Brijesh Merja has been given independent charge of Labour and Employment as well as Panchayats. He will also handle Rural Development and Rural Housing as an MoS. Jitu Chaudhary has been made MoS for Kalpsar and Fisheries with independent charge and also given the responsibility of Narmada, Water Resources and Water Supply as MoS. MoS Manishaben Vakil has been given the independent charge of Women and Child Development. She would also handle Social Justice and Empowerment as junior minister. While Mukesh Patel has been made MoS for Agriculture and Energy and Petrochemicals departments, Nimisha Suthar was given Tribal Development, Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education as junior minister. MoS Arvind Raiyani has been alloted Transport, Civil Aviation, Tourism and Pilgrimage Development. Kuber Dindor will handle Higher and Technical Education as well as Legislative and Parliamentary Affairs as an MoS. Kirtisinh Vaghela has been made MoS for Primary, Secondary and Adult Education while Gajendrasinh Parmar is MoS for Food and Civil Supply. R C Makwana has been given Social Justice and Empowerment as MoS. Vinod Moradia has been made MoS for Urban Development and Urban Housing. Deva Malam will be MoS for Animal Husbandry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
16-09-2021||India||Completing disengagement of troops could pave way for India-China peace, says MEA||India on Thursday asserted that the completion of disengagement in the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh could pave the way for the Indian and Chinese sides to consider de-escalation of forces and ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas. According to a joint statement released by the Indian Army after the 12th round of military talks held in late July, the two sides had a "candid and in-depth exchange" of views relating to disengagement and the meeting further enhanced the mutual understanding. Asked about the developments on the border standoff at a media briefing, Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said, "Let me reiterate our position that completion of disengagement in the remaining areas can pave the way forward for the two sides to consider de-escalation of forces and ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity and enable progress in bilateral relations." On whether External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar could have a bilateral meeting with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi during his ongoing Tajikistan visit to attend a key meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) on the situation in Afghanistan, Bagchi said he cannot rule in or rule out any meetings. "Let's wait to see what meetings take place," he added. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake area and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive sector. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in February, in line with an agreement on disengagement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
16-09-2021||India||Booster dose not the central theme of discussion now, says government||The government on Thursday said the Covid-19 booster shot is not the central theme in scientific discussion as well as in the public health domain at the moment and getting the two doses to remain the main priority. Responding to a question at a press briefing, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said administering both the doses is absolutely essential and there should be no breakage in that. "We need to remember one thing very clearly that booster dose is not the central theme at the moment in the scientific discussion as well as in the public health domain. Getting the two doses remains the major priority," Bhargava said. "Several agencies have recommended that antibody levels should not be measured...but the important understanding is that full vaccination of both the doses is absolutely essential and there should be no breakage in that," he said. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said 20 per cent of India's adult population have received both doses of COVID-19 vaccine and 62 per cent have got at least one dose. Also, 99 per cent of the healthcare workers have received the first dose while 82 per cent of the eligible healthcare workers have taken the second dose. Bhushan further said that 100 per cent of the frontline workers have been administered the first dose while 78 per cent of them have been given the second dose. So far, all adult people in five states and union territories -- Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Chandigarh and Lakshadweep -- have received at least one dose of the vaccine. According to data, the average daily doses administered in a month has increased from 19.69 lakh in May to 39.89 lakh in June, then further to 43.41 lakh in July and to 59.19 lakh in August. The average daily vaccination in the first 15 days of September has been 74.40 lakh per day, Bhushan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
16-09-2021||India||Madras High Court stays certain sub-clauses of IT Rules||The Madras High Court on Thursday stayed the operation of certain sub-clauses of the recently introduced Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, passing orders similar to the one by the Bombay High Court on the matter last month. The sub-clauses -- (1) and (3) of Rule 9, which were stayed today, stipulated the adherence to the Code of Ethics. They were inserted to the original IT Rules in February this year. Incidentally, the Bombay High Court had on August 14, granted an interim stay to the operation of parts of the Information Technology Rules, 2021 which require that all online publishers follow the "code of ethics". On Thursday, the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice PD Audikesavalu of the Madras High Court granted the stay while passing interim orders on a batch of PILs from carnatic musician T M Krishna and Digital News Publishers Association, consisting of 13 media outlets and another individual, challenging the constitutional validity of the new rules. Prima facie, there is substance in the contention of the petitioners that the mechanism to control the media by the government may rob the media, both print and electronic, of their independence and the democratic principles, the bench said. The court adjourned the matter to the last week of October, when it was informed that similar cases pending before the Supreme Court are scheduled to come up for hearing in the first week of next month. The Bombay HIgh Court, while granting the interim stay in August, had held that "dissent" was vital for democracy. Sub-clauses 1 and 3 of clause 9 of the new Rules were, on the face of it, "manifestly unreasonable", and "the indeterminate and wide terms of the Rules bring about a chilling effect qua (regarding) the right of freedom of speech and expression of writers/editors/publishers" as they can be hauled up for anything if the authorities so wish, it had then said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
16-09-2021||India||Shilpa Shetty says she did not know what Raj Kundra was doing as she was 'too busy'||Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty in a statement to Mumbai police claimed she was not aware of her husband Raj Kundra's activities as she was busy with her work, according to a supplementary charge sheet filed by the city police in a court here in connection with a case pertaining to pornographic films. Shetty's statement is part of the nearly 1,500-page charge sheet filed before a magistrate court on Wednesday by the police against Kundra, 46, and his associate Ryan Thorpe. The case against Kundra, arrested in July this year, is related to alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. According to the charge sheet, Shetty told the police that she did not know anything about the HotShots and Bollywood Fame apps, allegedly used by the accused for uploading and streaming obscene content. Shetty claimed she "did not know what her husband was doing as she was busy with her work", the charge sheet said. Another actor Sherly Chopra, in her statement, told the police that Kundra had asked her to work for the HotShots app "without any hesitation". She was told that the HotShots app would have more bold and hot videos, but Chopra refused, the charge sheet said. Chopra further told the police that she had signed a contract with the firm Armsprime Media Pvt Ltd for creating the mobile app named 'The Sherlyn Chopra App'. Saurabh Kushwaha and Raj Kundra were directors of the firm, she told the police. Chopra claimed that as per the agreement, she was to get 50 per cent of the revenue, but she never got her share, said the charge sheet. Another witness Sejal Shah told the police that she made three films for the HotShots app during the lockdown in March 2020. Later, Yash Thakur, an accused in the case, asked her to work in a movie, which he claimed to be the remake of a Hollywood film. She was told that it will have very "bold and erotic" scenes, but the film won't be screened in India. But, the movie was shown in India and when she asked to delete the bold scenes, Thakur refused, she claimed in her police statement which is part of the charge sheet. Yash Thakur, a resident of Singapore, and London-based Pardeep Bakshi have been shown as wanted accused in the charge sheet. The case is related to alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. In April this year, the crime branch filed the first charge sheet in the case against nine people. In the voluminous document, the police have said the probe conducted by the property cell of the crime branch has revealed that Kundra was the "main facilitator" in the porn films case. A lot of evidences against Kundra came to light after technical analysis, statements of witnesses and from documents confiscated from his office, it said. The police said Kundra and Thorpe, in conspiracy with accused arrested earlier, took advantage of financially weak young women who were struggling in the film industry and made obscene movies with them. The pornographic videos were then uploaded on various websites as well as mobile applications, they said. These videos were sold through subscriptions and Kundra "illegally" earned millions from them, said the charge sheet. Kundra and Thorpe were arrested by the Mumbai crime branch on July 19 and are currently in jail under judicial custody. Their bail pleas are pending before a Mumbai sessions court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
16-09-2021||India||Govt calls for vaccination, Covid-appropriate behaviour as festive season approaches||As the festival season approaches, the government on Thursday cautioned against a spike in coronavirus infections, and stressed that the call of the hour is vaccine acceptance, maintenance of COVID-19-appropriate behaviour, responsible travel and responsible festivities. "Overall there is stabilisation in COVID-19 cases and Kerala has also reported drop in cases.... In the coming two-three months, we need to be cautious that there is no upsurge.... It is also the period of festivities and also when flu cases rise...we request everyone to be careful and retain the gain that we have achieved (in the pandemic management)," an official said at a press briefing. Referring to the coming festivals, ICMR DG Balram Bhargava said, "...sudden increase in population density creates a very conducive environment for viral spread. If there is sudden increase in population density then the virus finds it very useful to spread, so the call of the hour is vaccine acceptance, maintenance of Covid-appropriate behaviour, responsible travel and responsible festivities." The government said 20 per cent of India's adult population have received both doses of COVID-19 vaccine and 62 per cent have got at least one dose. Thirty-four districts in the country are reporting a weekly positivity rate of over 10 per cent and the figure is anything between five and 10 per cent in 32 districts. It said Kerala reported 67.79 per cent of India's total COVID-19 cases last week and that it is the only state with more than 1 lakh active cases. "Overall there is stabilisation and Kerala has also reported drop in cases. Mizoram is a state of concern but we hope condition will improve there by fast vaccination and pandemic response is effective," Niti Aayog member (health) V K Paul said. "In the coming two-three months, we need to be cautious that there is no upsurge and it can be reduced when detected. When people estimate when vulnerability will rise then they indicate October and November as the months and it is also the period of festivities and also when flu cases rise so in coming quarter we request everyone to be careful and retain the gain that we have achieved," he added. With 30,570 more people testing positive for COVID-19, India's overall infection tally has risen to 3,33,47,325, while the count of active cases has dipped to 3,42,923, according to the Union Health Ministry on Thursday. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,43,928 with 431 daily fatalities being recorded, according to data updated by the ministry at 8 am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
16-09-2021||India||India to experience extended monsoon this year, says IMD||The country will witness an extended monsoon spell this year as rainfall activity over north India shows no sign of decline till the end of September. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), southwest monsoon withdrawal from northwest India takes place if there is cessation of rainfall activity over the area for continuous five days. An anticyclonic wind has to form over the lower troposphere, and there should also be considerable reduction in moisture content. "There are no signs of monsoon withdrawal from north India for the next 10 days," IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said. Last year, the IMD had revised the date for the withdrawal of monsoon from northwest India by nearly a fortnight. This was done keeping in mind the trend of a delayed retreat of monsoon observed over the last few years. The southwest monsoon starts withdrawing from west Rajasthan first. According to the revised date, it starts withdrawing from Jaisalmer from September 17. The southwest monsoon saw delayed withdrawals in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. A delayed withdrawal of monsoon also means a delayed onset of winter. Officially, the southwest monsoon season starts on June 1 and lasts till September 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
16-09-2021||India||Uttarakhand HC allows Chardham Yatra to resume||The Uttarakhand High Court on Thursday vacated its stay on the Chardham Yatra and directed the state government to conduct the pilgrimage with strict adherence to COVID-19 norms. Lifting the ban on the yatra, a division bench of the court comprising Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma said the pilgrimage will start with restrictions like a daily limit on the number of devotees visiting the temples. Carrying a negative Covid test report and a vaccination certificate will also be mandatory for the visitors, the court said. Putting a daily cap on the number of devotees visiting the famous Himalayan temples also known as the chardham, the high court said 800 pilgrims will be allowed in Kedarnath Dham, 1200 in Badrinath Dham, 600 in Gangotri and 400 in Yamunotri every day. Pilgrims will not be allowed to take a bath in any of the springs around the temples, it said. Police force will be deployed as per requirements during the Char Dham Yatra in Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi districts. The court order comes as a big relief to the state government which was under pressure from various quarters to start the pilgrimage with which the livelihoods of lakhs of people including travel agents and pilgrimage priests are linked. With the Covid situation being uncertain, the court had on June 28 put a stay on the state Cabinet's decision to start the Chardham Yatra in a limited way for the residents of Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi districts where the temples are located. It had plans to open up the yatra in a phased manner for pilgrims from outside the state depending on the Covid situation. The state government then approached the Supreme Court to vacate the high court's stay on the yatra. As the matter was pending in the apex court, the high court was not in a position to hear the state government's plea seeking lifting of the ban. However, it recently withdrew its SLP in the Supreme Court paving the way for the high court to hear its plea. Advocate General SN Babulkar and Chief Standing Advocate CS Rawat, appearing for the government, demanded that the ban be removed to restore the livelihood of the local people. The advocate general said there is an earning period of the Chardham Yatra and if the season passes, many families will suffer huge losses. The advocate general further pleaded that the initial worry of the Court while imposing the ban has been addressed and there has been a significant improvement in health services. The government also assured the Court that there will be strict adherence to the COVID-19 SOP for the Yatra. In June, the high court had stayed the Chardham Yatra till further orders, while hearing public interest litigations (PIL) related to the increase in Covid cases, lack of health facilities and other factors. Against this order, the state government had filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court, which could not be heard. Advocate General SN Babulkar and CSC Chandrashekhar Rawat had recently requested a bench headed by Chief Justice RS Chauhan to lift the ban on travel, but the court refused to consider it, citing the SLP pending before the Supreme Court. The government withdrew the SLP from the Supreme Court and apprised the high court, after which the high court heard the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
16-09-2021||India||Man accused of raping minor allegedly dies by suicide in Telangana||A man wanted in the case of rape and murder of a six-year-old girl here allegedly committed suicide with his body being found on a railway track in Jangaon district on Thursday morning, police said. The incident happened two days after Telangana Labour Minister Ch Malla Reddy had said that the accused in the case would be caught and that there should be an "encounter" against him. "It (the incident) is terrible. There should be an incident against him (accused). He will definitely be caught. (We) will do encounter. There is no question of leaving him, Malla Reddy had told reporters on Tuesday. The girl was allegedly raped and murdered in a neighbouring house at Saidabad here on the evening of September 9. Based on preliminary investigation, the accused P Raju, aged around 30, was found walking on the track by gangmen, who asked him to move aside from the track, but he did not and was hit by a passenger train at around 8.45 AM, a senior police official said. "This looks to be a clear case of suicide as of now," Warangal Police Commissioner Tarun Joshi said. Police after being informed, reached the spot and after verification established the identity of the deceased, based on the tattoos on his hands and some other marks to be that of the accused wanted in the case of rape and murder of the minor girl, the Commissioner said. The family members have also identified the body, he said. The body would be shifted to MGM government hospital in Warangal and after inquest and post-mortem, the body would be handed over to the family members, the senior official said. Further investigation would continue, he added. Earlier, Telangana Director General of Police (DGP) M Mahendar Reddy tweeted: "The accused of "Child Sexual Molestation and murder @ Singareni Colony, found dead on the railway track, in the limits of #StationGhanpurPoliceStation. Declared after the verification of identification marks on deceased body." Telangana IT Minister KT Rama Rao also tweeted: "Just been informed by @TelanganaDGP Garu that the beast who raped the child has been traced & found dead on a railway track at station Ghanpur." The incident last week triggered protests by residents of the locality who had raised slogans and demanded justice and quick arrest of the culprit. Police had intensified search operations after forming several teams to nab the accused even as Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar on Tuesday declared a reward of Rs 10 lakh to any person who gave information/ clue leading to arrest of the absconding accused. Police earlier said the accused was used to taking alcohol and sleeping at pavements and bus stands. On Thursday, Telangana Ministers Mohammed Mahmood Ali and Satyavathi Rathod met the parents of the six-year old girl and offered them a cheque for Rs 20 lakh as ex-gratia. The ministers also assured support and help from the state government and stringent action against the culprit as per law and justice rendered as expeditiously possible, an official release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
16-09-2021||India||ECL coal pilferage case: CBI conduct searches in three location of Delhi, Bengal||The CBI on Thursday conducted searches at three locations in Delhi and West Bengal in connection with alleged pilferage of coal from Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL) mines in Asansol, officials said. During the operation, the residence of a former ECL director in the national capital's Dwarka area, the residence of the then general manager of the public sector unit in West Bengal's Asansol and the residence of a Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) inspector posted at the NTPC in Farakka in West Bengal were searched, they said. The multi-crore coal pilferage scam is related to the Eastern Coalfields Ltd's mines in Bengal's Kunustoria and Kajora areas. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had registered an FIR in November last year against the alleged kingpin of the pilferage racket, Anup Manjhi alias Lala, ECL general managers Amit Kumar Dhar and Jayesh Chandra Rai, ECL security chief Tanmay Das, Kunustoria area security inspector Dhananjay Rai and Kajor area security in-charge Debashish Mukherjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
16-09-2021||India||New ministers sworn into Gujarat cabinet, no one from Vijay Rupani ministry in list||The BJP Thursday inducted 24 members, including 21 who debuted as ministers, into the four-day-old Bhupendra Patel-led ministry, discarding all ministers in the previous Vijay Rupani-led regime in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home state, a year ahead of the Assembly polls. Political observers say the BJP expects to make a significant impact ahead of the 2022 state polls with this new-look ministry. The party expects to face the voters with a clean slate, they added. With the fresh inductions, which include two women, the strength of the ministry led by Patel, a first-term MLA and minister, has gone up to 25. Modi congratulated the new ministers. Congratulations to all Party colleagues who have taken oath as Ministers in the Gujarat Government. These are outstanding Karyakartas who have devoted their lives to public service and spreading our Party's development agenda. Best wishes for a fruitful tenure ahead, Modi tweeted. Governor Acharya Devvrat administered the oath to 10 cabinet ministers and 14 ministers of state, including five ministers of state with independent charge. Those sworn in at the 1.30 pm Raj Bhavan ceremony include former Assembly Speaker Rajendra Trivedi and former state BJP president Jitu Vaghani. The ministry formation exercise shows that the party has tried to balance caste and regional representation. After picking Patel, a Patidar community leader as the CM, the BJP has given berth to six Patidars and OBCs each, four from scheduled tribes, three from scheduled castes, two each from among Brahmins and Kshatriyas and one member from the Jain community. Like the CM, who is considered close to Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel, the new cabinet minister Rishikesh Patel and minister of state with independent charge Jagdish Panchal, are also considered close to the former Gujarat CM. Cabinet ministers Rajendra Trivedi and Kiritsinh Rana are old-timers and considered close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while minister of state Harsh Sanghvi is known to be close to state BJP president C R Paatil. Soon after the ceremony, a party source said there is widespread dissatisfaction over the dropping of senior ministers, who held key posts in the Rupani ministry. When reporters asked former deputy chief minister Nitin Patel about reports of rumblings in the BJP, he sounded philosophical. "People come and go from the posts. Their supporters feel left out. But now it is not my responsibility. The party leadership has to look after it, Patel said. "I want to congratulate the ministers, they will lead the party in the next election," he added. Bhupendra Patel (59), who was sworn in as the 17th chief minister of the state on Monday, was present at the Raj Bhavan ceremony, along with Rupani, whose sudden resignation from the post on Saturday led to the formation of the new ministry. Rajendra Trivedi, Jitu Vaghani, Rushikesh Patel, Purnesh Modi, Raghavji Patel, Kanubhai Desai, Kiritsinh Rana, Naresh Patel, Pradip Parmar and Arjunsinh Chauhan were sworn in as cabinet ministers. Trivedi, Rana and Raghavji Patel have been ministers earlier. Harsh Sanghvi, Jagdish Panchal, Brijesh Merja, Jitu Choudhary and Manisha Vakil took the oath as ministers of state with independent charge. The nine other ministers of state are Mukesh Patel, Nimisha Suthar, Arvind Raiyani, Kuber Dindor, Kirtisinh Vaghela, Gajendrasinh Parmar, R C Makwana, Vinod Moradia and Deva Malam. Ahead of the swearing-in, there were speculations that senior ministers in the Rupani ministry, like Nitin Patel, Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, Kaushik Patel, Pradeepsinh Jadeja, and R C Faldu may not be included. The BJP took the no-repeat formula a step further by not inducting any member of the Rupani ministry. Bhupendra Patel's elevation - he is the first from the Patidar sub-group to be a chief minister - is key to BJP's plans to woo the Kadva Patidar community, which some political observers feel, has drifted away from the party. Making him the CM is being seen as an attempt by the BJP to woo the Patidars ahead of the 2022 polls and retain the grip on Gujarat, which is under its rule for over two decades. Before Bhupendra Patel, Gujarat saw Anandiben Patel, Keshubhai Patel, Babubhai Patel and Chimanbhai Patel as chief ministers from the Patidar or Patel community.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
16-09-2021||India||Money laundering: ED raids premises linked to activist Harsh Mander in Delhi||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday conducted searches at the premises of human rights activist and retired IAS officer Harsh Mander here in connection with a money laundering investigation, official sources said. They said his residence and NGO offices located in south Delhi's Vasant Kunj, Adchini and Mehrauli areas are being searched under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The teams are looking at financial and banking documents of the two non-governmental organisations (NGOs) linked to him, they said. The 66-year-old Mander, who has authoured a number of books and writes newspaper editorials on subjects related to social justice and human rights, left for Germany along with his wife in the early hours of Thursday. He is stated to be on a fellowship in that country. The ED case is based on a Delhi Police economic offences wing (EOW) FIR filed in February against the Centre for Equity Studies (CSE) that runs two child NGOs. Mander is its director. The police complaint was filed under Sections 75 and 83(2) of the Juvenile Justice Act along with Indian Penal Code Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) on the complaint of the registrar of National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) against alleged violations in Umeed Aman Ghar and Khushi Rainbow Home in south Delhi, both established by the CSE. The police had then said that the case was registered on the basis of an inspection of these homes by NCPCR teams in October last year. The NCPCR, an apex child rights body, had alleged in the past that during the inspection of two NGOs many violations of the Juvenile Justice Act and various other irregularities including the prevalence of child sexual abuse in one of the homes were observed. Mander had then called the allegation "unjustified". "I think it is completely unjustified. We created a very strong system, like we had elder women (caretakers) sleeping with smaller children and we have counselling. It is just an allegation and a rumour," he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
16-09-2021||India||Modi inaugurates two new defence office complexes in Delhi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday hit out at critics of the ambitious Central Vista project and asserted that ease of living and ease of doing business was behind the spirit of the work being done under the initiative. Modi made the remarks after inaugurating two new multi-storey office complexes at Kasturba Gandhi Marg and Africa Avenue for over 7,000 employees of the Defence Ministry and the armed forces. "Today, in the 75th year of Independence, we are taking another step towards developing the capital of our country according to the needs and aspirations of the new India," Modi said. "These new defence office complexes are going to further strengthen our efforts to make the working of our forces more convenient and effective," Modi said. The prime ministers said the modern offices will go a long way in effectively carrying out all the work related to the security of the nation by the three forces. "This is a big step towards the creation of a modern defence enclave in the capital," he said. The officers and other staffers of the Defence Ministry and the armed forces are moving into the new office complexes from their existing workplaces in pre-Independence era hutments in and around the Raisina Hills. In his address, Modi criticised those who were opposed to the Central Vista project saying they never bothered to find out how the armed forces personnel were working in those hutments. "When we talk about the capital, it is not just a city. The capital of any country is a symbol of the thinking, determination, strength and culture of that country," Modi said. "India is the mother of democracy. Therefore, the capital of India should be such that its central focus should be people," he said. The two buildings, constructed by the Housing and Urban Affairs with resources allocated by the Defence Ministry, have an office space of 9.60 lakhs sq feet. "Today, when we are focusing on ease of living and ease of doing business, modern infrastructure plays an equally important role in this. This is the spirit at the core of the work being done today related to Central Vista," the prime minister said. Modi also said that he was confident that work on the new Parliament building will be completed on time. Fourteen offices are being relocated to the KG Marg complex having a built-up area of 4.52 lakh sq feet while 13 offices are being relocated to the Africa Avenue building that has a total built-up area of 5.08 lakh sq feet, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
16-09-2021||India||Delhi reported maximum rape cases, murders among metros in 2020, says NCRB data||Delhi accounted for nearly 40 per cent of all rape cases and almost 25 per cent murder cases among 19 metropolitan cities in India in 2020, according to the latest government data. Altogether, 1,849 murder cases and 2,533 rape cases were reported across the country in 2020, a year that witnessed COVID-19 outbreak and lockdowns, the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data showed. The NCRB, which functions under the Union home ministry, classified 19 cities with over 20 lakh population as metropolitans -- Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Coimbatore, Delhi, Ghaziabad, Hyderabad, Indore, Jaipur, Kanpur, Kochi, Kolkata, Kozhikode, Lucknow, Mumbai, Nagpur, Patna, Pune and Surat. Delhi logged the maximum 461 (24 per cent of 1,849) murder cases in 2020 followed by Bengaluru (179), Chennai (15), Mumbai (148) and Surat (116), while Kolkata reported 53, according to the data. A total of 1,849 cases of murder were registered during 2020, showing a decrease of 8.3 per cent over 2019 (2,017 cases). The crime rate registered also show a decrease of 1.8 in 2019 to 1.6 in 2020, the NCRB stated. Another 192 cases of 'culpable homicide not amounting to murder' were registered across the metropolitans with Delhi alone accounting for 57 of these cases followed by Lucknow (28) and Bengaluru (10), it showed. During 2020, India reported a total of 2,533 cases of rape across the metropolitan cities, with Delhi accounting for the maximum 967 (38 per cent) cases followed by 409 in Jaipur (16 per cent), 322 in Mumbai (12 per cent), the NCRB data showed. Bengaluru reported 108 rape cases, Chennai 31 and Kolkata 11 during the year. Of the total rape victims in the 2,533 cases, 2,448 were above the age of 18 years while the remaining were minors, according to the NCRB, which is responsible for collecting and analysing crime data as defined by the Indian Penal Code and special and local laws in the country. A total of 35,331 cases of crime against women were registered during 2020, showing a decrease of 21.1 per cent over 2019 (44,783 cases), it stated in the annual crime report. The majority of crimes against women were registered under 'cruelty by husband or his relatives' (30.2 per cent) followed by 'assault on women with intent to outrage her modesty (19.7 per cent), 'kidnapping and abduction of women (19 per cent) and 'rape' (7.2 per cent), it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
16-09-2021||India||Gujarat: Bhupendra Patel govt's new ministers to take oath today||New ministers of the Bhupendra Patel-led government in Gujarat will take oath on Thursday at Raj Bhavan in Gandhinagar amid speculation that the BJP may induct new faces into the state cabinet, with just over a year left for the state Assembly polls. There has been suspense over ministerial faces, whose names have not been declared so far, in the backdrop of the BJP's "no-repeat" formula. Earlier, the ruling BJP announced that the swearing-in ceremony would be held on Wednesday afternoon and preparations for the same had started at the governor's house in the state capital. However, the plan was later dropped all of a sudden and banners of the swearing-in ceremony were also taken down. Neither the BJP nor the state government gave any reason for the postponement. On Wednesday evening, the Chief Minister's Office announced that the swearing-in ceremony of new ministers will be held at 1.30 pm at the Raj Bhavan in the state capital Gandhinagar on Thursday. Patel (59), a first-time MLA from Ahmedabad, took over as the new Gujarat chief minister on Monday after the sudden resignation of Vijay Rupani last Saturday. According to sources, the BJP leadership has decided to try new faces this time and drop almost all the past ministers, even some senior ones, who were part of the previous Rupani government. However, there was no official word from the BJP about it. Many believe that the "no-repeat" formula has been proposed keeping in mind the 2022 Assembly polls as the BJP, which has been in power in Gujarat for more than two decades, wants to go to voters with a clean slate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
16-09-2021||India||India logs over 30,000 Covid cases, 431 casualties in a day||With 30,570 more people testing positive for COVID-19, India's overall infection tally has risen to 3,33,47,325, while the count of active cases has dipped to 3,42,923, according to the Union Health Ministry on Thursday. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,43,928 with 431 daily fatalities being recorded, according to data updated by the ministry at 8 am. The number of active cases has dropped to 3,42,923, which comprises 1.03 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.64 per cent, the ministry said. A reduction of 8,164 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, the data showed. Also, 15,79,761 COVID-19 tests were conducted in the country on Wednesday, taking the total number of such examinations so far to 54,77,01,729, it stated. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.94 per cent. This has been below three per cent for 17 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.93 per cent. This figure has been below three per cent for 83 days now, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,25,60,474, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 76.57 crore, according to the ministry. India's COVID-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 431 new fatalities include 208 from Kerala, 70 from Goa and 56 from Maharashtra. "In the last 24 hours, two deaths have occurred in Goa. But 68 additional deaths from August 2020 to June 2021 are added to cumulative deaths and have been reported late from South Goa District Hospital (Margao)," the ministry said. A total of 4,43,928 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,38,277 from Maharashtra, 37,537 from Karnataka, 35,246 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,987 from Kerala, 22,885 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,613 from West Bengal, the data showed. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
16-09-2021||India||Covid: India's estimated human and economic toll higher than reported||India’s Covid-19 deaths may be four to 11 times higher than officially reported and may spawn economic losses equivalent to 30 per cent of the country’s gross domestic product, researchers said on Wednesday after pooling estimates from multiple studies. The researchers at the University of Michigan and the Delhi School of Economics have surveyed existing studies that suggest that India had lost 1.7 million to 4.9 million people to Covid-19 till July 1, 2021, when the Centre’s count was a little over 400,000. Their calculations are the latest among a series of independent efforts to estimate excess deaths from Covid-19 across the country using an array of research methodologies amid concerns in health circles that authorities might have vastly undercounted infections and deaths. “The quality of infection and death reporting remains of great concern for India and masks the true fatality rate,” said Bhramar Mukherjee, professor of biostatistics at the University of Michigan School of Public Health who led the study. Mukherjee and her colleagues pooled the results of multiple earlier studies to estimate infection fatality rates — the proportion of deaths among the total counts of infections — and Covid-19 deaths. The calculations from the pooled results have shown cumulative excess deaths in India to be 1.7 million to 4.9 million, with variations across states. They also used an epidemiological model to generate their own model-based estimate that yielded 1.4 million deaths by July 1. “If you believe the official reported death numbers, the infection fatality rate is 0.1 per cent, but the pooled results of multiple studies on excess deaths point to a range of 0.4 to 0.5 per cent,” she told The Telegraph via email. Over the past eight weeks, two other research groups — one based in Canada, the other in the US — have also published reports with Covid-19 death estimates for India ranging from 2.7 million to 4.9 million, implying large undercounting. The health ministry has rejected such estimates, asserting that India has a “robust” civil registration system for recording deaths and that the ministry has asked states to conduct audits and appropriately report Covid-19 tolls. The ministry has also described reports of undercounted deaths as “totally fallacious” or based on “audacious assumptions”. The researchers borrowed a concept known as the value of a statistical life (VLS) — independently proposed three years ago by Indian economists S. Madheswaran and Agamoni Majumder — to estimate the economic loss to the country from Covid-19 deaths. The VLS is a technical economic concept that calculates the value of life based on the risk of fatal accidents at the workplace and wages associated with various jobs. The estimates peg the notional economic cost of Covid-19 deaths at 9 per cent of the GDP — the sum of all goods and services produced and delivered in India — if the officially recorded deaths are taken into account. The notional cost rises to about 30 per cent of the GDP if the Covid-19 death count is 1.4 million. “The 7.7 per cent official decline in India’s GDP for 2020-21 is thus a gross underestimate once the value of lives lost is taken into account,” the researchers have said. The Centre’s financial rescue package was about 1 per cent of the GDP, which, they said, is a small fraction of the true losses. An Indian economist not associated with the study said that while the overall economic loss to the nation was huge, the impact on households merits more research. “For households that have lost their bread-winners, the impact would be unbearable,” said William Joe, assistant professor at the population research centre at the Institute of Economic Growth, New Delhi. “It is important to explore mechanisms to support such households in distress.” Their study is yet to be peer-reviewed, but the Michigan-Delhi researchers have posted it on medRxiv, an online archive for research papers. Sections of health experts have since April this year argued that crowding at funeral sites in multiple cities and bodies dumped in rivers likely reflected large counts of deaths difficult to manage through available crematorium and funeral infrastructure. The experts believe many Covid-19 deaths have likely remained unrecorded because of lack of access to timely diagnosis, lack of medical certification or inadvertent misclassification of the cause of death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
16-09-2021||India||Jesuit warns bishops against 'trap of Sangh Parivar'||A Jesuit priest has warned bishops against falling into “the meticulously planned trap of the Sangh Parivar” by lending credibility to the Right-wing narrative about “love jihad” and adding to it by making claims about a “narcotics jihad”. Jesuit priest-activist Cedric Prakash has penned the open letter at a time when a Kerala bishop has kicked up a controversy by making the communally loaded allegation that “narcotics jihad” was leading youths of the state to drugs. Fr Prakash’s letter focuses more on the older claims about love jihad — a Right-wing concoction denoting an alleged conspiracy to indoctrinate non-Muslim women through marriage. The priest has argued that such narratives are a “highly manipulative way” of pushing more urgent national issues to the back-burner. Stating that there are constitutional guarantees for every adult citizen to choose a religion and for that matter even to marry a person of his or her choice, Fr Prakash has pointed out that there are sufficient provisions in the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) to address forced marriages and kidnapping. “Unfortunately the utterances of some clearly demonstrate how easily one can fall into a meticulously planned trap of the Sangh Parivar that clearly NEGATES the right to preach, practice and propagate one’s religion/faith. It also reinforces the attitude of the Church towards women — particularly when we have begun talking about SYNODALITY!” Fr Prakash’s letter states. Synodality is a process of consultations — a devolution of decision-making — between clerics and the laity that is being advocated by Pope Francis as opposed to the existing top-down approach. Fr Prakash has attached to the letter an article on the “bogey of love jihad” and drawn similarities between Kerala bishop Joseph Kallarangatt accusing Muslims of making Catholic girls victims of “love and narcotic jihad” and former Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani saying his government would deal strictly with those who trap Hindu girls and elope with them. “Both the Bishop and the BJP CM are wrong on several counts — and in fact, their words are patently unconstitutional. Their words are reflective of a patriarchal mindset — which regards an adult Catholic/Hindu woman as a ‘moron’ who is unable to think and decide for herself: be it in marrying the person of one’s choice or for that matter embracing the religion of one’s choice,” Fr Prakash said. “Secondly, both the Bishop and the CM have absolutely nothing substantive to prove their point: the Bishop is certainly unable to say how many Kerala Catholic girls have married Hindus or people from other faiths; or for that matter just left the Catholic Church. It is exactly the same for the CM. “The Bishop needs to have the honesty to address the scandals: financial and sexual within the Church; the CM needs to address the dismal state of affairs on every possible front in Gujarat! Both Bishop and CM should also take a visible and vocal stand in championing the rights (particularly, dignity and equality) of women in the Church and Country,” Fr Prakash added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
16-09-2021||India||Rahul strikes at BJP, says party uses religion to grab power||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday asked why Nathuram Godse killed Mahatma Gandhi, the greatest practitioner of Hindu religion, if the RSS was the protector of Hinduism, contending that the Sangh parivar used religion merely to grab power. Addressing the foundation day event of the Mahila Congress, Rahul said: “The BJP says it is a Hindu party. One person who understood Hinduism and practised it was Mahatma Gandhi. Even the RSS accepts it. Why did then Godse pump bullets into Gandhi’s chest? The entire world looks up to Gandhi as an idol. Gandhi espoused politics of non-violence. Non-violence is the foundation of the Hindu religion. Then why did Godse kill Gandhi?” Though the BJP often says Godse had left the RSS when he assassinated Gandhi, the essence of Rahul’s argument was that he was a product of the same ideology. To make his point, he said there couldn’t be any meeting ground between the ideologies of Gandhi and “Godse Savarkar”. While the RSS-BJP disowns Godse, it is well established that he was a disciple of V.D. Savarkar whom the Sangh parivar still treats as their icon. Savarkar was one of the accused in the Gandhi assassination case but was acquitted because of lack of evidence. Rahul, who is fighting a legal battle for linking Gandhi’s assassination to the RSS, has been constantly insisting that the ideology and the philosophy that created Godse belonged to the Sangh parivar. There are a good few BJP MPs who hail Godse as a “patriot” and a “true nationalist” and even campaign to wipe out the infamy attached to him. Twitter hashtag “Godse zindabad” has trended in recent years, only after Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power, on Gandhi’s birth and death anniversary. Rahul broached this topic on Wednesday to counter the RSS-BJP’s perceived monopoly over Hindu religion, insinuating that the ideology that eliminated the staunchest Hindu cannot be the true representative of its interest. He has clearly taken upon himself the onerous task of disengaging Hindus from the RSS and demolishing the widely held perception that the BJP is a Hindu party. Rahul again relied on the Durga-Lakshmi metaphor that he used at his recent Jammu rally ostensibly with the twin objectives of contesting the BJP’s Hindu credentials and the propaganda of the Congress being anti-Hindu. He said: “Durga is the symbol of power that protects. Lakshmi is not the goddess of wealth as is widely understood. Lakshmi comes from the word Lakshya (goal). The power that helps you achieve your goal comes from Lakshmi. When Modi did note-bandi, did he reduce the power of Lakshmi or enhanced it? When he brought farm laws, did he reduce the power of Lakshmi in farmers’ households or increased it? When we gave the Constitution, RTI, MGNREGA… we increased the power of Durga and Lakshmi in the hands of the people.” He then mounted a lethal attack on the RSS-BJP: “Ho kya raha hai? Woh apne-aap ko Hindu party kahte hain aur pure desh mein Lakshmi aur Durga par aakraman karte hain. Jahan bhi jaate hain, kahin Lakshmi ko maarte hain, kahin Durga ko maarte hain. Aur kahte hain hum Hindu hain. Ye kis prakar ke Hindu hain? Ye jhoothe Hindu hain. Ye Hindu dharm ka prayog karte hain. Ye dharm ki dalali karte hain magar ye Hindu nahin hain (What is happening? They call themselves a Hindu party and attack Lakshmi and Durga everywhere in the country. Wherever they go, they attack Lakshmi or Durga. And they say they are Hindu. What kind of Hindus are they? They are fake Hindus. They use the Hindu religion. They trade in the religion but they are not Hindus.)” Rahul said Modi had snatched Durga and Lakshmi from the common people and put them in the hands of a few capitalist friends. “Modi’s friends have lakhs of crores, the common people have nothing. Made-in-India is a lie but you can’t talk about it. They are scared of the truth. Modi’s life is a lie. He ran away from truth all his life. You see the Congress symbol — the hand. You will see it in every religion. You see Lord Shiva, Mahavir, Buddha, Guru Nanak and you will see the hand. When Muslims pray, you see the hand. We aren’t scared. We will die but won’t surrender. But the RSS-BJP philosophy is ‘daro, aur darao’. They are frightened themselves. Hate is a form of fear.” BJP national general secretary Arun Singh sought to rebut the Congress leader, saying:   “Rahul Gandhi should not make these statements. He is totally disconnected from the ground. He has no information. That is the main problem.” Rahul’s is doubtless a new discourse, driven by a conscious plan of action to contest the RSS-BJP’s dominance in the Hindu space. This is different from the regular secular-communal discourse that many in the party believes facilitates the BJP’s position as a Hindu party. Rahul has now run the risk of triggering a debate that may attract charges of competitive religiosity but the Congress says the attempt is to argue that secularism is not anti-religion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
16-09-2021||India||BHU: Centre's new ad for VC post prefixes 'preferably' to age limit||The Centre has issued a fresh advertisement inviting applications for the post of Banaras Hindu University vice-chancellor, relaxing the age criterion nine months after it began the selection process. The earlier ad, published on December 9, 2020, had stipulated the age criterion as “not more than 67 years of age as on the closing date of receipt of applications of this advertisement”. The new ad put out by the Union education ministry prefixes the word “preferably” to the upper age limit for the applicants for the BHU VC’s post. It says the candidates should “preferably not (be) more than 67 years of age as on 08.01.2021”. The closing date, which is the same for both ads, is January 8, 2021. The new ad floated on Tuesday says the motive is to ensure “a wider choice for selection”. A retired BHU employee, however, expressed the fear that efforts were afoot to appoint a “favourable candidate”. Vishwanath Pandey, former officer on special duty at BHU, told The Telegraph: “It seems they want to accommodate a favourable candidate through this revised advertisement.” BHU does not have a regular VC since March this year when Rakesh Bhatnagar completed his tenure. The process of appointing a regular VC had been started in advance in December last year. A search-cum-selection committee headed by retired bureaucrat Hasmukh Adhia had been set up to screen the applications, conduct a round of interviews and recommend a panel of names. The committee had invited the shortlisted candidates for interviews that were to be held on the BHU campus on March 12. However, the candidates were informed that the interviews had been postponed. No reason was cited. The interviews are yet to be rescheduled. The BHU Act provides for a three-year tenure for VCs and the person can remain in the post till the age of 70. An age cut-off of 67, now eased by adding the “preferably” clause, would mean the new VC would have a maximum tenure of three years. Pandey said there was at least one instance where a BHU VC had been appointed for a shorter tenure. In 1993, D.N. Mishra was appointed VC at the age of 64 when the retirement age was 65 years. The revised ad issued on Tuesday says those who had applied earlier will not have to apply again. However, withdrawal of candidature will be allowed. The fresh applications will have to be submitted to the education ministry by September 24. “Advertisement for appointment of VC, BHU, was initially published on 9.12.2020 in the leading newspapers. However, in order to have a wider choice for selection, the applications, in prescribed proforma available on https://www.education.gov.in/en and www.bhu.ac.in, are invited from eligible persons,” the new ad says. BHU now has an in-charge VC in Vijay Kumar Shukla. Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi University, Sagar University, Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University, Central Sanskrit University and Rajasthan University also do not have regular VCs. IIT Bhubaneswar has been without a regular director for 17 months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
16-09-2021||India||SC castigates Centre on their 'right to reject names for tribunals'||The Supreme Court on Wednesday castigated the Centre after attorney-general K.K. Venugopal asserted that the government had the right to reject names recommended for various tribunals. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana reminded the Centre that India is a “democratic country following the rule of law” and the executive cannot “cherry-pick” names. Tribunals are adjudicatory quasi-judicial bodies set up with retired judges to decongest the regular courts and deal with specialised issues. The selection committees for tribunals have sitting judges of the Supreme Court as members along with other nominees. The special bench, also having Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and L. Nageswara Rao, granted two weeks to the Centre to clarify its position on filling up 250-odd vacancies in various quasi-judicial tribunals such as the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT), Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT), Telecom Disputes Settlement Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT) and the Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT) or face a judicial order. The court was dealing with petitions filed by the Madras Bar Association and Congress leader Jairam Ramesh challenging the constitutional validity of various provisions of the Tribunal Reforms Act, 2021. The petitioners have contended that the legislation is an attempt to scuttle the apex court’s earlier judgments upholding the independence of the tribunals. After the NDA government came to power in 2014, there has been constant friction between the judiciary and the executive over the appointment process of judges to the Supreme Court and the high courts. A thaw in the relationship had appeared to have set in between the executive and the judiciary after the Centre recently cleared the names of many judges recommended by the Supreme Court collegium. The top court is now deeply disturbed by the large number of vacancies in the tribunals as some of the recommendations had been made more than a year ago. “I have seen the selection list of the NCLT. The selection committee recommended nine judicial members and 10 technical members. The appointment indicates cherry-picking of three names from the select list and others from the waitlist, ignoring others in the select list. In service law, you can’t go to the waitlist ignoring the select list. What kind of appointment is this?” CJI Ramana asked Venugopal. Venugopal submitted that “…the government has the power not to accept the recommendations made…”. Justice Ramana replied: “We are in a democratic country following the rule of law. It is under the Constitution that we are working. You (the Centre) cannot say that.” Venugopal cited certain earlier judgments relating to the UPSC selection process where the apex court had stated that the government was not bound to select the recommended names. Venugopal maintained that the government had exhausted the main list of recommended candidates and, thereafter, gone to the waiting list. He said there were no recommendations pending from the selected list of main candidates for at least 15 tribunals. Justice Ramana said: “We are very much unhappy with the way the things are going on and how the decisions are taken. I am also one of the persons and part of the selection committee for the NCLT. We have interviewed 534 candidates for judicial posts and 400 others for technical posts. Out of that, we gave names of 10 judicial members in the list and 11 technical members…. But they (the government) have selected only four judicial members and then gone to the waitlist.” He added: “We travelled across the country. The corporate affairs secretary and the law secretary were there. Another (Supreme Court) judge, Justice Surya Kant, was there. This is a waste of time for us then. We spent a lot of time during Covid. Your government requested us to conduct interviews as early as possible. So we did…. There is no consistency. I am sorry I don’t know why you want to bring trouble in all these matters. It is very unfortunate. The government has to realise this.” Justice Rao pointed out that the selection committee had made recommendations for the TDSAT more than a year ago, but the appointments had not been finalised till date. Venugopal said the government wanted some of the names to be reconsidered. Senior advocate Arvind Datar, appearing for the Madras Bar Association, said there was also a “disturbing trend, which needs to end”. According to Datar, the government has notified new rules for appointment of members to various tribunals under which the tenure is now for four years or till they reach 67 years or “until further orders”. He took exception to the clause “until further orders”, saying it could be misused by the government to remove members of tribunals arbitrarily.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
16-09-2021||India||Wall of Grief: Internet memorial for Covid victims||Till now, burning pyres on sprawling grounds and riverbeds and overflowing crematoriums had borne testimony to the enormity of the tragedy. Now, those who died during the pandemic in India are being immortalised on an online “Wall of Grief”. “Our goal is not to criticise. We want people to come together, and demand answers. If we forget what happened, then the system won’t improve…. The second wave showed the inequality in society in terms of how the system worked for some and failed others,” said Mayank Aggarwal, who is leading a group of journalists that has created the Internet memorial. The news agency Reporters’ Collective started the Wall of Grief website after its members visited Gujarat to work on an article on the steep number of excess deaths during the pandemic, with the government’s official Covid toll not matching data from municipal records and the visuals of never-ending queues of the dead outside crematoriums and burial grounds. The Reporters’ Collective decided to use the massive amount of data collected during the Gujarat trip to build an online memorial. The website for now has figures only from certain areas of Gujarat and records over 68,000 deaths from March 2020 to April 2021. It also contains municipal death registers and news articles on the pandemic. The Wall of Grief is a work in progress, with its creators hoping to prepare a nationwide database of those who died during the pandemic. The memorial page has the names of the deceased, one after the other in the run-on format. If the cursor is placed on a name, other details such as the age, gender, location, occupation and date of death of the person pop up inside a box. The records are from 68 of Gujarat’s 170 municipalities that cover around 6 per cent of the state’s population, said Tapasya, an associate lead of the project who goes only by one name. The website says: “They will not be forgotten. They will not be erased from our collective memory. Together we build this wall of grief to commemorate the lives we lost during the pandemic in India.” The website also accepts contributions of memorials from the general public, seeking the above information in addition to a photograph of the deceased person, a copy of the death certificate and an obituary message. The certificates and the photographs are only used for verification and not uploaded. Volunteers are welcome to contribute data or help process the information collated. The names of the deceased have been taken from hand-written death registers maintained by municipalities that formed the basis of the Reporters’ Collective’s news report. The Collective found that deaths in Gujarat in April this year were five to 10 times higher than those in the same month in the past two years. The increase in the total number deaths during the pandemic over the previous year was 27 times the state’s official Covid death toll, indicating that many deaths caused by the coronavirus had not been recorded. The Wall of Grief features all those who died between March 2020 and April 2021, irrespective of the cause. Tapasya said that in the absence of a “clean way to segregate deaths”, counting the monthly deaths in excess of those during the corresponding time the preceding year was the “most effective way to calculate the pandemic deaths, which include deaths due to comorbidities and the saturation of the public health infrastructure”. “While doing the (news) story, we got so much data. The story could merely be condensed into a few numbers to show the immense loss. We thought it would be good to have something in the public domain as a fair way of paying homage,” Tapasya said. While Aggarwal and Tapasya are based in Delhi and are fully committed to the Wall of Grief, they have had help from colleagues at the collective, the National Foundation of India and 101 Reporters, besides groups such as nurses’ and teachers’ unions who are contributing data. Launched on August 25, the website now only has a fragment of Gujarat’s municipal data, but the founders are working on data from Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tripura and Odisha. Wallofgrief.org also has the death data sources in spreadsheets as well as news articles, research papers and a link to the Covid Tracker for Nurses in India. “For some districts, for example, we have data but one municipality’s data is missing,” said Tapasya, referring to the gaps in reporting deaths. Aggarwal said they were trying their best to upload more data in the weeks to come. “It actually takes a village to bring this out…. The system is not designed to reveal, but keep (figures) hidden,” he said. “Someone has to answer why deaths increased manifold in 2021. We were not able to find these answers in our news story, which led to this memorial…. People need a space to mourn and share grief.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
16-09-2021||India||Bengal worker’s plight at  ‘transit camp’ in Assam||Gangadhar Pramanik returned to his home in Bengal on Wednesday from a detention camp in Assam, carrying with him a harrowing sneak preview of the probable fate that awaits countless people when citizenship regimens are enforced blindly in a country with a poor documentation record. Gangadhar, 33, had left his remote village in Bankura in search of work around 10 years ago. He ended up spending over three years at a detention centre in Assam’s Goalpara after he was declared a foreigner. The detention centres are officially called transit camps. He allegedly could not produce documents supporting his citizenship after he was picked up by the border police who are expected to serve notice seeking such papers. Usually, if a person fails to furnish the documents, the case is sent to a superintendent of police who, if unsatisfied, can refer it to one of the several Foreigners Tribunals in Assam. If the tribunal decides the suspect is a foreigner, he or she will be kept in a detention centre. Attempts are expected to be made to deport such foreigners but India does not have a deportation treaty with Bangladesh, the neighbour usually targeted in India over illegal entry although recent trends suggest a sharp decline in such movements. Gangadhar’s case is not linked to the preparation of the National Register of Citizens (NRC) — a contentious exercise whose culmination in Assam was followed by the Citizenship Amendment Act that convulsed the country in the latter half of 2019. But his detention shows what might happen to those who cannot prove their citizenship and are kept out of the NRC and the treatment that awaits them at the detention centres. Those who do not figure in the final NRC in Assam will eventually have to move the same Foreigners Tribunals for an opinion on their citizenship status. The BJP, an  advocate of the NRC as well as its extension to the rest of India, found itself questioning the final figures in Assam as they did not match its assumptions. The break-up has not been disclosed but Hindus are said to account for a large number of people who could not furnish citizenship proof and, as a consequence, were kept out of the NRC in Assam. Gangadhar was released on bail from the detention centre following the intervention of Citizens for Justice and Peace (CJP), a platform of human rights defenders that in the past one year has helped release 50 detained people in Assam. The CJP has also assisted 12 lakh people to fill up forms for the NRC. A CJP team, headed by its Assam chapter in-charge Nanda Ghosh, accompanied Gangadhar to his Radhanagar home on Wednesday and reunited him with his mother Bharati who had been surviving the last three years with aid from neighbours. Gangadhar was detained on December 12, 2017, and sent to the Goalpara detention centre. He was accused of not responding to a notice in Assam and not showing any documents to prove his citizenship. Gangadhar said he did not receive any notice. “I went to Assam around 10 years ago in search of a job. I had planned to return home after making decent savings to help my needy family,” Gangadhar told The Telegraph from his Bankura home. “I used to work at a roadside eatery on the outskirts of Guwahati but my life changed after I was picked up in the winter of 2017 by the police and put in a jail-like place in Goalpara. I was unaware why they dumped me there but I remember I was labelled a foreigner,” Gangadhar added. Recollecting the three years at the detention centre, Gangadhar said he made several attempts to flee from the “hellhole”. When he could not, he had contemplated committing suicide, Gangadhar said. “The police kept round-the-clock vigil and eight of us were confined to a small room. It was difficult to escape and my attempts did not work. I was depressed,” said Gangadhar, who has pledged never to step out of Bengal again in search of work. Struggling for words, Gangadhar said a typical day at the detention centre began with a cup of black tea. At 11am, lunch of rice, dal and vegetables was served. The last meal of the day was at 5pm. Ghosh, who along with CJP advocate Abhijeet Choudhury brought Gangadhar to Radhanagar, said: “We found that all those who have spent a few years at the detention centre have been left mentally traumatised. They have become unusually quiet and find it difficult to recall events.” They arrived at Burdwan station by the Saraighat Express and travelled to Gangadhar’s village from Radhanagar by car. Hearing about the arrival of Gangadhar, a large number of villagers rushed to the near-dilapidated, tin-roofed house of the Pramaniks, Ghosh said. Between the time Gangadhar had left home and returned on Wednesday, his father Mantu Pramanik had passed away and his sister had got married in Bihar. “His father, a marginal farmer, died a few years ago thinking about his son as Gangadhar remained untraced. After his father’s death, his mother Bharati became helpless. We helped her survive with foodgrains and clothes for the past few years. We had no idea that Gangadhar was in a detention camp,” said Ashis Dey, a neighbour and social activist. It was a chance incident that led to Gangadhar’s release from the centre. The CJP team had come to know about him from two persons whose release they had helped secure in July. “We came to know about Gangadhar in July and immediately initiated steps to get him released. The two persons we helped get released had told us that Gangadhar was in a terrible mental condition. The release took time as it was difficult to get someone in Assam who would stand as a guarantor to secure his bail. Relevant documents of Gangadhar’s citizenship will have to be provided over time,” said Ghosh. According to the bail order in Assam, Gangadhar will have to visit Bishnupur police station in Bankura once a week. Ghosh and his advocate went to the police station and the village police camp to inform them of the bail conditions. “We have done all legal formalities and handed him over to his family. It is really a happy moment for us,” said Ghosh, adding that the case to prove Gangadhar’s citizenship would continue. For more on Citizen's For Justice & Peace log on to: https://cjp.org.in/||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
16-09-2021||India||Delhi teachers resist attendance app that tracks their location||As Covid-19 shuttered India’s schools and overwhelmed its hospitals, teachers in the national capital were roped in for emergency duties — from handing out food rations to staffing vaccination centres, often at great risk to themselves. But many baulked when told to download an attendance app on their mobile phones that could track their location — adding to hefty surveillance measures in Delhi schools that critics say infringe on the privacy of students and staff. Warned by city authorities that their wages would be withheld if they failed to comply, the teachers are fighting back. “We weren’t consulted on this app, we weren’t told about its features — we were just sent a link and ordered to download it on our mobile phones,” said Vibha Singh, a senior vice-president of the Nagar Nigam Shikshak Sangh (NNSS) teachers’ union. After numerous complaints, the union filed a suit in Delhi High Court last month, arguing that the app violated their privacy. The next hearing is due on September 27. “These are our personal phones, and the app tracks our location at all times. We don’t know what other information it can access, or who has access to the data — what if it gets hacked? Women teachers are especially at risk,” Singh said. Even before the app was launched, some of Delhi’s public schools had closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras with facial recognition technology, a measure digital rights advocates have condemned as an “overreach”. The national capital is among the world’s most surveilled cities, with more than 1,800 cameras per square mile — the highest concentration globally, according to estimates by technology website Comparitech. An official at the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), which is the defendant in the teachers’ union’s lawsuit, said the app merely logs the attendance of teachers and poses no privacy or safety risks. “It is a misunderstanding that the app can compromise their privacy. We have held several talks with the teachers to explain the app and to allay their fears,” said Muktamay Mandal, deputy director of education at the SDMC. “We are moving towards increased digitalisation in every sphere — we are downloading so many apps everyday. If they have nothing to hide, what is there to fear?” he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. The coronavirus pandemic has prompted governments and corporations to launch a wide array of technologies on the grounds of health and safety that can track people, with few privacy safeguards, digital rights experts say. Increasingly, workers are pushing back against what they see as a violation of their rights. Municipal employees in Chandigarh protested last year against GPS-enabled tracking smartwatches they were required to wear, with the data that was gathered linked to performance ratings and salaries. Earlier this year, thousands of government-accredited community healthcare workers — who are mostly women — protested against a mobile app they said tracked their location and recorded their performance. With the attendance app, the level of surveillance from tracking and accessing data cannot be justified as a means to log attendance, said Anushka Jain, an associate counsel at digital rights group Internet Freedom Foundation in Delhi. “There is no need to track them throughout the day; that is surveillance. It’s very problematic that these apps and technologies are being forced upon people without any data protection guidelines,” she said. “The growing pushback we are seeing is not only about the right to privacy, but also because misuse of these technologies is so rampant and people understand that the worst-case scenario is not just hypothetical, it is highly likely,” she said. A long-delayed Personal Data Protection Bill that aims to create a framework for what kind of data can be collected, and for how it is collected, processed and stored, will impose penalties for the misuse of any personal data. But the draft bill contains numerous exceptions, particularly for government agencies, Jain said. Reuters In Delhi, schoolteachers previously used a biometrics machine or logged on to a website to log their attendance, said Singh, a school principal, but these options have been replaced by the app. Several teachers who failed to download the app have had their wages withheld, said Singh, adding that the requirement was also problematic in households with only one smartphone that may be used by other members of the family during the day. “If we must use this app, then give us separate devices that we can use for attendance and other school work,” she said. “We can then leave the device in the school, and know it is not tracking us. We have no objection to that.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
16-09-2021||India||Covid: New research underlines need to vaccinate all ||Delhi experienced its second Covid-19 wave even though half of its people already had protective antibodies from the natural infection, new research has revealed, underlining the need to complete vaccination nationwide as quickly as possible. A study has found that Delhi’s 50.8 per cent seropositivity level — the proportion of population with anti-Covid-19 antibodies — was not sufficient to avert the capital’s second wave marked by over 737,000 infections and more than 11,000 deaths during April-May. Researchers say the findings also underline the lingering uncertainty about the so-called herd immunity threshold — the proportion of population that needs to be protected either through natural infections or vaccination to prevent any future surges. “This is a reminder that we need to fully vaccinate as many people as quickly as possible,” said Nandini Sharma, professor of community medicine at the Maulana Azad Medical College, New Delhi, and senior co-author of the study. Earlier district surveys had already hinted at Delhi’s high seropositivity levels. But the new findings, based on antibody measurements on around 100 people picked at random from each of the capital’s 274 wards, provide the sharpest snapshot yet of infection prevalence prior to the second wave. During another arm of the survey among 28,169 samples processed from volunteers, the researchers detected antibodies in 14,298 (50.8 per cent), with seropositivity levels ranging from about 50 per cent in North Delhi district to 62 per cent in Southwest Delhi. The herd immunity threshold depends on multiple factors, including transmissibility of the virus. Last year, researchers had calculated that population-level protection of about 65 per cent would be enough to douse the epidemic — after which only a small trickle of cases would persist. The strongest evidence that 65 per cent seropositivity would not be sufficient for herd immunity had so far emerged from Manaus, the largest city of Brazil’s Amazonas state, that experienced a resurgence of infections in January 2021 even with a 76 per cent seropositivity in October 2020. Scientists have attributed such patterns of resurgence across the world, including in the US and the UK, to the emergence and spread of new coronavirus variants — a variant called Gamma in Brazil, a strain called Delta in India — and to the waning of immunity among previously infected people. Sharma and her colleagues found that only 72 per cent of people who had earlier tested positive for Covid-19 had antibodies against the disease. But some experts say other arms of the immune system may continue to protect people even after antibody levels have fallen. “The best possible strategy appears to be to speed up the vaccination campaign and at the same time maintain all precautions we’ve been taking so far such as masks and avoiding crowds,” Sharma said. “And maintain high surveillance for any new variants.” India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign had until Wednesday administered around 760 million doses, but only about 186 million people (19 per cent) of the estimated adult population of 943 million have received the two doses needed for full vaccination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
16-09-2021||India||India-China: 25 spots along LAC picked for close vigil||Security agencies have identified nearly 25 sensitive spots from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh along the Line of Actual Control that are prone to border incursion and transgression by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army, sources in the defence ministry have said. “These 25 spots are very sensitive and require close monitoring. Senior officials of the army and ITBP (Indo-Tibetan Border Police) have been asked to make enough deployment at border posts and also to keep a close eye on the Chinese soldiers with surveillance cameras,” said a ministry official. Senior officials of the army and the ITBP, he said, have been conducting regular flag march and meeting their Chinese counterparts to reduce tension which is higher than usual amid the ongoing border standoff between the two countries. “Most of the 25 sensitive spots have witnessed border incursion by the Chinese army in the past,” the official said. Both sides often accuse each other of transgression and intrusion because of differences in perception of the LAC. The ITBP is the first line of defence along the China frontier and it guards the 3,488km-long LAC, most of which is disputed. The Indian Army remains behind it. The frontier passes along Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. Sources in the security establishment said the latest report from the ground suggested that the Chinese PLA have made frontline formations near most of these 25 sensitive spots and are also building infrastructure, including military camps. Sources said the home ministry has also asked the ITBP bosses to intensify patrolling in sensitive zones. At present, there are a total of 180 border outposts of the ITBP along the China frontier. Additional border posts are also being increased to maintain close vigil along the LAC. Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a face-off at multiple points in Ladakh since May last year. The border standoff in Hot Springs and Depsang Plains is continuing even though there has been “partial” disengagement from the Galwan Valley, Pangong Lake and Gogra, by creating a demilitarised “buffer zone” with the Chinese stepping back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines. The Chinese army is said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines on the strategically crucial Depsang Plains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
16-09-2021||India||Former office-bearers of IUML women’s wing allege 'verbal rape'||Former office-bearers of the women’s campus wing of Indian Union Muslim League on Wednesday levelled serious charges against their male counterparts for unleashing a character assassination campaign tantamount to “verbal rape”. In their first reaction after the controversy erupted in June, the recently ousted office-bearers of Haritha, the women’s wing of IUML student arm Muslim Students’ Federation, slammed the party leadership for turning a blind eye to their grievances and even a written complaint shared with several top leaders. Former general secretary of Haritha, Najma Thabsheera, told a news conference in Kozhikode on Wednesday that what they faced was “verbal rape”. “Like what they say, ‘verbal rape after a rape’,” Thabsheera said, alluding to what they faced after raising their voice against gender inequality and character assassination within the party. The IUML, which is a constituent of the Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front, had frozen Haritha in August after 10 of its leaders approached the Kerala Women’s Commission over the alleged misogyny and character assassination with sexually explicit remarks by their MSF counterparts. They also lodged a complaint against MSF state president P.K. Navas and Malappuram district general secretary V. Abdul Vahab. The IUML appointed a new Haritha state committee on Sunday. Police arrested Navas on Friday for making derogatory remarks based on the Haritha complaint to the women’s commission. But he was released on the same day as the charges were bailable. The IUML instead removed Fathima Thahliya, national vice-president of the MSF and a former chief of Haritha, and P.P. Shaijal, state vice-president of the MSF, from their party positions for standing up for the aggrieved women. Thabsheera said it was the MSF president who made derogatory remarks at a working committee meeting held in Kozhikode on June 24. “When I stood up to make my point, he said ‘even prostitutes would have their justifications, so let her speak’. He also said Haritha was being led by a cyber criminal when I sought action against him at that meeting,” she said. She lashed out at an unnamed IUML general secretary for describing Haritha leaders literally as street walkers. “He said we are women who wander in the Kozhikode market,” said Thabsheera. Former president of Haritha, Mufeeda Thesni, said they were victims of a well-organised hate campaign. “They have been saying girls from Haritha are feminists who do not want to deliver babies and we opt for abortions even if we conceive.” She said a section of the MSF questioned even their campaign to encourage women to use menstrual cups instead of sanitary pads. “They questioned our character and intent behind our awareness campaign about menstrual cups,” Thesni said. She slammed an IUML leader who was assigned to settle the matter by dissuading the girls from proceeding with their complaint. “This person threatened us that he (the MSF president) was in possession of objectionable pictures and videos of several Haritha girls who would have to commit suicide if he circulated them,” Thesni alleged, referring to the tactics used to silence them. Thabsheera disputed the claim by several IUML and MSF leaders that the girls of Haritha did not approach party leaders for 18 days after the alleged incident. “The incident happened on June 25. We (Haritha) met the following day to decide on the course of action and submitted a five-page complaint to all the senior leaders of IUML on June 27,” she said, adding that they approached the women’s commission when the party failed to act even after 50 days. Copies of the complaint were sent to senior leaders P.K. Kunhalikutty, E.T. Mohammed Basheer, Panakkad Syed Sadiq Ali Shihab Thangal, K.P.A. Majeed and P.M.A. Salam, whom the party later assigned to look into the issue. The party did not react to the allegations. “This is a larger issue that questions the very identity of girls who are part of this organisation,” Thabsheera said, promising to fight for justice by remaining in the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
16-09-2021||India||IAF inducts medium range surface-to-air-missile system||The Indian Air Force has inducted a medium range surface-to-air-missile system that is capable of destroying aerial threats, including enemy fighter jets, unmanned aerial vehicles and missiles, at a range of 70km. The MRSAM has been developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation in partnership with Israel Aerospace Industries. It is fitted with Israel’s Barak missile and can travel at a lightning pace. The missile is powered by an indigenously developed rocket motor and control system to achieve high manoeuvrability. The naval version of the MRSAM has been operationally deployed on three Indian Navy warships. The Indian Army is yet to induct the system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
16-09-2021||India|| Naseer wishes Khans of Bollywood had 'more confidence' to speak out||Actor Naseeruddin Shah has said the Khans of Bollywood don’t voice their opinion because they will find it “difficult” to take the “harassment” that will follow, adding he wished they had “more confidence”. Shah, who has never shied away from speaking his mind, said he could do so perhaps because he did not have much to lose. Speaking about Shah Rukh Khan and Aamir Khan, Shah said during an interview with India Today aired on the news channel on Tuesday night: “How much will they lose? They will lose an endorsement or two. It’s not that… it’s the harassment they will be subjected to. They find it difficult to take. And the fact that Aamir and Shah Rukh withdrew completely into a shell after making one harmless statement respectively illustrates this. I suppose I can speak because I don’t have much to lose.” Shah said the film industry had the power to stay independent and wished it had enough courage to do so. “But they are giving in because their interests are too large and too varied and they have too much to lose and they’re easy targets,” he said. Shah cautioned against “rising Right-wing fanaticism”. He said his comments about a section of Indian Muslims celebrating the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan had been misconstrued. “Maybe I made a mistake by not speaking clearly enough and clarifying that I didn’t mean the entire Muslim community, which is how it is being interpreted by interested parties,” the actor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
