17-09-2021||India||Kerala: Ruling CPI(M) cautions against luring educated women to terrorism||At a time when Kerala is witnessing a raging debate on religious extremism and concerns about the radicalisation of youth, the ruling CPI(M) has cautioned against the deliberate attempt by a section to lure educated women studying in professional colleges to the path of communalism and terrorism.  Stating that extremist forces were infiltrating mainstream Muslim outfits and trying to create issues in the southern state, it also said the actions of Sangh Parivar forces had instilled a sense of insecurity among the minority groups.  The Marxist party also asked its cadres to be vigil about the issues.  The significant remarks were made in an in-house note prepared by the ruling party in connection with the inauguration of the upcoming party conventions in the state.  Under the sub-title "Minority Communalism", the note said it should be viewed seriously that even debates, supporting terrorist outfits like Taliban, which was denounced by the democratic world and majority in the Muslim community, were happening in the state.  "Deliberate attempts are being made to lure youth into communalism and extremist ideologies. Conscious efforts are on to make educated young women in the professional colleges to think that way. Both the student union and youth organisation (of CPI-M) should pay special attention to the issue," it said.  Though the Christians in the state generally do not comply with the communal ideologies, the radical influence growing among a small section in the community in recent times should be viewed seriously, it noted.  Deliberate attempts were being made to turn the Christian community against the Muslims in the state, the party note said, adding that such moves would help the majority communalism to thrive in the state.  However, the opposition Congress urged the CPI(M) to show the proof for the allegation as it was a "serious" charge raised by the party which rules the state.  "The CPI(M) leadership should reveal whether any cases had been registered in this regard or whether they have any data to prove their charges. The party and its government have the moral responsibility to reveal them," V D Satheesan told reporters here.  Attacking the ruling party over the issue, the BJP accused it of allegedly turning the southern state into a "fertile soil" for extremist forces.  "The extremists forces would not have gained foothold in the state if they have reacted strongly against them. What sincerity do they have to say now that vigil should be stepped up against terrorism?" BJP veteran Kummanam Rajasekharan asked.  The in-house note of the CPI(M) assumes significance in the wake of ongoing debates over the recent 'narcotic and love jihad' remark by Pala Bishop Joseph Kallarangatt, which was widely criticised by various political parties including the ruling party.  The CPI(M) and the opposition Congress had objected to the controversial remark, while the BJP came out supporting the Catholic Bishop saying that 'love and narcotic jihad' is a reality.  Kallarangatt had said recently that Christian girls were falling prey to the alleged love and narcotic jihad in Kerala and wherever arms cannot be used, extremists were using such methods to destroy the youth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
17-09-2021||India||Sino-India relations have own intrinsic logic, says China after Jaishankar meet||China on Friday said it agrees with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's assertion that Beijing should not view its relations with India through the lens of a third country, saying that Sino-India relations have their own "intrinsic logic". Jaishankar, who met his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Dushanbe, conveyed that the two sides should work for an early resolution of the remaining issues along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. He also told the Chinese Foreign Minister that the two countries need to establish a relationship based on mutual respect for which it was necessary that China avoid viewing the ties with India from the perspective of its relations with third countries. On Twitter, Jaishankar said: "It is also essential that China does not view its relations with India through the lens of a third country." Earlier, a Chinese Foreign Ministry statement on the Wang-Jaishankar talks in the capital of Tajikistan quoted the Chinese Foreign Minister as saying that China has always been positive to seek a proper solution to the China-India border issue . Asked for his reaction to Jaishankar's remarks, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told a media briefing here that we agree with the remarks from the Indian side . "China and India are both important Asian countries. For the two countries to develop relations there is an inherent necessary logic. China-India relations never target any third party," Zhao said. To a follow up question, Zhao said, the development of India-China relations follow its own intrinsic logic. China-India relations do not target any third party and are not based on any third party, he said. In the statement issued by the Chinese Foreign Ministry, Wang noted that the recent communication between the two sides through the foreign and military departments was earnest and effective, and the overall situation in the border area was gradually de-escalated . The Chinese Foreign Minister hoped that India will meet China halfway to move the situation towards stability and shift it from urgent dispute settlement to regular management and control. "Both sides need to consolidate the disengagement results of the front-line troops, and strictly abide by the protocols and agreements and the consensus reached between the two countries, to jointly safeguard the peace and tranquility of the border area and prevent the recurrence of border-related issues," he said. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong Lake area and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in the Gogra area last month. In February, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong Lake in line with an agreement on disengagement. Wang and Jaishankar had held a bilateral meeting on the sidelines of another conclave of the SCO in TajikistanDushanbe on July 14. As two major emerging economies, China and India must continue to uphold the strategic consensus of being opportunities of development to each other rather than threats, push the bilateral relationship and practical cooperation onto a healthy and stable track , Wang said during Thursday's meeting. It serves the common interests of the two countries and benefits regional and world peace and development, the Chinese foreign minister said. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
17-09-2021||India||Afghanistan situation will have greatest impact on countries like India, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the recent developments in Afghanistan will have the greatest impact on neighbouring countries like India and continuing instability in that country will encourage terrorist and extremist ideologies all over the world. In a virtual address at an SCO meeting on Afghanistan, Modi said there was a need for regional focus and cooperation on the situation in the country. "The recent developments in Afghanistan will have the greatest impact on neighbouring countries like us. And therefore, there is a need for regional focus and cooperation on this issue," he said. Modi warned that if "instability and fundamentalism" persist in Afghanistan, it will encourage terrorist and extremist ideologies all over the world. "Other extremist groups can also be encouraged to gain power through violence," he said, adding the change of power in Afghanistan is not inclusive and has happened without negotiation. The prime minister also flagged his concerns over the serious humanitarian crisis unfolding in Afghanistan, noting that the economic woes of the Afghan people are increasing due to the blockage in financial and trade flows. He said the developments in Afghanistan could lead to an "uncontrolled" flow of drugs, illegal weapons and human trafficking. "A large amount of advanced weapons remain in Afghanistan. Due to these, there will be a risk of instability in the entire region," Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
17-09-2021||India||Govt wants to vaccinate eligible people in poll-bound UP, Punjab with at least one Covid jab||Administering at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine to the eligible population in states like Uttar Pradesh and Punjab where assembly elections are scheduled to be held next year is on the priority list of the government, according to official sources. Also, the target of a landmark 100 crore Covid vaccination doses is likely to be completed by the second week of October, Union health ministry sources said on Friday. "Inoculating eligible people in states like Uttar Pradesh and Punjab where assembly elections are to be held next year with at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine is on the priority list of the government," a source said. The cumulative COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 78 crore on Friday. The government said 20 per cent of India's adult population have received both doses of COVID-19 vaccine and 62 per cent have got at least one dose. Of all the vaccines used, around 87.8 per cent are Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute, around 12.11 per cent are Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and less than one per cent Sputnik V. At least 50 per cent of the beneficiaries have been administered the first dose in Uttar Pradesh. The target is to cover the 100 per cent eligible population with at least one shot before the polls, the sources said. Commenting about the delay of Pfizer and Moderna's Covid vaccines in India, the sources said change in the demands of the manufacturers from time to time is leading to delay in making these vaccines available in the country and as to why they have not been given indemnity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
17-09-2021||India||Supreme Court collegium recommends 8 names for appointment as chief justices at high courts||The Supreme Court collegium has recommended eight names to the Centre for appointing them as chief justices of different high courts across the country, sources said on Friday. They said the eight names include acting chief justice of Calcutta High Court Justice Rajesh Bindal, who has been recommended to be transferred as the chief justice of Allahabad High Court. The sources said the three-member collegium, headed by Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, has also recommended that chief justice of Tripura High Court Justice Akil Qureshi be transferred to the Rajasthan High Court. They said besides Allahabad, the high courts of Calcutta, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telengana, Meghalaya, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh will get new chief justices. Besides the CJI, the three-member collegium which deals with appointment in high courts includes Justices U U Lalit and A M Khanwilkar. They have decided to recommend transfer of five chief justices and 28 other high court judges to other high courts, sources said. "The decision on major reshuffle and appointment of chief justices in high courts have taken place following marathon meetings," a reliable source told PTI, adding that meetings in this regard took place on Thursday and today. The collegium decisions, containing the names and details of the judges, are yet to be uploaded on the apex court's website, the source said. The sources said besides Justice Qureshi, the collegium has recommended transfer of chief justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court Justice Arup Kumar Goswami to the Chhattisgarh High Court, chief justice of Madhya Pradesh High Court Justice Mohd Rafiq to the Himachal Pradesh High Court. They said the collegium has recommended transfer of chief justice of Rajasthan High Court Justice Indrajit Mahanty to the Tripura High Court and Meghalaya High Court chief justice Justice Biswanath Somadder to the Sikkim High Court. Besides Justice Bindal, the Collegium has recommended names of Justices Prakash Srivastava, Prashant Kumar Mishra, Ritu Raj Awasthi, Satish Chandra Sharma, Ranjit V More, Aravind Kumar and R V Malimath for appointing them as chief justices of different high courts across the country, the sources said. They said names of Justices Prakash Srivastava, Prashant Kumar Mishra and Ritu Raj Awasthi have been recommended for appointment as chief justices of high courts of Calcutta, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Similarly, names of Justices Satish Chandra Sharma, Ranjit V More, Aravind Kumar and R V Malimath have been recommended for appointing them as chief justices of high courts of Telangana, Meghalaya, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, they said. The recommendations by the collegium have been made close on the heels of a historic decision to recommend 68 names in one go for judgeship in 12 high courts across the country. Recently, the collegium had recommended 10 names to the Centre for appointment as permanent judges in the Karnataka High Court. These recommendations assume significance in view of the statement made by the CJI in a recent function of the Bar Council of India that it has been his endeavour to address the issue of vacancies in the higher judiciary on an "urgent basis". Referring to nine appointments in one go in the apex court bench, Justice Ramana had said, Similarly, after I took over, the Collegium has recommended, if I am not wrong, 82 names to various high courts. "I hope the government will ensure that the names are cleared at the earliest just the way the nine names were cleared for the apex court. It is an ongoing process. We hope to live up to the herculean challenge of filling nearly 41 percent vacancies existing in all the high courts, he had said, adding that in another month, he expected that 90 percent of vacancies will be filled. The 25 high courts of the country have a combined sanctioned strength of 1,080 judges. Prior to this, in a historic decision on August 17, the five-member Collegium headed by the CJI had recommended nine names for elevation as judges of the Supreme Court, including three women. The names were cleared with significant pace by the Centre leading to swearing-in ceremony on August 31 when the new judges were administered oath of office as apex court judges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
17-09-2021||India||India paying price for Modi's failure, says Congress while wishing leader on birthday||The Congress on Friday wished Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 71st birthday but said the country is paying the price for his "failures" on several fronts and so the day is being observed as "unemployment day", "anti-farmer day" and "high prices day". Congress leader Rahul Gandhi extended his wishes to the prime minister on Twitter. "Happy Birthday, Modi ji," he said. For the Indian Youth Congress and the NSUI, it was "national unemployment day". Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said birthdays of former prime ministers are celebrated as different days, with Jawaharlal Nehru's birthday as "Children's Day", Indira Gandhi's as "National Integration Day", Rajiv Gandhi's as "Sadbhavna Day" and Atal Bihari Vajpayee's as "Good Governance Day". But Modi's birthday is being observed as "unemployment day", she added. She said she prays that God gives the prime minister the wisdom to realise what he has led the country to. "It is the prime minister's birthday and from this platform, we wish him a happy birthday. We pray for his well being, but we do believe that this day is being celebrated in many parts of the country as unemployment day, anti-farmer day, high prices day, crippled economy day, as winning over your crony capitalists friends day, as ED, IT, CBI raid day, and the corona mismanagement day," Shrinate told reporters. "We do believe that in the last seven years, you have failed on several fronts and we hope and pray that God gives you the wisdom to realise that this is what you have led the country to. This is where, you have failed and today as a result, India is paying a heavy price for it," she also said. She claimed India has the maximum number of unemployed people despite Modi's tall promises. She alleged that every month, jobs are being lost and asked, "where are those two crore annual jobs, one would want to ask? Why are 61 lakh government jobs lying vacant?" Noting that farmers are protesting for nine long months without a solution in sight, Shrinate said high prices in gas, diesel, petrol, edible oil, pulses, daily essential items are making lives of people difficult. She claimed demonetisation and GST have crippled the economy and there has been shutdown of MSMEs and small businesses as a result, as investment in the consumption chain is completely broken. "Still, you have put India on sale for a few friends of yours and which is why, it is important that we are calling it the 'punjipati poojan divas' (crony capitalist friends day)," she said. Shrinate also alleged that during Covid crisis, the country faced shortage of vaccines, oxygen, essential drugs as the prime minister was too busy electioneering and the "red flags were being manipulated to suit his image". She accused the prime minister of misuse of ED, IT, CBI, as frontal organisations. "The PM has broken the very framework of our Constitution and they have hurt the very foundation of our democracy and which is why, the 'ED, IT, CBI raid divas' is perhaps an apt coinage here," she alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
17-09-2021||India||Supreme Court allows Kerala to hold offline Class 11 exams, government hails move||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a plea challenging Kerala government's decision to hold physical exam for Class 11. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and C T Ravikumar said a detailed affidavit has been filed and they are taking all measures related to the coronavirus protocol. The top court said holistic approach has to be taken in the matter and the authorities are conscious of their duties. "We are convinced by the explanation offered by the state and trust authorities will take all precautions and necessary steps so that no untoward situation is faced by students who are of tender age and appearing for the proposed examination. Dismissed," the bench said. The apex court said it had intervened on the earlier occasion as there was a possibility of third wave of corona by September. "Third wave is not in offing immediately," the bench said. The Kerala government in an affidavit had told the top court that online examinations will be a disadvantage for students with no access to laptops and mobile phones. The conduct of examination through online mode will prejudice a large number of students who have no access to laptops, desktops or even mobile phones. The students belonging to the lower strata of society are depending on mobile phones or tablets for attending online classes. "In many areas, internet connection or mobile data are not available. These students will never be able to write online examinations," the state government had told the court. Reacting to the verdict, state General Education Minister V Sivankutty said a majority of students wanted to write the examination offline and it will be held without creating any difficulties for them. He said once the details of the apex court verdict are available, the examination date will be fixed in consultation with the Chief Minister and other departments. He said a new timetable will be prepared for conducting the examination. The apex court had on September 3 stayed for a week Kerala government's decision to conduct offline exams for Class XI commencing from September 6 amid the rising cases of COVID saying "there is an alarming situation in the state". The top court had observed that "cases in Kerala are about 70 per cent cases of the country and children of this age cannot be exposed to this risk".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
17-09-2021||India||Delhi HC seeks IT Department stand on Newslaundry plea over data leakage||The Delhi High Court Friday sought Income Tax Department's stand on a plea by online news portal Newslaundry and its co-founder Abhinandan Sekhri to restrain any leakage of the material seized during a survey operation held earlier this month. A bench of Justices Manmohan and Navin Chawla granted time to the department's counsel to seek instructions on giving an undertaking against any leak and asked that the concerned officer join the proceedings on the next date of hearing i.e. September 21. "Ask your client (to join proceedings) so that we can close it then and there. Let him be by your side... If he gives a statement, we can put a quietus to the matter," said the bench to the lawyer who asserted that the fear of leak was a bald apprehension . "Data of thousands of assessees is in safe custody of the department and it can be used only in accordance with law," said counsel for the department Ajit Shamra. During the course of the hearing, the bench orally observed, "Normally, no one's data should be leaked as it is ethically, morally and legally wrong. "We have seen it on channels, people's data that has been seized is being displayed... It should not happen," it remarked. Senior counsel Siddharth Dave, appearing for the petitioners, said that four notices under the Income Tax Act were issued to his client and a survey was held in the news portal's premises on September 10, during which several devices, including a mobile phone and a laptop belonging to the petitioner co-founder, were seized by the IT authorities, which contained several information which were of no relevance to any income tax proceedings. The data may contain personal photos and information pertaining to investigative stories, he said. The senior lawyer argued that any data breach would be in violation of right to privacy and therefore a direction should be passed to the IT authorities to not leak any data and delete whatever is of no relevance to the proceedings. It was also contended that any seizure during a survey operation was beyond the scope of survey and that no hash value of the seized data was given. "Please direct them not to leak seized data collected in this purported garb of a survey and allow me to delete (non I-T related) data," the senior lawyer submitted. In the petition filed through advocate Nipun Katyal, the petitioners have said that the income tax officers and authorities do not have any power to interrupt the ordinary peaceful citizens of the country in any manner they like by utilizing the large powers given to them, without keeping strictly within the four corners of those large powers. "The Petitioners are heading a news organization, the Petitioners herein have sources, contacts and other information on the digital machines. It is the fiduciary duty of the Petitioners to protect them and keep it confidential. "It is further submitted that the legal communication regarding existing cases is present in the personal laptop and phone of the Petitioners. If in any circumstances, the leaks are committed, it shall be a clear breach of the attorney-client privilege as well as whistleblowers confidentiality," the plea says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
17-09-2021||India||Sukhbir Singh Badal, Harsimrat Badal detained by Delhi Police over protesting against farm laws||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, senior party leader and Lok Sabha MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal, and several other members were on Friday detained by the Delhi Police even as allegations regarding the use of force to stop the party's "Black Friday march" by the authorities surfaced. The SAD chief and others were booked for violating section 144 of CrPc, which prohibits large gatherings, and taken to the Parliament Street Police Station. "We were here to protest... Delhi Police used force to stop us. Police sealed the borders... our workers were lathi-charged. (Arvind) Kejriwal government gave orders that we cannot gather at a gurudwara... central government also stopped us. This is undemocratic," Harsimrat told NDTV. "We had clearly said this will be a peaceful protest," she was quoted as saying. Earlier, massive traffic jams hit parts of the national capital, including Lutyens' Delhi and ITO as SAD members gathered at Delhi borders to mark one year of farmers' protest. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police informed about closure of roads at Jharoda Kalan border and suggested commuters to refrain from using these routes in view of the farmers' movement. Two Delhi Metro stations near Tikri border with Haryana, one of the sites of the ongoing farmers' protests, were on Friday closed owing to security reasons, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation said.  The three agriculture laws, which the farmers have been protesting against for several months now, were passed in Parliament on September 17, 2020, and SAD minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal had resigned from the Union Cabinet in protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
17-09-2021||India||On PM's birthday, daily Covid vaccination count crosses two crore for first time||India set a record on Friday by administering over two crore COVID-19 vaccine doses, in a major push to the inoculation drive on the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday. The cumulative doses administered in the country reached 2,03,68,343 at 5.27 pm, according to data on the Co-WIN portal. The total number of doses administered in the country has crossed 78.72 crore. "A gift to the prime minister on behalf of health workers and people of the country. On the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi today, India has crossed the historic figure of administering 2 crore vaccine doses in a day, setting a new record. Well done India!" Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya tweeted in Hindi. The daily vaccinations crossed the one-crore mark for the fourth time in less than a month. Mandaviya said this is the fastest pace at which one crore doses have been administered. "On PM @Narendra Modi Ji's birthday, till 1:30 pm, the country has crossed the mark of 1 crore vaccines, the fastest so far, and we are continuously moving forward. I believe that today we will all make a new record of vaccination and give it as a gift to the prime minister," he said in a tweet in Hindi earlier along with the hashtags "VaccineSeva" and "HappyBdayModiji". The daily COVID-19 vaccination in the country was over 1 crore on September 6, August 31 and August 27. Mandaviya on Thursday had called for a major push to the COVID-19 vaccination drive during Prime Minister Modi's birthday on Friday, saying it would be the perfect gift for him. The BJP has asked its units across the country to help get a large number of people vaccinated on the occasion. India took 85 days to touch the 10-crore vaccination mark, 45 more days to cross the 20-crore mark and 29 more days to reach the 30-crore mark, according to the ministry. The country took 24 days to reach 40 crore from 30 crore doses and then 20 more days to cross the 50-crore vaccination mark on August 6, it said. It took 19 more days to go past the 60-crore mark and took only 13 days to reach 70 crore from 60 crore on September 7, the ministry said. The total number of doses administered crossed the 75-crore mark on September 13. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of COVID-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
17-09-2021||India||Bharat Biotech awaits feedback from WHO for Covaxin EUL||Bharat Biotech on Friday said it has submitted all the data pertaining to its COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin to the World health organisation for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) and is awaiting feedback from the global health watchdog. The WHO is currently reviewing the data submitted by the vaccine maker and the date for a decision on the jab is yet "to be confirmed," according to the update available on WHO website. "#COVAXIN clinical trial data was fully compiled & available in June 2021. All Data submitted for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) Application to World Health Organization in early July. We have responded to any clarifications sought by #WHO and are awaiting further feedback," Bharat Biotech tweeted. As a responsible manufacturer with past approvals for its other vaccines, the company said it would not find it appropriate to speculate or comment on approval process and its timelines, it further said. "We are continuing to work diligently on obtaining WHO EUL at the earliest, the vaccine maker added in a series of tweets. In an update on its website, the WHO said it began rolling data of the vaccine on July 6. Rolling data allows the WHO to start its review right away, as information continues to come in, to accelerate the overall review process. Suchitra Ella, joint managing director of Bharat Biotech recently had earlier said the EUL process is a step closer to the final decision on Covaxin's 'global acceptance.' PTI GDK SS||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
17-09-2021||India||Long traffic jams in parts of Delhi amid Akali Dal's anti-farm law protest march||Massive traffic jams hit parts of the national capital, including Lutyens' Delhi and ITO, on Friday amid a protest march organised by members of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) against the Centre's farm laws. The Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about closure of specific roads and suggested diversions to avoid any inconvenience. It said most of the calls regarding traffic jam came from New Delhi, Dhaula Kuan, ITO, Vikas Marg, Delhi Gate, Karol Bagh areas. ITO stretch is heavily choked by the vehicles. There was also traffic at Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital roundabout. 30-year-old advocate Rohit Tomar said it took him more than two hours to cover a distance of 12 kilometres. "I left my home around 8.45 am for Patiala House court, but got stuck in traffic. The whole section of Vikas Marg from Laxmi Nagar to ITO was jammed. The vehicles were crawling on that particular section. The area of Geeta Colony was also jammed. I somehow managed to reached Patiala House around 11 am, Tomar said. Many commuters took Twitter to complain about the traffic. One of the commuters mentioned that there was heavy traffic from Laxmi Nagar to ITO and it took him one hour to cover a distance of four kilometres. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police informed about closure of roads at Jharoda Kalan border and suggested commuters to refrain from using these routes in view of the farmers' movement. "Gurdwara Rakabganj Road, RML Hospital, GPO, Ashoka Road, Baba Kharak Singh Marg will be full due to the farmers' movement. Please refrain from using these routes," the Delhi Traffic Police tweeted in Hindi. "Jharoda Kalan border both the roads have been closed by barricading dye to the farmers movement, please refrain from using this route, another tweet mentioned. "The traffic coming from Gurgaon to Sadar Patel Marg and the traffic coming from Narayan to loop has also been diverted towards Ring Road Moti Bagh, the traffic will remain heavy," the traffic police said in another tweet. Traffic going from Pusa roundabout towards Shankar Road has also been diverted towards Pusa Road, the traffic police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
17-09-2021||India||Modi calls for SCO template to fight radicalisation, extremism||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday called for developing a template by the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) to effectively deal with the challenges of extremism and radicalisation. In a virtual address at the annual SCO summit, Modi said the "root cause" of the problems facing the region is increasing radicalisation and the developments in Afghanistan reflected the challenge. "I believe that the biggest challenges in this area are related to peace, security and trust deficit. And the root cause of these problems is the increasing radicalisation. The recent developments in Afghanistan have made this challenge more clear," he said. The prime minister said the SCO should develop a template to fight radicalisation and extremism. Modi said the SCO should work to develop a strong network among moderate, tolerant and inclusive institutions and traditions associated with Islam. He said the fight against radicalisation is not only needed for regional security and trust but also required to ensure a bright future for the youth of the region. The prime minister also said that India is committed to increasing its connectivity with Central Asia. "If we take a look at history, we will find that Central Asia has been a bastion of moderate and progressive cultures and values. Sufism flourished here over the centuries and spread throughout the region and the world. We can still see them in the cultural heritage of this region," the Prime Minister said. "Based on this historical heritage of Central Asia, SCO should make a common template of fighting radicalisation and extremism. In India, and in almost all the countries of the SCO, there are moderate, tolerant and inclusive institutions and traditions associated with Islam," PM Modi said. At the same time, he also said that any connectivity initiative cannot be a "one-way street" and connectivity projects should be consultative, transparent and participatory. Welcoming Iran to the SCO as the ninth member, PM Modi said India is helping increase connectivity in Afghanistan via Iran's Chabahar Port, and such projects should be done by "respecting each nation's sovereignty" - a hint at the so-called China-Pakistan Economic Corridor or CPEC which India doesn't recognise as it passes through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. "We believe that landlocked Central Asian countries can benefit immensely by connecting with India's vast market... All (SCO) member states must ensure that connectivity projects must not be affected by the situation on ground. Of course, all this must be done respecting each nation's sovereignty," PM Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
17-09-2021||India||Jaishankar calls for early resolution of remaining issues in talks with Chinese counterpart||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has conveyed to his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi that the two sides should work for an early resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh and that China avoid viewing its ties with India through the lens of a third country. In a meeting on the sidelines of the summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in Dushanbe on Thursday, the two foreign ministers exchanged views on the current situation in the region and agreed that military and diplomatic officials of both sides should meet again and discuss resolving the remaining issues at the earliest. Jaishankar also told Wang that India had never subscribed to any "clash of civilisations theory" and that Asian solidarity would depend on the example set by India-China relations, according to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). He also said the two sides need to establish a relationship based on "mutual respect" for which it was necessary that China avoid viewing the ties with India from the perspective of its relations with third countries, it said. On Twitter, Jaishankar said: "It is also essential that China does not view its relations with India through the lens of a third country." While Jaishankar mentioned "a third country", the statement by the MEA talked about "third countries". It is learnt that the two sides also exchanged views on developments in Afghanistan after the Taliban''s takeover of the country. In a statement, the MEA said on Friday that the two ministers exchanged views on the current situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh as well as on global developments. It said Jaishankar underlined that it was necessary to ensure progress in the resolution of remaining issues so as to restore peace and tranquillity along the LAC in eastern Ladakh as such an atmosphere in the border areas has been an essential basis for progress in the bilateral relations. "In this regard, the ministers agreed that military and diplomatic officials of the two sides should meet again and continue their discussions to resolve the remaining issues at the earliest," the MEA said. "In this context, the external affairs minister (EAM) recalled that Foreign Minister Wang Yi had in their last meeting noted that the bilateral relations were at low ebb," it said. The MEA said both sides in the previous meeting had agreed that a prolongation of the existing situation was not in the interest of either side as it was impacting the relationship in a negative manner. "The EAM, therefore, emphasised that the two sides should work towards early resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols," the MEA said. "The external affairs minister noted that since their last meeting on July 14, the two sides had made some progress in the resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh and had completed the disengagement in Gogra area," it said. However, there were still some outstanding issues that needed to be resolved," it added. The two leaders had held a bilateral meeting on the sidelines of another conclave of the SCO in Dushanbe on July 14. In the meeting, Jaishankar told Wang that any unilateral change in the status quo along the LAC was "not acceptable" to India and that the overall ties can only develop after full restoration of peace and tranquillity in eastern Ladakh. At Thursday''s meeting, the two ministers also exchanged views on the recent global developments. "The EAM conveyed that India had never subscribed to any clash of civilisations theory. He said that India and China had to deal with each other on merits and establish a relationship based on mutual respect," the MEA said. "For this, it was necessary that China avoid viewing our bilateral relations from the perspective of its relations with third countries. Asian solidarity would depend on the example set by India-China relations," it said. It said the ministers agreed to remain in touch. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake area and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in Gogra area last month. In February, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in line with an agreement on disengagement. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
17-09-2021||India||India logs over 34,000 fresh Covid cases, 320 casualties in a day||With 34,403 more people testing positive for COVID-19, India's overall infection tally has increased to 3,33,81,728, while the count of active cases has dipped to 3,39,056, according to Union health ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,44,248 with 320 more fatalities being recorded, it said. The number of active cases now comprises 1.03 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 97.64 per cent, according to the data updated by the ministry at 8 am. It said that active COVID-19 cases in the country decreased by 3,867 cases in a span of 24 hours. Also, 15,27,420 tests were conducted on Thursday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 54,92,29,149, the data showed. The weekly positivity rate has been recorded at 1.97 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 84 days, the ministry said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease is 3,25,60,474, while the case fatality rate has been recorded at 1.33 per cent, it said. The cumulative number of doses administered in the country so far under the vaccination drive has exceeded 77.24 crore, according to the ministry. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India recorded two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 320 new fatalities include 178 from Kerala, 45 from Maharashtra and 25 from Tamil Nadu, the ministry said. It said that 4,44,248 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,38,322 from Maharashtra, 37,555 from Karnataka, 35,271 from Tamil Nadu, 25,084 from Delhi, 23,165 from Kerala, 22,886 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,620 from West Bengal. The health ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
17-09-2021||India||PM Modi turns 71, president, ministers extend wishes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi turned 71 on Friday and birthday greetings poured in from President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and various leaders across parties while BJP leaders hailed his leadership. To mark the day, the BJP has asked its workers to facilitate the COVID-19 vaccination drive as it eyes record-breaking numbers on Friday. BJP president J P Nadda launched a mega 20-day public outreach, "Seva aur Samarpan", to mark the prime minister's birthday and it will continue till October 7 to also commemorate his 20 years in public life, including the period when he served as Gujarat chief minister. Wishing him a long and healthy life, President Kovind hoped that Modi may continue to serve the nation with his spirit of relentless service. Vice President Naidu said Modi's exceptional vision, exemplary leadership and dedicated service have led to an all-around growth of the nation. He also said amid challenges in the last one year, his efforts to encourage the spirit of self-reliance has borne fruits. Home Minister Amit Shah lauded Modi, saying he not only gave the country the idea to think ahead of time and fulfil its resolve with hardwork but also made it a reality. In Modi, the country has got a strong and decisive leader who gave a dignified life to those who were deprived of their rights for decades, he said. Modi brought them in the mainstream of development, Shah added. The prime minister has shown the world what people-loving leadership is like, he said. A number of opposition leaders, including Rahul Gandhi of the Congress, Sharad Pawar of the NCP and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, also extended wishes to Modi. Pawar tweeted, "Warm Birthday Wishes to Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi Ji. I wish him good health and happiness." Gandhi said, "Happy birthday, Modi ji." Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said Modi has written many new chapters in development and good governance in his tenure so far and wished that he fulfil his dream of making India a strong, prosperous and proud country. Born in Gujarat in 1950, Modi joined Hindutva organisation Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) at an early age and was later drafted into the BJP. Made Gujarat chief minister in 2001, Modi has never suffered an electoral setback when votes were cast on his leadership, leading the BJP to power in the state for three consecutive terms and then at the Centre back to back in 2014 and 2019. The BJP will also be distributing over 14 crore ration kits and holding blood camps besides organising other welfare activities during the 20-day campaign. In his greetings, Nadda hailed Modi as the most popular leader of the world, and said he is dedicated to the progress of the most deprived person in society and symbolises foresighted and decisive leadership besides tireless efforts. The Dalai Lama also wished the prime minister and congratulated him on the growing confidence he had brought among the people, despite challenges such as the COVID-19 pandemic. In his letter to the prime minster, the Dalai Lama also said that as the most populous democratic nation in the world, India's success benefits not only the people of the country, but also contributes to the development of the world as a whole.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
17-09-2021||India||‘Om Jai Jagdish Hare’ played by army band triggers debate||A video showing lined-up and uniformed men clapping to the beat of Om Jai Jagdish Hare, being played by the army band, has prompted many veterans to wonder whether the occasion was a passing-out parade and caution that, if so, the happenings violated the army’s secular traditions. Army spokesperson Colonel Sudhir Chamoli denied it was a passing-out parade, insisting the men were performing aarti outside the temple of their unit on a religious occasion and that there was nothing wrong with that. Colonel Chamoli, who said the video showed a religious occasion and not a ceremonial parade, told The Telegraph: “This is nothing new. The Indian Army conducts parades for all religions — mandir parade, gurdwara parade, masjid parade, etc. If a regiment is predominantly Christian, then Christmas is a regimental function and we have a parade.” But many veterans said that several clues — including the youth of the soldiers, the weapons they carried and the general look of the place and event — suggested it was a passing-out parade though they couldn’t be certain about the geographical location. Whether the clip shows a passing-out parade or not or if it turns out to be not authentic, the fact that several veterans chose to express concern mirrors the anxieties that swirl around almost every institution in the nation in the past few years. Colonel (retired) Harinder Chhina saw the development as “introducing Hindutva in (the) army”, while a former IPS officer, N.C. Asthana, tweeted that the “last bastion of a secular State has fallen with this”. It’s common for army regiments to play religious music from the various faiths during holy occasions, and for the soldiers to march to its accompaniment. But, retired officers said, they had never heard of religious music being played during ceremonial parades — such as Republic Day parades or passing-out parades — which are “institution-level” and not regimental events. As the incident sparked a social media controversy, former Lieutenant General H.S. Panag tweeted the video and posted: “Great leap forward for ceremonial military parades....” Former brigadier Sandy Thapar tweeted: “This seems a rehearsal of POP (passing-out parade), GCs (gentlemen cadets) running around.... This is at the start of drill square from where the procedure begins. I do not recollect this procedure of Aarti. Neither as GC nor as instructor there.” A gentleman cadet is a trainee at a military academy. A passing-out parade is held when a batch completes its training. A retired lieutenant general said the video certainly showed a “drill square”, from where a passing-out parade starts. “The video is of a passing-out parade as we can see the new recruits standing in front and a few seniors standing behind them. They are carrying weapons — why should they carry weapons while doing aarti outside a temple at their unit?” he said. Some veterans appeared non-committal. The former navy chief, Admiral Arun Prakash, had raised a query on Wednesday, tweeting the video and tagging the former army chief, General V.P. Malik. “My doubts: Is this clip authentic? & if so, is this drill & bagpipe score as per Indian army custom/ tradition/ SOP for a parade @Vedmalik1,” he had written. Gen Malik tweeted back: “This appears to be a religious event organised by an Artillery Regt. A new event by its nature. Let someone from younger generation answer custom/SOP query.” Admiral Prakash said in another tweet: “Certainly a new event, and a novel drill format wherein the rifle is held between the legs, while parade claps with both hands!” Another veteran, Manoj Kumar Channan, who did not state his former rank, tweeted: “Desecration of sacred drill square, never in my life I thought of witnessing this... sad.” Colonel Chhina wrote: “This (video) seems to be authentic. If true it is against military traditions. For God’s sake, (Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin) Rawat is requested to discard this process of introducing Hindutva in Army.” Former IPS Asthana tweeted: “The last bastion of a Secular State has fallen with this. The tune and the gestures leave no doubt. What a shame to the uniform and its neutral character. Realise how it all fits into the Grand design — on paper a Secular State; in practice a Theocracy. “Their (regiments’) performing religious rituals is however, fundamentally different from such things during ceremonial parades. Ceremonial parades belong to the institutions, and not regts.” A veteran cited how Rawat had on Thursday performed puja for the new defence complex in Delhi that will house over 7,000 personnel. “Such activities were earlier never seen or publicised by the secular Indian Army,” the veteran said, calling it “a very dangerous trend”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
17-09-2021||India||Kerala: Hate targets Muslim-owned businesses after bishop comment||Two food-processing companies in Kerala have become targets of a communal hate campaign and boycott call in connection with a bishop’s allegations about a “love jihad” and a “narcotic jihad”. The companies, both based in Erattupetta in Kottayam and owned by Muslims, are being “accused” on social media of facilitating a recent protest march in Pala against Bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt of the Pala Diocese. The bishop had alleged that Muslims were luring non-Muslim women into conversion and radicalism, and non-Muslim youth into drug addiction. Ajmi Flour Mills India Pvt Ltd and KKFM India Pvt Ltd, which sell ready-to-cook breakfast, have denied having anything to do with the September 10 march or with any political party or ideology. Had the companies provided free transport to the marchers — who were from all communities — as alleged, they would have been acting within their democratic rights. Police have started a case based on complaints from the companies, and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday instructed his administration to take “stringent action” against anyone spreading communal hatred. Several hate messages were found on a Facebook page named Christian Cyber Warriors. One of the messages said: “Have you ever seen sudapi (a portmanteau derived from the name of an outfit and intended at mocking extremist Muslims) buying anything from other communities?” The page carried a slide calling for the boycott of KKFM and Ajmi and several posts on the marches held at several places in support of the bishop’s controversial comments. “It seems a vehicle belonging to Ajmi had transported jihadis to the protest (against the bishop)…. Like a priest said the other day, we should boycott their products,” a Facebook user named K.D. Murali Kollakonath posted. KKFM has denied a claim made in several social media posts that its owners are related to a man convicted of chopping the hand of a professor, T.J. Joseph, in 2010 for an alleged remark against Islam. Being related to a criminal is anyway not a criminal offence in Indian law, nor a moral offence in most cultures. Recently, the Bangalore-based iD Fresh Food (India) Ltd, which too sells ready-to-cook food, had faced a hate campaign that claimed the company’s iD brand of idli and dosa batter contained cow bones and calf rennet. The company, started by IIM Bangalore graduate P.C. Mustafa and four of his cousins from Kerala in 2005, had lodged a police complaint. Ajmi and KKFM have lodged complaints with the district police, cyber cell and the grievance cells of Facebook and WhatsApp and written to chief minister Vijayan. “We have nothing to do with any protest or political party,” the director of Ajmi food, K.A. Rashid, told The Telegraph on Thursday. He suggested a possible conspiracy by a business competitor. “We can’t rule out a competitor trying to discredit us since we are the market leaders. In any case, the police are investigating and we are sure the culprits will be arrested soon,” Rashid said. He added: “Some people have apologised to us claiming they had shared these messages without knowing the truth. They perhaps chickened out after realising the police were investigating the matter.” Vijayan said on Thursday: “Kerala has a tradition of secularism and brotherhood. There are some attempts from some quarters to destroy this. There will be stringent action against them.” Fayas Mohammed, marketing manager of KKFM, said the allegations were first made at discussions a few groups had held on Clubhouse and Facebook a few days ago. “A local online news portal ran a story without naming us. But then the discussions on Clubhouse and Facebook turned into a hate campaign,” Mohammed said. “Some extremely communal audio clips were also circulating on social media.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
17-09-2021||India||Supreme Court cracks whip, Modi govt reinstates tribunal chief||The Narendra Modi government scrambled on Thursday to reinstate Justice Ashok Iqbal Singh Cheema as chairperson of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) to enable him to complete his term on September 20 after the Supreme Court threatened to suo motu stay the Tribunal Reforms Act, 2021. The successor, appointed prematurely, will go on leave until Justice Cheema’s tenure ends next week. Veterans said this was possibly the first time a retired chairperson of a judicial or quasi-judicial outfit had been reinstated and the incumbent sent on leave. The attorney-general consulted the Centre and agreed to the reinstatement after an apex court bench helmed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana warned the government of staying the Tribunal Reforms Act, 2021, through which the government has arrogated to itself the power to ensure that a tribunal member remains in office “until further orders”. The court is hearing another case challenging the act’s provisions and had on Wednesday blasted the government for saying it had the right to reject names recommended for tribunals. Incumbent NCLAT chairperson Justice M. Venugopal, a former Madras High Court judge, will remain on leave till September 20, when Justice Cheema’s tenure is scheduled to end, as there cannot be two chairpersons. During Thursday’s hearing, attorney-general K.K. Venugopal had initially tried to resist the reinstatement of Justice Cheema, abruptly sent on early retirement on September 16 by the Centre that cited the new Tribunal Reforms Act. AG Venugopal reasoned that sending Justice Venugopal on leave would create an “awkward” situation. CJI Ramana replied: “Mr Attorney, tell us, how fair is it? He (Justice Cheema) has some judgments to pronounce. If you retire him, there will be a problem of rehearing those cases. The way these orders were passed was also very awkward. You have created this awkward situation.” After sending Justice Cheema into early retirement with retrospective effect from September 11, the Centre had appointed Justice Venugopal on September 16 itself. Justice Cheema had approached the Supreme Court against the government’s decision. Senior advocate Arvind Datar, representing Justice Cheema, had on Wednesday urged the CJI to list the matter for urgent hearing. Accordingly, the matter was listed on Thursday before the bench that also had Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli. AG Venugopal told the court that the government was willing to reinstate Justice Cheema “only on paper” as it would be “awkward” to send Justice Venugopal on leave. Datar opposed the submission, contending that there was no provision for appointing or reinstating a tribunal chairperson “on paper”. CJI Ramana agreed with Datar and said Justice Cheema had to pronounce five judgments and, therefore, there could not be any question of his reinstatement only on paper. The AG submitted that “it will be odd and awkward” to remove the current officiating chairperson and bring back Justice Cheema to complete his tenure. AG Venugopal said the decision to prematurely retire Justice Cheema was in tune with the new legislation under which the Centre enjoyed “certain powers”. Justice Ramana then warned the government: “We will suo motu stay your legislation.” This prompted the AG to seek instructions from the government. The bench adjourned the matter for half an hour to enable the government’s highest law officer to seek the Centre’s stand. When the hearing resumed, AG Venugopal told Justice Ramana that the government had agreed to reinstate Justice Cheema and allow him to continue till September 20 and Justice Venugopal would be asked to go on leave until September 20. The top court recorded this in its order and closed the case, saying: “The attorney-general has solved the problem. We thank you for this.” Later, the court passed the following written order: “Heard learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner as also Mr K.K. Venugopal, learned attorney-general for India, and carefully perused the material placed on record. During the course of hearing, learned attorney-general fairly states that respondent No. 1 — the Union of India — has no objection… to allow the petitioner to work up to 20.09.2021 as the Officiating Chairperson, National Company Law Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi, to enable him to pronounce the judgments prepared by him.” “…Learned attorney-general further submits that… consequential order will be passed by the respondents forthwith. It is also the submission of the learned attorney-general that respondent No. 3 (Justice M. Venugopal) will proceed on leave up to 20.09.2021. “Taking note of the submissions advanced by the learned attorney-general for India, the writ petition stands disposed of in the above terms. We make it clear that the instant order has been passed taking into consideration the peculiar facts and circumstances of the present facts and this shall not be treated as a precedent….” Justice Cheema, a former judge of Bombay High Court, was appointed as a judicial member of the NCLAT in September 2017 and thereafter made its chairperson on April 19, 2021. He was to demit office on September 20 after completing his tenure of five years. According to the Tribunals Reforms Act, 2021, a member has to retire either after four years of service or at the age of 67 and can stay in office “until further orders”. This is contrary to the Supreme Court’s earlier ruling that a member should have a minimum tenure of five years or until the incumbent attains the age of 70. The new tribunal rules have been challenged before the Supreme Court in separate petitions filed by the Madras Bar Association and Congress leader Jairam Ramesh as being unconstitutional, arbitrary and illegal. They have contended that the new law has been enacted to circumvent the earlier judgments of the Supreme Court that had ruled in favour of complete autonomy and independence of quasi-judicial institutions like the NCLAT. In 2019, a five-judge constitution bench had struck down an amendment made to the appointment and removal process by the government under the Finance Act, 2017. The Modi government had then brought an ordinance with similar provisions, which too was struck down by the apex court in April this year on a petition filed by the Madras Bar Association. Subsequently, a three-judge bench headed by Justice Nageswara Rao reiterated that the constitution bench had struck down some amendments made by the Centre in 2020 to dilute the effects of the 2019 judgment. However, the Centre again came out with a fresh legislation to override both the constitution bench and the subsequent ruling by the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
17-09-2021||India||ED raids premises associated with former IAS officer Harsh Mander||The Enforcement Directorate on Thursday raided premises associated with activist and former IAS officer Harsh Mander, a vocal critic of many of the Narendra Modi government’s policies, prompting academics and rights defenders to allege an attempt to “intimidate and try to silence” every dissenter. The raids, carried out purportedly in connection with a money-laundering probe, began between 8am and 9am and were continuing past 8pm. Mander’s home and his office at the Centre for Equity Studies (CES) — a think tank — were raided along with two children’s homes in Mehrauli, South Delhi, with which the CES is associated, ED sources said. Mander had left for Germany with his wife on Wednesday night to join a nine-month fellowship programme at the Robert Bosch Academy in Berlin. The ED sources said the raids were conducted on the basis of an FIR registered by Delhi police’s economic offences wing (EOW) in February after the National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) alleged financial irregularities following inspections of the children’s homes. However, the Delhi Commission for the Protection of Child Rights had contradicted the apex child rights body’s report in Delhi High Court. Also, the FIR does not name Mander, the agency sources acknowledged. Mander has been a thorn in the ruling dispensation’s flesh, seeking action against BJP politicians for allegedly inciting the February 2020 Delhi riots and opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act. Historian and Mahatma Gandhi’s grandson Rajmohan Gandhi, former navy chief L. Ramdas, former top cop Julio Ribeiro, RTI activist Aruna Roy, former Planning Commission member Syeda Hameed, economist Jean Dreze, senior advocate Indira Jaising, CPI leader Annie Raja, CPIML Liberation leader Kavita Krishnan and around 600 others have issued a statement expressing solidarity with Mander. Thursday’s raids come six days after income-tax officials held “surveys” at the offices of NewsClick and Newslaundry, two news websites deeply critical of the Centre. Sources said the sleuths arrived at Mander’s Vasant Kunj home at 8am, and at his CSE office around 8.45am. The raids on the children’s homes — Umeed Aman Ghar for boys and Khushi Rainbow Home for girls — began about the same time. The ED did not issue any official statement on the raids. An ED source said: “The police’s FIR is against the two children’s homes and their parent body, the Centre for Equity Studies, of which Mander is a director. It was based on a report submitted by the NCPCR last year, alleging financial irregularities.” When the NCPCR raided the two children’s homes last October, Mander has said, its officials sought details of their foreign funding and asked whether the kids at the two homes had participated in the anti-CAA protests, and whether shelter had been given to Rohingya children. The NCPCR informed Delhi High Court in July that it had recommended action against the two children’s homes after finding irregularities. Mander had then accused the Centre of a political vendetta. “We had been receiving notices from the EOW since last year and from the ED this year. They were curious why Harsh did not draw a salary and why the CES only functioned from rented premises,” a CES source said. “We don’t know what they are looking for now. The spate of notices increased after Harsh filed a plea in court this year seeking an FIR against BJP leader Kapil Mishra (for allegedly inciting communal riots last year with a speech).” When the ED sleuths arrived at the CES office in Adhchini, south Delhi, only the caretaker was present, an office source said. “They (sleuths) called two senior administrative staff members and have been searching every file in the office,” the source said. “Mr Mander’s home in Vasant Kunj is also being raided. His daughter Suroor (an advocate) has been held inside since morning. We have no contact with her.” The source said the office had hosted a farewell party for Mander on Wednesday before he and his wife left for Berlin. Mander will do the Richard von Weizsäcker Fellowship on development policy, peace and human rights, and social change in Asia and the Pacific. Solidarity The statement issued by over 600 people expressing solidarity with Mander said: “Over the past year, Harsh Mander and the CES have been subjected to continued harassment by multiple state agencies. The false and malicious allegations by the National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) were definitively countered by the Delhi Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR), a statutory body, which has filed a strong affidavit in Delhi High Court, putting an end to the false allegations against the CES.” “(The) CES has also been subjected to harassment by the economic offences wing (EOW), and the IT department. All these vindictive efforts combined have showed neither diversion of money nor any violation of the law. The current raids by the ED and IT department are to be viewed in this context, as part of a continuing chain of abuse of state institutions to threaten, intimidate and try to silence every critic of the present government.” Actress Nandita Das tweeted: “Having known him personally and worked with him, I can only say, that this raid says it all. In solidarity with @harsh_mander.” Progressive International, a global Leftist organisation, said: “We condemn this attack on PI Council member @harsh_mander. Such raids have been denounced as a common tactic employed by the Indian government to silence progressive voices and critics — a blatant misuse of government authority.” Congress veteran Jairam Ramesh tweeted: “One day after the International Day of Democracy, Modi Sarkar continues with its FDI obsession — Fear, Deception, Intimidation, by harassing a renowned activist and intellectual, Harsh Mander.” BSP parliamentarian Danish Ali cited Wednesday’s visit by income-tax officials to premises linked to actor Sonu Sood and tweeted: “The message is very clear... those who are not with us, ED, CBI and other government agencies will ‘take care’ of them.” Sood, who helped migrant workers return home during last year’s lockdown, had recently been declared brand ambassador of the Aam Aadmi Party government’s “Desh Ka Mentors” programme in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
17-09-2021||India||Narendra Modi springs ‘horse’ defence on Central Vista critics||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday accused the critics of his government’s Central Vista project of “spreading misinformation” and being driven by “personal agendas” that had no concern for the condition of important administrative offices. Inaugurating new offices of the defence ministry that will be part of the Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista, Modi stressed that his government gave the “highest priority and honour” to the armed forces. “People who were after the Central Vista project, spreading misinformation, very cleverly skipped the fact that this (new defence ministry offices) also is part of the project. It will provide modern infrastructure to over 7,000 defence officers who used to work from World War II-era hutments,” the Prime Minister said. “If they (the critics) had done so, their misinformation campaign and personal agendas would have been exposed.” The Central Vista in the heart of Lutyens’ Delhi will have a new triangular Parliament building, a common central secretariat, offices, residences for the Prime Minister and other ministers and a new PMO. The Prime Minister said the offices were the first to be completed as part of the Central Vista project to provide modern infrastructure to defence officers, who work for the safety and security of the country. The Opposition, particularly Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, had castigated the government for going ahead with the project in the middle of the pandemic, terming it a “criminal waste of money”, and urged the government to use the resources to upgrade the health infrastructure to save people’s lives. The Centre, however, has ignored the Opposition’s attacks and continued with the Vista, putting the project in the “essential services” category to allow constructions amid the pandemic. Modi said on Thursday that the country could now see what his government had been doing under Central Vista, justifying going ahead with the project despite the Opposition’s “misinformation campaign”. “It was surprising for me that the defence ministry and some other establishments were run from World War II-era hutments that had been build keeping barracks and horse stables in mind,” the Prime Minister said, seeking to also take digs at the media for never highlighting the pathetic condition of the hutments. He said that as soon as his government came to power in 2014, he wanted to change everything and started by giving first priority to the memory of the soldiers who had sacrificed their lives for the country by building a National War Memorial. “This should have been built long ago,” Modi said. The old offices of the defence ministry spread over 50 acres is being redeveloped as an “executive enclave” that will have a new residence for the Prime Minister. Two multi-storey office complexes have come up at Kasturba Gandhi Marg and Africa Avenue. Modi said the new offices were a step towards building a modern defence ministry enclave and said everything was part of the Central Vista project that people with “false agendas” would never tell. Modi said the project was providing work to a large number of workers and engineers, explaining why his government was pushing ahead with the project despite the pandemic. The Central Vista project has also triggered concerns over a possible adverse impact on Delhi’s green cover and the destruction of historically significant landmarks. The construction of the Vista has been challenged in the courts as well. Delhi High Court has allowed some constructions to go ahead despite the pandemic and the Supreme Court has refused to interfere with the order. The Modi government has robustly defended the project, saying the expenses incurred on it will not eat into Covid-management funds and that no historic buildings will be demolished.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
17-09-2021||India||Gujarat: BJP dumps all ministers in previous Vijay Rupani government ||The BJP on Thursday went for an overhaul in Gujarat by dropping all the ministers in the previous Vijay Rupani government and inducting 24 new faces, risking dissent that bared the party’s desperation to beat anti-incumbency in Narendra Modi’s home state. In a swift and silent operation believed to have been commandeered by the Prime Minister, the BJP had last Sunday edged out Rupani and picked first-time MLA Bhupendra Patel as chief minister in an apparent move to allay voter anger over Covid mismanagement, in particular, and wider governance failures ahead of next year’s Assembly polls. The new chief minister expanded his ministry on Thursday by inducting 24 ministers — 10 cabinet and 14 junior ministers — none of whom were there in the Rupani government. Of the 24, only three have ministerial experience. The rest are mostly first-time MLAs, tasked to steer ministries 15 months ahead of the elections. The BJP had a narrow win in the 2017 Assembly polls, pocketing 99 of 182 seats. This time, it seems, the leadership fears worse and therefore the wholesale changes in the ministry. Party insiders said the appointment of the new chief minister and the “no-repeat” formula adopted in the selection of ministers was targeted at countering simmering anti-incumbency and anger among the voters. “This is a bold new move by the leadership. We are confident that this will completely alter the image of the government among the people,” a BJP leader said. The list of new ministers was finalised by the central leadership. The move, however, led to murmurs in sections of the BJP on why the party didn’t go for similar changes in Uttar Pradesh from where similar complaints of “abject failure” against chief minister Yogi Adityanath in handling the second wave of the pandemic had been received. “Both Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh had witnessed images of helplessness amid overflowing crematoriums and burial grounds. But why has only Rupani been punished while the leadership hasn’t dared to fiddle with Yogi?” another BJP leader asked. Adityanath had been summoned to Delhi against the backdrop of images of bodies floating in the Ganga during the second Covid wave earlier this year and also charges of “high handedness and inaccessibility” against him by party leaders. After initial signals of going for an expansion of Adityanath’s ministry to address dissent in the party ranks, the leadership backed off and now Modi has used every occasion to heap praise on the chief minister’s performance. “Vijay Rupani was a low-profile gentleman politician while Yogi has established himself as a dominant Hindutva face. So they didn’t dare to touch him,” a BJP MP from Uttar Pradesh said, recalling how the government was totally absent on the ground during the Covid crisis. Other party leaders, however, said the decision to go for changes in Uttarakhand and Gujarat and not in Uttar Pradesh were based on “professional assessments” and no other considerations. “The surveys conducted in Uttar Pradesh showed that despite some complaints, Yogi was the best bet to win the elections. It was not so in the case of Gujarat,” a party general secretary said. The BJP has been in power in Gujarat since 1995, barring a brief break, and so party leaders feel the level of anti-incumbency in the state is high. Gujarat being the home turf of both Modi and home minister Amit Shah, the BJP can’t afford to lose the state, party insiders said, justifying the overhaul to alter the image of the government and the party. The BJP had resorted to a similar change of chief minister ahead of the 2017 Assembly polls, replacing Anandiben Patel, picked by Modi, with Vijay Rupani, seen as Amit Shah’s man. Despite the change, the BJP had narrowly managed to retain the key state. “This time, we have replaced Amit Shah’s choice with Modi ji’s and gone a step further by changing even the ministers. Hope it works,” one Gujarat MP said. “Last time, the gamble was to target non-Patidar voters in the face of angry Patidar protest for reservation. This time, we want to woo back the Patidars by making a leader of the community the chief minister,” the MP added. Party leaders acknowledged that the overhaul could lead to dissent in party ranks with ministers in the previous government being angry over getting dropped but felt that with Modi and Shah at the top they would be able to manage everything. The expansion was scheduled for Wednesday but had to postponed to manage possible dissent, sources said. Modi congratulated the new ministers, terming them “outstanding karyakartas (party workers)” who had devoted their lives to “public service”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
17-09-2021||India||Probe PM Narendra Modi over Covid situation: Congress||The Congress on Thursday demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi be investigated for criminal culpability for misleading the nation on the Covid situation that left the states, hospitals and citizens unprepared for the deadly second wave. Citing news reports that quoted scientists and doctors saying that data were manipulated and studies warning of a severe second wave suppressed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to please politicians eager to take credit for defeating Covid, Congress general secretary Ajay Maken said: “There should be an investigation for criminal culpability against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, then health minister Harsh Vardhan and the ICMR bosses. They are responsible for the havoc the second wave played with the people.” Maken said such a probe should be monitored by a sitting Supreme Court judge. “The truth is now coming out. Scientists have started talking about the manipulation of data that led to wrong strategies and lowering of guard before the second wave struck, which is a criminal act. Pressure was mounted on scientists, they were scolded and silenced when they highlighted facts. There are at least four of them who have spoken out — Anup Agarwal, Naman Shah, Shahid Jameel and Somdatta Sinha,” the Congress leader said. Maken claimed that such measures had caused the deaths of lakhs of people. “The Economist has given out the latest estimates of Covid deaths, putting the number of casualties in India between 43 lakh and 68 lakh. The government admits to only 4.43 lakh deaths. But several studies have indicated the (actual) number is very high, around 40 lakh or more. We saw how people were left to fend for themselves amidst a severe crisis of oxygen, hospital beds and medicine,” he said. “In June 2020, a study commissioned by the ICMR concluded that the lockdown had slowed, but would not stop, the virus’s spread. Within days, the authors withdrew it. The ICMR tweeted the withdrawal. Some of the scientists now say they were forced to withdraw the report. In July 2020, ICMR director-general Balram Bhargava forced scientists to withhold data, based on serological studies, which suggested that the virus was spreading in 10 cities. This deliberate blunder led to the loss of lakhs of lives,” the Congress leader added. He went on: “In September 2020, eight months before the deadly Covid-19 second wave, a managed and faulty report by the government downplayed the possibility of a new wave or outbreak. They credited Modi (and cited) early lockdown efforts as the reason. When some scientists, including Dr Agarwal, pointed out serious lapses in the report, they were reprimanded. Ultimately, Agarwal had to resign from the ICMR and leave India. Scientists have also alleged that the ICMR released wrong data to suggest that the coronavirus was not spreading in India as virulently as the rest of the countries. “The ICMR approved a wrong ‘super model study’ and released it indicating that Covid would almost end by mid-February. It also wrongly said that India had achieved herd immunity. The study was not founded upon any scientific parameter and whenever the Covid curve changed, they changed the parameter. “‘They had parameters which can’t be measured and whenever the curve was not matching, they changed that parameter,’ said Sinha, a retired scientist who studies infectious disease models and who wrote a rebuttal.” Maken also recalled how a study published in the journal Nature in January 2021 predicted the second wave and called for more testing. “The ICMR made the author (a council scientist) remove his affiliation with it from the paper. Such narratives, contrary to the data and science, created a sense of false confidence amongst the people, who got careless and negligent of the impending second wave. In January 2021, Modi declared that India had saved humanity from a huge disaster by defeating corona, and then health minister Harsh Vardhan predicted the end of Covid-19,” the Congress leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
17-09-2021||India||Uttarakhand High Court vacates its stay order on Chardham Yatra ||Uttarakhand High Court on Thursday vacated its stay on the Chardham Yatra and directed the state government to conduct the pilgrimage with strict adherence to Covid-19 norms. A division bench of Chief Justice R.S. Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma said the pilgrimage would start with restrictions like a daily limit on the number of devotees visiting the temples. A negative Covid test report and a vaccination certificate will also be mandatory. The bench said 800 pilgrims would be allowed at Kedarnath, 1,200 in Badrinath, 600 in Gangotri and 400 in Yamunotri every day. Pilgrims will not be allowed to take bath in any of the springs around the temples, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
17-09-2021||India||Kannur varsity likely to withdraw Savarkar's book from PG syllabus||Kannur University vice-chancellor Gopinath Ravindran on Thursday said portions of books of RSS leader M.S. Golwalkar and Hindu Mahasabha leader V.D. Savarkar would not be taught immediately as part of the varsity’s post-graduate course on governance and politics. Ravindran said the new portions, after necessary changes are made, would be taught in the fourth semester. For now, the varsity will continue to teach the contemporary political theory paper as it had been doing in the past, he said. The VC said a two-member expert committee appointed by the Kerala government to look into the matter had suggested changes to the varsity’s new syllabus. He said the syllabus would be sent to the committee after making the suggested changes. The varsity’s new course material had drawn criticism from various student unions, which alleged saffronisation of the university. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said his government would not glorify leaders who had turned their back on the freedom struggle. Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, however, had said intellectual freedom should not be sacrificed at the altar of party politics and under the “foolish” belief that ignorance of someone’s ideas would help defeat them. “I have quoted Savarkar and Golwalkar at length in my books, and refuted them,” Tharoor had posted on Facebook. “If we don’t read Savarkar and Golwalkar, on what basis will we oppose their ideas? Kannur University also teaches Gandhi and Tagore.” According to the student unions, the varsity has included portions from Golwalkar’s books, including Bunch of Thoughts, and Savarkar’s Hindutva: Who Is a Hindu? in the syllabus of the third semester of the governance and politics MA course. The syllabus was not prepared by the board of studies but by teachers of Thalassery Brennen College and it was decided by the VC, they have alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
17-09-2021||India||Ramana plea to reintegrate women prisoners into mainstream society||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana has said the Centre, states and Union Territories are under an obligation to formulate programmes and services to reintegrate women prisoners into the mainstream society as otherwise they would be subjected to untold stigma and discrimination. Delivering the keynote address as patron of the National Legal Services Authority to mark the 32nd central authority meeting of Nalsa here on Wednesday evening, CJI Ramana said: “Often incarcerated women have to face graver prejudices, stigma and discrimination, which makes their rehabilitation a tough challenge. As a welfare state, we are obligated to provide women prisoners with programmes and services that enable them to effectively reintegrate into the society, on an equal basis with men.” Taking note of the plight of women prisoners, Justice Ramana further stressed the need for measures such as “non-discriminatory access to education and vocational training, dignified and remunerated work”. CJI Ramana appreciated  the work of the legal services authorities during the National Lok Adalat organised on September 11 and congratulated them for clearing more than 29.5 lakh cases across 33 states and Union Territories. Justice Ramana laid emphasis on increasing “access to justice”, stating that “although much has been spoken about increasing access to justice, the question remains as to how to ensure effective and substantive access to justice to all classes of people and how to meet these gaps”. Justice U.U. Lalit, the second seniormost Supreme Court judge and executive chairman, Nalsa, highlighted the issue of overcrowding of prisons and stressed upon the need to take immediate steps in such direction. Justice Lalit also pointed out that due to the pandemic restrictions, schools are shut down and the children living in juvenile, observational and children homes are in an unimaginable situation. He urged law students to come forward and impart education to underprivileged children of the society. Justice Lalit also appreciated the efforts of the legal services authorities of 33 states who successfully organised the National Lok Adalat on September 11 and achieved the historic disposal of cases. The central authority of Nalsa meeting was attended by all the members. The central authority consists of the CJI, Nalsa executive chairman, Chief Justice of Orissa High Court, executive chairpersons of Assam, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka state legal services authorities, secretary, department of justice, Bar Council of India chairman, senior advocates Siddharth Luthra, Meenakshi Arora and K.V. Vishwanathan, social workers Beena Chaintalapuri and Priti Pravin Patkar, and member secretary, Nalsa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
17-09-2021||India||Nineteen people injured in blast at Barauni Refinery in Begusarai||Nineteen people were injured in a blast at Barauni Refinery of the Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) in Bihar’s Begusarai district, around 120km east from the state capital, on Thursday. The injured include several IOCL staff and contractual workers. They have been admitted to different hospitals. “A unit at the refinery was shut down for quite some time. An explosion occurred in its furnace when it was being restarted on Thursday morning. Altogether 19 people, including five IOCL staff and 14 contractual workers, were injured in the incident. They have been admitted to hospitals,” Begusarai superintendent of police Awakash Kumar told The Telegraph. The sound of the blast was so loud that it attracted a large number of locals to the refinery, while rumours of death of people working inside also spread around. Contractual workers and labourers also assembled at the gates. The crowd held a protest in front of the refinery and demanded safe working conditions at the plant. District administration officials later pacified them. IOCL manager Ankita Srivastava, in a press communiqué, said that the incident occurred at 10.30am while Atmospheric Vacuum Unit – 1 was being started and a blast ripped its furnace. “We are conducting a technical probe into the incident. There has been no death or fire-related incident in the aftermath of the blast, nor the operations at the refinery have been affected. All the injured are in a stable condition. People outside the refinery are also safe,” Srivastava said. The IOCL officials asserted that the injuries were due to the pressure created by the blast. Shutdown and maintenance related works have been carried out at the refinery since August 20. IOCL’s Barauni Refinery is the second oldest in the country, built in collaboration with the then Soviet Union. It was dedicated to the nation in 1965 with a refining capacity of 1 million metric tonnes per annum (MMTPA). It now receives uninterrupted crude oil supply from Halida – Barauni pipeline and has a refining capacity of 6 MMTPA. Barauni Refinery is primarily a diesel-producing refinery. It also produces kerosene, petrol, naphtha, LPG, raw petroleum coke, sulphur and bitumen. It caters to fuel demands of Bihar, Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, and also supplies fuel to Nepal Oil Corporation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
