18-09-2021||India||Will continue to protest till farm laws are withdrawn, says Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said the farmers will continue to protest at Delhi's borders till the three controversial agriculture laws are withdrawn.  He alleged a nexus between the central government and corporates to rob the farmers of their rights.  Till the black laws are not withdrawn, the farmers will remain on the borders of Delhi, Tikait, who is the national spokesperson of the BKU, said, adding the farmers were now aware of their rights.  He alleged that the government was not sensitive towards protecting the rights of the farmers and said time has come for the farmer warriors to shake the roots of the government .  Tikait and other farmer leaders had come to Bunda tehsil here on the occasion of the 38th death anniversary of Sant Sukhdev Singh to pay homage to him.  National president of BKU (Chanuni faction) Gurnam Singh Chanuni termed the farmers' movement as a dharam yudh being fought to safeguard the rights of the peasants.  The intention of the government is to enslave the farmers which will not be allowed under any circumstances, he said.  On the occasion, the leaders of about half a dozen farmers' unions asked the farmers to reach Delhi on their call.  Recently, Tikait had led a massive farmers' mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar to put pressure on the central government to withdraw the three farm laws.  He has already announced that he will work to ensure the defeat of the BJP in the upcoming UP elections on the issue of three legislations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
18-09-2021||India||Domestic flight fare band to remain for 15 days at any given time||The lower and upper limits on airfares will remain for 15 days at any given time and the airlines will be free to charge without any limits from the 16th day onwards, the Civil Aviation Ministry stated on Saturday.  Since August 12 this year, this roll-over period was of 30 days and the airlines have been charging without limits from 31st day onwards.  In a fresh order issued on Saturday, the Civil Aviation Ministry explained the change in rule: "If the current date is 20th September, then the fare band shall be applicable till 4th October. Any booking done on 20th September for travel on or after 5th October shall not be controlled by fare bands."  "On the following day, that is, if the current date is 21st September, then the fare band shall be in force till 5th October and for travel on or after 6th October, the fare bands shall not be applicable," the order mentioned.  So, the fare bands will shift by a day every day, it added.  India had imposed lower and upper limits on airfares based on flight duration when services were resumed on May 25, 2020, after a two-month Covid-triggered lockdown.  The lower caps were imposed to help the airlines that have been struggling financially due to coronavirus-related travel restrictions. The upper caps were imposed so that passengers are not charged huge amounts when the demand for seats is high.  Domestic air travel became costlier on August 12 this year as the Civil Aviation Ministry had raised the lower as well as upper caps on fares by 9.83 to 12.82 per cent.  For example, the ministry on August 12 increased the lower limit for flights under 40 minutes of duration from Rs 2,600 to Rs 2,900 -- an increase of 11.53 per cent. The upper cap for flights under 40 minutes of duration was increased by 12.82 per cent to Rs 8,800.  The caps mentioned by the government in its order does not include the passenger security fee, user development fee for the airports and the GST. These charges are added on top when the ticket is being booked by the passenger.  The August 12 order also mentioned that the limits on airfares will remain in place for 30 days at any given time.  On Saturday, the ministry modified the August 12 order, replacing the word "30 days" with "15 days".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
18-09-2021||India||Kerala: Schools to reopen on Nov 1 as state logs 19,352 new Covid cases||Schools in Kerala will reopen on November 1, after a one-and-a-half-year interval, even as the state reported 19,325 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday. The decision was taken at the core committee meeting on the pandemic chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in Thiruvananthapuram. All schools have been asked to make necessary arrangements. But, according to a spokesperson of the government, hotels and bars will have to wait a little more for dining. Both are now allowed to give only packed food and beverages. Similarly, a decision on theatres will be taken after gauging the pandemic situation. Earlier the government had decided to open higher educational institutions from October 4. For more than three months, the state remained the pandemic capital of the country reporting around 70 per cent of the total cases registered. The second wave of infections deteriorated after the Onam festival in August-end. Though the state reported a high number of cases for more than three months there was no health crisis or shortage of oxygen. More than 80 per cent of the eligible population have also been vaccinated, said state health minister Veena George. Class XI exams announced A day after the Supreme Court allowed the Kerala government to hold physical exams for Class 11 amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the state government on Saturday announced that the examinations will be held from September 24 to October 18. General Education Minister V Sivankutty said the exams will be held in the forenoon and strictly adhering to the COVID-19 health protocol. "The exams for Higher Secondary students will start on September 24 and will end on October 18. The Vocational higher secondary exams will however end on October 13. There will be a gap of one to five days between the exams," Sivankutty said in a release. The timetable for the exams is available on http://dhsekerala.gov.in Allowing the Kerala government to hold physical exams for Class 11, the apex court had yesterday expressed satisfaction over the steps being taken by it to ensure that no untoward situation is faced by students. The state government in an affidavit told the top court that online examinations will be a disadvantage for students with no access to laptops and mobile phones. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and C T Ravikumar had dismissed an appeal filed by lawyer Rasoolshan A, challenging a Kerala High Court order refusing to interfere with the state government's decision to hold offline exams. Dip in new Covid-19 cases on Saturday Kerala saw a dip in fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday with the state reporting 19,352 infections, and 143 deaths, taking the total affected in the state to 44,88,840 and the toll to 23,439. The state had reported 23,260 cases on Friday. The number of recoveries outnumbered fresh cases with 27,266 being cured, taking the total number to 42,83,963. Among the districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of cases - 2,626, followed by Thrissur with 2,329 and Kozhikode with 2,188, health minister Veena George said. "Out of those who were found infected today, 96 reached the state from outside, while 18,114 contracted the disease from their contacts. The sources of infection of 1,038 are yet to be traced. 77 health workers are also among the infected," the minister said in a release. Active cases stood at 1,80,842, out of which 13.2 per cent are in hospitals, she said, but did not give the Test Positivity Rate. A total of 1,21,070 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. The minister said 88.94 per cent of the targeted population have received the first dose of vaccination and 36.67 per cent, both the doses. There are 2,507 wards across 678 local self government bodies in the state with a weekly infection population ratio above eight per cent, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
18-09-2021||India||IT dept continues searches at properties, institutes linked to Anil Deshmukh||The Income Tax department on Saturday continued for the second day its searches here at properties and institutes linked to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in an alleged tax evasion case, local police officials said. After conducting searches at the NCP leader's houses in Nagpur and Katol and the National Institute of Technology (NIT) at Fetri the day before, IT officials on Saturday reached the Shri Sai Shikshan Sanshta's office in Ramdaspeth area here. Searches at the NIT at Fetri also continued, officials added. Teams of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) were deployed for the protection of IT officials. The focus of the investigation was a Rs 4.18 crore donation allegedly received by the Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha, sources said. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had alleged earlier that the amount was deposited in cash with four Delhi-based companies and these firms then routed it to Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha Trust, a charitable trust controlled by Deshmukh and his family. The 71-year-old leader is also being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in a corruption case related to allegations of bribery made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
18-09-2021||India||Kejriwal asks kids to participate in Delhi govt's anti-dengue campaign||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday urged children to participate in the Delhi government's anti-dengue campaign, and check their homes and surroundings for any stagnated water and drain it. The theme of this week's campaign against dengue is 'Children of Delhi' and 'Come On Kids, Let's Give Dengue A Kick; 10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute is the trick' is the tagline, the statement said. “Dear kids, get ready to fight dengue. Let's do a 10-minute homework every Sunday to protect Delhi from dengue. For this, we need to check our homes and surrounding areas for any signs of stagnant water. If we do find water, let's drain it, replace it regularly or cover it with a small layer of oil. Let's also call up our friends and ask them to take part in this campaign. Come, let's save our Delhi from dengue,” the statement quoting the chief minister said. “The Delhi government, like last year, has started its '10 Hafte, 10 Baje, 10 Minute' campaign to eliminate dengue in Delhi,” an official statement said. “All the ministers, MLAs and officers of the Delhi Government are also taking part in the campaign and cleaning water which has accumulated at their homes every Sunday,” it said. The maximum number of dengue cases are reported every year between September 1 and November 15, it said. In 2015, there were 15,867 cases of dengue in Delhi and about 60 people died due to disease. The government had launched the anti-dengue campaign '10 Hafte, 10 Baje, 10 Minute' in 2019 and 2,036 dengue cases were reported that year while only two people died, it said. At the same time, the result of this campaign in 2020 was even more encouraging. Last year only 1,269 cases of dengue were reported and not a single death was reported, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
18-09-2021||India||Congress accuses TMC of undermining its leadership||The Congress on Saturday accused the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamul Congress of undermining the leadership of the grand old party and said its attack on Rahul Gandhi was "unwarranted and in poor taste". The remarks of the Congress came after the TMC's Bengali mouthpiece 'Jago Bangla' ran a cover story, attacking Gandhi by saying he has failed to take on the BJP and Banerjee, who is the chief minister of Bengal, should be the opposition's face now. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said he has seen reports citing an article in the official publication of the Trinamul Congress (TMC). The same is not in good taste as Rahul Gandhi a former Congress president -- is fighting a bigger battle to save democracy, he said. "Let me say that Rahul Gandhi and the Congress Party are fighting a bigger battle of saving democracy, protecting the Constitution and our national ethos that are under attack from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP-RSS," Surjewala said. "We also find the attack on Rahul Gandhi is unwarranted and in poor taste," he said. Jago Bangla had ran the cover story with the headline: 'Rahul Gandhi failed, Mamata is the alternate face'. Surjewala said the Congress respects all political parties and their leadership and recognises their contribution in the united fight against the BJP. "Everyone must understand that Opposition unity cannot be built by undermining the leadership of other parties, including the Congress Party. In fact, all like-minded parties, including Mamta Banerjee ji, have repeatedly vowed to fight together. Hopefully, those writing such articles will take note of Mamata ji's and Opposition parties' stance," he said. Congress leader in Lok Sabha and the party's Bengal chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the views expressed by TMC's mouthpiece will weaken the unity and convergence among Opposition parties. The article comes at a time when Opposition parties are trying to come together and present a united face in fighting and defeating the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. The article in the TMC publication stated that the country is seeking an alternative face. "I have known Rahul Gandhi for a long time, but I must say he has failed to emerge as an alternative face to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. But Mamata Banerjee has been successful in emerging as an alternative face to Modi," the story quoted the TMC's Lok Sabha party leader Sudip Bandopadhyay as said. Congress leaders have said that this will adversely affect the bonhomie between the Congress and the TMC, and does not bode well for opposition unity. Senior TMC leader Kunal Ghosh on Friday said the party neither intends to disrespect the Congress nor wants to talk about an alternative to the BJP government at the Centre without it. "Bandopadhyay has not talked about any alternative force without the Congress. He just said in his experiences, people are not accepting Rahul Gandhi as an alternative face to Narendra Modi. He (Gandhi) is not ready yet," Ghosh said. The Congress leader could not prove it (defeating the BJP) in the last two Lok Sabha elections in 2014 and 2019, the state TMC spokesperson said. "But after the 2021 assembly poll victory, Mamata Banerjee has been successful in emerging as an alternative (face to Modi), he said. Veteran Congress leader and MP Pradip Bhattacharya said it is for the opposition allies to unanimously decide who will be their common leader. Mamata, who has emerged as the doughtiest opposition face after her resounding victory in the West Bengal assembly polls, has been trying to bring together opposition parties to form an alternative force against the BJP government ahead of the next Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
18-09-2021||India||Punjab Cong MLAs authorise Sonia to pick new CLP leader||Punjab Congress MLAs on Saturday authorised party president Sonia Gandhi to pick new CLP leader, on a day Amarinder Singh resigned as the state chief minister. A resolution to this effect was passed unanimously in a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party here. Senior Congress leader Ajay Maken, who was one of the two central observers deputed by the party, told reporters that 78 of 80 party MLAs were present in the meeting. He said another resolution praising and thanking Amarinder Singh for his contribution towards Punjab and the Congress was also unanimously passed at the meeting. "We expect that the party will continue to get guidance of Amarinder Singh," he said. Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit Saturday accepted Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's resignation. The governor, however, has asked him and his council of ministers to continue in office for the transaction of routine business till alternative arrangements are made, according to an official statement. "Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit accepted his (Amarinder) resignation and that of his council of ministers," said the statement. Earlier in the day, Singh submitted his resignation along with that of his council of ministers. "I, hereby, tender my resignation as Chief Minister, and that of my Council of Ministers," the one-line resignation letter said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
18-09-2021||India||Dainik Bhaskar reporter arrested in Haryana for mistake in report related to terrorist||A Dainik Bhaskar journalist was arrested and another booked at Ambala Cantonment in BJP-ruled Haryana for mentioning an “incorrect place” of arrest of a suspected terrorist in a report, prompting the Opposition to allege suppression of the freedom of press. An FIR had been registered against reporter Sunil Brar and news editor Sandeep Sharma on Thursday, police said. Brar has been arrested. The two have been booked under IPC sections that 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 177 (furnishing false information), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 505 (2) (statement creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill will between classes), the police said. The sections attract a maximum five years in jail. A suspected terrorist was arrested by Punjab police from Mardon Sahib village of Ambala on Wednesday over an alleged tiffin bomb plot. The newspaper headline said: “Punjab police claim arrest of terrorist at Cantt from near IOC depot.” The Dainik Bhaskar, which has reported extensively on Covid mismanagement and faced income tax raids in July, had published a correction the next day. Station house officer Ambala Canttonment, Vijay Kumar, said the case against the journalists was registered as they had published the news without authentication. Journalists Brar and Sharma have created fear among the masses by publishing false news, he added. Brar was on Saturday produced in the court of duty magistrate Mukesh Kumar, who granted him bail upon furnishing a personal bond of Rs 50,000. The Opposition, including the Congress, INLD, Haryana Democratic Front and the BSP, criticised the police action against the journalists. Congress leader Rohit Jain said the arrest was made against the directions of the Supreme Court. He alleged that the police had not issued any prior notice to the journalist before arresting him. Chitra Sarwara of the Haryana Democratic Front and Prakash Bharti of the BSP alleged that the police had violated the norms of democracy. It is an attack on the freedom of press, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
18-09-2021||India||'Humiliated' Amarinder quits as Punjab CM, Sonia to choose new leader||Congress veteran Amarinder Singh resigned as chief minister of Punjab on Saturday, declaring he feels "humiliated" and that he won't accept state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu as the next CM or the party face in the Assembly polls. The development came amid a power tussle that polarised the ruling party in the state headed for elections in just about four months. Sidhu was made the state Congress chief earlier this year despite opposition by Amarinder Singh. "I feel humiliated," Amarinder Singh told reporters outside the Punjab Raj Bhawan after submitting his resignation to Governor Banwarilal Purohit. "I have resigned, let them make anyone (next CM)," he further said. However, in another interaction with the media, the Congress leader said he won't accept Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Punjab chief minister, describing him as "a total disaster". He said he will never agree to Navjot Singh Sidhu as the next chief minister. "When he was a minister (in Amarinder cabinet), he could not even run one ministry, now can he run entire Punjab? I know that man has no capability at all," Singh said. If Sidhu was made the face of the Congress for the Punjab polls, Singh said. he would oppose him "tooth and nail". Earlier in the day after submitting his resignation, when asked about his next course of action, Singh told reporters, "There is always an option and I will use that option when time comes." "I have been in politics for the past 52 years and I have been a chief minister for nine-and-a-half years. I will talk to my colleagues, supporters," he said. He submitted his resignation along with that of his council of ministers, his media adviser said. The resignation has been accepted by the Governor. Singh's resignation came hours before a crucial meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) on Saturday evening, pre-empting what was widely being seen as a move to remove him from the CM's post. In the meeting, Punjab Congress MLAs authorised party's national president Sonia Gandhi to pick a new CLP leader and in a unanimously passed resolution praised Amarinder's contribution for Punjab and the Congress. "I spoke to the Congress president in the morning and I told her that I am resigning today," Amarinder Singh told reporters. "They called the MLAs to Delhi twice and now convened a CLP here in Chandigarh today," he said. "I think if there is an element of doubt on me that I could not run (the government) or if there was something else, I feel humiliated the way things have happened," he said. To a question on joining any other party, he said, "Whatever you have to say, you can say. I can only tell you that I have been a chief minister from the Congress. And I am in the Congress and I will consult my colleagues and then we will decide the future course of politics." "I have only resigned for myself," he said. "I hereby tender my resignation as the chief minister, and that of my council of ministers," the one-line resignation letter said. In another interaction with the media later, Amarinder Singh said he had already told Sonia Gandhi during his meeting with her a few weeks back that he should be relieved of the charge. "I had told her that you relieve me of this charge because I cannot work in this way where Mr Sidhu is pulling right and I am pulling left. In that meeting, Congress general secretary (Harish) Rawat was also present. Soniaji then said no I want you to carry on," said  Singh. The Congress leader said he performed his duty to the best of his ability. "I have been in politics for 52 years, so I don't care about these things, I am in politics and I will remain in politics," he said when asked about the circumstances in which he had to resign. "In politics, options are always there, they are never closed. I can tell you one thing, I am not going to leave it like this," he said. Politics is a very fast moving game, he said replying to another question. Singh was accompanied by his wife and MP Preneet Kaur and son Raninder Singh when he submitted his resignation to Governor Banwarilal Purohit. MPs Gurjeet Singh Aujla and Ravneet Singh Bittu, AG Atul Nanda and Chief Principal Secretary to CM Suresh Kumar were also present. "I am proud to accompany my father to Raj Bhawan when he submits his resignation as CM of Punjab and leads us as head of our family into a new beginning," Raninder Singh said in a tweet earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
18-09-2021||India||Raj Kundra seeks bail, says there is no evidence against him||Businessman Raj Kundra, an accused in the pornographic content case, on Saturday moved a bail application in a court here, claiming that he was being made a "scapegoat" and that there was not a piece of single evidence in the supplementary charge sheet of him being actively involved in the creation of alleged questionable content. The crime branch, probing the case, had recently filed a supplementary charge sheet against Kundra and three others in the case pertaining to the alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. After that, the accused approached the metropolitan court for bail, saying that the investigation in the case was practically over. Kundra, husband of Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested July 19 by after being booked under relevant sections of the IPC and the Information Technology Act. He is currently in judicial custody. In the bail, filed through advocate Prashant Patil, Kundra claimed that there is not a single iota of evidence till date with the prosecution that would connect the app 'Hotshots' with an offence under law. As per the probe agency, the Hotshots app was being used by the accused for uploading and streaming obscene content. The bail plea also said that there is not a single allegation in the entire supplementary charge sheet against the present applicant (Kundra) that he was actively involved in any of the video shootings. In fact, it is a sole discretion of the individual artists to upload their contents on the app, the plea said. The contents of the complaint do not disclose any prima-facie offence against Kundra, the application said. It further claimed that Kundra was falsely implicated in the case. He was not named in the FIR and he has been dragged by the respondent (police), it added. For the reasons best known to the investigating agencies, he is being made a "scapegoat", it said. The investigation so far clearly shows that Kundra was not involved in any offence even in a remotest way in creating the alleged "questionable content". Further, he is not even related to the process of uploading or broadcasting of the alleged questionable content, the bail plea added. The court will the bail application on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
18-09-2021||India||Indianisation of legal system of country need of the hour, says Chief Justice of India||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Saturday said Indianisation of the country's legal system is the need of the hour and it is crucial to make the justice delivery system more accessible and effective. He said Courts need to be litigant-centric, and the simplification of justice delivery should be the pressing concern. "Very often our justice delivery poses many barriers for the common people. The working and the style of courts do not sit well with the complexities of India. Our systems, practice, rules being colonial in origin, it may not be best suited to the needs of the Indian population," Justice Ramana said. Speaking at an event organised here to pay tributes to late Supreme Court judge Justice Mohan M Shantanagoudar, he said the need of the hour is the "Indianisation of our legal system." "When I say Indianisation, I mean the need to adapt to the practical realities of our society and to localise our justice delivery system. For example, parties from a rural place fighting a family dispute are usually made to feel out of place in the court; they do not understand arguments or pleadings which are mostly in English, a language alien to them," he added. Further noting that these days judgments have become lengthy, the Chief Justice said it further complicates the position of the litigants. "For parties to understand the implication of the judgment they are forced to spend more money. Courts need to be litigant-centric as they are the ultimate beneficiaries. The simplification of justice delivery should be our pressing concern. It is crucial to make justice delivery more transparent, accessible and effective," he said. Justice Ramana said procedural barriers often undermine access to justice. "A common man while approaching the court should not feel scared of judges and the courts; he should be able to speak the truth. It is the duty of lawyers and judges to create an environment which is comforting for litigants and other stakeholders," he said. "We must not forget that the focal point of any justice system is the litigant, the justice seeker," he said, adding that "usage of alternative dispute mechanisms such as mediation and conciliation would go a long way in reducing the friction between parties and would save resources. It also reduces the pendency and requirement of having lengthy arguments and judgments." Remembering Justice Shantanagoudar who died on April 25 at a private hospital in Gurugram, where he was admitted due to a lung infection, at the age of 62, as an "extraordinary judge", the Chief Justice said these are the topics he used to discuss with him everyday. Expressing "deep gratitude" to Shantanagoudar's contribution to Indian Judiciary and the country's jurisprudence and for his friendship, the Chief Justice said, "in losing him the country has lost a common man's Judge. I have personally lost a most cherished friend and a valuable colleague." Justice S Abdul Nazeer, Justice A S Bopanna, Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, Justice B V Nagarathna, Acting Chief Justice of Karnataka High Court Satish Chandra Sharma, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Law Minister J C Madhuswamy, several present and former judges of Supreme Court and High Court, office-bearers and members of Bar Council, among others, were present. Late Justice Shantanagoudar's family was also present at the event. Recalling his long association with him since a young age, Chief Minister Bommai said Shantanagoudar was a down to earth personality and called him a "common man's judge". "He (Shantanagoudar) was a lively person, he made everyone around him lively. His simplicity, warmth and connection with the roots were really outstanding," he said. Bommai also recalled that Shantanagoudar wanted to join politics and wanted to contest Lok Sabha polls and had held discussion with his father, former Chief Minister, the late S R Bommai, in this regard. His father advised him to continue with his legal profession as he saw a bright future for him in it, Bommai said. Recalling his long association, Justice Nazeer said Shantanagoudar was called "Shantamurthy Shantanagoudar", and his intelligence and empathy were the guiding force behind his judgments. Paying tributes, Justice Bopanna said, "his achievements and good deeds will continue to inspire all of us." Whie Justice Oka remembered Shantanagoudar as a judge who spoke his mind and someone who upheld individual liberty, Justice B V Nagarathna said, as a Judge, he exhibited a great degree of compassion, statesmanship and leadership. "He truly believed that justice delayed is justice denied." Shantanagoudar was elevated as a judge of the Supreme Court on February 17, 2017. He would have remained in office till May 5, 2023. Born on May, 5, 1958, in Karnataka, Shantanagoudar got himself enrolled as an advocate on September 5, 1980. He was appointed as an additional judge of the Karnataka High Court on May 12, 2003, and became a permanent judge in the court in September 2004. Later, Justice Shantanagoudar was transferred to the Kerala High Court, where he assumed charge as the acting chief justice on August 1, 2016. He became the chief justice of the Kerala High Court on September 22, 2016, before being elevated as an apex court judge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
18-09-2021||India||Narendra Modi should celebrate his birthday everyday, says Congress after record vaccinations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi should celebrate his birthday every day as some BJP-ruled states "performed" on the day and vaccinated many times the daily average, the Congress said on Saturday. The party took a dig at Modi a day after India achieved the highest record of 2.5 crore COVID-19 vaccinations on a single day. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said this is the pace of vaccination the country needs. "Looking forward to many more days of 2.1 crore vaccinations. This pace is what our country needs," he tweeted. Party leader P Chidambaram said he was happy and grateful that 2.5 crore vaccinations were administered on Friday. "But why did we have to wait until the PM's birthday," he asked. Suppose the prime minister's birthday was on December 31, would the 2.5 crore vaccinations have been done only on the last day of the year, Chidambaram also asked. "Vaccination is not like cutting a cake on a birthday. Vaccination is a programme, it is a process. It has to be accelerated every day, not scale a peak on a birthday," he said on Twitter. "BJP ruled states -- UP, MP, Gujarat and Karnataka -- 'perform' on the PM's birthday and vaccinate many times the daily average. On other days, they are 'non-performing' states. "I wish the PM celebrated his birthday every day," the former Union finance minister added. In another tweet, he said, one-third of the adult population was yet to receive its first dose and only 21 per cent had been fully vaccinated. Prime Minister Modi, in a swipe at the opposition, on Saturday said there is talk of fever as a vaccine side-effect, but a political party experienced fever after 2.5 crore vaccines were administered on his birthday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
18-09-2021||India||Punjab MLAs seek Amarinder's replacement, write to Sonia||Over 50 Congress legislators from Punjab have written to party chief Sonia Gandhi seeking that Amarinder Singh be replaced as chief minister, highly placed party sources said on Saturday ahead of a crucial meeting of the Congress Legislative Party in Chandigarh. As crisis intensifies once again in the Punjab unit of the party -- riven by differences between the chief minister and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu -- Amarinder Singh is also learnt to have talked to Gandhi and expressed his anguish over his repeated "humiliation". There was no official confirmation about the chief minister calling Gandhi. Amarinder Singh is learnt to be meeting MLAs close to him in the afternoon at his official residence in Chandigarh. Sources here said the current crisis is "serious" with so many MLAs seeking the chief minister's replacement just a few months ahead of assembly elections in the state. The MLAs in their letter to Gandhi sought the convening of the CLP meeting, being held at 5 pm on Friday at the Congress Bhawan in Chandigarh. The high command has deputed senior party leaders Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary as central observers. AICC general secretary in-charge for Punjab affairs of the party Harish Rawat will also be present during the meeting. Sources said anything could happen at today's meeting. If the MLAs insist on their demand, the change in leadership might happen at the CLP meeting itself, they said. Amarinder Singh's bete-noire and PCC president Sidhu, who is eyeing the chief minister's post, however, is unlikely to be a probable choice for the chief minister's replacement, the sources pointed out. Former Punjab unit chief Sunil Jakhar may be considered a probable, they said. Jakhar, who is not an MLA, is believed to be close the top leadership and is considered a prominent Hindu face of the party. Trouble between the two factions has been brewing for long and Amarinder Singh was strongly opposed to Sidhu's appointment as PCC chief. Sidhu has been at loggerheads with Amarinder Singh ever since he quit the Punjab cabinet as a minister in 2019. He had become more vocal in his views in the last some months. Last month, four ministers and around two dozen party legislators had raised the banner of revolt against the Punjab CM and said they had no faith in Amarinder Singh's ability to honour unfulfilled promises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
18-09-2021||India||'Emotional moment' for Modi as India administers record 2.5 crore vaccine doses on his birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said it was an unforgettable and emotional moment for him as over 2.50 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses were administered in the country on his 71st birthday. "With your efforts, India has created a world record of administering over 2.5 crore vaccines in a single day, a feat not even the most powerful nations have been able to achieve," Modi said during an interaction via video link with healthcare workers and beneficiaries in the coastal state. "We saw how the nation kept looking at CoWIN dashboard yesterday. Over 15 lakh vaccinations per hour, over 26,000 vaccinations every minute took place yesterday. Over 425 people were administered vaccines each second," he said. Modi said he appreciates all doctors, medical staff, and people in administration in the country for this effort. The huge effort and skilled manpower needed to accomplish this task show the might of India, he added. Birthdays come and go but I have been away from such things. But yesterday was emotional for me. It has become an unforgettable occasion for me, Modi said. Without naming any party, Modi said a political party developed fever after over 2.5 crore vaccine doses were administered on his birthday. People speak of fever as a side effect of vaccines. but a political party experienced fever after 2.5 crore vaccines were administered on my birthday, he said. Modi lauded Goa CM Pramod Sawant and his government for overcoming challenges in accomplishing 100 per cent vaccination of the first dose of covid vaccines in the coastal state. Goa is on way to becoming a leading state in India as far as vaccination is concerned, Modi said. Goa is playing important role in the success of the world's largest and fastest vaccination drive - Sabko vaccine, muft vaccine. In the past few months, Goa fought bravely against heavy rainfall, cyclone and flood, under the leadership of Sawant, he said. When they are aware that all people are vaccinated, tourists will also feel safe and flock to Goa in more numbers, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
18-09-2021||India||Sonu Sood evaded tax worth Rs 20 crore, says Income Tax department||The CBDT on Saturday alleged that actor Sonu Sood and his associates evaded tax of Rs 20 crore and claimed that after the Income Tax Department raided him and a linked Lucknow-based infrastructure group it was found that he routed his "unaccounted income in the form of bogus unsecured loans from many bogus entities". It also accused Sood of violating the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) while raising donations from abroad. The department had launched searches against the 48-year-old actor and the Lucknow-based group of industries involved in infrastructure on September 15 and the CBDT said the action was continuing. "During the course of search at the premises of the actor and his associates, incriminating evidence pertaining to tax evasion has been found. "The main modus operandi followed by the actor had been to route his unaccounted income in the form of bogus unsecured loans from many bogus entities," the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) claimed in a statement. It added that, so far, use of 20 such entries has been found and the providers of which, on examination, have "accepted" on oath to have given "bogus" accommodation entries (transaction entries in accounts). "They have accepted to have issued cheques in lieu of cash. There have been instances where professional receipts have been camouflaged as loans in the books of accounts for the purpose of evasion of tax," the policy-making body for the tax department said. These bogus loans, it said, have been used for "making investments and acquiring properties." "The total amount of tax evaded unearthed so far, amounts to more than Rs 20 crore," the statement and official sources said about Sood. It also talked about his charity organisation that was established during the COVID-19 outbreak last year. "The charity foundation incorporated by the actor on July 21, 2020 has collected donations to the tune of Rs 18.94 crore from April 1, 2021 till date, out of which it has spent around Rs 1.9 crore towards various relief work and the balance of Rs 17 crore has been found lying unutilised in the bank account of the foundation till date," it said. It is seen, the statement alleged, that funds to the tune of Rs 2.1 crore have also been raised by the charity foundation from overseas donors on a crowdfunding platform "in violation" of FCRA regulations. It said the actor had entered into a joint venture with the Lucknow located infrastructure group and "invested substantial funds", and said the taxman has unearthed "incriminating" evidence pertaining to tax evasion and irregularities in the account books. "The search has revealed that the said group is involved in bogus billing of sub-contracting expenses and siphoning off of funds. "Evidence of such bogus contracts found so far are to the tune of over Rs 65 crore," it said. Evidence of unaccounted cash expenses, unaccounted sale of scrap and digital data evidencing unaccounted cash transactions has also been found. The infra group "has entered into dubious circular transaction to the tune of Rs 175 crore with an infrastructure company based in Jaipur". "Further investigations are being carried out to establish the full extent of tax evasion," it said. The CBDT said Rs 1.8 crore cash has been seized during the raids and 11 lockers have been placed under "prohibitory orders". A total of 28 premises in Mumbai, Lucknow, Kanpur, Jaipur, Delhi, and Gurgaon are being covered as part of the search operation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
18-09-2021||India||ED moves court against Anil Deshmukh for non-compliance of summonses||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has moved a court here against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh for failing to appear before the probe agency despite being summoned multiple times in a money laundering case. The ED filed the plea in a special court on Friday seeking action against Deshmukh under IPC section 174 (non-attendance in obedience to an order from a public servant). The section attracts a simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to one month, or fine up to five hundred rupees or both. The probe agency had issued multiple summonses to Deshmukh in the money laundering case registered against him by it. However, the NCP leader has failed to appear before it so far. Two of Deshmukh's aides - Sanjeev Palande and Kundan Shinde - have been arrested in the case. They are currently in judicial custody. Besides the duo, the probe agency in its charge-sheet filed recently, has also named dismissed Mumbai police officer Sachin Waze as an accused. However, Deshmukh or his family members have not been made accused in the charge sheet. The ED launched a probe against Deshmukh and his associates after the CBI filed an FIR against the NCP leader on April 21 after former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh accused him of corruption. Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked Waze to collect Rs 100 crore from city bars and hotels every month, a charge denied by the former minister. Deshmukh resigned as a minister in April this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
18-09-2021||India||India logs over 35,000 fresh Covid cases, 281 casualties in a day||With 35,662 more people testing positive for COVID-19, India's overall infection tally has increased to 3,34,17,390, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,44,529, with 281 more fatalities being recorded, it said. The number of active cases has risen to 3,40,639, comprising 1.02 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 97.65 per cent, according to the data updated by the ministry at 8 am. It said that active cases in the country increased by 1,583 cases in a span of 24 hours. Also, 14,48,833 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far to 55,07,80,273, it said. The daily positivity rate has been recorded at 2.46 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 19 days, according to the data. The weekly positivity rate has been recorded at 2.02 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 85 days, the ministry said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease is 3,26,32,222, while the case fatality rate has been recorded at 1.33 per cent, it said. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the vaccination drive has exceeded 79.42 crore, according to the ministry. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India recorded two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 281 new fatalities include 131 deaths from Kerala and 67 from Maharashtra, the ministry said. It said that 4,44,529 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,38,389 from Maharashtra, 37,573 from Karnataka, 35,288 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 23,296 from Kerala, 22,887 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,629 from West Bengal. The Health Ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
18-09-2021||India||India's record vaccination coincides with Modi’s birthday||India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign delivered a record of over 22.80 million doses on Friday, the feat coinciding with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday. The vaccination campaign’s average daily doses have increased month after month. But sharp spikes in doses over the past month have been preceded and succeeded by smaller counts that, experts say, possibly helped the authorities organise the planned increases.  “2,00,00,000 mark crossed!” BJP president J.P. Nadda tweeted past 5pm. “This figure is a reflection of New India under PM @narendramodi’s leadership. India has set a path in successfully fighting Covid with visionary and diligent leadership,” Nadda added. Modi turned 71 on Friday. “527 vaccinations per second today. Breathing...!!! #HappyBdayModiji,” a gushing B.L. Santosh, BJP general secretary (organisation), tweeted. “India’s gift to PM @narendramodi Ji! 2 crore vaccine doses in a day and counting,” tweeted minister Smriti Irani. Internally, the BJP felt that the devastation caused by the second wave of the pandemic had scarred Modi’s image, necessitating this all-out attempt at perception management on his birthday. The party leaders expressed confidence that the vaccine blitzkrieg would deal a blow to the Opposition’s criticism of the tardy pace of vaccination in the country. Ahead of Friday’s 22,835,858 doses up to 10.45pm, the campaign had administered 6.4 million doses on Tuesday, 6.7 million on Wednesday and 6.4 million on Thursday. Similarly, two other spikes of 14.1 million doses on August 31 and 11.9 million on September 6 were followed by several days of under 10 million doses. Only China has so far administered similar quantum of counts on a single day — 22.42 million, for instance, on June 28 this year. The record count was possible because health authorities had organised around 109,000 vaccination centres across the country — compared with 58,000 on Thursday — through a preparatory exercise that a health official said would have taken up to two weeks. “Such sharp increases do not happen overnight — they are planned with precision,” the official said. “The doses need to reach each vaccination centre; the staff have to be prepared; and in some places, people need to be mobilised for the day.” A vaccination policy adviser said India had the capacity to activate nearly 120,000 vaccination centres daily across the country, depending on the availability of vaccine doses. In the coming weeks, as more doses become available, the number of centres operating daily is expected to increase. “These periodic spikes are not photo-ops — they demonstrate India’s existing capacities that can be used for the campaign as more doses become available,” said Narendra Arora, a paediatrician and public health specialist who has been advising the government on vaccines. Amid increasing vaccine supplies, health officials say, the average daily doses have risen from 4.3 million in July to 5.9 million in August and to 7.4 million during the first half of September. “The steady increase in the number of doses allows us to organise such spikes once a week on average,” Arora said. “We hope to see more such high counts in the weeks to come.” Arora said the credit for such high counts should not go just to the campaign’s planners, among them district health officials, but also to the people who are coming forward to take the vaccines. But health experts tracking the campaign said India would be able to achieve its goal of fully vaccinating all its adults by December 31 only if it administers at least 10 million doses daily for the rest of the year. The vaccination campaign, launched on January 16, had cumulatively administered over 790 million doses by Friday night, but only 198 million (about 21 per cent) of the country’s estimated 943 million adults had received the two doses required for full immunisation. Experts say that day-to-day fluctuations in the vaccination count are not unusual because the number of jabs administered depends not just on the doses available but also on the counts of people seeking immunisation. “But dramatic fluctuations such as a jump from about 60 lakh one day to over 2 crore the next day point to an orchestrated campaign to show a very large increase on certain days,” said R. Ramakumar, an economist and professor of developmental studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. “The key to achieving the December 31 goal is to maintain consistency in vaccination rates and achieve a monthly average of such high levels,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
18-09-2021||India||Delhi police stops Shiromani Akali Dal's protest march||Police on Friday sealed Delhi’s borders to stop the entry of the farmers during a protest march organised by the Shiromani Akali Dal to mark a year of the enactment of the contentious farm laws. A video being shared on social media showed several Sikhs protesting vociferously against being singled out and stopped. They are seen demanding to know from a purported  policeman at the spot why others are being allowed to pass and only Sikhs were being stopped. To this, the purported policeman says: “Bhaisaheb, I am doing what I have been ordered. What the senior officers have ordered, that is what I am doing.” Delhi police made no comments about the video till late on Friday. Sources said the police were under instructions not to allow Punjab-registered vehicles inside the capital. Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal said it was an undeclared emergency and condemned Delhi police for allegedly detaining party workers who arrived in groups to take part in the “Black Friday” protest march. The protest march was organised from Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib to the Parliament building. The Akali Dal had left the BJP-led NDA over the farm bills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
18-09-2021||India||Modi cautions against 'new system' in Kabul; stays mum on Taliban||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday underscored the need for caution in recognising the “new system” in Kabul, saying its failure to be representative of all sections of Afghan society and its formation without negotiations raised questions about its acceptability. Modi, however, did not mention the Taliban even once while making his first detailed statement on the new government in Afghanistan. “The transition of power in Afghanistan is not inclusive, and it has happened without negotiation. This raises questions about the acceptability of the new system,’’ Modi said. The Prime Minister was addressing the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation-Collective Security Treaty Organisation outreach session on Afghanistan. He addressed the session, hosted on the sidelines of the SCO summit in Dushanbe, Tajikistan, virtually. The CSTO is a Russia-led Eurasian military alliance of some former Soviet Union countries. Modi said it was important that women, minorities and all other sections of Afghanistan’s diverse society were given representation. “Therefore, it is necessary that the decision on recognition of such a new system is taken by the global community collectively and after due thought. India supports the central role of the United Nations on this issue,’’ Modi said. The Prime Minister warned “if instability and fundamentalism persist in Afghanistan, it will encourage terrorists and extremist ideologies all over the world. Other extremist groups may also be encouraged to come to power through violence.’’ The Prime Minister warned about the added risks involved in the large amount of unregulated weapons in circulation in Afghanistan, saying it could cause instability in the region. He added that drugs posed another problem. On the humanitarian needs of Afghanistan, he said India remained committed to help the people of that country. Earlier, in the morning, while addressing the SCO plenary, Modi had dwelt on radicalisation and the need to use the moderate and progressive cultural values of Central Asia to address this growing trend. “If we look at history, we will find that the region of Central Asia has been a bastion of moderate and progressive cultures and values. Traditions like Sufism have flourished here over the centuries and spread throughout the region and the world. We can still see their influence in the cultural heritage of this region. On the basis of this historical heritage of Central Asia, the SCO should develop a common template to fight radicalisation and extremism. “In India, and almost in all SCO countries, there are moderate, tolerant and inclusive institutions and traditions associated with Islam. The SCO should work to develop a strong network between them,” Modi said. While condemning terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, the Dushanbe Declaration that was adopted at the end of the summit said: “Member States note the inadmissibility of interference in the internal affairs of States under the pretext of countering terrorism and extremism, as well as the inadmissibility of the use of terrorist, extremist and radical groups for vested interests.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
18-09-2021||India||Rajesh Bindal on list for elevation as chief justice of Allahabad HC||The Supreme Court collegium on Friday recommended the elevation of Calcutta High Court acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal as chief justice of Allahabad High Court, the country’s largest high court with a sanctioned strength of 160 judges. The collegium offered some cheer to another judge who had sent Amit Shah to CBI custody and since then lost out on several prestigious postings. Tripura High Court Chief Justice Akil Kureshi, left out by the collegium last month from a list of candidates for elevation to the Supreme Court, has been recommended for transfer to Rajasthan High Court. Justice Kureshi had remanded Shah in CBI custody in 2010 in the Sohrabuddin Sheikh fake encounter case. In 2019, the Narendra Modi government refused the collegium’s recommendation to elevate Justice Kureshi as chief justice of Madhya Pradesh High Court. The collegium, headed by then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi, eventually recommended elevating Justice Kureshi as Tripura High Court chief justice and the Centre obliged. Tripura High Court has a sanctioned strength of four judges while its Madhya Pradesh counterpart has 40. Rajasthan High Court has a sanctioned strength of 50 judges. Overall, the collegium of Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana and Justices U.U. Lalit and A.M. Khanwilkar recommended the elevation of eight judges as high court chief justices, and the transfer of five chief justices and 28 other high court judges. New CJs (recommended): Allahabad (Rajesh Bindal), Calcutta (Prakash Srivastava), Andhra Pradesh (Prashant Kumar Mishra), Karnataka (Ritu Raj Awasthi), Telangana (Satish Chandra Sharma), Meghalaya (Ranjit V. More), Gujarat (Aravind Kumar) and Madhya Pradesh (R.V. Malimath). CJ transfers (recommended): Arup Kumar Goswami (Andhra Pradesh to Chhattisgarh), Mohd Rafiq (Madhya Pradesh to Himachal Pradesh), Akil Qureshi (Tripura to Rajasthan), Indrajit Mahanty (Rajasthan to Tripura) and Biswanath Somadder (Meghalaya to Sikkim).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
18-09-2021||India||Kerala minister meets 'narcotic jihad' bishop||The Kerala government on Friday sent a minister to meet a Catholic bishop whose allegations about “love jihad” and “narcotic jihad” have sparked outrage, while back-channel efforts at damage control have begun within the Christian community with some clergymen and reformers taking the initiative. Minister for cooperation V.N. Vasavan told reporters his visit to Bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt of the Pala Diocese was just a courtesy call, his statement reflecting the Left Democratic Front government’s cautious handling of the sensitive issue. “We did not discuss this issue. Instead, we spoke about social issues and I told him about the stand taken by our government,” Vasavan said without explaining what these “social issues” were. Pressed, he said: “The chief minister has already spoken about the government’s stand on this (the bishop’s controversial remarks). So, neither the government nor the Church has anything to say about it now.” Kallarangatt had on September 8 alleged that Muslim extremists were luring Christian women into conversion and radicalism and Christian men into drug addiction. “Only religious extremists are discussing this issue. But the government is not ready to compromise with extremists from any religion, whether majority or minority,” Vasavan said. A source connected to a church told The Telegraph that a backroom initiative to control damage had begun under the leadership of Bishop Geevarghese Mor Coorilos of the Niranam Diocese of the Jacobite Syrian Church, who has already spoken out against Kallarangatt’s allegations. “As far as I know, this peace initiative is proceeding with the full knowledge of the state government, which prefers back-channel interventions because of the sensitivity of the issue,” the source, who declined to be named, said. Several Christian reformists have been doing their bit. “I have spoken to some bishops who were reluctant to do anything openly although they too felt this issue should not get out of hand,” the president of the Joint Christian Council, Felix Pulludan, told this newspaper. The Catholic Church is yet to come forward to address the volatile situation fuelled by Kallarangatt’s allegations. “Those who support the bishop are eyeing temporary gains by associating with the BJP. They don’t see the long-term damage this can cause to Kerala’s society,” Pulludan said. The Left government’s initiative of sending Vasavan to the bishop comes at a time the CPM has cautioned its cadres about minority extremism stemming from insecurity created by the Sangh parivar. A party booklet distributed last week at various CPM events mentioned attempts by minority extremists to recruit women from professional colleges. While the state government has been cautious in handling the sensitive issue involving two minority communities, the Congress-led United Democratic Front has castigated the Pala bishop saying his remarks are posing a threat to communal amity. State Congress president K. Sudhakaran called on Kallarangatt on Thursday after he and the leader of the Opposition, V.D. Satheesan, met Archbishop Mar Joseph Perunthottam of the Changanassery Diocese who had supported the Pala bishop’s controversial claims. The BJP is the lone party to have openly backed Kallarangatt. It has organised solidarity marches in support of his allegations, and several of its leaders have visited Kallarangatt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
18-09-2021||India||Youth Congress observes Modi's birthday as 'Unemployment Day'||The Congress on Friday wondered what Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday should be celebrated for — unemployment, destruction of democracy or selling national assets to crony capitalists. Though Modi’s birthday was observed as “Unemployment Day” by the Youth Congress last year as well, the party had avoided using the occasion for political warfare despite its irreconcilable differences with the BJP. But with the BJP going all out on Friday to use Modi’s birthday to try to undo the damage to the Prime Minister’s image in the pandemic, the Congress too did not pull its punches. Rahul Gandhi stuck to the customary birthday wish in the morning, but later tweeted: “There would have been no need for National Unemployment Day if the BJP worked for the people, not for friends.” The Congress held a news conference at which spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “Unemployment Day is being observed today by the youth across the country; it is an unmatched Twitter trend since morning. Women are observing the Prime Minister’s birthday as ‘Mehngai Diwas’ and farmers as ‘Kisan-Virodhi’ day. There are other achievements of the Prime Minister, which too cannot be forgotten — India is on sale and democracy is being attacked. We could also observe the day as ‘Covid mismanagement Day’ or ‘ED-Income Tax raid Day’. These issues make Modi’s legacy.” The party staged massive demonstrations in many states where slogans such as “Narendra Modi sharm karo” accompanied banners and posters on the jobs crisis. The Youth Congress joined the call to observe September 17 as “National Unemployment Day”, lending its might to the social media campaign. The Youth Congress not only changed its profile picture on Twitter to amplify the “National Unemployment Day” message, but also posted hundreds of videos and messages containing jobs data to ensure the topic trended worldwide throughout the day with millions of tweets. The Mahila Congress worked separately to highlight the burden of inflation, focusing on the prices of petroleum products and edible oil. The Youth Congress chipped in by selling pakoda and sabji-bhaji at several places, and polishing shoes in markets to highlight the scourge of unemployment. The messages posted on social media pointed out how engineers and post-graduates were applying for the post of peons and appointments were not being done in government jobs despite selection. Shrinate said: “Every Prime Minister is known for something. We have to look at the achievements of Modi as Prime Minister in the last seven years and what comes to mind is unemployment, cruelty to farmers, high prices of essential commodities — with petrol selling at Rs 100-plus and edible oil at Rs 200-plus, India being on sale in the name of monetisation of assets, playing havoc with people’s lives by Covid mismanagement and data manipulation, attack on democratic institutions and raid on rivals and critics by central agencies.” Asking the Prime Minister to worry about governance instead of headline management, Shrinate said: “Instead of delivering on his promise to create two crore jobs every year, his policies have ensured lakhs of jobs disappear every month.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
18-09-2021||India||Centre approves women CRPF for VVIP security duty||The Union home ministry has given its go-ahead to the Central Reserve Police Force to deploy its women constables for VVIP security duty, sources in the country’s largest paramilitary force said. “This is the first time the CRPF will deploy women constables for VVIP duty. We have initially selected 30 women constables and they will be given two months’ training before being deployed for VVIP duty,” said a senior CRPF official. The CRPF provides security cover to 62 VVIPs, including Union home minister Amit Shah, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Congress working president Sonia Gandhi and party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, among others. In December 2018, a parliamentary panel had asked the government to speed up the process of handing over VIP security to the special security group of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and relieve other paramilitary forces of their responsibility of guarding high-profile dignitaries. “The home ministry had then said two paramilitary forces — the CRPF and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) — would be phased out of VIP duties and the task assigned to the CISF special security group specially created for such responsibilities. But nothing happened after that and the two paramilitary forces continue to provide VVIP security cover,” said a CRPF official. The parliamentary panel recommended that the home ministry should progressively assign security of all VIP protectees, apart from high-risk protectees, to the CISF’s special security group. The committee had said that the ministry should implement this plan at the earliest and put an end to the issue of multiple forces being assigned the task of VIP security. Central paramilitary forces, including the CRPF and the National Security Guard (NSG), have over the past year urged the Centre to take them off VIP security duties and reduce their workload. Earlier in 2002, a group of ministers had recommended that the CISF be ideally assigned the task of VIP security and suggested that the ITBP, the CRPF and other security agencies be relieved of VIP duties so they could focus on the tasks they had been created for. VIP security has four categories — “Z-plus” (38 guards), “Z” (24 guards), “Y” (11 guards) and “X” (two guards). On an average, VIP security costs the exchequer nearly Rs 390 crore a year. “VIP culture continues no matter which party is in power. The home ministry has failed to act on the parliamentary panel’s recommendation and so far has not pulled out central paramilitary forces from such duties,” an NSG official said. The home ministry provides security to individuals depending on assessments of threat to their lives and the cover is continued, withdrawn, downgraded or upgraded based on periodic reviews.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
18-09-2021||India||Indian astrophysicist and teacher passes away at 64||Thanu Padmanabhan, an Indian astrophysicist who tweaked Albert Einstein’s theory of gravitation to explain an all-pervasive mysterious energy in the universe and was viewed by India’s science community as an outstanding teacher and mentor, passed away on Friday. He was 64. Padmanabhan — fondly known as Paddy — who was at the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA), Pune, and worked on cosmology and gravity among other physics areas was among the most-cited authors in the physical sciences from India, his fellow scientists said. “Scholar, communicator, extraordinary scientist, friend to many. He will be much missed,” principal scientific adviser to the government Krishnaswamy VijayRaghavan tweeted. Padmanabhan, whose work on gravity provides a possible understanding of so-called dark energy, a repulsive force discovered in the late 1990s that pushes everything in the universe away from everything else, was also known for his efforts at science communication through books, columns and wit. “Paddy was deeply engaged in all levels of the academic process,” said Somak Raychaudhury, IUCAA’s director who had known Padmanabhan for over 35 years. “His textbooks are among the most widely read and each of his popular books on science are unique in every way.” Padmanabhan’s lectures on myriad topics of physics available on various online platforms have “guided many a soul into physics”, said Ajay Thakur, an associate professor of physics at the Indian Institute of Technology, Patna, whose own research deals with another physics field. Among Padmanabhan’s many books, Thakur recalled, was one titled Sleeping Beauties in Theoretical Physics. “Padmanabhan’s wit shines through all his books,” said Raychaudhury. And his website that features the line: “Beam me up Scotty! There is no intelligent life out here,” a reference to a character and a line from the acclaimed US TV series Star Trek. In 2016, Padmanabhan won a 10-year old bet with a physicist David Wiltshire at the University of Canterbury, New Zealand, who had challenged his ideas, and received a $200 decorative lamp that Padmanabhan placed in his living room. At an international physics symposium in 2006, Padmanabhan claimed there was no evidence to contract his hypothesis. Wiltshire took up the challenge — and lost the wager in 2016. “I don’t think I’m going to make any more money from the cosmological constant,” Padmanabhan had said in 2016. Through his career, Padmanabhan had won multiple awards, including the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize, a prestigious award from the Indian government, the Infosys Foundation Prize, among other national and international awards. Padmanabhan post-graduated in physics from Kerala University before joining the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai, for his PhD studies with the noted |Indian astronomer Jayant Narlikar as his supervisor. “He was committed to training young people and to reach out to the public.… He was still very young in his outlook and mind and had a long way to go,” said Raychaudhury who had first met Padmanabhan when he was a student at Cambridge and Padmanabhan was a visiting fellow there. “This is a loss beyond repair not just for his friends, students and associates, but for the Indian science community at large,” Raychaudhury said. Padmanabhan is survived by his wife Vasanthi and daugher Hamsa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
18-09-2021||India||Odisha High Court upholds state's cap on Durga idol height||The Orissa High Court on Friday rejected the petition filed by Balu Bazar Puja committee, one of the oldest Durga Puja committees of Cuttack, seeking relaxation on limiting the height of the Durga idol to four feet high. Special relief commissioner P.K. Jena told The Telegraph: “The high court upheld the state’s order on limiting the height of the idols to four feet. We will not make any comments on the issue.” The high court bench comprising Chief Justice S. Muralidhar and judge B.P. Routray in its order on Friday declined to interfere with the order issued by the Odisha government which contained, among several other measures, a restriction on the height of the idols by mandating that it should not exceed four feet. Last year, the court had permitted only these nine puja committees in Cuttack, which had already constructed the idols of Durga, to have idols over 4ft high. The court said the organisers of all pujas in the four months beginning August and ending November 2021 have been given sufficient notice of the restrictions “Second, while the Covid-19 situation now may not be the same as it was in these months in 2020, the country as a whole and Odisha too is still not free from it entirely. The apprehension that any large congregation of people might turn out to be a super spreader event is real,” the court said. The court further said: “Durga Puja is indeed a major festival in the country, particularly in the eastern region. While Cuttack itself reportedly has over 150 Durga Puja Samitis/Mandalis, all over Odisha the number would apparently be in thousands. Relaxing a restriction for just one Durga Puja Committee would trigger similar demands all over, making it difficult for the Government to strictly enforce the measures it has put in place at a time when the State is still in the grip of the Covid-19 pandemic.”The court also pointed out that barring the petitioners, it appears that none of the other Durga Puja Samitis have found the restrictions put in place by the impugned order on the height of the idol to be hurtful of public sentiment or interfering with their celebration of the events. “The impugned order dated August 9, 2021 ( referring  to SRC order to size of the idol less than 4 feet) has been issued taking into account all the Puja festivals in the months of August, September, October and November, 2021. These festivals include the Ganesh Puja, the Durga Puja, the Laxmi Puja, the Kali Puja and the Kartikeswar Puja. As noted in the impugned order, these are occasions where “people usually congregate and get in touch with each other to celebrate the festival/Puja during which it is not possible to adhere to COVID appropriate behaviour and such congregations have a potential to cause spread of the virus.” The court also observed that the Durga Puja festival itself is a combination of several elements of celebration, and the idol is but one important component. “In respect of these many elements there has had to be some amount of restriction on the scale and size. It is in that context that the restriction on the height of the idol has to be viewed. It cannot be singled out as an‘essential’ aspect of a tradition or practice without which, the festival itself may not have significance. On this particular aspect, the petitioners have not been able to convince the court that if the height of the idol is restricted to 4ft, then somehow the sanctity of the occasion, the devotion and fervour associated with the festival, and the religious sentiments of the people would be interfered with in a manner contrary to tradition,” the court observed. The court also said: “These may be matters of perception, but will have to be balanced against several countervailing interests and factors, which concern the health and safety of the public at large. These certainly are not easy decisions for the state to take. Equally, they are not to be interfered with lightly by the courts unless strong legal grounds exist.” The court is of the view that no case has been made out for modifying the condition in the Order dated August 9, 2021 (referring to SRC order to size of the idol less than 4ft), and that too only for the petitioners, that the height of the idol should not exceed 4 ft. “Accordingly, the writ petition is dismissed,” the order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
18-09-2021||India||Chhattisgarh government to set up Sevagram Ashram at Nava Raipur ||The Chhattisgarh government has decided to set up a Sevagram Ashram at Nava Raipur on the lines of the one in Wardha in Maharashtra to spread the philosophy of Mahatma Gandhi among the new generation. “The Sevagram for the 21st century is set to come up on 75-100 acres of land and will be built using clay, limestone and other natural materials to safeguard the memories of the freedom movement and keep the history alive and make the new generations learn from the Gandhian philosophies. “The work plan will be presented before October 2 (birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi) by the Nava Raipur Atal Nagar Development Authority,” a government spokesperson said. The inspiration behind the project is the Sevagram (village of service) in Wardha near Nagpur, founded in 1936 as a residence for Gandhi and his wife Kasturba to lead the freedom movement with a vision to serve the nation through rural reconstruction. The proposed Sevagram will have a visitors’ centre to spread Gandhian ideologies, arts and craft village, Vridh Ashram (for the elderly) and a school for the underprivileged. “The Visitors’ Centre will be a place to learn, a place to re-live, a place to remember Gandhi and to commemorate him. It intends to empower the locals by the economy generated by tourism, by celebrating the artisans of Chhattisgarh, by providing a second home for the elderly and by building a world-class system for knowledge for the best minds in the state with a motive to fight poverty,” a government communiqué stated. The proposed arts village will mirror the simplicity and traditions of the state and its people. “Chhattisgarh is known for its distinct arts and craft. Bastar, Raigarh and other districts of Chhattisgarh have various art forms using bell metal, wrought iron, terracotta, stone, fabric and bamboo. The tribal families in the Bastar and Sukma districts celebrate many festivals and fairs, which require ample common space for the villagers to set up such fairs and interact. “Sevagram will be a place where visitors will experience local arts and crafts, local cuisine through the community kitchen and host cultural events in an open-air theatre,” the communiqué added. Vridh Ashram is unique to Sevagram. It intends to become a second home for elderly people separated from their family and in need of care. “This ashram creates a holistic ecosystem that can offer its residents a quality of living and engagement with the other site activities. The idea of sustainable living having symbiosis between the elderly and site activities can make a very homelike experience. After all, Mahatma Gandhi believed that ‘the best way to find yourself is to lose yourself in the service of others’,” said a spokesperson. The school for the underprivileged will have a system inspired by the ancient gurukuls, well-equipped to empower young Indians to take over the 21st century. “The intent is to end poverty by providing education. As the saying goes — ‘The education of just one underprivileged child changes the future of many generations of the family as they are destined to move out of poverty’,” added the spokesperson. “The government also plans to make the project environmentally and financially self-sustainable by creating biodiversity parks and revenue streams by promoting arts and crafts and tourism. Building on the principles of sustainability, all the raw materials will be locally sourced,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
