19-09-2021||India||S Jaishankar holds 'cordial and productive' meeting with Saudi counterpart||The developments in Afghanistan and ways to further expand bilateral ties in areas of defence, trade, investment and energy were the key focus of the wide-ranging talks between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his visiting Saudi counterpart Faisal Bin Farhan Al Saud on Sunday.  After the talks, Jaishankar described the meeting as "cordial and productive" and he had a "very useful exchange" of views with Al Saud on Afghanistan, the Gulf region and the Indo-Pacific.  The external affairs minister said on Twitter that he urged early resumption of direct flights to Saudi Arabia and that it was agreed to work closely on all Covid-related challenges.  Al Saud arrived here on Saturday evening on a three-day visit, in the first ministerial trip from Saudi Arabia to India since the outbreak of the pandemic.  The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said the two sides deliberated on the developments in Afghanistan and explored ways to deepen ties in areas of defence, trade, investment and energy.  It said Jaishankar called for further relaxation in restrictions on travel from India to the Gulf nation while appreciating the country for the support provided to the Indian community during the Covid-19 pandemic.  "A cordial and productive meeting with Saudi FM HH @Faisalbinfarhan. Discussed our cooperation in the political, security and socio-cultural pillars of our strategic partnership," Jaishankar tweeted.  "Very useful exchange of views on Afghanistan, the Gulf and the Indo-Pacific," he said.  In a statement, the MEA said the ministers exchanged views on the developments in Afghanistan and discussed all matters related to their bilateral relationship and regional and international issues of mutual interest.  "The two ministers reviewed the implementation of the 'Strategic Partnership Council Agreement' signed between the two sides during the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Saudi Arabia in October 2019," the MEA said.  It said the two sides expressed satisfaction at the meetings held under the agreement and progress achieved.  "Both sides discussed further steps to strengthen their partnership in trade, investment, energy, defence, security, culture, consular issues, health care and human resources," the MEA said.  The MEA said the two sides also discussed bilateral cooperation in multilateral forums such as the United Nations, G-20 and Gulf Cooperation Council.  "The external affairs minister congratulated Saudi Arabia on its successful presidency of G-20 last year despite the Covid-19 pandemic," it said.  The Saudi foreign minister is scheduled to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday.  The visit by the Saudi foreign minister to India came at a time India has been engaged with all leading powers on the developments in Afghanistan following its takeover by the Taliban.  It is learnt that the situation in Afghanistan was a major area of focus of the talks between Jaishankar and Al Saud.  Being a major regional player, Saudi Arabia's position on the developments in Kabul assumes significance as several countries in the Gulf region including Qatar and Iran were playing a role in the Afghan peace process before the Taliban's capture of power.  In the Gulf region, India has been in touch with United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Iran over the unfolding developments in Afghanistan.  In reflection of India's views on the matter, Prime Minister Modi on Friday said the global community should decide "collectively" and "thoughtfully" on according recognition to the new set-up in Afghanistan in view of questions over its acceptability as the change of power was not "inclusive".  He made the remarks during a virtual address at a meeting on Afghanistan of the heads of state of the SCO and the Collective Security Treaty Organisation.  The defence and security ties between India and Saudi Arabia are witnessing gradual expansion.  Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane visited Saudi Arabia in December last in the first-ever visit by a head of the 1.3 million-strong Army to the strategically important Gulf nation.  Gen Naravane held extensive talks with senior military officials of that country with an aim to enhance bilateral defence cooperation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
19-09-2021||India||Puri Jagannath Temple: Treasure hunt for possible hidden valuables||A treasure hunt has started at the Emar Mutt (Monastry), located in the southeastern corner of the 12th Jagannath Mandir, with teams of archeologists armed with metal detectors searching for a lost hoard. The search started on Thursday is being carried out following a request by the Narayan Ramanuj Das, the Mahant (head) of Uttarparshwa Mutt, who is in charge of Emar Mutt. The Mutt authorities as well as historians suspect that a hoard of valuables is buried inside the premises. The belief that a stash is buried underground comes from discoveries of two earlier troves. In 2011, the police had stumbled on a treasure trove of 522 silver ingots weighing 18 tonnes inside the Mutt worth about Rs 90 crore. Earlier in April this year, 45 more silver ingots weighing about 35 kg each were found inside the Mutt. Apart from silver ingots, a silver tree and silver flowers, about 16 antique swords, and a bronze cow sculpture were also recovered from the Mutt, stablished by Ramanujacharya in 1050 when he came to Puri. A special team of the State Archaeology Department in presence of officials of Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA), Puri district collector Samarth Verma, Puri SP KV Singh and trust member of the Emar Mutt, began the search inside the premises of the Emar Mutt in the pilgrim town on Thursday to trace hidden valuables. Puri Sub-Collector, Bhabataran Sahu said: "As of now, no material was detected during Thursday's inspection. We will take appropriate action on the report of the technical team which scanned the premises." The treasures recovered earlier from the mutt are now kept in the state treasury in Puri and guarded by armed police. As many as 18 mutts belonging to Ramanuja sect was established in Puri by Ramanujacharya. All these mutts are closely linked to the Shree Jagannath Temple and are involved in rituals associated with the Temple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
19-09-2021||India||After Babul, another Bengal BJP MLA expresses anguish against party leadership||Expressing his anguish against the party's leadership, BJP's Raiganj MLA Krishna Kalyani on Sunday said he will take a decision on his political future soon if his grievances are not addressed. Speaking to reporters, Kalyani said those leaving the BJP must have serious grievances which have not been taken care of. "I have distanced myself from all programmes of the party and have given a deadline by which, issues raised by me should be addressed or else I will have to think," he said. Kalyani, however, did not elaborate on his grievances. Asked whether he will join some other party, Kalyani said that he was contemplating options and would make public his decision at the right time. MP Babul Supriyo and four MLAs, including Mukul Roy, have left the BJP to join TMC after assembly election results were declared on May 2. "It has to be seen on what circumstances they are leaving," Kalyani said. The TMC district leadership in Uttar Dinajpur said that they would welcome Kalyani to the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
19-09-2021||India||Tihar inmates to be professionally trained in sports||The Delhi Prisons Department will soon kick-start a new initiative to impart professional training to inmates of Tihar Jail in various sports, officials said on Sunday. Prison officials said two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, lodged in the Tihar jail after being arrested in the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl case which led to death of another wrestler, will also be allowed to engage in the activities as a participant if he shows interest. "Sushil Kumar is trained in wrestling but if he shows interest in playing badminton, volleyball or any other sports which is being organised under the new initiative, we will allow him to actively engage as a participant," a senior jail official said. “This is the first time that inmates of Tihar jail will be trained in sports with the help of coaches in a more professional and scientific manner,” jail officials said. Under the initiative, sponsored by the Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) as part of their CSR project, the inmates will be trained in six sports -- Kho-Kho, volleyball, badminton, basketball, chess and carrom, they maintained. According to jail administration, the IOCL will send professional coaches to Tihar twice a week to train interested inmates in each of these selected games. They will also provide necessary sports equipments and jerseys for 20 inmates in each sports, a senior jail official said. Director General (Delhi Prisons) Sandeep Goel said in collaboration with IOCL, the inmates will be soon trained by professional coaches in various sports. "Such activities will help create a positive and healthy atmosphere inside the prison. It will channelise their energy in a positive direction and most importantly, will help in keeping themselves both physically and mentally fit as well as healthy," he said. According to jail officials interested inmates and those who are already trained in such sports will be trained by the professional coaches so that they can further engage other inmates in these games. They said the female inmates lodged in central jail number six will be trained in badminton, chess and carrom. “It will also help these inmates in enhancing their performance in their annually held inter-jail sports competitions,” he said. “In the near future, such professional sports activities will be initiated in jails of Rohini and Mandoli as well,” jail officials said. According to prison officials, for over a month now, no new Covid cases has been reported among the inmates or staffs Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli jails. According to a latest data shared by authorities, 13,560 Covid vaccine doses have been administered to inmates in all the three jails, of which 11,609 were first doses and 1,951 were second jabs. The total number of inmates and staff in all the three jails is 17,100, prison officials said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
19-09-2021||India||Rajasthan issues guidelines to stop gaming addiction in children||The Rajasthan government has issued an advisory for parents and teachers suggesting measures to protect children from addiction to online gaming. The advisory issued by the Rajasthan Council of School Education on Saturday suggests technical points which are helpful in monitoring the activities and involvement of the children in gaming. The parents and teachers have been asked to keep a watch if children are behaving in an abnormal manner and whether they are mostly involved in online activities, sudden increase in time spent online, especially on social media, and they turn aggressive after using the internet. The advisory suggested establishing an "internet gateway" at home which will help in effectively monitoring their child's internet use. It also suggested that it should be ensured that the child accesses internet from a computer placed in family space. "In this age of technology, online gaming is very popular among children. The closure of schools due to the coronavirus pandemic has increased the use of mobile and internet among children, due to which the trend of online gaming among children has also increased rapidly," Sana Siddiqui, deputy commissioner of the council, said. She said these online games are easily accessible to children and are played on devices like computers, tablets and mobiles connected with the internet. "These games are designed in such a way that they excite the player to the extent of passion to play further. This is the reason why players become addicted to it and eventually suffer from gaming disorder due to which the educational and social life of the child is adversely impacted," Siddiqui said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
19-09-2021||India||Centre yet to take call on 68 names recommended by SC to appoint as HC judges||The government is yet to take a call on the recommendations made by the Supreme Court collegium on appointing a total of 68 judicial officers and advocates as judges of various high courts, sources aware of the procedure for appointment to the higher judiciary have said. Between August 8 and September 1 this year, the apex court collegium had processed over 100 names recommended by various high courts and had finally sent 68 names to the government for appointment as judges to 12 high courts. The government is yet to take a call on the names recommended by the SC collegium headed by Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, the sources said. Out of the 68 names, two from Karnataka and one from Jammu and Kashmir have been sent for a third time, while 10 others have been recommended for a second time. The rest are fresh recommendations. Prior to these recommendations, in a historic decision on August 17, the SC collegium had sent nine names, including three women, for elevation as judges of the Supreme Court. The names were cleared with significant pace by the government leading to their swearing-in as apex court judges on August 31. On Friday, the Supreme Court collegium is learnt to have recommended eight names of judges, including acting chief justice of Calcutta High Court Justice Rajesh Bindal, for their elevation as chief justices of different high courts. Besides, the marathon collegium meetings on Thursday and Friday have led to recommendations of transfer of five high court chief justices, including Tripura High Court Chief Justice Akil Kureshi, and 28 other high courts judges. The combined sanctioned strength of the 25 high courts of the country is 1,098 judges. As on September 1, there were 465 vacancies, according data put in public domain by the Law Ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
19-09-2021||India||Delhi BJP expels 3 councillors for 6 years over 'graft charges'||Cracking the whip over complaints of corruption, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Sunday expelled three municipal councilors from the party for six years, and said more heads will roll if they are found involved in financial irregularities. Gupta termed the action, coming months ahead of the three municipal corporations early next year, as BJP's "zero tolerance" policy. "Not just councilors but officers of the municipal corporations (MCDs) will also not be spared if they are found involved in corruption," Gupta told PTI. He said people should make videos if anyone "extorts" money from them in the name of MCDs and provide it to Delhi BJP so that FIR can be registered against them. The councillors who have been removed from the party over graft charges are Sadulajab councillor Sanjay Thakur in South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), New Ashok Nagar councillor Rajni Babloo Pandey in East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) and Mukherjee Nagar councillor Pooja Madan in North Delhi Municipal Corporation, according to the orders issued by Delhi BJP president. The move comes ahead of the civic polls early next year where corruption and mismanagement in municipalities is likely to be the main issue. "You (Sanjay Thakur) are informed that due to numerous complaints of corruption against you, you are removed from the primary membership of the party for six years. "You were many times made aware of this and asked to mend your corrupt behaviour but to no avail. You are removed from the party for six years with immediate effect," the expulsion letter issued to SDMC councillor Sanjay Thakur by Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said. Similar expulsion letters were also issued to EDMC councillor Rajni Babloo Pandey and North MCD councillor Pooja Madan. Calls made by PTI to seek response of the expelled councillors on the development went unanswered. The three civic bodies North, East and South are ruled by the BJP while the city government is headed by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). The AAP is the primary opposition party in three MCDs. The civic bodies are set to undergo election early 2022 where opposition parties (AAP and Congress) will corner the BJP over the issue of "burgeoning corruption". In 2017 civic polls, the BJP has not given tickets to any of the sitting councillors due to corruption allegations against them. In last one year many AAP leaders including CM Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia had raised the issues of corruption and mismanagement in civic bodies. They had held that corrupt practices by BJP councillors and officials as responsible for poor financial situation of the three municipalities. AAP leaders had alleged that many BJP councillors were involved in "extortion and other corrupt practices" in all the three civic bodies. In April this year, senior AAP leader and MLA from Greater Kailash Saurabh Bharadwaj had accused BJP's Saidulajab councillor Sanjay Thakur of being involved in corruption. Bharadwaj had said that Thakur has a "nexus with local builders" and "extorts money" from common people when they try to do any type of construction in the area. Similarly, in August last year, senior AAP leader Durgesh Pathak had accused New Ashok Nagar councillor Rajni Babloo Pandey and her kin of "extracting money" from people for illegally building houses in the area. The party had also released an audio recording between a builder and the councillor's brother-in-law where a man was purportedly heard saying that he had given money to civic officials and also to councillor's brother-in-law but still the construction was stalled. These allegations were, however, denied by the councillor as "baseless".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
19-09-2021||India||I follow my conscience, says Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa ||Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa,  who is being tipped to be Punjab's new chief minister, says that neither he nor anyone else in his family has ever hankered for any post and that he has always followed his conscience. When the mediapersons here had asked that can it be assumed that they were talking to the future chief minister, Randhawa quipped, " You are talking to a Congressman". In a veiled dig at Amarinder Singh, he then added, "A chief minister remains (in his post) only till the time when his party, people of the state stand by him". Asked how soon can one expect the name of new CLP leader to be announced, Randhawa said, "We have authorised Congress president in this regard." He said the party senior leadership has not only to talk to the MLAs, but other stalwarts too before finalizing the name. Asked why so much time is being taken to announce the CLP leader, he said, "If you have to make a village sarpanch, sometimes it takes 20 days to decide". However, he assured the new CLP leader's name would be announced on Sunday. On Amarinder Singh saying he felt humiliated, Randhawa replied, "So far, the BJP has changed five chief ministers. And in the Congress too, some chief ministers have been changed. In Congress, Amarinder Singh has the maximum tenure of nine-and-half years as chief minister. The honour he got, I think no other chief minister got so much." To a question over what caused differences with Amarinder Singh, he said, "When we felt that promises which were made and elections were near and the Congress high-command and we too felt worried". Randhawa had earlier this year joined hands with Navjot Singh Sidhu, and had targeted his own government over alleged failure to fulfil the promises made in the run-up to the 2017 polls including those related to the sacrilege incidents (in 2015). On Amarinder Singh's outbursts against Navjot Singh Sidhu after he resigned as chief minister, Randhawa termed it as "unfortunate" that a senior leader had used such words. "I think it is unfortunate that such words have been used against Punjab Congress chief by a senior leader," he said. "Even when there were differences with Amarinder Singh since April 26, but you must have never heard me speak any word against him in a disrespectful manner," said Randhawa. "Even today, I consider him like a father," said the Jails and Cooperation minister in the outgoing cabinet of Amarinder Singh. "...Till the time we (Amarinder Singh and Randhawa) were together, you saw that I was very close to him. When he hurt me, then I followed my conscience," Randhawa said. The names of former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, the party's current state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa are doing the rounds. The 79-year-old Amarinder Singh, one of the Congress' powerful regional satraps, had put in his papers after speaking to the Congress president and shortly before a crucial meeting of the CLP here on Saturday evening. He had later launched a no-holds-barred attack against Sidhu, describing his bete noire, a cricketer-turned-politician, as a "total disaster".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
19-09-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh has transformed completely since 2017, says Yogi in report card||Uttar Pradesh remained riot-free since 2017 while governance saw a complete transformation from the past with welfare schemes now reaching the deserving and the state emerging as number two in the ease of doing business, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday while making public the report card of his rule of four-and-half years. The BJP government has fulfilled every promise mentioned in the Lok Kalyan Sankalp Patra in 2017, he said and voiced confidence that the party' tally will cross 350 seats in the 403-member House in the 2022 assembly polls. The chief minister also hit out at the opposition, saying they were busy building their houses when they were in power and indulged in corruption for transfer and postings while the state was seen as a laggard in development and its image linked with riots. Uttar Pradesh is now number one in implementing 44 central schemes be it the PM Awas Yojna or construction of toilets in the households and its image is no longer liked with riots due to effective and transparent governance, Adityanath said at a press conference while listing the achievements in various fields including development, law and order and handling of the coronavirus pandemic. "Unlike them (previous governments), we did not make luxurious houses for ourselves. Our government focused on building houses for the poor," he said, taking a veiled dig at his predecessor Akhilesh Yadav. "Government bungalows were demolished, and there was a competition to build houses for themselves as well as huge 'havelis' (mansions). But the four-and-half years were dedicated to good governance. And we did not build houses for ourselves, but for 42 lakh poor people of the state," he said. He said criminals were firmly dealt with irrespective of their caste and religion to provide a safe and secure environment in the state. "UP remained free from any riots during four-and-half years unlike in the past when there used to be communal clashes every 3-4 days," the chief minister said. He also claimed the government displayed sensitivity at every level. Facing criticism over the handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, the chief minister pointed out that the state has the highest number of tests and vaccinations and is among those with the lowest positivity rates. He said the investors' confidence in the state is growing and UP has emerged as number 2 in the country in terms of ease of doing business. Accusing the previous SP government of shuffling officials frequently, Adityanath said, "Transfer and posting had assumed the shape of an industry in the previous (SP) government. Every post was sold. "Earlier, the officials were shuffled like a pack of cards. But in the past four-and-half years, no person can level allegations of exchange of money for posting." A booklet titled 'Vikaas kee lahar, har gaav har shahr' which listed achievements of the UP government was also released on the occasion. "In the 2022 Assembly elections, BJP will win 350 seats (out of 403 seats), and there should be no doubts on this," the chief minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
19-09-2021||India||In letter to Sonia, Amarinder expressed anguish over political developments||Hours before resigning as the Punjab chief minister, Amarinder Singh wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, expressing anguish over recent developments and concern that they may cause instability in the state. Singh had on Saturday written to Gandhi, apprising her of his decision. He said the political events of the last about five months were "clearly not based on full understanding of the national imperatives of Punjab and its key concerns." "Notwithstanding my personal anguish, I hope this will not cause any damage to the hard-earned peace and development in the state, and that the efforts I have been focusing on during the last few years would continue unabated, ensuring justice to one and all," Singh wrote in his letter to Gandhi, indicating his apprehension of instability in Punjab as a result of the political developments in the state unit of the Congress. At the same time, he expressed satisfaction at having done his best for the people as the chief minister of Punjab, which, as a border state, "has many geo-political and other internal security concerns, which I tried to handle effectively without any compromise." Congress veteran Singh resigned as chief minister of Punjab months ahead of the Assembly polls after a bruising power struggle with state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. After submitting his resignation to the Governor on Saturday, Singh had said he felt "humiliated" over the way the party handled the protracted crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
19-09-2021||India||Congress chooses Charanjit Singh Channi, a Dalit, as chief minister of Punjab ||Congress' Dalit face Charanjit Singh Channi was elected the leader of the Congress Legislature Party in Punjab on Sunday and will be the next chief minister, succeeding Amarinder Singh who resigned a day ago following a bitter power tussle in the party. AICC general secretary Harish Rawat said in a tweet, It gives me immense pleasure to announce that Sh. #CharanjitSinghChanni has been unanimously elected as the Leader of the Congress Legislature Party of Punjab." Channi (58), a minister in the outgoing Amarinder Singh cabinet, comes from the Dalit community. Channi's selection assumes significance as the dissension-driven Congress faces the Assembly polls in less than five months. The BJP had earlier announced that if voted to power in Punjab, it will make a Dalit the chief minister, while the SAD, which is fighting the coming polls in alliance with the BSP, had said that its Deputy Chief Minister would be from the Dalit community. Channi met the Punjab Governor and staked a claim to form the government, sources said, adding that Rawat and the party's central observers Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary accompanied him. Amarinder Singh said he hopes that Channi is able to keep the border state of Punjab safe. "My best wishes to Charanjit Singh Channi. I hope he's able to keep the border state of Punjab safe and protect our people from the growing security threat from across the border," he said. Earlier, senior Congress leader Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa was said to be the frontrunner for the post. However, after Channi's name was announced, Randhawa said, "I welcome the decision of the party high command." Another senior leader, Brahm Mohindra, too welcomed the election of Channi, who is considered close to state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Early in the day, hectic talks were held to finalise the name of new leader of the CLP, a day after Amarinder Singh resigned as the chief minister amid a bitter power tussle with Sidhu. Rawat, Maken and Harish Chaudhary who have been camping at a hotel here held discussions with the MLAs and took their feedback.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
19-09-2021||India||Ambika Soni says no to Punjab CM post, says a Sikh should take charge||Veteran Congress leader Ambika Soni on Sunday said she was offered the post of Punjab chief minister but has declined it as she feels that a Sikh should occupy the top post in the state. Amid hectic deliberations within the Congress to find a successor for Amarinder Singh who resigned on Saturday, Soni met Rahul Gandhi at his residence on Sunday for further discussions on the new chief minister. She had met Gandhi on Saturday night also and held long deliberations. "Yes, I was offered the post but I declined. I am of the view for the last 50 years that a Sikh leader should be the face of Punjab. I have explained this to the Congress chief," she told reporters. "I feel that a Sikh should be the chief minister in Punjab. There is just one state in the entire country where you have a Sikh CM," she said, while expressing the hope that a new CM will be declared today. Soni said a party exercise is underway in Chandigarh, where the AICC general secretary is present along with two observers who are meeting all the MLAs and asking them for their opinion. She also said that there was no tussle in in Punjab Congress. Party sources had earlier in the day said in Chandigarh that a consensus is yet to be made on the name of the new CLP leader, who will be the new chief minister of Punjab. The names of former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, current state state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa are doing the rounds. We will abide by whatever the party leadership decides, said a party leader. AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat and party's central observers Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary are currently in the city. Punjab Congress legislators on Saturday had authorised party president Sonia Gandhi to pick a new CLP leader. Congress veteran Capt. Amarinder Singh resigned as chief minister of Punjab with less than five months to go for the Assembly polls after a bruising power struggle with state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, and had said that he felt "humiliated" over the way the party handled the protracted crisis. The 79-year-old Amarinder Singh, one of the Congress' powerful regional satraps, had put in his papers after speaking to the party president and shortly before a crucial meeting of the CLP here on Satruday evening. He had later launched a no-holds-barred attack against Sidhu, describing his bete noire, a cricketer-turned-politician, as a "total disaster". Congress sources had said the party -- also battling dissensions in Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh where its governments are in power -- is trying to balance equations in the poll-bound state and is likely to appoint a Hindu face like Jakhar to the top post. Jakhar, who is not an MLA, is believed to be close to the top Congress leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
19-09-2021||India||Hope Amarinder Singh will work keeping in mind the interest of Congress, says Gehlot||A day after Congress veteran Capt. Amarinder Singh resigned as the Punjab chief minister, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot implored him to think about the party's interests and not do anything that may damage it. His remarks come after Singh on Saturday indicated that the dissension-driven party could see more tension. After submitting his resignation, Singh had said, "As far as my future politics is concerned, there is always an option and I will use that option when time comes." On Sunday, Gehlot said Singh is a respected leader and advised him to listen to his "inner voice" and keep the party's interest in forefront. "I hope that Captain Amarinder Singh will not take any such step which will harm the Congress party. Captain Sahib himself said the party had kept him as the Chief Minister for nine-and-a-half years. He has served the people of Punjab by working to the best of his capacity," Gehlot said in a statement posted on Twitter. "I personally believe that the Congress president chooses the chief minister at the risk of inviting displeasure of several leaders who are in the race for chief ministership. However, when the same CM is changed, he/she is displeased and holds the decision wrong," he said, adding that the high command sometimes has to take decisions in the interest of the party with feedback from MLAs and the people. Gehlot said the time now is to rise above oneself and think of the country and the Congress party. "The direction in which the country is moving due to fascist forces is a matter of concern for all the people. Therefore, at such a time, the responsibility of all of us Congressmen increases in the interest of the country. We have to rise above ourselves and think in the interest of the party and the country, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
19-09-2021||India||Congress meeting to choose new Punjab chief minister deferred||A meeting of the Punjab Congress Legislative Party, which was slated for 11 am on Sunday, has been deferred, with party sources saying that a consensus is yet to be made on the name of the new CLP leader. A party leader said the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) meeting has been deferred. Party sources said a consensus is yet to be made on the name of the new CLP leader, who will be the new chief minister of Punjab after the resignation of Amarinder Singh on Saturday. The name of former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, current state state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa are doing the rounds. "We will abide by whatever the party leadership decides," said a party leader. AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat and party's central observers Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary are currently in the city. Punjab Congress legislators on Saturday had authorised party president Sonia Gandhi to pick a new CLP leader. Congress veteran Capt. Amarinder Singh resigned as chief minister of Punjab with less than five months to go for the Assembly polls after a bruising power struggle with state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, and had said that he felt "humiliated" over the way the party handled the protracted crisis. The 79-year-old Amarinder Singh, one of the Congress' powerful regional satraps, had put in his papers after speaking to the party president and shortly before a crucial meeting of the CLP here on Satruday evening. He had later launched a no-holds-barred attack against Sidhu, describing his bete noire, a cricketer-turned-politician, as a "total disaster". Congress sources had said the party -- also battling dissensions in Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh where its governments are in power -- is trying to balance equations in the poll-bound state and is likely to appoint a Hindu face like Jakhar to the top post. Jakhar, who is not an MLA, is believed to be close to the top Congress leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
19-09-2021||India||WHO to take decision on emergency nod for Covaxin in October||The Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization (SAGE) of the World Health Organisation would be meeting in October to make its recommendations on Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin on Emergency Use Listing. Bharat Biotech is expected to give a presentation on the Vaccine's safety and efficacy data of clinical trials (phase 1-3 trial results and post marketing)and Risk management plans and other implementation considerations, according to the SAGE draft agenda. SAGE is authorised with advising WHO on overall global policies and strategies, ranging from vaccines and technology, research and development, to delivery of immunization and its linkages with other health interventions. Hanna Nohynek, member of SAGE, will be presenting a draft recommendation for the vaccine and the session will make its recommendations. The session will thoroughly discuss the clinical data on Covaxin from phase 1, 2, 3 trials and post marketing studies on safety, immunogenicity, efficacy and effectiveness, besides update on global, regional and country level plans for vaccine safety monitoring, the agenda said. Bharat Biotech recently said it has submitted all the data pertaining to Covaxin to the WHO for EUL and is awaiting feedback from the global health watchdog. The WHO is currently reviewing the data submitted by the vaccine maker and the date for a decision on the jab is yet "to be confirmed," according to the update available on the WHO website. In an update on its website, the WHO said it began rolling data of the vaccine on July 6. Rolling data allows the WHO to start its review right away, as information continues to come in, to accelerate the overall review process. Covaxin is one of the six vaccines that have received emergency use authorisation from India's drug regulator and is being used in the nationwide inoculation programme, along with Covishield and Sputnik V.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
19-09-2021||India||India logs 30,773 Covid-19 cases, 309 fresh fatalities||With 30,773 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a single day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,34,48,163, while the active cases declined to 3,32,158, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll climbed to 4,44,838 with 309 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.99 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.68 per cent, the ministry said. A reduction of 8,481 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 15,59,895 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 55,23,40,168 The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.97 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 20 days The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.04 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 86 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,26,71,167, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 80.43 crore according to the ministry. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 309 new fatalities include 143 from Kerala and 80 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,44,838 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,469 from Maharashtra, 37,587 From Karnataka, 35,310 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 23,439 from Kerala, 22,887 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,641 from Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
19-09-2021||India||PM says 'a political party got fever' seeing India set vaccine record||Fresh from his 71st birthday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi wise-cracked on Saturday that “a political party ran a fever” after India administered a record 22.6 million Covid vaccines on Friday. Modi must have meant the Congress, some of whose leaders had raised questions about the timing. But a break-up of the vaccination data suggests that several states run by the BJP or its friends did indeed experience feverish activity on Friday and relative drowsiness just before the surge in the administration of doses. Six states ruled by the BJP or its allies accounted for 67 per cent of the over 22 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered on Friday, and some showed dips in daily doses just before Friday’s record sharp rise. The final Friday figure was revised to 22.6 million on Saturday. The number of doses administered in the six states — Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh — on Friday ranged three-fold to 15-fold higher than their own average daily doses over the previous seven days, according to the vaccination data. These six states account for 15.2 million of the 22.62 million doses administered across the country on Friday, coinciding with Modi’s birthday. On Saturday, during a virtual interaction with health workers and vaccine recipients in Goa, Modi said without taking names: “More than 2.5 crore people were inoculated. Some of them experiencing side effects is known. But for the first time I have heard that after midnight yesterday, a political party experienced a reaction, it ran a fever.” The session was seen as an attempt to build on the campaign the BJP has launched to bolster the government’s image scarred during India’s second Covid-19 wave. “Birthdays come and go. I have stayed aloof from such things. But yesterday was emotional for me, an unforgettable occasion,” Modi added. In Bihar, Gujarat and Karnataka, the daily doses administered one to three days prior to Friday’s record rise fell below their own seven-day averages, in line with suggestions by some health experts that authorities are orchestrating the vaccination campaign for dramatic effects. “We don’t have anything in social science that can explain why six million people sought vaccines on Thursday, over 22 million on Friday, then only 8 to 10 million on Saturday,” Rijo John, a health economist and adjunct professor at the Rajagiri College of Social Sciences, Kochi, told The Telegraph. Nearly 8.4 million doses were administered on Saturday. John and other experts tracking the vaccination campaign said the demand for jabs would be expected to display an overall rising trend with minor fluctuations — as more and more people seek inoculation — until the drive approaches completion or encounters hesitancy. “It can’t be that 2 crore people realised one day they want the vaccine. If awareness has abruptly grown across society, that momentum should continue,” John said. “We don’t see that. This can only mean the sharp rises are carefully planned.” A health official involved in the vaccination campaign had told this newspaper on Friday that such sharp spikes in daily doses were facilitated by an increase in the number of vaccination centres activated. The official said such large abrupt increases needed preparations through at least two weeks of planning during which vaccines, staff and recipients need to be mobilised. The number of active vaccination centres on Saturday was over 65,600 compared with 109,000 on Friday and 58,000 on Thursday. Karnataka showed the sharpest rise on Friday compared with its average over the previous seven days, administering 3 million doses, a 15-fold increase over its average of 199,000 doses from September 10-16. The state had administered only 81,000 doses on Thursday and 185,000 doses on Wednesday. Bihar’s Friday dose count was over 3.2 million, a 7-fold increase over the state’s average of 463,000 daily doses over the previous seven days. On the three days before Friday, the state had administered 380,000, 145,000 and 86,000 doses. Uttar Pradesh on Friday administered over 2.8 million doses, a three-fold increase over its immediate 7-day average of 839,000 doses. Except for Maharashtra and Rajasthan where Friday’s counts increased two to three times their 7-day average, several non-BJP states did not show similar sharp spikes. Bengal had administered 402,000 doses on Friday, close to its immediate 7-day average of 431,000 doses. In Delhi, around 153,000 people received doses on Friday, compared with an average of 126,000 daily doses over the previous seven days. “Such sudden spurts are likely to require massive efforts to mobilise recipients — how this is done over how many days is unclear,” a public health expert not associated with the vaccination campaign said. The campaign had administered over 14 million doses on August 31 and nearly 12 million doses on September 6. A health official has said more such surge days should be expected as the number of available doses increase in the coming weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
19-09-2021||India||Film spotlights ‘price’ paid by Bhima Koregaon 16 ||At the beginning, Father Stan Swamy appears on screen to say that what is happening to him is not happening to him alone. The film ends with the Jesuit declaring he is “ready to pay the price, whatever it may be”. An emotive yet simple narrative of the nearly four-year-old Elgaar Parishad case and the 16 rights activists, writers and lawyers arrested in connection with it was to release at an online film festival on Saturday night. The documentary, BK16 and the Incarceration of Justice, is about the detainees, who have come to be known as the “Bhima Koregaon 16” after the place near Pune where caste violence broke out during an Ambedkarite pilgrimage in 2018. One of the 16 — Father Stan, a Jesuit and tribal rights defender from Jharkhand – died of Covid-related complications in custody in July. The investigators have linked the accused to a Maoist plot. Produced by the Delhi-based NGO Karwan-e-Mohabbat, the 13-minute film edited and narrated by Anam Sheikh starts with the funeral service of the 84-year-old Father Stan. After a short introduction, Father Stan is shown in a video — recorded before his arrest in Ranchi last October — saying: “What is happening to me is not something unique happening to me alone. It is the broader process taking place all over the country.” He then briefly speaks about the widespread arrests of intellectuals in the case, which many see as a government crackdown on dissenters. Among the accused, Telugu litterateur Varavara Rao, Delhi University teacher Hany Babu M.T. and balladeer Jyoti Jagtap too contracted Covid. Rao, who is almost 81, is out on bail. The film’s creative producer, Natasha Badhwar, said the documentary was an attempt to refresh public memory and highlight the detainees’ plight. “It is our response to the wrongful incarceration of the BK16, including Fr Stan Swamy, and the many others arrested during the pandemic, the lack of medical care, and the Arsenal report that shows evidence was planted on many of the accused. (It’s) also to answer the question: what really happened at Bhima Koregaon?” Badhwar said. A US-based data forensics firm, Arsenal Consulting, has claimed that “evidence” was planted on the computers of two of the accused — Delhi-based human rights activist Rona Wilson and Nagpur lawyer Surendra Gadling — through malware. Both the National Investigation Agency, which is probing the case, and the Maharashtra police which had started the investigation, have opposed the admission of Arsenal’s reports in Bombay High Court. The film quotes Father Stan, a patient of Parkinson’s Disease, from the court hearings to highlight how his health had deteriorated during his eight months in Navi Mumbai’s Taloja jail. It shows footage of rights activist Umar Khalid, who’s not among the BK 16 and is in jail custody in Delhi on terrorism charges, accused of inciting the February 2020 Delhi riots through his protests against the new citizenship regime. Umar had attended the Elgaar Parishad event in Pune on December 31, 2017, and spoken about the historic importance of the 1818 Battle of Koregaon, in which a largely Dalit army had defeated the Peshwas. It’s on January 1, 2018 —the bicentennial of the Battle of Koregaon, which the Elgaar Parishad event was remembering — that the Bhima Koregaon caste clash that killed a man took place. Interviews of Hany Babu, legal activist Sudha Bharadwaj, and cartoonist and lawyer Arun Ferreira — all BK16 members — are also shown. The counter-narrative from the prosecutors and Tushar Damgude — the Pune businessman whose police complaint started the case — is absent. “Because of the pandemic and the restrictions on movement, we were unable to speak to anybody in Pune,” Badhwar explained. “We have put together facts that are already in the public domain, and put them in one place to answer questions like who filed the first FIR? How long did the police take to act on the FIRs filed by the Dalit activist (Anita Sawale) as well as the Hindutva groups? Who were the accused (of the caste violence, Sambhaji Bhide and Milind Ekbote) and how they were initially not arrested, and have still not been chargesheeted.” Sawale had accused Bhide and Ekbote — who have been linked to the Sangh parivar —of engineering the caste violence. Ekbote was arrested briefly before securing bail. The BK16 documentary ends with Father Stan saying: “I am happy to be part of this process because I am not a silent spectator. I am part of it, part of the game and ready to pay the price, whatever it may be.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
19-09-2021||India||Adolf Hitler cloud on BA history syllabus proposed by UGC||A BA history syllabus proposed by the University Grants Commission has attracted charges of promoting unverified claims and a “racial theory” of history reminiscent of Adolf Hitler’s Germany. Leading historians including Irfan Habib, Aditya Mukherjee and Pankaj Jha lambasted the draft syllabus at a webinar on “Defending the historian’s craft” on Friday. “In the UGC syllabus, a major share is devoted to the Aryans. By claiming India was a homeland for Aryans, we are doing what the Germans did. Purely a racial theory is being imposed,” Habib said. “Hitler had this theory that the Germans are a pure race. What happened in Germany should be a lesson for us. A kind of false history is being put forth by the RSS and the BJP.” Habib added: “There is no reference to the caste system as if it did not exist. It runs down the composite culture. Even the social reform movement of Raja Rammohan Ray finds no mention.” The UGC had unveiled the draft “Learning Outcome-based Curriculum Framework” for BA history in February and sought feedback from stakeholders. It is yet to finalise the syllabus, which glorifies the Vedic period and Hindu religious texts and diminishes the importance of Muslim rule. It plays up the “Indus-Saraswati Civilisation”, whose provenance is disputed. This is the first full-fledged history syllabus prepared by the higher education regulator, which had in the past suggested that individual universities would be allowed only “20 to 30 per cent deviation” from any syllabus it framed. Jha, a history professor at Lady Shri Ram College, said the proposed syllabus challenged history as a discipline. “This document starts with a theme, ‘the idea of Bharat’. The details under this theme show things that have no evidence,” he said. “The biggest problem is that you do not know who made this syllabus. The names of the syllabus makers are confidential.” Instead of focusing on factual history in the first paper, the draft promotes topics like “Eternity of Synonyms Bharat” and the greatness of the Vedas, Vedangas, Upanishads, Smritis and Puranas. While the existing Delhi University syllabus devotes three papers to the period from the 13th century to the 18th, the draft syllabus covers the period in one paper. “The idea of history as a discipline allows a multiplicity of views, based on verifiable information. All that is entirely ruled out in this syllabus,” Jha said. Mukherjee said State power was being used to construct an “imagined history”. He said the current trend of promoting a sectarian ideology in the garb of history resembled what the British did to stay in power. “The notion of permanent British rule was brought in. They (the British) tried to project themselves as if they were here to protect one community from the other. Their effort was to create divisions. The communalist parties helped the British,” Mukherjee said. He said the idea of religion being the bearer of nationhood was again being pushed. A.K. Mohapatra, dean of the School of International Studies at JNU, who describes himself as a “subscriber to the cultural nationalist ideology”, told The Telegraph that Leftist historians had hidden the truth to spread their line on India’s syncretic culture. “Professional historians are required to tell all that had happened, based on evidence,” he said. Mohapatra accused Leftist historians of covering up Aurangzeb’s demolition of Hindu temples and ignoring what he said was the fact of the Babri Masjid being built over a demolished temple. He said the Hindus were inherently secular and that “multi-culturalism is inherent to Hinduism”. Jha countered Mohapatra, saying a person’s religion is rarely if ever the sole determinant of whether they would subscribe to secularism and multiculturalism or become a fanatic or communalist. “It’s true that Left historians did not talk about Aurangzeb demolishing temples, but they did not refer to the Chalukyas and Cholas demolishing temples, either,” he said. “Nor did they mention that the only king (Harsha of Kashmir) to actually appoint an official to destroy the enemy territory’s temples was not a Muslim.” Left historians believe that the material aspects of life are more important to understanding history and therefore focused on economic history and the State as an instrument of exploitation, Jha said. The webinar was organised by the Democratic Teachers’ Front, a Left-backed association of Delhi University teachers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
19-09-2021||India||Kerala: Christian and Muslim communities end one row||Conciliatory efforts by leaders of two minority communities have led to the removal of objectionable content against Muslims from a catechism textbook published by a Kerala Christian diocese and provided a possible template on easing the tensions fuelled by a statement from a Catholic bishop. M.K. Muneer, the Indian Union Muslim League MLA from Koduvally in Kozhikode, led a delegation of community leaders to meet Bishop Remigiose Inchananiyil and his clergymen from the Diocese of Thamarassery in the district late on Friday evening over the controversial catechism textbook for Classes X to XII. What followed was an immediate agreement to remove the content that showed Muslims in poor light and an expression of regret. Bishop Inchananiyil issued a media statement announcing the withdrawal of the controversial contents within minutes of the meeting that started around 7pm, an Islamic scholar who was part of the discussion said. “Bishop Remigiose Inchananiyil informed about the withdrawal of a portion related to Islam in the book, titled Truth and Realities in 33 Questions and Answers, at a meeting held to discuss the matter. He expressed regret at hurting the religious sentiments of Muslims over some remarks in the book. The meeting held under the chairmanship of Koduvally MLA M.K. Muneer decided to work for communal harmony and against social ills,” the statement in Malayalam said. Dr Hussain Madavoor, the Islamic scholar, told The Telegraph on Saturday: “It seemed the bishop had already decided to remove the hurtful contents since he immediately agreed to our objections, apologised for the lapse and said the book had been printed without his knowledge.” The smooth reconciliation had shown that communal harmony could be strengthened through dialogue, cooperation and mutual respect as secularism was the “prime driver” of Kerala’s society, Church officials said. The row over the catechism textbook had erupted a few days after Bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt of the Pala Diocese in Kottayam had told Christians to protect their children from “love jihad” and “narcotic jihad”. The choice of the phrases was seen as a deafening dog whistle targeting Muslims although the bishop’s supporters sought to claim that he was addressing his flock and his objective was to caution families against the drug menace among the youths. The subsequent exchanges in the public domain saw tensions rising between sections of Christians and Muslims like never before in a state where the minorities together account for around 45 per cent of the population and wield considerable political and economical influence. The balance is so delicately poised that even the usually assertive CPM-led government faced charges of walking the tightrope, unwilling as it was to antagonise any group by taking stringent action. CPM sympathisers have sought to defend party and government by saying that sagacity and restraint, not accusations that can drive the situation out of control, should be the immediate priority. The BJP, which has been unable to break out of its marginal role in state politics in spite of repeated attempts, has been accused of fishing in troubled waters by supporting the bishop and hoping to pit Christians against Muslims. Madavoor urged the state government to grab the initiative after the success of the conciliatory meeting in Kozhikode and call an all-party meeting involving religious leaders from both communities. “All parties (barring the BJP) have objected to the bishop’s (Kallarangatt’s) comments. We now need the government to organise a meeting so that this controversy can be buried forever,” Madavoor said. He suggested that Muslim leaders could meet the Pala bishop without harping on his inflammatory remarks. “We will not utter a word about what has already been said. The bishop could say he had referred only to extremists in our community. That should be sufficient to end this issue.” Madavoor said the Muslim delegation in Kozhikode had also offered to work with the Church to protect youths from drug abuse. While the Left government had on Thursday sent cooperation minister V.N. Vasavan to meet Kallarangatt, it was the Opposition Congress that has been playing the lead role of trouble-shooter. The Congress’s Kerala president, K. Sudhakaran, had met the bishop on Thursday after he and leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan met Changanassery Diocese Archbishop Mar Joseph Perumthottam, who had backed Kallarangatt. The Major Archbishop-Catholicos of the Syro-Malankara Catholic Church, Baselios Cardinal Cleemis, has called for extra attention to maintain communal harmony in Kerala. “This is a time when we need to give a lot of attention, love and care to the relationship between Christians, Hindus and Muslims in Kerala,” he told Sathyadeepam, a Malayalam weekly published by the Angamaly-Ernakulam Archdiocese of the Syro-Malabar Church to which Kallarangatt belongs. “We have been able to maintain this friendship for years in Kerala. But we do see cracks in the relationship between communities…. So if you ask whether communal amity has suffered, the blunt answer is ‘yes’,” said the Cardinal, who suggested that the solution was to “strengthen our mutual love, respect and cooperation”. Shyju Antony, spokesperson for the Almaya Munnetam (Laity Movement), an influential Christian group, called for an immediate dialogue between the faiths. “The state government should take the initiative and start an inter-faith dialogue to end this issue, which is fuelled only by rumours and unsubstantiated claims.” He added: “The mental distance will only grow if the two communities don’t talk. Cardinal Cleemis has clearly sought a dialogue to restore the cordial relationship and brotherhood between all communities.” Antony noted that in a state with over 100 bishops, around 60 were from Kallarangatt’s Syro-Malabar Church, but only a couple of them had supported him. “This shows that the Church is not with him since secularism is the prime driver of Kerala’s society. So all it takes is a heart-to-heart discussion to solve this issue,” Antony added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
19-09-2021||India||Cong removes Amarinder, new chief minister to be announced Sunday afternoon||The Congress has removed Amarinder Singh as chief minister of poll-bound Punjab, taking a huge risk in the border state as finding an able successor is not going to be easy amid the political turmoil that a possible revolt could trigger. There seemed little chance of a smooth transition as the outgoing chief minister firmly declared his intent to oppose Navjot Singh Sidhu as his successor, describing him as a threat to national security. Amarinder, known as “Captain”, underlined that Sidhu was a friend of Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan and Pakistan army chief Qamar Javed Bajwa. While Sidhu, being a former cricketer, is naturally close to Imran, his embrace of Bajwa during a visit to Pakistan was seized upon by critics back home. Sidhu, the most charismatic leader in Punjab and who was made the state Congress chief a few months ago, is obviously the main choice of the MLAs while the high command would prefer a more experienced leader. The name of former state chief Sunil Jakhar was initially doing the rounds as the frontrunner. Jakhar, a former MP and MLA, is a Hindu and making him chief minister won’t be easy in a Sikh-dominated state. The Congress Legislature Party, which met on Saturday evening, authorised party president Sonia Gandhi to pick the new leader. Although it was initially indicated that the new chief minister’s name would be announced on Saturday night, a legislature party meeting has again been called on Sunday morning. The change of mind may have occurred after a savage attack by Amarinder, who clothed his personal missiles in the sensitive issue of national security and Pakistan-aided terrorism. Amarinder, left with no choice as he had clearly lost support in the legislature party, spoke to Sonia in the morning and expressed resentment at the meeting being called without consulting him. He said in Chandigarh after submitting his resignation to the governor: “I told Sonia Gandhi that I am resigning. This is the third time that a meeting of the MLAs has been called; twice in Delhi and again today here. There is an element of doubt… that I could not run the government. I feel humiliated. I can’t continue as chief minister like this. Let them elect whoever they want.” The chief minister, who resigned barely half an hour before the Congress Legislature Party meeting was to start, said in response to questions: “I will decide the future course of action after talking to my supporters and friends. Options are always open in politics.” Amarinder later made it clear that he wasn’t going to retire from politics, asserting that he was fit enough to carry on. “I’m not going to back out, won’t give up,” he said. The veteran launched a scathing attack on Sidhu: “He is a total disaster. He couldn’t run a ministry, how can he run the state?” In a brazen attempt to block Sidhu’s chances of becoming chief minister, Amarinder said: “I won’t accept him as chief minister. He is a friend of Imran Khan and Bajwa. Pakistan is sending drones and arms and ammunition into Punjab. I will oppose Sidhu for the sake of my country.” Ironically, Amarinder too had grappled with controversies about his friendship with a Pakistani journalist. The acerbic offensive created heartburn in the party as the outgoing chief minister was seen as trying to demonise Sidhu, the party’s face in Punjab whether he is chief minister or not. Some leaders were so angry that they alleged that Amarinder was dancing to the BJP’s tune and should have been sacked earlier. But the legislature party tried to pacify Amarinder by passing a resolution praising the contributions of the outgoing chief minister. The high command knows that Captain still retains enough clout to damage the party and would like to move cautiously to ensure he doesn’t take any extreme step. There is a fear that he can split the Congress and form his own party, ensuring that a multi-cornered fight throws up a hung verdict. The problem with the Congress is that Sidhu is the only popular leader but his administrative skills and political acumen are in doubt. Other experienced leaders do not have the charisma to lead the party to victory. The coming months will witness a volatile political atmosphere, and surprising developments cannot be ruled out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
