20-09-2021||India||Union finance ministry to kick-start budgetary exercise from October 12||The finance ministry will kick-start the exercise to prepare the annual Budget for 2022-23 from October 12 amidst signs of revival of the Indian economy hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic. The budget for the next year will have to address critical issues of demand generation, job creation and putting the economy on a sustained 8 per cent plus growth path. It will be the fourth budget of the Modi 2.0 government and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. "The pre-Budget/RE (Revised Estimate) meetings will begin on the October 12, 2020," according to the Budget Circular (2022-23) of the Budget Division of the Department of Economic Affairs, dated September 16, 2021. "All financial advisers should ensure that the necessary details related to these meetings contained in the Appendices I to VII are entered in RE module of the UBIS (Union Budget Information System)," the circular added. The Budget Estimates (BE) for 2022-23 will be provisionally finalised after the expenditure secretary completes discussions with other secretaries and financial advisers. Pre-Budget meetings will begin from October 12 and continue till the second week of November, it said. "Given the special circumstances of this year, the basis of the final budgetary allocations will be overall fiscal position, and subject to that the absorptive capacity of the ministry/department," it said. Ceilings for all categories of expenditure, including the central sector and centrally sponsored schemes will be discussed, it said. Accordingly, the RE 2021-22 and BE 2022-23 for all categories of expenditure, and select schemes/projects, may be indicated separately for revenue and capital expenditure, it said. For the Budget Estimates of 2022-23, it said, "the allocations will be finalised for the establishment and other central government expenditures. For the Central Sector (CS) schemes and Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSS), tentative ceilings would be discussed during the pre-budget meetings." The Budget 2022-23 is likely to be presented on February 1 during the first half of the Parliament's Budget session which usually begins in the last week of January every year. The Budget for the current fiscal had projected a growth rate of about 10.5 per cent in real terms while fiscal deficit was pegged at 6.8 per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP). Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government scrapped a colonial-era tradition of presenting the Budget at the end of February. The then finance minister Arun Jaitley had for the first time presented the annual accounts on February 1, 2017. With the pre-ponement of the Budget, ministries are now allocated their budgeted funds from the start of the financial year beginning April. This gives government departments more leeway to spend as well as allow companies time to adapt to business and taxation plans. Previously, when the Budget was presented at the end of February, the three-stage Parliament approval process used to get completed some time in mid-May, weeks ahead of onset of monsoon rains. This meant government departments would start spending on projects only from August-end or September, after the monsoon season ended.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
20-09-2021||India||Standoff with China and situation in Afghanistan among India’s big security challenges: FS Shringla||As a neighbour of Afghanistan, India is naturally concerned about the recent changes in that country and their implications for the region, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Monday.  Referring to a recent resolution on Afghanistan by the UN Security Council, he said it addressed the main pending issues and demanded that Afghan territory should not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing terrorist acts.  The foreign secretary was speaking at the sixth JP Morgan 'India Investor Summit'.  "The situation in our neighbourhood, particularly in Afghanistan, and with China on our eastern borders reminds us that while the new realities are making themselves felt, traditional security challenges remain," he said.  Talking about the eastern Ladakh standoff, Shringla said Chinese attempts over the last year to unilaterally alter the status quo in the region have seriously disturbed peace and tranquillity in the border areas.  "We have made it clear to the Chinese side that peace and tranquillity in border areas is essential for development of our relationship. Development of India-China relationship can only be based on 'three mutuals' -- mutual respect, mutual sensitivity and mutual interests," he said.  On Afghanistan, the foreign secretary said New Delhi is concerned about implications of the recent developments for India and the region.  "As an immediate neighbour, we are naturally concerned about the recent changes within Afghanistan and their implications for us and the region," he said.  He said India's immediate focus was on the evacuation of Indian nationals from Afghanistan and that most of the Indian nationals have been able to leave Kabul in August.  "A number of Afghans, including minorities, who wanted to travel to India, have also been able to do so. However, this process could not be completed due to the security situation at the airport," he said.  "Resumption of flights from Kabul airport is, therefore, a priority. We are closely monitoring the unfolding situation," Shringla added.  He also mentioned the UN Security Council resolution 2593 on Afghanistan that was adopted on August 30 under India's presidency of the global body, and noted that it comprehensively addressed the main pending issues relating to that country.  "The resolution demands that Afghan territory not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing terrorist acts; and specifically refers to terrorist individuals proscribed by the UN Security Council, including the Lashkar-e-Tayyiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad," Shringla said.  The foreign secretary said India is also monitoring developments related to the humanitarian needs of Afghanistan.  "In UNDP's assessment, there is an imminent threat of poverty levels rising in Afghanistan. There is also a threat of an imminent drought and a food security crisis," he said.  "It is important for the humanitarian assistance providers to be given unrestricted and direct access to Afghanistan," the foreign secretary said.  He also underlined the need to ensure that the distribution of humanitarian assistance is done in a "non-discriminatory manner" to all sections of the Afghan society.  "India's approach to Afghanistan has been guided by our civilisational relationship with the Afghan people. We have extended over USD 3 billion as development assistance for the welfare of the people of Afghanistan," he said.  The foreign secretary said India has undertaken over 500 developmental projects spread across all 34 provinces of Afghanistan.  "These initiatives have earned us tremendous goodwill in the country. Our friendship with the Afghan people will continue to guide our approach in the future," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
20-09-2021||India||NCW chief asks Sonia to remove Channi over #MeToo allegations||National Commission for Women (NCW) Chief Rekha Sharma has today requested Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi to remove Punjab's new Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi from his post "until he comes clean", citing reported allegations that he had sent an inappropriate text to an IAS officer in 2018. Expressing her disappointment and calling Mr Channi a threat to women, Rekha Sharma, in an interview with news agency ANI, said, "Today, he has been made Punjab Chief Minister by a party that is headed by a woman. It is betrayal. He is a threat to women's safety. An inquiry should be conducted against him. If he doesn't come clean, he is not worthy to be a chief minister. I urge Sonia Gandhi to remove him from the post." "Allegations were levelled against him during the Me Too movement in 2018. The State Women Commission had taken a suo moto cognizance of the matter and the chairperson sat on a dharna demanding his removal but nothing happened," she further added. Rekha Sharma wrote an open letter today stating: "One can only imagine what would be the state of women's safety in the state given the one at the helm of affairs is himself accused of threatening women/security. If an IAS officer has been denied justice in the state, how can the Congress party ensure that the common women of Punjab would be safe?" "Despite being a woman herself, the Congress chief did not consider the Me Too allegations made against Mr Channi and appointed him the chief minister. The Punjab State Commission for Women, too, had taken cognisance of the incident. Yet the state government did not take any action against him. This is shameful and highly objectionable that such a person has been appointed as the Chief Minister of Punjab. We do not want another woman to go through the same experience and endure the same harassment that the IAS officer had faced. Mr Channi needs to be held accountable and should resign from the post," it further read. Charanjit Singh Channi was sworn in as the Chief Minister of Punjab today. Governor Banwarilal Purohit administered the oath of office to Congress leaders Sukhjinder S Randhawa and OP Soni as ministers in the state cabinet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
20-09-2021||India||Kashmir: Mobile, internet blocked in Uri after infiltration attempt||Internet and mobile phone services have been suspended in Jammu and Kashmir's Uri sector near the Line of Control after an infiltration attempt by a heavily-armed group of terrorists, authorities said on Monday. The army said a counter-infiltration operation has been underway for the last over 30 hours. Reinforcements have been called in and a large area has been cordoned off. This is the second infiltration attempt this year, according to the army. A senior army commander however said that there has been no ceasefire violation this year and no instigation from across the border. "No ceasefire violation this year. We are prepared for any ceasefire violation. But frankly there has been no instigation from across the border," Lt Gen DP Panday, the General Officer Commanding of the 15 Corps said. "On infiltration, there have been some attempts, unlike previous years. Tere was hardly any successful attempt. As per my knowledge, only two attempts have succeeded. One was neutralised in Bandipore. We are looking for the second one," he said. "There is operation which is ongoing for the last 24 hours in Uri, in which we felt that there is an infiltration attempt which has been made. We are looking for them. Are they on this side or gone back after making attempt, that issue is not been clarified or verified on the ground. But we are quite alert and we will ensure minimal infiltration takes place," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
20-09-2021||India||Can't give 'judicial diktat' to send children to schools: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday observed it cannot give a 'judicial diktat' for sending children to schools disregarding the possibility of a fresh spike in COVID cases as it refused to entertain a Class 12 student's plea seeking resumption of physical classes across the country. Stating that it should be left to the government to take a call on "governance issues", the top court also advised the 17-year-old student from Delhi to focus on studies instead of getting involved in seeking Constitutional remedies. At the same time, the court said it would not call the student's Public Interest Litigation(PIL) a "publicity gimmick" but it was a misplaced petition and that children must not get involved in such issues. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna said the student may pursue his remedies with the state government. Ask your client to focus on studies in school and not get involved himself in seeking Constitutional remedies. You see how misplaced this petition is. Imagine the (COVID) situation in Kerala....Maharashtra cannot be the same in Delhi. I am not saying it is a publicity gimmick but this is why children must not get involved in these issues. We don't have any kind of data before us , the bench told advocate Ravi Prakash Mehrotra. The top court then perused the prayers in the PIL and said the petitioner wants re-opening of schools to enable physical classes. The court said that after Article 21A has been brought into force, it has obligated the state governments to provide free and compulsory education to all children between the age 6 and 14. "You see the governments are ultimately answerable. They are also concerned about the need for children to go back to schools. That is the purpose of schools. We cannot, by judicial diktat, say that you shall send your children back to school, oblivious of the dangers which may be there." The country has just come out of the second COVID wave but there is still danger of a possible spike of viral infection, the court said. “I am not saying it will necessarily happen or that it will be similarly devastating. Fortunately, we now have reports which suggest that the spike will not be of that nature. Vaccination is taking place but children are not vaccinated, even many teachers may not have been vaccinated. We cannot just say send all children to schools. There are governance issues,” it added. The court further said the complexities of governance do not permit the court to start issuing directions and we should leave something for the democratic way of life that the country has adopted. Surely the government wants their children to go back to the schools . The court said that in Karnataka a decision has been taken to open the schools and similarly in Delhi also a decision has been taken, but we cannot allow young kids to go and mix with senior students and instead let the States take an informed decision where the spike is taking place." “There may be some state with 75 districts or 52 districts and there may be states with high density of population in some districts and others may be sparsely populated. These are the matters in which we should let the government take a call,” it noted . Justice Chandrachud said there has to be some balancing of interest of children, who are at home and how they are being affected physically, mentally or physiologically with the dangers which may be posed to them, if they are to mix with each other in a school environment. The government has taken a decision to vaccinate the children. Our government has taken a decision to have a phased reopening of school at the board level. We cannot pick up children in the first standard and mix them with the children of board level, who are to make a foray into higher education, he said. The court suggested that the petitioner must withdraw the petition and pursue other remedies like representation to the government and said, This issue is fraught with great complexities. We cannot give any judicial mandate in a petition where we don't have any data . The court said the government itself has to tread with extreme care when the issue is of exposing the younger children to the dangers of COVID-19. "So the court needs to be equally or even more careful because there is absence of data before us, absence of scientific knowledge on our part and the petitioner. This petition is not based on any scientific assessment . Justice Chandrachud said judges also read newspapers and know what has happened when schools were opened in many countries at an early stage of pandemic. We need not mention the names of those countries but we know what happened in such countries where schools were opened at earlier stages." Mehrotra, who is the father of the minor, agreed to withdraw the petition, which the court allowed him to do. In his plea plea filed last month, the minor petitioner contended that he has filed the PIL on account of the "indecision and vacillation" on the part of the Union Government and several state governments/UTs in the country in the re-opening of schools and resumption of physical classes. The petitioner is also echoing the sentiments and feelings of a large body of the student community and fraternity of the country, particularly including the underprivileged and voiceless children, in raising this very vital issue regarding the deprivation and ill-effects, both psychological and actual, of school children being kept away from attending their schools physically.., the petition said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
20-09-2021||India||Allahabad Muth’s top seer Mahant Narendra Giri dies of suicide||Mahant Narendra Giri, the president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, was found dead on Monday at Baghambari Muth here, police said. The Parishad is the largest organisation of sadhus in India. According to Inspector General of Police K P Singh, Mahant Giri's body was found hanging from the ceiling by his disciples. A purported suicide note was also found at the site in which the seer had written that he was mentally disturbed and was ending his life. He had also delegated various responsibilities to his disciples in the note, the police said. The IGP said that police had received a call at 5.30 PM from the Muth that Giri had hanged himself. Prima facie it appeared to be a case of suicide but things will be clearer after the post-mortem and forensic tests, the police said. The influential Hindu seer was hospitalised in April after he tested positive from COVID-19. Several political and religious leaders condoled the demise of Giri. "The death of Mahant Narendra Giri ji, President of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, is an irreparable loss to the spiritual world. I pray to Lord Shri Ram to grant the departed soul a place at his feet and strength to the bereaved followers to bear this sorrow. Om Shanti," Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
20-09-2021||India||Raj Kundra gets bail in porn films case after two months||A magistrate court here on Monday granted bail to businessman Raj Kundra, an accused in a pornographic films case in which he was arrested two months ago. Kundra's associate Ryan Thorpe, who was arrested along with him in July, was also granted bail by the court. Kundra (46) had filed a bail plea before the court, claiming there was not a single evidence against him in a supplementary charge-sheet filed by the Mumbai police crime branch in the case. The businessman, in the plea, had claimed there was no evidence of him being "actively" involved in creation of alleged questionable porn content and that he was being made a "scapegoat" in the case. The crime branch, probing the case, had recently filed a supplementary charge-sheet in the court against Kundra and three others in the case pertaining to alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. Kundra, husband of Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested on July 19 by after being booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
20-09-2021||India||Pfizer, BioNTech say trials find Covid jab safe for kids of 5-11 yrs||Global pharma major Pfizer and BioNTech SE on Monday said trial results of COVID-19 vaccine showed that it is safe and produced robust neutralizing antibody response in children aged five to 11 years, and they plan to seek regulatory approvals as soon as possible. Children aged five to 11 years were given a two-dose regimen of 10 microgrammes (g) administered 21 days apart, a smaller dose than the 30 g dose used for people 12 years and older, the companies said in a joint statement. "In participants 5 to 11 years of age, the vaccine was safe, well tolerated and showed robust neutralizing antibody responses," the statement said. The companies plan to submit these data to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), European Medicines Agency (EMA) and other regulators as soon as possible, the statement said. "Since July, paediatric cases of COVID-19 have risen by about 240 percent in the US underscoring the public health need for vaccination. These trial results provide a strong foundation for seeking authorization of our vaccine for children 5 to 11 years old, and we plan to submit them to the FDA and other regulators with urgency," Pfizer Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Albert Bourla said. For the United States, the companies expect to include the data in a near-term submission for Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) as they continue to accumulate the safety and efficacy data required to file for full FDA approval in this age group, the companies said. A request to the EMA to update the EU Conditional Marketing Authorization is also planned, they added. "We are pleased to be able to submit data to regulatory authorities for this group of school-aged children before the start of the winter season. The safety profile and immunogenicity data in children aged 5 to 11 years vaccinated at a lower dose are consistent with those we have observed with our vaccine in other older populations at a higher dose," BioNTech CEO and co-founder Ugur Sahin said. Topline readouts for the other two age cohorts from the trial children 2-5 years of age and children 6 months to 2 years of age are expected as soon as the fourth quarter of this year, the statement said. The Phase 1/2/3 trial initially enrolled up to 4,500 children ages 6 months to 11 years of age in the United States, Finland, Poland, and Spain from more than 90 clinical trial sites, it added. "It was designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine on a two-dose schedule (approximately 21 days apart) in three age groups: ages 5 to 11 years; ages 2 to 5 years; and ages 6 months to 2 years," the statement said. Based on the Phase 1 dose-escalation portion of the trial, children aged 5 to 11 years received two-dose schedule of 10 g each while children under age 5 received a lower 3 g dose for each injection in the Phase 2/3 study. The trial enrolled children with or without prior evidence of SARS-CoV-2 infection, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
20-09-2021||India||Here’s how Avi Mittal entered the World Book of records for excellence in helping people!||Every country across the globe suffered when the Covid 19 Pandemic hit back in 2020. Many places saw the worst financial crisis ever and a lot of people were effectively put out of jobs, causing their lives to get drastically derailed. Many efforts and joint ventures were put into place by not only the government of India but individual organisations as well. One such venture was the hotline established by the Indian Chapter of BRICS under the leadership of Avi Mittal. The hotline proved essential during the second wave of the virus in India as it helped people locate and source necessary services be it plasma or hospital beds or oxygen tanks. The hotline was spread across the Indian subcontinent with many people volunteering to help out to the best of their abilities. During the second wave, Avi’s hotline helped over 1000 people in terms of assistance. Avi and the other members of the BRICS committee even helped provide monetary assistance by personal inputs and also by raising funds via various NGO’s. For their contributions in times of dire needs, The BRICS India chapter was entered in the World Book of Records for ‘Excellence in helping people’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
20-09-2021||India||NSHM waives the tuition fees for all students who lost their earning parent ||The on-going pandemic has brought about significant socio-economic changes and uncertainties. The student community has been one of the worst suffering sections. On one hand, regular classes have been stalled, exams are getting postponed or cancelled; and on the other hand, a dismal placement scenario. Additionally, there is the most critical concern of difficulties in payment of tuition fees due to extraordinarily harsh scenarios. Plight of the students have skyrocketed due to these factors;and hence student’s welfare becomes the top most priority for all leading institutes and NSHM is no exception. In these trying times, NSHM has played an important role in helping those in difficulty. NSHM’sBoard of Trustees have taken the decision that all the current students at NSHM Durgapur and Kolkata campus who have lost an earning member(mother or father)for any cause of death not just limited to Covid-19 at any point of time during their study tenure; the University shall waive 100% of the tuition fees from the upcoming semester until the student graduates from NSHM. “NSHM already offers a range of financial assistance in the form of Academic Scholarship based on merit, Defence Forces Scholarship, Financial aides based on family’s financial standing and more.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To add to this bouquet, NSHM has come up with a fee waiver scheme to mitigate the hardship of the students during the pandemic. Under this scheme up to 100% of the tuition fee is waived off for students who have lost their parent or earning member of their family due to Covid-19,” said Mr. Cecil Antony, Chief Mentor & Managing Trustee, NSHM Knowledge campus. Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology  or MAKAUT(Formerly known as West Bengal University of Technology) is playing a pivotal role in this fee waiver scheme. Under this scheme, 50 % of the waiver is contributed by the University and the rest 50% by NSHM (which is also affiliated to MAKAUT). Students have to submit their applications along with necessary documents like, death certificate of the earning member, grade card of the student ( not applicable for students who have not completed their 1st semester ), registration certificate of the University and admit card, EPIC Card, Income certificate and character certificate from the principal of the institute. Covid-19 has created an unprecedented level of uncertainty and difficulty to everyone’s lives. However, the institute is working closely with students to safeguard their interests and support their needs. Along with provisions of online classes, NSHM is securing internships and placements for students for their continued education and career development. Looking after the interest of the students and responding to their needs is the sole objective of this programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
20-09-2021||India||NEET: SC to hear plea against ‘last-minute’ changes in exam pattern||The Supreme Court Monday agreed to hear a plea challenging the alleged "last-minute" changes made to the examination pattern for the upcoming National Eligibility cum Entrance Test - Super Specialization (NEET-SS) 2021 which is scheduled in November. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna issued notice and sought responses from the Centre, National Board of Examinations (NBE) and National Medical Commission (NMC) on the plea filed by 41 post-graduate doctors. The apex court, which posted the matter for further hearing on September 27, also permitted the petitioners to file brief note of their written submissions. The petitioners, who are qualified post-graduate doctors from across the country and are aspiring to become super specialists by cracking the NEET-SS 2021, have said the dates for the examination was announced on July 23 but the changed pattern was made public on August 31. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for the petitioners, said the NEET-SS 2021 exams are scheduled on November 13-14 and it is fairly settled principle including in educational matter that once the calendar is announced, there is no question of then altering the scheme. The plea, filed through advocate Javedur Rahman, has sought quashing of the scheme of NEET-SS 2021 contained in the August 31 information bulletin, as notified by the NBE and approved by the NMC, alleging it to be "illegal" having been carried out without any authority of law. "As per the existing/earlier pattern 40 marks use to be come from the base subject and 60 marks were in respect of the two optional courses opted by the aspirant. This was very important since the candidate themselves would choose the fields of their interest and not only obtain theoretical knowledge of it but will be engaged in acquiring practical knowledge of the same," it said. The plea claimed that the information bulletin has "completely transformed" the entrance examination and the NBE has stated that the exam would be of the "level of exit exam of post-graduation". "Thus, post-graduates from different broad specialities can appear for a single super-speciality exam," it said. The plea said the erstwhile pattern had a paper with 60 per cent questions from critical care, that is the super-specialty subject, and 40 per cent were mixed questions from all the five broad specialties, including General Medicine and Anaesthesiology, ensuring a "level-playing field". "The proposed new pattern is forcing all the candidates from above-mentioned broad specialties to write a single paper which will have 100 per cent questions from General Medicine. There will be no questions from broad specialties of other four post-graduate branches. The pattern is not just a waste of time and effort for all those who have prepared for critical care but also grossly biased against few broad specialties," it claimed. The plea has also sought direction restoring the pattern of exam for NEET-SS 2021 and in the alternative, directing that the changes in the scheme shall not be implemented in this year exam on account of paucity of time but be implemented in 2022 and onwards. "The petitioners were surprised to see the scheme of the NEET-SS exams in part 4, having undergone a complete change without any sort of advance intimation, with only two months left for the exam whilst the petitioners have all along been preparing in terms of the extant pattern/scheme of the exam, having absolutely no reason to think that any such drastic change will be made so close to the specified date and without the lawful authority i.e. the Central Government directing to do so," it said. It said the petitioners, who have had the "most challenging experiences" of their professional lives in this time being at the forefront of the battle against COVID-19, have all through this period prepared for NEET-SS 2021 exam legitimately expecting that the pattern is unchanged, just like it was in the previous three years. "That apart, in view of such hasty and last-minute decision to change the exam pattern, the aspirants who have only recently completed the post graduation (PG) would have an edge over aspirants who have completed the PG some time back and are working in units dedicated to super speciality with the objective of acquiring fundamental and practical knowledge in the field," the plea said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
20-09-2021||India||Schools must be haven for children, says Kailash Satyarthi||The longer schools are shut the more the likelihood that children from poor families will never return to their classrooms, says Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi while stressing that the decision to reopen has to be medical assessment driven. Describing schools as a haven for children, the renowned child rights activist also expressed concern over the situation in Afghanistan after the Taliban seized control over large parts of the country last month following the withdrawal of US-led forces. "The progress we have made till now for the safety and protection of children and women in Afghanistan must not be lost. Schools must be a safe haven for children and no child must be used in any form of combat. This is essential to basic human liberty and dignity," Satyarthi told PTI in an exclusive interview. Weighing in on the much debated issue of whether or not schools in India should reopen now that the Covid graph seems to be dipping in several parts, Satyarthi underscored the urgency of the situation. "This has to be a medical assessment driven decision. But we do need to accelerate action to make schools safe for children. The longer schools are shut, the more the likelihood of children from poor families never returning to classrooms, especially those without access to digital tools, he said in the phone interview. Schools, Satyarthi added, are not only centres of academic learning but also places of emotional, mental and social development. Schools give children a sense of community and allow a more meaningful relationship of trust with the teachers," he said. Satyarthi, who was last week appointed one of the 17 global advocates for the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) by UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres, said the move comes at a "very critical and challenging time for children . The 67-year-old social reformer said every child should be "free, safe and educated" and the UN community should not make any false promise to reach the goals but actually deliver. "Our response to this generation can make or break our future world. I have accepted this appointment with the responsibility and honour of bringing their voices to the centre of global decision making." The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), also known as Global Goals, were adopted by the United Nations in 2015 as a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity by 2030 (Agenda 2030). The 17 SDGs are integrated they recognise that action in one area will affect outcomes in others, and that development must balance social, economic and environmental sustainability. Discussing the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on children and their future, Satyarthi expressed his displeasure over the global response towards the sufferings of thousands who were either orphaned or went hungry after their families lost incomes or because their schools closed. "We have all witnessed the suffering of the world's children during this pandemic. Thousands of children have been orphaned, entire households have lost their income, and school closures have led to millions of children going hungry. Despite the gravity of the situation, we have seen a grossly unequal response to the crisis globally," he said. He said children from the most marginalised communities suffered the most with increased vulnerabilities for child labour, trafficking and slavery. The Nobel laureate further pointed to the increase in child labourers and said it "is a wake up call to warn us that we are setting ourselves up for the failure of the entire Agenda 2030 . "Even before the pandemic hit, the first increase in child labour in two decades was reported. This occurred during the first four years of the SDGs, when an average of 10,000 children between five-11 years were pushed into child labour every day during these four years. Satyarthi spoke at length about the creation of a Global Social Protection Fund, He referred to the success of schemes such as midday meals in India, Bolsa Familia in Brazil and direct cash transfers in several African nations that have helped lift millions out of poverty. The fund would also help increase "global GDP because the economy grows quicker when children are learning in school rather than working to survive", he said. "A Global Social Protection Fund can bridge the growing inequality of our world. We are demanding that as part of this, a fair share of resources be allocated for direct benefits to children. This includes school feeding programmes, access to free and quality education and healthcare, safe housing, clean drinking water and sanitation. These are the fundamentals of human dignity." The Fund, if set up, should encourage low income countries to invest in national social protection floors. At this time of crisis, powerful countries cannot look away from their partner countries, he said. Discussing the 'Fair Share to End Child Labour Campaign', a global partnership campaign around the International Year for the Elimination of Child Labour, Satyarthi said, "It is a challenge to the inherent discrimination and inequality that lies at the heart of child labour. "We need a fair share to end child labour, a fair share of policies, financial resources and social protection for the most marginalised children. Our campaign challenges the very foundation of child labour and exploitation - the immoral and unjust division of global wealth, policies and protection." He said the campaign has grown incredibly quickly with a new country campaign forming every fortnight. It has a broad youth led coalition behind it and has started to mobilise in spite of the pandemic. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
20-09-2021||India||India to resume export of surplus Covid vaccines next month, says health minister||India will resume export of surplus COVID-19 vaccines in the fourth quarter of 2021 under the 'Vaccine Maitri' programme and to meet its commitment to the COVAX global pool, but vaccinating its own citizens remains the topmost priority of the government, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Monday. Addressing the media, the minister said the government will receive over 30 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines in October and over 100 crore doses in the next three months. He also said that cumulative doses administered so far across the country have crossed 81 crore and the last 10 crore doses were administered in only 11 days. Asserting that vaccination of our own citizens remains the government's topmost priority, Mandaviya said the export of surplus vaccines would begin in the next quarter (October-December) under the Vaccine Maitri programme and in order to fulfil the commitment of India towards COVAX. This is in line with our motto of 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam', he said. He said that the surplus supply of vaccines will be used to fulfil India's commitment towards the world for the collective fight against COVID-19. COVAX is co-led by Gavi, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and WHO. Highlighting the importance of indigenous research and production of Covid vaccines in India, he said that it is due to the relentless efforts and guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that India was simultaneously undertaking research and production of Covid vaccines in such a big way. India's vaccination drive has been a role model for the world and it is marching ahead with great speed, he said. Talking about the expected production and supply trends in the coming months, he said that more than 30 crore doses will be produced in October and more than 100 crores in the coming quarter. India on Friday administered a record number of over 2.50 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses on the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 71st birthday. The daily COVID-19 vaccination in the country was over 1 crore on September 6, August 31 and August 27. India took 85 days to touch the 10-crore vaccination mark, 45 more days to cross the 20-crore mark and 29 more days to reach the 30-crore mark, according to the ministry. The country took 24 days to reach 40 crore from 30 crore doses and then 20 more days to cross the 50-crore vaccination mark on August 6, it said. It took 19 more days to go past the 60-crore mark and took only 13 days to reach 70 crore from 60 crore on September 7, the ministry said. It then took just 11 days to reach 80 crore from 70 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
20-09-2021||India||Dalits should be wary of Cong's election stunt: Mayawati ||With Charanjit Singh Channi taking oath as Punjab's first Dalit chief minister, BSP president Mayawati on Monday termed it an election stunt of the Congress and asked Dalits to be wary of it. Mayawati, whose party has tied up with Shiromani Akali Dal for the upcoming Punjab assembly polls, also said whatever the "casteist parties" are giving to Dalits and OBCs, whether it is in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh or other states, it is for their votes and to serve selfish motives and not for ameliorating their lot. Making a person belonging to Dalit caste as the chief minister of Punjab is nothing but an election stunt. I have come to know through the media today that assembly elections in Punjab will be fought under a non-Dalit leader and not under Channi, Mayawati told newspersons here. Attacking the Congress, she said, It still does not have faith in Dalits. Dalits need to be very alert to their double standards. I have full faith that Dalits of Punjab will not fall for this stunt." The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister also claimed the Congress is rattled by the SAD-BSP alliance for the Punjab Assembly polls. The BSP and SAD had in June joined hands for the 2022 Punjab Assembly elections. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had announced that if their alliance wins, the deputy chief minister would be from the Dalit community. The reality is that Congress and other political parties think of Dalits only in times of crisis, Mayawati charged. Referring to Dr B R Ambedkar, the BSP chief said, If the Congress had any other capable person, it would not have included Ambedkar in the exercise of framing the Constitution. The legal rights which Dalits, adivasis and OBCs have got would not have been possible then. Even the religious minorities, especially the Muslims, have got whatever security they have because Ambedkar framed the Indian Constitution not based on any caste or religion but secularism, she stressed. Drawing a parallel with Uttar Pradesh which also goes to polls early next year, Mayawati targeted the BJP, alleging its "drama" for the OBCs is just for their vote. The BJP has acquired a newfound love for the OBCs but it is just an eyewash. Had there been any truth and honesty in their concern for the OBCs, the central and BJP led state governments filled their backlog in government jobs alongwith SC/STs. "They would also accept the demand for a caste-based census. BJP and other casteist parties are panicking (over census ) just as their people had launched a violent protest at the time when Mandal Commission recommendations were implemented, she said. "Like the Dalits, OBCs will also not fall for Congress, BJP or any other casteist party as they know that whatever they have got is because of Ambedkar's efforts," Mayawati said. The BSP president said that she has full faith that Dalits or the backwards in UP, Punjab or any other state, will not fall to such gimmicks. The Congress' decision to name Channi, who hails from Rupnagar district in Punjab's Malwa belt, assumes significance as almost 32 percent population of the state comprises Dalits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
20-09-2021||India||Jairam Ramesh, Shashi Tharoor slam UK's Covid travel rules||Former Union ministers Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor on Monday slammed the UK's COVID-19-related travel rules under which Indians vaccinated with Covishield would still be treated as unvaccinated, with Ramesh saying it "smacks of racism". Passengers who aren't recognised as being fully vaccinated with authorised vaccines and certificates under England's international travel rules, including Indians, will still have to take a pre-departure test, a day 2 and day 8 PCR test, and self-isolate at their given address for 10 days upon entry, according to the rules. Tweeting on the restrictions, Congress leader Ramesh said, “Absolutely bizarre considering Covishield was originally developed in the UK and The Serum Institute, Pune has supplied to that country too! This smacks of racism.” Tagging a thread on Twitter that explained the rules, Tharoor also slammed the restrictions on vaccinated Indians, saying, "Because of this I have pulled out of a debate at the @cambridgeunion & out of launch events for the UK edition of my book #TheBattleOfBelonging (published there as #TheStruggleForIndiasSoul)." “It is offensive to ask fully vaccinated Indians to quarantine. The Brits are reviewing!” the former minister of state for external affairs said. From October 4, the current traffic light system of red, amber and green countries based on levels of COVID-19 risk will be scrapped in the UK and replaced with one red list only. The scrapping of an amber list, which is what India is currently on, means reduced cost burden for travellers -- especially for the Indian diaspora vaccinated in the UK -- related to compulsory PCR tests. However, an expanded list of countries whose vaccines are recognised in England does not include India, which means that Indians vaccinated with Covishield -- the Serum Institute of India produced Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine -- would still be subjected to the restrictions mandatory for those unvaccinated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
20-09-2021||India||Sonu Sood issues statement on alleged tax evasion of Rs 20 crore ||Every rupee in his foundation is awaiting its turn to be used to reach the needy and save lives, actor Sonu Sood said in a statement on Monday in response to the CBDT's allegation that he and his associates evaded tax of Rs 20 crore. Speaking for the first time since multiples searches at his premises and those related to his associates last week, the 48-year-old actor stated that he had been busy "attending to a few guests", the reason why he was unable to be at the service of the people for four days. "Here I am back again in all humility. At your humble service, for life. My journey continues. Jai Hind," he wrote in a statement posted on Instagram. Sood routed his "unaccounted income in the form of bogus unsecured loans from many bogus entities", the Central Board of Direct Taxes claimed after the Income Tax Department raided the actor and a Lucknow-based infrastructure group. It also accused the ‘Dabangg’ actor -- who came into the national spotlight for his work with migrants and others during the Covid pandemic through his Sood Charity Foundation -- of violating the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) while raising donations from abroad. Sood said in his statement that he had pledged himself to the service of the people of India with all his "strength and heart". “You don't always have to tell your side of the story. Time will. Every rupee in my foundation is awaiting its turn to save a precious life and reach the needy. In addition, on many occasions, I have encouraged brands to donate my endorsement fees for humanitarian causes too, which keeps us going,” he said. Kar bhala to ho bhala, ant bhale ka bhala (A good deed always ends well)," he wrote in Hindi. In a statement on Saturday, the CBDT claimed it had found "incriminating evidence pertaining to tax evasion" during the course of searches at the premises of the actor and his associates. The searches began on September 15 and continued for three more days. “The main modus operandi followed by the actor had been to route his unaccounted income in the form of bogus unsecured loans from many bogus entities,” the statement had read. It added that, so far, the use of 20 such entries has been found and the providers of which, on examination, ‘accepted’ on oath to have given ‘bogus’ accommodation entries (transaction entries in accounts). Sood hit the headlines after he arranged free transport through rail, air and road for numerous migrant workers to reach their home states during the nationwide lockdown clamped last year to contain the spread of coronavirus pandemic. The CBDT said the charity foundation set up by the actor was incorporated on July 21, 2020 and had collected donations to the tune of Rs 18.94 crore from April 1, 2021 till date. Out of this, it said, the foundation has spent around Rs 1.9 crore for various relief works and the balance of Rs 17 crore has been found lying "unutilised" in its bank account. Funds to the tune of Rs 2.1 crore have also been raised by the charity foundation from overseas donors on a crowdfunding platform "in violation" of FCRA regulations, it alleged. The Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP government in Delhi recently appointed Sood ambassador of its 'Desh ka mentors' programme under which students will be guided in making their career choices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
20-09-2021||India||Congress appointed Channi as CM to gain Dalit votes before next year's Assemby polls, alleges BJP||The BJP alleged on Monday that the Congress has made Charanjit Singh Channi Punjab chief minister for a few months merely to grab Dalit votes as part of its conspiracy, and cited previous instances of the party giving the key position to a leader from the community only for a short tenure. Hitting out at the Congress, BJP general secretary Dushyant Kumar Gautam, who is the party's in-charge for the state, noted the reported statement of Harish Rawat that the Congress will fight the assembly elections under its state chief Navjot Singh Sidhu's leadership. Rawat is the Congress' pointsman for handling its Punjab affairs. "This is an old habit of the Congress. It believes that it can capture Dalit vote bank by making a Dalit chief minister for a few months. A conspiracy is being hatched in Punjab to grab Dalit vote bank," Gautam said. He noted that the Congress had made Dalit leader Sushil Kumar Shinde Maharashtra chief minister in 2003 but replaced him with Vilasrao Deshmukh when it won the 2004 assembly election. Similarly, he said, the Congress had made Jagannath Pahadia Rajasthan's chief minister in 1980 but removed him in over a year. Gautam, also a Dalit leader, alleged that the Congress has resorted to this tactic often and claimed that it often used former deputy prime minister Jagjivan Ram to get the votes of the community but "insulted" him and even removed him from the party when it came to giving him his due. The Congress also never gave B R Ambedkar Bharat Ratna or made memorial in his name or did anything to preserve his memory, the BJP leader claimed. "The Congress has humiliated Dalits innumerable times," he alleged. Channi, 58, was on Monday sworn in as chief minister of Punjab, making him the first Dalit to hold the top post in the state. The state will go to the polls early next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
20-09-2021||India||Channi talks about inclusiveness as internal rift in Punjab Congress deepens  ||Congress leader Charanjit Singh Channi was on Monday sworn in as chief minister of Punjab on Monday, making him the first Dalit to hold the top post in the state, but the road ahead for him seems to be rocky with leaders issuing public statements reflecting the dissension within the party. Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni were also sworn in. They will be designated as deputy chief ministers. Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit administered oath to the 58-year-old Channi at a ceremony held at the Raj Bhawan. Thanking the party leadership, Channi told reporters, "The party has given a common person a great honour." Channi said he will become the voice of the common people of Punjab and will always remain accessible to the people. In his first press conference after being sworn-in, he appealed to the Centre to repeal the contentious farm laws. "Together, we have to make Punjab prosperous. Punjab is primarily an agrarian state. This government is a pro-farmer government, this is Congress government," he said. However, Channi, who took oath in Punjabi, will need to resolve internal rifts which are tormenting the state unit before the Assembly elections due next year. Earlier on Monday, Congress leader Sunil Jakhar questioned AICC general secretary Harish Rawat's reported statement that the upcoming state elections would be fought under the leadership of Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Jakhar, who is also the former Punjab Congress chief, dubbed Rawat's statement as baffling, saying it is likely to undermine the authority of the chief minister. On the swearing-in day of Sh @Charnjit_channi as Chief Minister, Mr Rawats's statement that 'elections will be fought under Sidhu', is baffling. It's likely to undermine CM's authority but also negate the very 'raison d' tre' of his selection for this position, said Jakhar in a tweet. Jakhar was one of the frontrunners for the post of new Congress Legislative Party leader after Amarinder Singh was nudged into quitting ostensibly over his failure to fulfil the promises made by the party in the 2017 assembly polls. However, Congress finally picked Channi for the post and it was learnt that Sidhu backed it. Reacting to Jakhar's tweet, BJP leader Amit Malviya called it a huge insult to the Dalit community. This is a huge insult to the entire Dalit community if Charanjit Singh Channi has been made the CM, only to hold the seat for Navjot Singh Sidhu, the chosen Gandhi family loyalist. This completely undermines the Dalit empowerment narrative being peddled by the Congress. Shame, said Malviya in a tweet. After his swearing in, which was held in the presence of senior Congress leaders including Rahul Gandhi, Channi said, "This government is of the people of Punjab, he further said, adding that Congress' ideology is to take everyone along. On his predecessor, Amarinder Singh, Channi said he did good work as CM. "He is also known as protector of water rights. He is our party leader," he said. "The party high command has given an 18-point programme and we are committed to it, said Channi," adding promises made will be fulfilled. We will ensure a transparent government, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
20-09-2021||India||Nadda slams Opposition over their 'irresponsible' remarks about Covid vaccination drive||The Opposition parties should introspect over their "irresponsible" statements about the Covid vaccination programme of the Modi government that has proved to be the "biggest and fastest" in the world, BJP president JP Nadda said on Monday. In a visit to a vaccination centre at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here, he congratulated and thanked a team of Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, state health ministers, medical fraternity and people for making the vaccination campaign a "success". Over 2.5 crore people were vaccinated on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 71st birthday on September 17, setting a world record in vaccination. It proves that this campaign is the "biggest and fastest" in the world, Nadda said. "The Opposition parties should introspect over their silence on 2.5 crore vaccinations on September 17 and their irresponsible and laughable statements in the past one year on the vaccination drive. They should think what impression they have left on the society and their role in a democracy," he said. It was his second visit to the AIIMS vaccination centre since the drive began earlier this year. He interacted with people who had come for vaccination at the centre and the medical staff and thanked them for making the drive a success. The visit by the BJP president was part of the party's 20-day mega campaign, titled 'Sewa Aur Samarpan Abhiyan', launched on Modi's birthday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
20-09-2021||India||Javed Akhtar defamation case: Kangana Ranaut appears before Mumbai court||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut appeared before a Mumbai court on Monday in connection with a criminal defamation complaint filed against her by lyricist Javed Akhtar. The court had last week said it will issue a warrant against Ranaut if she fails to appear on the next date of hearing on September 20. Ranaut appeared before the metropolitan magistrate's court on Monday for the first time since summons was issued to her in February this year. Earlier this month, the Bombay High Court dismissed a plea filed by Ranaut seeking quashing of proceedings initiated against her by the local court on the criminal defamation complaint filed by Akhtar. Justice Revati Mohite-Dere had said in the order that there was no procedural illegality or irregularity in the metropolitan magistrate's order initiating the proceedings. Akhtar (76) had filed the complaint in the court in November last year, claiming Ranaut had made defamatory statements against him in a television interview, which allegedly damaged his reputation. In his complaint, Akhtar claimed that Ranaut dragged his name during an interview while referring to a 'coterie' existing in Bollywood, following the alleged suicide committed by actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
20-09-2021||India||Channi takes oath as Punjab Chief Minister||Congress leader Charanjit Singh Channi was on Monday sworn in as chief minister of Punjab, making him the first Dalit to hold the top post in the state. Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni were also sworn in. They will be designated as deputy chief ministers. Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit administered oath to the 58-year-old Channi at a ceremony held at the Raj Bhawan here. Channi took oath in Punjabi. The Congress on Sunday picked Channi as the next chief minister of Punjab after the resignation of Amarinder Singh. Prominent among those who were present at the oath-taking ceremony were Rahul Gandhi and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Amarinder Singh, who resigned as chief minister two days back, was conspicuous by his absence. Channi becomes chief minister with less than six month to go before the assembly polls in Punjab. Amarinder Singh was nudged into quitting ostensibly over his failure to fulfil the promises made by the party in the 2017 assembly polls. It is not clear if the new CM will be able to accomplish the task in the time available to him, observers say. But his appointment will allow the party to play the Dalit card in the coming elections. An estimated 30 per cent of the state's population, counting both Sikhs and Hindus, is from that community.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
20-09-2021||India||Rawat's reported remarks on Sidhu baffling, says Punjab leader||Congress leader Sunil Jakhar on Monday questioned AICC general secretary Harish Rawat's reported statement that the upcoming state elections would be fought under the leadership of Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Jakhar, who is also the former Punjab Congress chief, dubbed Rawat's statement as baffling , saying it is likely to undermine the authority of the chief minister. On the swearing-in day of Sh @Charnjit_channi as Chief Minister, Mr Rawats's statement that 'elections will be fought under Sidhu', is baffling. It's likely to undermine CM's authority but also negate the very 'raison d' tre' of his selection for this position, said Jakhar in a tweet. New Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi took oath on Monday, in the presence of Rahul Gandhi and other senior Congress leaders. Rawat had reportedly said that the Punjab Assembly polls next year will be fought under Sidhu. Jakhar was one of the frontrunners for the post of new Congress Legislative Party leader after Amarinder Singh was nudged into quitting ostensibly over his failure to fulfil the promises made by the party in the 2017 assembly polls. However, Congress finally picked Channi for the post and it was learnt that Sidhu backed it. Reacting to Jakhar's tweet, BJP leader Amit Malviya called it as huge insult to the Dalit community. This is a huge insult to the entire Dalit community if Charanjit Singh Channi has been made the CM, only to hold the seat for Navjot Singh Sidhu, the chosen Gandhi family loyalist. This completely undermines the Dalit empowerment narrative being peddled by the Congress. Shame, said Malviya in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
20-09-2021||India||India logs over 30,000 fresh cases, 295 casualties in a day||With 30,256 people testing positive for coronavirus infection, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,34,78,419, while the active cases declined to 3,18,181, the lowest in 1,823 days, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,45,133 with 295 more fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases have declined to 3,18,181 comprising 0.95 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.72 per cent, the health ministry said. A reduction of 13,977 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. A total of 11,77,607 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 55,36,21,766. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.57 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for the last 21 days, it said. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.07 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the last 87 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,27,15,105, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent, it said. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 80.85 crore, according to the ministry. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 295 fresh fatalities include 152 from Kerala, and 49 from Maharashtra. Of the 4,45,133 deaths reported so far in the country, 1,38,518 are from Maharashtra, 37,603 from Karnataka, 35,337 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 23,591 from Kerala, 22,887 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,652 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
20-09-2021||India||Over 34,000 idols immersed on last day of Ganpati festival in Mumbai||A total of 34,452 idols of Lord Ganesh and Goddess Gauri were immersed in water bodies across Mumbai on the last day of the Ganpati festival held under the shadow of the COVID-19 pandemic for the second year in a row, civic officials said on Monday. Three boys, who were swept away in the sea waters at Versova jetty here during the Ganesh idol immersion on the culmination of the 10-day festivities on Sunday night, were still missing. Two others accompanying them were rescued, they said. No other untoward incident was reported in the city during the final day immersions, the officials said. A Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said of the 34,452 idols immersed on Sunday, 13,442 were immersed in artificial lakes which were created across the city to avoid crowding at natural water bodies. Out of the total immersed idols, 5,043 were of 'sarvajanik' (public) mandals, 29,060 household Ganesh idols, and 349 idols of Goddess Gauri. Among the idols immersed in artificial lakes here, 11,387 were household Ganpati idols, 1,890 of public mandals and 165 of Goddess Gauri, the official said. The famed idol of the 'Lalbaug Cha Raja' Ganesh mandal in the metropolis was immersed at Girgaon Chowpatty by around 3 pm on Sunday, an official earlier said. The BMC also deployed 715 lifeguards at various natural and artificial immersion sites, he said. The festival began on September 10 across the state and was celebrated in a low-key manner for the second year in a row in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Earlier, more than 41,000 idols were immersed in various water bodies in the city on the second day of the festival, 66,000 on the fifth day and 15,000 on the seventh day. The BMC had capped the height of household Ganesh idols to two feet and of public mandals to four feet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
20-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi likely to attend oath-taking ceremony of new Punjab CM||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is likely to attend the oath-taking ceremony of Charanjit Singh Channi as chief minister of Punjab on Monday, party sources said. Channi, who is set to take oath at 11 am, paid obeisance at a gurdwara in Chamkaur Sahib in Rupnagar district on Monday morning. He will be the first Dalit to hold the post in the state. The Congress on Sunday picked Channi as the next chief minister of Punjab. After having picked Channi as the next chief minister of Punjab, the Congress is likely to pick two senior leaders from the state as Deputy CMs. A tweet from senior Congress leader Pawan Kumar Bansal, who is AICC treasurer, revealed the names of two senior leaders and outgoing ministers in the previous Amarinder Singh's cabinet -- Brahm Mohindra and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa -- as the party's choice for the Deputy chief minister's posts. While Mohindra is the Hindu face of the party, Randhawa is the Jat face. Mohindra was considered a close confidant of former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. Heartiest congratulations to @Charanjit channi for elevation as#PunjabCM and@Brahm Mohindra & @Sukhjinder INC as Dy CMs. Best wishes for their grand success in the services of Punjab under the leadership of Smt. Sonia Gandhi and Sh @ Rahul Gandhi, Bansal, a former MP from Chandigarh, tweeted. Channi on Sunday had met Governor Banwarilal Purohit to stake claim to the top job in the poll-bound state soon after being elected as the leader of the Congress Legislature Party. Amarinder Singh was nudged into quitting ostensibly over his failure to fulfil the promises made by the party in the 2017 assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
20-09-2021||West Bengal||Kolkata anchor ‘gang-raped’ in Patna hotel alleges police inaction ||A 24-year-old woman from Kolkata who works as an anchor has alleged that she was gang-raped at a hotel in Patna in July, when she went there to anchor a programme organised by an event management company. According to her complaint, two men, including the owner of the company, had allegedly raped her and threatened to kill her if she raised an alarm. She returned to Kolkata and lodged a complaint with Jadavpur police station in south Kolkata in July, after which the case was shifted to Patna. The woman alleged on Sunday that even more than two months after the complaint was lodged, Patna police had not made any arrest. She said she was still receiving threat calls from the alleged perpetrators. Officers of the Patna police said they were probing the matter and would take necessary action. “It is a two-month-old incident. The case was initially registered with Kolkata police and then moved here. Whatever is there in the FIR, we are looking into them. There are serious allegations of rape. Why wouldn't they be arrested? But before that we are making a detailed investigation,” said Rahul Ambarish, superintendent of police, Patna City (Central). The station house officer (SHO) of Gandhi Maidan police station in whose area the hotel is, denied that ‘nothing has been done’ by the police. “We have sent teams from Patna to Muzaffarpur thrice in the past two months. Both accused were absconding. Their phones were switched off. Their last tower location was in Muzaffarpur,” said SHO Ranjit Bats. Bats, the SHO, said the police had examined CCTV footage and were trying to verify the anchor’s account. The woman had mentioned in her complaint lodged with Jadavpur police station that she had gone to Patna in the last week of June to anchor an event. “I was categorically told by the wife of the event management company’s owner that my husband should not accompany me as they were not in a position to bear any additional expenses. She assured me that she and I would stay on the same floor of the hotel. But on reaching the hotel, I was told that she was not there,” the complainant said on Sunday. The alleged incident happened early on July 3 — hours before she was to catch a train back home from Patna Junction. “After the event, the owner came to my room around 1am to make the payment. When he started opening a bottle of whiskey, I strongly objected and started shouting. At that point, another man — a friend of the owner — entered the room and shut the door. I realised they had come prepared,” she said. The woman said she tried to pick up the receiver of the land phone in the room but the men snapped the wire. The men allegedly threatened to kill her if she dared raise her voice. “I tried my best to resist them but they overpowered me. After that, they dragged me into the washroom and poured water on me to wipe all evidence. One of them thrust a contraceptive pill in my mouth before they both accompanied me to the station to ensure I did not raise any alarm,” she said. The woman boarded a train at 4.25am and reached Kolkata in the evening. The next day she went to Jadavpur police station and lodged her complaint. A senior police officer at Lalbazar said they had started a ‘zero FIR’ under IPC sections related to gang-rape and transferred the case to the Patna police. Zero FIR can be lodged anywhere irrespective of the place of occurrence. The woman said she went back to Patna on July 29 to get her statement recorded before a magistrate under Section 164 of CrPC. “I have been calling up the investigating officer in Patna, who keeps assuring me the accused will be arrested. But to the best of my knowledge, nothing has been done. Now, the wife of the event management company’s owner is threatening me with dire consequences if I do not settle the matter,” the complainant said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
20-09-2021||India||Punjab gets its first Dalit CM in Charanjit Singh Channi ||Punjab is scheduled to have its first Dalit chief minister with the Congress picking Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday to replace Amarinder Singh in a surprise decision. Channi, 58, who was minister of technical education, culture and tourism in Amarinder’s government, is a three-time MLA and considered a confidant of Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Caste is expected to play a key role this election. The Scheduled Castes make up about a third of Punjab’s population but the state has never had a Dalit chief minister. Jat Sikhs, barely 20 per cent of the population, have always dominated Punjab politics because of their financial and social clout. The largely uneducated and poor Dalits have remained on the margins, surviving mostly as farm labourers and sanitation workers. While Sidhu himself wanted to be chief minister, the party high command decided to insure against any political backlash from Amarinder who has had a running feud with the state president. Earlier, Sunil Jakhar and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa were being portrayed as front-runners since Saturday. The high command was keen on Jakhar but he lost his chance primarily because the dominant view favoured a Sikh leading the government. Jakhar is a Hindu. Randhawa missed out because the party decided to tap the Dalit symbolism ahead of the upcoming Assembly elections — but not before the day witnessed the unseemly drama of supporters distributing sweets claiming he had been selected for the hot seat. The high command had earlier sprung another surprise by offering the chief minister’s post to veteran Ambika Soni, who declined it citing health issues and her conviction that Punjab must be led by a Sikh. This seemed to have queered the pitch for Jakhar. Central observers Ajay Maken and Harish Chowdhary and the general secretary in charge of the state, Harish Rawat, then began seeking the views of individual MLAs. But state leaders like finance minister Manpreet Badal started quietly working with Rahul Gandhi to push Channi’s candidature. By evening, Randhawa, who had the support of the majority of party MLAs, had faded from the scene and Channi had emerged as the dark horse. Channi, spotted by Amarinder a decade ago, had moved to the Sidhu camp a few months ago. There is speculation about his being a stop-gap arrangement till the February elections, when the party can look at Sidhu’s claim if it retains power. Apart from his caste advantage, Channi is a safe bet because he appears acceptable to the various party factions. The Congress leadership had been worried about the Dalit vote this time after the Akali Dal struck an alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and promised a Dalit deputy chief minister. The Congress has sought to upstage the Akalis by giving the top post to a Dalit. Besides, the Aam Aadmi Party has made deep inroads into the Dalit vote bank and was being seen as the main challenger this time. The Congress has taken care of this front as well by picking Channi. Punjab’s Dalits once saw the Congress as their natural choice but have in recent years begun looking at other parties. However, the BSP couldn’t spread its roots in Punjab despite Kanshi Ram being a native of the state. Kanshi Ram, born into a Ramdasia Sikh family, had won his first Lok Sabha election from Hoshiarpur in Punjab. But while the BSP became a dominant force in Uttar Pradesh, the best it could do in Punjab was to win 9 of the 117 Assembly seats in 1992. The BJP too had been working seriously on the Dalits in Punjab after the Jat Sikh farmers revolted against the party over the new farm laws. It appointed Vijay Sampla, a Dalit from the state, as chairperson of the National Commission for the Scheduled Castes, and he reached out to the community in a big way. The Congress now hopes to turn the tide on this front too. It’s the Congress that had made Giani Zail Singh, an OBC from Punjab, the President of India. The Congress also gave India its first Muslim President (Zakir Husain), first Dalit President (K.R. Narayanan), first woman President (Pratibha Patil), first woman Prime Minister (Indira Gandhi), first woman chief minister (Sucheta Kripalani) and first Muslim woman chief minister (Anwara Taimur).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
20-09-2021||India||Modi’s tenure sees sharp decline in minority status nod||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s tenure has seen a sharp decline in the number of educational institutions awarded the minority status by the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions, a quasi-judicial body funded by the central government. The commission, established in 2004, can grant the minority status to institutions set up by individuals or organisations from the Muslim, Christian, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain and Parsi communities. The state governments too can independently grant the minority status, which allows an institution to reserve up to half its seats for members of its community. While the Modi government’s early years witnessed a relatively mild decline in the award of the minority certificates by the commission — from 1,500-1,600 a year to around 1,100 — the figures nosedived from 2017, falling to 10 in 2019 and 11 in 2020. (See chart) An education ministry official blamed the decline on procedural changes in clearing the applications, but academics complained that these changes amounted to “harassment” of the minority institutions and alleged that the motive was “political”. The four-member commission has three members now: Justice Narendra K. Jain (chairperson), Jaspal Singh and Shahid Akhtar. Jain became chairperson in October 2018. According to commission records, of the 522 institutions awarded the minority status between August 2017 and March 2021, some 245 had been established by Christians, 185 by Muslims, 70 by Jains, 21 by Sikhs and 1 by Buddhists. The commission has not published community-wise break-ups of the minority certificates issued before August 2017. The education ministry official said the number of applications had fallen over the years — from up to 2,000 a year witnessed mid-decade to about 600 a year now. Asked why the number of certificates awarded had plunged to around 10 a year, he blamed it on delays caused by procedural changes. An institution can apply to its state government or the commission for the minority status. Following a Supreme Court judgment in 2018 in Sisters of St Joseph of Cluny vs West Bengal, institutions applying to the commission have to attach a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the state government. The states are often slow to grant NOCs. However, if an institution can furnish proof that it had applied to the state government for an NOC more than 90 days ago, the commission can consider this “deemed NOC”. “Now the applicants have to furnish an NOC from the state government, and a unique ID from the Niti Aayog if the applicant is a registered society or a trust,” the ministry official said. An official from an applicant institution, asking not to be identified, provided a fuller explanation of how systematic delays had led to a piling backlog, with just a handful of certificates issued each year. He said the format for the application to the commission was changed three times between 2017 and 2019, each time seeking additional details such as student and teacher data or imposing new requirements such as the Niti Aayog ID. “Each time they changed the format, they asked us to withdraw the application and resubmit it. They could have easily asked for an affidavit with the additional information sought,” he said. “The withdrawals and resubmissions led to delays.” The pandemic has further slowed the process. The commission usually conducts three hearings before awarding the certificate — a process that earlier took between one and two years. Akhtarul Wasey, academic and former commissioner for linguistic minorities, expressed concern at the repeated changes to the format. “The commission has no reason to change the format repeatedly. This is harassment of the applicants,” Wasey said. He demanded that the commission provide year-wise data on its website about the number of applications received. Jessy Kurian, Supreme Court lawyer and former commission member, said delaying the minority certificates amounted to discouraging the minority institutions. “Delays defeat justice. The commission should speed up hearings for faster decisions,” Kurian said. Sociologist Andre Beteille had in March last year told this newspaper he had a feeling that the reasons for the decline in minority certificates were “political”. “On the whole I’m opposed to quotas of any kind. But something (that had been) going on for decades declining sharply calls for anxiety,” he had said. “There must be a very sound reason for such decline. I have the impression that the present Prime Minister is not favourably disposed towards minorities. I think it is political.” An email sent to the commission on August 31 seeking the reasons for the fall in the number of institutions receiving the minority status has evoked no response so far. However, Justice Jain, the commission head, had told this newspaper in March last year that there was no pressure from the government on the issuance of the minority certificates. He had attributed the falling numbers to delays caused by the format changes. Former National Commission for Minorities chairperson Naseem Ahmad said the vacancies in the commission too were a reason for the delays. Two members’ posts were vacant till last month, when Akhtar was appointed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
20-09-2021||India||Delhi talks with Saudi minister||India and Saudi Arabia on Sunday discussed intensifying political and economic cooperation during a foreign minister-level bilateral engagement here as part of the ongoing deliberations between world capitals on the situation in Afghanistan. Saudi Arabia’s foreign minister Faisal bin Farhan Abdullah, who is on a three-day India visit, met external affairs minister S. Jaishankar and reviewed the implementation of the Strategic Partnership Council Agreement signed between the two sides in Riyadh in October 2019. “They expressed satisfaction at the meetings held under the agreement and progress achieved,” the external affairs ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
20-09-2021||India||Rahul takes a jab at India's vaccine drive a day after Modi's birthday||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday tweeted a visual showing how vaccinations had dropping after the spike on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday on September 17, and wrote: “Event khatam (over)”. India recorded 3.6 million doses on Sunday and 8.5 million on Saturday after Friday’s record of 22.6 million doses. The line chart uploaded by Rahul also showed the relatively low numbers of doses administered in the days preceding September 17. Less vaccines are usually administered on Sundays.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
20-09-2021||India||Patna court asks Bihar cops to book Tejashwi in cash-for-poll-ticket case||A Patna court has ordered Bihar police to register an FIR against Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti, state Congress president Madan Mohan Jha and two others in connection with a cash-for-poll-ticket case. The court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) Vijay Kishore Singh issued the order after hearing a case in which lawyer and Congress leader Sanjeev Kumar Singh has accused the five leaders of swindling him out of Rs 5 crore on the pretext of giving him a ticket to contest elections. Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathore and former party leader Sadanand Singh’s son Subhanand Mukesh are the other two accused. Sanjeev has also accused Tejashwi of threatening to get him killed when he demanded his money back. “These leaders promised to give me a ticket to contest the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Bhagalpur and took Rs 5 crore from me. However, they did not give me the ticket,” Sanjeev told reporters. “When I demanded my money back, they promised to field me in the Assembly elections from Gopalpur (in Bhagalpur district) and my brother from Rupauli (in Purnea district), but did not keep their word again. When I told them to return my money, Tejashwi threatened to get me eliminated,” Sanjeev added. The RJD and the Congress are in an alliance in Bihar. The CJM’s order and papers related to the case were sent to Patna senior superintendent of police Upendra Kumar Sharma, who forwarded them to Kotwali police station on September 16 for further action. Kotwali station house officer Sunil Kumar Singh told this newspaper that he was yet to receive the papers for the FIR. Asked about the case and the directions for an FIR, Tejashwi’s aide Sanjay Yadav told The Telegraph: “There is no need for us to react to nonsensical and baseless allegations. We do not know anything about the case or the person who has filed it. If the court has ordered an FIR, so be it.” The other accused leaders did not respond to phone calls. However, some Congressmen claimed that Sanjeev had ceased to be a member of the party a year ago. “The man in question was expelled from the party during the Assembly elections last year after he put up posters declaring himself as the chief ministerial candidate of the Grand Alliance. He seems to be mentally unstable. The government agencies must probe how he got Rs 5 crore, which is a huge amount,” Congress leader Rajesh Rathore told this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
20-09-2021||India||Odisha: Rains hamper states's radio collar drive on elephants ||The incessant rain for the past few days has stalled O the Odisha government’s ambitious plan to attach radio collars on elephants to monitor the herds’ movement. The scientists from the Indian Institute of Sciences (IISc), Bangalore, have left Odisha, official sources said. According to the plans, the radio collars supplied by IISc, Bangalore, will be fitted in three elephants in Chandaka sanctuary, located on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar and four in Similipal sanctuary in Mayurbhanj district in northern Odisha. The radio collars will be fitted after tranquilising the elephants. “We had identified an elephant to tranquilise it for the purpose of putting a radio collar in Chandaka sanctuary. However, we did not take the risk at this moment as the atmosphere was not conducive for the purpose. We had made the survey of the herd of elephants but the ongoing rainfall has foiled our attempt,” Chandaka divisional forest officer (DFO) Md. Jameel told The Telegraph. Honorary warden, Khurda wild life division Subhendu Mallick told this newspaper, “The forest officials had identified an elephant called Ramu and tried to tranquilise it by shooting eight darts. But the elephant overcame it and ventured into the deep forest. They failed to track the movement of the elephant. Now everything has come to a standstill.” Odisha is witnessing heavy rainfall for the last 10 days following depression in the Bay of Bengal. Bhubaneswar also witnessed heavy rainfall on Sunday. Most of the areas are submerged and all the roads leading to Chandaka sanctuary have also become muddy. “We will wait for a few more days. We need to have patience to go for tranquilising an elephant at this moment. There may be some adverse situations that have emerged because of the rain. We have to wait till the rains are over and the situation inside the forest improves,” said a senior forest official. In a bid to bring down cases of human and animal conflict Odisha during the upcoming Rabi season, the Odisha government has also decided to install wooden beehive boxes in select forest divisions of the state to keep elephants away from human habitations. “Engaging honey bees to ward off elephants has been successful in South Africa, Assam, Uttarakhand and Karnataka. We have planned to implement this in Odisha’s selective forest divisions on a pilot basis,” Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF) Shashi Paul told this newspaper. The project has been named RE-Hab (Reducing Human-Elephant Attacks Using Bees). With this the government is hopeful that the human habitations as well as the crops will be safe from jumbo attacks. Cases of animal and human conflict are generally noticed in the months between October and March. According to the plan, the beehive boxes will be put up at several places known for the movement of elephants. “When a jumbo tries to cross the border and comes in touch with the wire connected to the beehive box, the door of the box will open. Angered at being disturbed the army of honeybees will come out and attack the herd of elephants. Scared by the sudden attack, the elephants will run away and will not enter the human habitations and destroy the crops,” said Paul. The state government will launch a pilot scheme in the Athmallik-Keonjhar forest division. It will procure the beehive boxes from the Khadi and Village Industries Commission. As per the government report, at least 282 pachyderms have died due to human and animal conflict in the past three years. Similarly, 912 people have lost their lives in elephant attacks during the past 10 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
20-09-2021||India||China builds 10 new airbases along the Line of Actual Control ||China appears to have built at least 10 new airbases along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh besides ramping up infrastructure at its exiting airbases close to the Indian frontier, sources in the security establishment have said. The latest assessment has strengthened the suspicion that the Chinese have been using the time afforded by the ongoing talks with India to buttress their positions in the “occupied” zones in Ladakh. “Intelligence reports suggest the Chinese have built at least 10 new airbases along the LAC in Ladakh, Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh. This is very serious considering the 16-month-old border standoff in eastern Ladakh,” a security official attached to the Union home ministry said. He said the Chinese army had earlier built additional military camps as well as watchtowers with CCTV cameras atop them inside India-claimed lines in Ladakh to monitor Indian troop deployment. “It’s a matter of extreme concern the way they have been ramping up their military and air force infrastructure close to the LAC and also inside the occupied zones,” the security official said. “It’s apparent that the Chinese are bolstering their positions while talks are under way to resolve the border standoff.” The standoff continues in Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains while there have been “partial” disengagements at the Galwan Valley, Pangong Lake and Gogra – but with both sides pulling back by an equal distance within India-claimed lines. This means India has ceded additional territory while the Chinese still remain within India-claimed lines, military veterans say. On the strategically crucial Depsang Plains, the Chinese are said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines. Military veterans suspect that China wants to establish a new status quo at the LAC, claiming the territory occupied since May last year as its own. They have flagged with concern the long absence of any reference to “status quo ante” in the official statements issued after each round of talks. Defence ministry sources said India’s military preparedness along the China frontier was being reviewed regularly. India has carried out mirror deployment at the LAC to match the Chinese, moving in additional troops, artillery and infantry combat vehicles, and is conducting regular aerial surveillance. “The defence top brass have been conducting regular meetings to discuss infrastructure and capability development along the LAC,” a ministry official said. India has been building 73 roads of operational significance along the China frontier, he said, but at a far slower pace compared with China’s rapid expansion of military infrastructure in the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
