21-09-2021||India||Mahant's death: 18-member SIT formed to probe case; disciple Anand Giri detained||The Uttar Pradesh Police on Tuesday constituted an 18-member SIT to probe the death of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri and detained a disciple of the seer in Haridwar. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said all aspects related to the death are being investigated and the guilty will not be spared. Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya too said his government is ready for every kind investigation into the matter. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has demanded a judicial probe by a sitting high court judge. A plea seeking a CBI probe into the death was also sent to the chief justice of the Allahabad High Court. The seer, who was the president of the largest organisation of sadhus in India, was found hanging by his disciples at Baghambari Muth in Allahabad on Monday. A purported suicide note was also found, in which the seer had written that he was mentally disturbed and upset with one of his disciples, police had said. According to a release, the 18-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted by Allahabad SSP will include two circle officers. Meanwhile, ADG (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar in Lucknow said the state police detained the seer's disciple Anand Giri on Monday night in Haridwar. Anand Giri was detained after a case for abetting suicide was lodged against him, Kumar said. The ADG said in the suicide note, names of three people were mentioned and on the basis of the FIR, Anand Giri was detained. "He is being brought to Allahabad for further probe," he said, adding that evidence in the case is being collected. An "unbiased and transparent" probe into the matter is on and the state police is capable of handling the case, the officer said. About the veracity of the suicide note, Kumar said forensic experts are looking into it. CM Adityanath, who rushed to Allahabad to pay his respects to the seer, told reporters that the case will be solved soon. Every single aspect connected with the case will be exposed and the guilty will be punished, he added. Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya, who paid floral tributes to the mahant, said the guilty will not be able to escape and his government is ready for every king of probe, be it by police of the CBI. Samajwadi Party President Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday demanded a judicial probe by a sitting high court judge. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister also visited Baghambari Muth in Allahabad and paid homage to the seer. Meanwhile, a lawyer, Sunil Choudhary, mailed a petition to the chief justice of the Allahabad High Court, seeking a CBI probe into the case. Choudhary said according to some news portals, a high-rank UP police officer and land mafia were involved in the case. The probe must be transferred to the CBI and the state government be directed to suspend the Allahabad district magistrate and the SSP, the petition added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
21-09-2021||India||DoT issues order to enable people to get mobile SIM at doorsteps by using Aadhaar, Digilocker docs||The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) on Tuesday issued an order that enables customers to apply for a new mobile connection online and get the SIM delivered at their doorsteps after verifying themselves by using Aadhaar or any other eligible document stored in Digilocker. The move from the DoT is part of the telecom reforms approved by the Cabinet on September 15. Customers will have to pay Re 1 for the process of authentication through Aadhaar-based e-KYC services of UIDAI for getting new mobile connections, according to the new rules. The government already amended the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, in July 2019, for the re-introduction of Aadhaar-based e-KYC process for issuing new mobile connections. "The telecom service providers shall implement a process...for issuing of new mobile connections using Aadhaar-based e-KYC," the DoT said. The government has issued an order allowing conversion of prepaid to postpaid and vice-versa using a one-time password (OTP)-based process. "The issuing of mobile connection to the customers is done through an app/portal-based online process wherein a customer can apply for mobile connection sitting at home/office and gets the SIM delivered at his doorstep using documents electronically verified by UIDAI (Aadhaar) or Digilocker," The DoT's order said. Currently, to obtain a new mobile connection or conversion of mobile connection from prepaid to postpaid or vice-versa, a subscriber has to undergo the KYC process that entails a visit to the retail shop along with the original documents of identity and address proof. "Online service delivery has become an acceptable norm in the recent past and most of the customer services are being offered through the internet with OTP authentication. "Contactless services in the Covid-19 era need to be promoted for subscriber convenience and also for the ease of doing business," the DoT said in a statement. It added that customer consent has been made compulsory in case the Aadhaar is being used and demographic details are being obtained electronically from UIDAI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
21-09-2021||India||Jaishankar meets French and Iranian counterparts at UN||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday met his French and Iranian counterparts at the UN and held talks on contemporary issues, including Afghanistan and Indo-pacific. Jaishankar, who arrived here on Monday to participate in the high-level 76th session of the UN General Assembly, began his day with a meeting with India’s “strategic partner” France. He met his French counterpart Jean-Yves Le Drian and held a comprehensive discussion on Afghanistan, Indo-Pacific and other contemporary issues. “Began the day meeting with our Strategic Partner France. A comprehensive discussion with FM @JY_LeDrian on Afghanistan, Indo-Pacific and other contemporary issues. India and France are solid partners in the UN Security Council,” Jaishankar said in a tweet. He also met Iran’s Foreign Minister H Amirabdollahian and held talks on strengthening bilateral cooperation. “Good to meet FM @Amirabdolahian of Iran again. Continued our conversation on strengthening bilateral cooperation. Meeting reaffirmed our convergence on regional issues,” the External Affairs Minister said in another tweet. Jaishankar and senior Indian officials arrived in New York starting Monday for the annual high-level UNGA session which returned to a more hybrid and in-person format this year after going virtual last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. During the week, Jaishankar will meet his counterparts from several member states and participate in the G-20 meeting that will focus on Afghanistan and the G-4 Foreign Ministers meeting with focus on Security Council reforms. India will participate in three high-level meetings organised by UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres on Climate, Energy and Food Systems. The 76th UNGA session commenced from September 14 under the Presidency of Abdulla Shahid. The high-level week - the General Debate - commenced on Tuesday with US President Joe Biden addressing world leaders. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the General Debate on September 25. The Taliban seized power in Afghanistan on August 15, two weeks before the US' complete troop withdrawal on August 31 after a costly two-decade war. This forced Afghan President Ashraf Ghani to flee the country to the UAE. The Taliban insurgents stormed across Afghanistan and captured all major cities in a matter of days, as Afghan security forces trained and equipped by the US and its allies melted away. Thousands of Afghan nationals and foreigners have fled the country to escape the new Taliban regime and to seek asylum in different nations, including the US and many European nations, resulting in total chaos and deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
21-09-2021||India||Air Marshal V R Chaudhari set to become new IAF chief||Air Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari will take charge as the chief of the Indian Air Force after the incumbent, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, retires on September 30, the defence ministry said on Tuesday. Air Marshal Chaudhari is presently serving as Vice Chief of the Air Staff. "The government has decided to appoint Air Marshal V R Chaudhari, presently Vice Chief of Air Staff, as the next Chief of the Air Staff after the retirement of Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on September 30," the ministry said in a brief statement. He has held command, staff and instructional appointments at various levels and took over as Vice Chief of Air Staff on July 1. Before becoming Vice Chief of the IAF, he was serving as commander-in-chief of the Western Air Command (WAC) that looks after the security of Indian air space in the sensitive Ladakh sector as well as various other parts of north India. An alumnus of the National Defence Academy, Air Marshal Chaudhari was commissioned into the fighter stream of the IAF on December 29, 1982. In a distinguished career spanning nearly 38 years, the officer has flown a wide variety of fighter and trainer aircraft in the inventory of IAF. He has a flying experience of more than 3,800 hours, including operational flying on MiG-21, MiG-23 MF, MiG 29 and Su-30 MKI fighter jets. He was the commanding officer of a frontline fighter squadron and has also commanded a frontline fighter base. Apart from various operational issues, Air Marshal Chaudhari will have to also address matters related to the ambitious theaterisation model of the armed forces. The theatre commands are being planned to integrate the capabilities of the three services and to ensure optimal utilisation of their resources. The theatre commands are being set up under a larger mandate of ensuring synergy among the three service chiefs to deal with future security challenges. Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat has been focusing on bringing convergence among the three services and restructuring military commands to effectively deal with future security challenges. There has been a growing perception that the Indian Air Force has some reservations about the theaterisation programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
21-09-2021||India||India will not buy Pfizer, Moderna vaccines as domestic output surges||India's government will not buy COVID-19 shots from Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna, three government sources told Reuters, mainly because domestic output of more affordable and easier-to-store vaccines has jumped. That essentially means the globally popular vaccines, which their makers have pledged not to sell to private parties during the pandemic, will not be available for now in the world's two most populous countries - China and India. The Indian government has also declined to meet the U.S. companies' requests for legal protection over any side-effects from the use of their shots, which are currently made only in the United States or Europe, two of the sources said. No company has received such protection in India. "Earlier, there was a shortage, there was a need," said one of the sources, referring to India's appeal to the companies in April for vaccines when infections exploded and shots were in short supply. "Their price will be high. Why should we take on their conditions?" A second source said: "The government will not buy Pfizer and Moderna vaccines. They are free to have private tie-ups after necessary regulatory clearances. But sovereign indemnity is clearly something we can't give". A Pfizer spokesperson in India said discussions were ongoing and it remained committed to bring the vaccine to the country. The company reiterated that "during the pandemic phase, it would supply the COVID-19 vaccine only to central governments and supra-national organisations". Moderna and India's health ministry did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Moderna, through its Indian partner Cipla (CIPL.NS), already has emergency-use authorisation in India for its vaccine, which, like the Pfizer one, needs ultra-cold storage - facilities that much of India lacks. Both vaccines cost several times more than India's main shot, Covishield, a licensed version of the AstraZeneca  drug. India's monthly domestic output has trebled since April and will reach 300 million doses in October, according to Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, who on Monday announced a restart of India's vaccine exports from the October quarter. read more The government, however, is expected to buy locally filled and finished doses of Johnson & Johnson's vaccine, Reuters reported on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
21-09-2021||India||Narendra Modi, Emmanuel Macron discuss bilateral collaboration in Indo-Pacific||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and French President Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday discussed the recent developments in Afghanistan and shared their concerns about possible spread of terrorism, narcotics, illicit weapons and human trafficking. During their telephonic conversation, the two leaders reviewed the increasing bilateral collaboration in the Indo-Pacific region, and the important role that the India-France partnership plays in promoting stability and security in the region, a statement released by the Prime Minister's Office here said. President Macron and Prime Minister Modi agreed to act jointly and with Europe in the Indo-Pacific, to keep the region stable, rules-based and free of any hegemony, French Ambassador to India Emmanuel Lenain said on Twitter. After his conversation with Macron, Modi tweeted, "Spoke with my friend President @EmmanuelMacron on the situation in Afghanistan. We also discussed closer collaboration between India and France in the Indo-Pacific." "We place great value on our strategic partnership with France, including in the UNSC," Modi said. The PMO said the two leaders discussed regional issues, including recent developments in Afghanistan. "In this context, they shared their concerns about possible spread of terrorism, narcotics, illicit weapons and human trafficking, as well as the need to ensure human rights, rights of women and minorities," the statement said. The leaders agreed to maintain close and regular consultations, in the spirit of the India-France Strategic Partnership, which both countries cherish deeply, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
21-09-2021||India||Serum Institute to supply 22 crore Covishield doses to Centre in October||The Serum Institute of India has informed the Centre that it will be able to supply around 22 crore doses of Covishield in October as the Union government has announced resuming the export of surplus Covid vaccines in the coming fourth quarter under the 'Vaccine Maitri' programme, official sources said. In a communication to the Centre on Monday, Prakash Kumar Singh, Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Serum Institute of India (SII), said the firm has enhanced its production capacity of Covishield and it will be able to supply 21.90 crore doses in October to Government of India and private hospitals. The Pune-based pharmaceutical company has enhanced the manufacturing capacity of Covishield to more than 20 crore doses per month. "Starting from January 2021, we have supplied 66.33 crore doses of Covishield to MoHFW, Government of India in addition to supply of more than 7.77 crore doses to state governments and private hospitals till 19th September 2021 evening. "All this has become possible under the dynamic leadership and kind direction of our Prime Minister Narendra Modi Ji, continuous support from team Ministry of Health and GoI, visionary leadership of our CEO, Dr Adar C Poonawalla, along with untiring efforts of Team SIIPL," a source quoted Singh as having communicated. Singh futher assured that by December 31, keeping with the timeline, the firm will complete the recent supply order of 66 crore doses. "At this juncture, I can assure you that by December 31, 2021, we will complete supply of 66 crore doses of Covishield against the recent order and will touch supplies of more than 130 crore doses of Covishield in the year 2021. We are working relentlessly to fulfill our prime minister's dream for successful completion of world's largest vaccination drive so that our country overcomes COVID-19 pandemic," the communication stated. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday announced that India will resume export of surplus COVID-19 vaccines in the fourth quarter of 2021 under the 'Vaccine Maitri' programme and to meet its commitment to the COVAX global pool, but vaccinating its own citizens remains the topmost priority of the government. Talking about the expected production and supply trends in the coming months, the minister said the government will receive over 30 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines in October and over 100 crore doses in the coming quarter from October-December. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has crossed 82 crore. Of all the vaccine doses administered, around 88.45 per cent are Covishield, around 11.44 per cent are Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and less than one per cent are Sputnik V. India on September 17 administered a record number of over 2.50 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses on the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 71st birthday. The daily COVID-19 vaccination in the country was over 1 crore on September 6, August 31 and August 27. India took 85 days to touch the 10-crore vaccination mark, 45 more days to cross the 20-crore mark and 29 more days to reach the 30-crore mark, according to the ministry. The country took 24 days to reach 40 crore from 30 crore doses and then 20 more days to cross the 50-crore vaccination mark on August 6, it said. It took 19 more days to go past the 60-crore mark and took only 13 days to reach 70 crore from 60 crore on September 7. It then took just 11 days to reach 80 crore from 70 crore. According to official sources, over 22 per cent of India's adult population have received both doses of COVID-19 vaccine and nearly 65 per cent have got at least one dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
21-09-2021||India||UK travel restrictions: Congress urges govt to ensure Indians don't face inconvenience||The Congress on Tuesday expressed concern over the latest Covid-related travel restrictions announced by the UK and urged the government to ensure that there is no inconvenience faced by any Indian travelling to that country. According to new rules announced by the United Kingdom, Indian travellers who have received both doses of the Covishield vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) will be considered unvaccinated and will have to undergo self-isolation for 10 days. Reacting to the development, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said, "We are very concerned about the kind of inconvenience our people will have to face while travelling to the UK." Taking a dig at the Modi government, he said this raises pertinent questions on the way the government has handled international relations. "So much for the diplomatic heft that Mr. (Narendra) Modi claims he has. It does not come to the rescue of ordinary Indians unfortunately. It does not come to the rescue of the interests of India. When push comes to shove, we pay a heavy price," Khera said at a Congress media briefing at the party's headquarters here. "We would request the government to immediately intervene and ensure that there is no inconvenience faced by any Indian travelling to the UK," he said. His remarks come a day after former Union ministers and Congress leaders Jairam Ramesh, Anand Sharma and Shashi Tharoor slammed the UK's COVID-19-related travel rules, with Ramesh saying it "smacks of racism". While Tharoor had said that because of the restrictions he had even pulled out of a debate at The Cambridge Union debating society and from the launch events for the UK edition of his latest book, Sharma urged the Prime Minister's Office to take a stand against the UK's double standards and cancel the proposed India-UK trade talks. From October 4, the "traffic light system" of red, amber, green countries based on levels of COVID-19 risk will be replaced in the UK by one red list of countries. The scrapping of the amber list, which is what India is currently on, means a reduced PCR test cost burden only for some travellers. However, the expanded list of countries whose vaccines are recognised in the UK does not include India. It means Indians vaccinated with Covishield, the SII-produced Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, would be required to undergo compulsory PCR tests as well as self-isolation. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has urged for an "early resolution" of the COVID-19 quarantine issue during his meeting with the newly appointed British Foreign Secretary Elizabeth Truss in the US.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
21-09-2021||India||NDA preparing for inducting women into team, exam notice by May: Centre to SC||The Defence Ministry has informed the Supreme Court that a notification allowing women candidates to appear for the entrance exam to the National Defence Academy (NDA) will be out by May next year. Keeping the timeline in mind, deliberate planning and meticulous preparation is needed to ensure smooth induction and seamless training of such women candidates, the ministry said. "The Government of India, in line with its commitment, hereby place on record its clear and categorical stand that the women candidates shall be considered for entry in the three defence services, in the existing streams, through National Defence Academy," said in an affidavit filed before the top court. The NDA entrance exams are held twice a year and the government proposes to have necessary mechanism in place by May 2022, the time by which UPSC is required to publish the first notification next year, for the exam, it said. A Study Group has been constituted by the Defence services, comprising of the experts to expeditiously formulate the comprehensive curriculum for women cadets at NDA, it said, adding that a Board of Officers has been convened to give a holistic and futuristic proposal for training of women Cadets at NDA incorporating all relevant aspects. The Centre had earlier told the top court that the armed forces have decided to induct women into the NDA. Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Centre, had told that a decision has been taken at the highest level of the armed forces as also the government that females will be inducted for permanent commission through the NDA. The apex court was hearing a plea filed by advocate Kush Kalra which has raised the issue of exclusion of eligible and willing female candidates from joining the prestigious NDA solely on the ground of sex which allegedly is a violation of fundamental right of equality. The plea said the authorities allow unmarried male candidates having adequate 10+2 qualification to take the 'National Defence Academy and Naval Academy Examination', but eligible and willing female candidates are not allowed to take the examination on the sole ground of their sex and without any reasonable or justifiable explanations within the Constitution. It alleged that this act of discrimination is a dishonour committed by the concerned authorities to the Constitutional values of equality and non-discrimination. The petition stated that UPSC conducts the 'National Defence Academy & Naval Academy Examination' and as per eligibility criteria, any unmarried male candidate with the required educational qualification and aged between 15-18 years can appear in it. The plea said the candidate, on qualifying the exam and on successful completion of training at the NDA and subsequent training at the respective academy of the service the cadet opts for, gets commissioned into the service as a permanent commissioned officer by the age of 19-22 years old. This opportunity to take the NDA and Naval Academy Examination at the age of 15-18 years, with the eligible academic qualifications is not available to eligible and willing female candidates and the sole reason for this categorical exclusion is on the basis of their sex, the plea said. It claimed that duration of training for the Short Service Commission women officers is very less compared to the training that a male permanent commission officer, who gets entry through the NDA, gains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
21-09-2021||India||Income Tax department bound to maintain confidentiality of seized Newslaundry data, says Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court Tuesday said the Income Tax department is bound by its assurance to maintain the confidentiality of the material seized during a survey operation at news portal Newslaundry's premises and to ensure that it is not leaked. The court, which was hearing a petition by the news portal and its co-founder Abhinandan Sekhri, said the grievances related to a challenge to the survey operation can be agitated by them at a subsequent stage, if required. Rights and contention of parties are kept open, the bench stated. Counsel for the I-T department assured a bench of Justices Manmohan and Navin Chawla that the material seized by the authorities will be used only in accordance with the law, which may include sharing it with other government agencies, and will not be leaked to third parties. "Seized material is in safe custody of the Income Tax department. Seized material shall not be leaked. It will be illegal to leak such material," said lawyer Ajit Sharma for the department. "The respondent assures and undertakes before the court that the seized material shall not be leaked and the concept of confidentially as enshrined in the Income Tax Act shall be abided. The said undertaking given by the respondent is accepted by the court and respondent is held bound by it," the court recorded. Senior counsel Siddhartha Dave, representing the petitioners, stated that the apprehension of a leak would not have arisen had the department given them an opportunity to delete personal data before taking it away. However, in view of the I-T department's assurance, he informed the court that he would not press the prayer with respect to a challenge to the survey operation at this stage. On September 17, the court had granted time to the I-T department to clarify its stand on giving an undertaking against any leak of seized material in the present case. Senior counsel for the petitioners, while seeking a direction to the I-T authorities not to leak any data and delete whatever is of no relevance to the proceedings, had said that four notices under the I-T Act were issued to his client. He said the survey was held at the news portal's premises on September 10, during which several devices, including a mobile phone and a laptop belonging to the petitioner co-founder, were seized by the I-T authorities, which contained information which has no relevance to any income tax proceedings. The seized data might contain personal photos and information pertaining to investigative stories. The senior lawyer argued that any data breach would be in violation of right to privacy and therefore a direction should be passed to the IT authorities to not leak any data and delete whatever is of no relevance to the proceedings. It was also contended that any seizure during a survey operation was beyond the scope of survey and that no hash value of the seized data was given. In the petition filed through advocate Nipun Katyal, the petitioners said that the income tax officers and authorities do not have any power to interrupt the ordinary peaceful citizens of the country in any manner they like by utilizing the large powers given to them, without keeping strictly within the four corners of those large powers. The Petitioners are heading a news organization, the Petitioners herein have sources, contacts and other information on the digital machines. It is the fiduciary duty of the Petitioners to protect them and keep it confidential. "It is further submitted that the legal communication regarding existing cases is present in the personal laptop and phone of the Petitioners. If in any circumstances, the leaks are committed, it shall be a clear breach of the attorney client privilege as well as whistleblowers confidentiality, the plea added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
21-09-2021||India||No interim relief for TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee in coal scam case||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday refused to grant any interim relief to TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee and his wife seeking quashing of summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam in West Bengal. The high court asked the ED to respond to the plea by Banerjee and his wife Rujira Banerjee within three days. Justice Yogesh Khanna listed the matter for further hearing on September 27. Abhishek Banerjee and his wife Rujira Banerjee, who were asked by the agency to personally appear before it in Delhi today along with a voluminous set of documents, have contended that they are residents of Kolkata and should not be compelled to join the probe in the national capital. The ED opposed the plea saying money laundering has national and trans national ramifications and its investigation is not restricted to any police station or area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
21-09-2021||India||Covid-19 R-value drops below 1 in mid-September||R-value, which reflects how rapidly coronavirus pandemic is spreading, dropped to 0.92 by mid-September after spiralling over 1 by August-end, according to researchers. However, the R-values of major cities, Mumbai, Calcutta, Chennai, Bengaluru, are over 1. The R-value of Delhi and Pune are below 1. The R-values of Maharashtra and Kerala are below 1, giving a much needed relief to these two states with the highest number of active cases. The R-value was 1.17 by the end of August. It declined to 1.11 between September 4-7 and since then it has remained under 1. "The good news is that India's R has continued to be less than 1, as is that of Kerala and Maharashtra, the two states having the highest number of active cases," said Sitabhra Sinha of the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai. Sinha is leading a team of researchers who calculate the R-value. According to the data, the R-value of Mumbai stands at 1.09, Chennai 1.11, Calcutta 1.04, Bengaluru 1.06. The Reproduction number or R refers to how many people an infected person infects on average. In other words, it tells how 'efficiently' a virus is spreading. After the devastating second wave that saw hospitals and health infrastructure being overwhelmed by the patients infected with SARS-CoV2 coronavirus, the R-value started to decline. During the March-May period, thousands of people died due to the infection, while lakhs were infected. The R-value value between September 4-7 was 0.94, 0.86 between September 11-15 and 0.92 between September 14-19. Meanwhile, India added 26,115 new cases of coronavirus infection in a single day taking the total tally to 3,35,04,534, while the active cases declined to 3,09,575, the lowest in 184 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The active cases comprise 0.92 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, the ministry said, adding the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.75 per cent. A reduction of 8,606 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 14,13,951 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 55,50,35,717. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.85 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 22 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.08 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 88 days, it said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,27,49,574, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The 252 fresh fatalities include 92 from Kerala, 31 from Punjab and 28 from Maharashtra. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 81.85 crore with 96.46 lakh doses being given on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
21-09-2021||India|| Army chopper crash lands in Udhampur||Two pilots were killed when an Army helicopter crash-landed in a dense forest near Patnitop in Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur district on Tuesday, officials said. "Today, during a training sortie in Patnitop area, Indian Army's Cheetah helicopter crash-landed in Shiv Garh Dhar area in the district," a Jammu-based defence spokesman said. He said that two pilots -- Major Rohit Kumar and Major Anuj Rajput -- were injured in the incident and evacuated to the nearest medical facility but they succumbed later. Army Commander, Northern Command, Lt Gen Y K Joshi paid rich tributes to the slain officers. "Army Commander, Northern Command, and all other ranks salute the bravehearts who made the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty on 21 September 2021 at Patnitop and offer deepest condolences to their families," the Army's Northern Command said in a tweet. Officials said the incident reportedly occurred between 10.30 am to 10.45 am when the chopper was caught in bad weather, officials said, adding the helicopter belonged to the Army Aviation Corps. There was a thick fog over Patnitop when the incident occurred, they said. Local residents were the first to reach the site and they pulled out the pilots from the severely damaged helicopter, they added. Police, along with the Army, rushed to the scene to join the rescue operation and evacuated the injured pilots to a hospital, the officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
21-09-2021||India||AAP promise for Goa ahead of polls: 80% jobs for locals||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said if voted to power in Goa in the 2022 polls, his party will ensure that 80 per cent of jobs, including in the private sector, will be reserved for local people. He also assured a monthly remuneration of Rs 5,000 to families dependent on the mining and tourism industries till these sectors are normalised. Speaking to reporters in Mapusa town, Kejriwal further said that at least one unemployed person from each family in Goa would be given a government job and jobless youths will get a monthly allowance of Rs 3,000 till they find jobs. Assembly elections are due in Goa, currently ruled by the BJP, in February next year. This is the second visit of Kejriwal to Goa in the last two months. In his earlier visit in July, the Delhi chief minister had assured free electricity up to 300 units per month to people in Goa if his party forms the government after polls. Addressing a press conference on Tuesday, Kejriwal said, "80 per cent of jobs, including in the private sector, will be reserved for Goan youths. We will pass a law making it mandatory for private industries to employ 80 per cent of workers from local people . Kejriwal also tried to woo the people dependent on the mining and tourism sectors, the major recruiters in Goa. While mining came to a standstill after the Supreme Court ban, the COVID-19 induced lockdown has adversely affected the tourism industry. "Families dependent on the mining and tourism industries will get a monthly remuneration of Rs 5,000 till these sectors are resumed," he said. In another promise, Kejriwal said a Skills University will be set up in Goa on the lines of Delhi where youth would be skilled and made employment-ready. He said if the AAP comes to power only the deserving people will get jobs in the state government only on merit. "The current practice of recruiting people in government through favours from MLAs or influential politicians will be discarded. The entire system of job recruitment in the government sector would be made transparent and accountable, he added. Referring to the doorstep delivery of services introduced by the Pramod Sawant government, Kejriwal said a similar initiative was implemented by the Delhi government. As per our scheme, government officers go to the doorstep of people with the required facilities. People don't have to move out of their homes, he said. He claimed the Sawant government has been copying the Delhi government's initiatives. Why choose duplicate when you have original, he quipped. In the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, the AAP had drawn a blank. The Congress had then won the highest 17 seats in the 40-member House in Goa restricting the BJP to 13. Surprising the Congress, the saffron party allied with regional parties and came to power under the leadership of senior leader Manohar Parrikar, now deceased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
21-09-2021||India||Mahant Giri death: All aspects being probed, says Adityanath||All aspects related to the death of top seer Mahant Narendra Giri are being probed and the guilty will be punished, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Tuesday. The influential Hindu seer was found dead on Monday at Baghambari Muth in Allahabad. He was the president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, the largest organisation of sadhus in India. The police under ADG (Allahabad zone) and commissioner, Allahabad are working as a team, the chief minister who rushed to Allahabad to pay respects to the seer told newspersons there. Asserting that evidence has been collected in connection with the seer's death, Adityanath said the case will be solved soon. Every single aspect connected with the case will be exposed and the guilty will be punished, he added. According to the wishes of the seer's followers, the body will be kept for darshan (public viewing) on Tuesday so that people can pay their last respects, Adityanath said, adding that a five-member team will conduct a post-mortem examination on Wednesday. After that, he will be laid to rest in a samadhi' as per religious rites and beliefs, the chief minister said. According to the police, the seer's body was found hanging from the ceiling by his disciples on Monday. A purported suicide note of seven-eight pages was also found at the site in which the seer had written that he was mentally disturbed and was ending his life. The seer had written he was upset with one of his disciples, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
21-09-2021||India||SC collegium recommends eight names to Centre||Thirteen high courts in the country will get new Chief Justices (CJs) as the Supreme Court collegium headed by CJI N V Ramana has recommended to the Centre eight names, including acting Calcutta High Court CJ, Justice Rajesh Bindal, for elevation and transfer of five sitting CJs to other high courts. The collegium's decisions, reported earlier by PTI, were uploaded on the apex court's website on Tuesday. Besides Justice Bindal, who would now become the Chief Justice of the Allahabad High Court if the Centre assents to the recommendation, there are other seven judges whose elevation as CJs have been recommended by the collegium which also comprises Justices U U Lalit and A M Khanwilkar. The Supreme Court Collegium in its meeting held on 16th September, 2021 has recommended elevation of Judges as Chief Justices of the High Courts, as mentioned..., the apex court's statement said. Besides Justice Bindal, the Collegium has recommended names of Justices Ranjit V More, Satish Chandra Sharma, Prakash Srivastava, R V Malimath, Ritu Raj Awasthi, Aravind Kumar and Prashant Kumar Mishra for elevation as CJ of the high courts of Meghalaya, Telangana, Calcutta, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh respectively. In another statement, uploaded on the website, the apex court provided the list of five Chief Justices who have been transferred to other high courts. A A Kureshi, CJ of Tripura High Court, has been recommended to become CJ of the Rajsathan High Court, while Justice Indrajit Mahanty, the CJ of Rajasthan High Court would go to Tripura HC as the CJ, it said. Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq of Madhya Pradesh High Court has been recommended to head the Himachal Pradesh HC as the CJ, it said, adding that Chief Justice Biswanath Somadder of Meghalaya High Court would be transferred in the same capacity to the Sikkim High Court. Chief Justice A K Goswami of the Andhra Pradesh High Court has been recommended to become the CJ of the Chhattisgarh High Court, the statement said. Justice Bindal of Calcutta High Court has been in news recently due to his administrative and judicial decisions in matters related to political stand-off between the BJP and the Trinamool Congress in West Bengal. Justice Kureshi, one of the senior-most high court judges in the country, was originally elevated as a judge in the Gujarat High Court and has been in news due to his non-elevation as a judge of the apex court. As per the third statement uploaded on the apex court's website, the collegium in its meeting held on September 16, has recommended transfer/re-transfer 17 high court judges. They are Justices Jaswant Singh, Sabina, T S Sivagnanam, Sanjaya Kumar Mishra, M M Shrivastava, Soumen Sen, Ahsanuddin Amanullah, Ujjal Bhuyan, Paresh R Upadhyay, M S S Ramachandra Rao, Arindam Sinha, A M Badar, Yashwant Varma, Vivek Agarwal, Chandra Dhari Singh, Anoop Chitkara and Ravi Nath Tilhari. The collegium headed by CJI Ramana has been taking steps by recommending names to fill up a large number of vacancies in higher judiciary in the country. After assuming charge as the CJI in April this year, Justice Ramana has recommended nearly 100 names for appointment to different high courts, besides filling up nine vacancies of judges in the Supreme Court in one go. The 25 high courts in the country have a combined sanctioned strength of 1,080 judges and on May 1, 2021, they were functioning with 420 judges only. The series of recommendations has been made close on the heels of a historic decision to recommend 68 names in one go for a judgeship in 12 high courts across the country. Prior to that, in a historic decision on August 17, the Collegium headed by the CJI had recommended nine names, including three women, for elevation as judges of the Supreme Court. The names were cleared with significant pace by the Centre leading to the swearing-in ceremony on August 31 when the new judges were administered oath of office as apex court judges. The fresh recommendations assume significance in view of the statement made by the CJI in a recent function of the Bar Council of India that it has been his endeavour to address the issue of vacancies in the higher judiciary on an "urgent basis". The CJI had said during the function that in another month, he expected that 90 per cent of vacancies will be filled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
21-09-2021||India||Raj Kundra walks out of Mumbai jail after bail in pornographic films case||Businessman Raj Kundra on Tuesday walked out of a Mumbai jail, a day after a magistrate court here granted bail to the key accused in a pornographic films case in which he was arrested two months ago. Kundra was released from the Arthur Road jail shortly after 11.30 am, a jail official said. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate SB Bhajipale on Monday allowed Kundra's bail application on furnishing a bond of Rs 50,000. Kundra's associate and co-accused Ryan Thorpe, who was arrested along with him on July 19, was also granted bail by the court in the case pertaining to alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. The 46-year-old businessman was lodged in Arthur Road Jail in central Mumbai under judicial custody. Kundra, the husband of Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested by the Mumbai police's crime branch after being booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Information Technology Act and the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act. Kundra moved a bail plea before the metropolitan magistrate court on Saturday, days after the police filed a supplementary charge-sheet in the case. In the plea, filed through advocate Prashant Patil, Kundra claimed there was not even an iota of evidence till date with the prosecution that would connect the app 'Hotshots', used in the alleged porn films racket, with an offence under law. As per the probe agency, the 'Hotshots' app was being used by accused persons for uploading and streaming obscene content. The businessman claimed there was no evidence of him being "actively" involved in creation of alleged questionable porn content. Kundra alleged he was falsely implicated, was not even named in the FIR and was dragged by the respondent (police) in the case. The businessman claimed in the plea that he is being made a "scapegoat" for reasons best known to investigators. There is not a single allegation in the entire supplementary charge-sheet against Kundra, Patil submitted before the court. Contents of the complaint in the case do not disclose any prima facie offence against Kundra, he said. The public prosecutor opposed Kundra's application, saying just because the charge-sheet has been filed, it does not imply bail is to be granted to the accused. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Bhajipale, after hearing both sides, allowed Kundra's application on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 50,000. The police, in their supplementary charge sheet, had claimed Kundra was the "main facilitator" in the case and he along with other accused exploited young women struggling in the movie industry by filming them in obscene ways. The nearly 1,500-page charge-sheet against Kundra and Thorpe was filed in the court on September 15 by the crime branch. Besides Kundra and Thorpe, Yash Thakur, a resident of Singapore, and London-based Pardeep Bakshi have been shown as wanted accused in the charge-sheet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
21-09-2021||India||J&K: Infiltration bid in Uri, Army search operation enters third day||A combing operation launched by the Army after it detected suspicious movement in Uri along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir entered the third day on Tuesday, officials said. All telecommunication facilities including the internet in the border town remained suspended. The Army said it had detected the suspicious movement along the LoC in Uri sector on the night intervening September 18 and 19 following which an operation was launched in the area. The date coincided with the fifth anniversary of the Uri attack in which 19 soldiers were killed after two suicide attackers stormed a military installation on September 18, 2016. The area where the suspicious movement was observed falls near Gohalan, the same place where the attack took place five years ago. A defence spokesman here said the search operation was going on in the area but did not elaborate if the forces had found anything to lend credence to the reports of major infiltration bid in the sector. Officials said one soldier had sustained injuries in the "initial contact" with the adversary near the fence along the LoC, which had prompted the massive search operation to ensure that the infiltrators, if any, do not get to the hinterland. According to government sources in Delhi, a group of around six infiltrators managed to sneak in from Pakistan, NDTV.com reported. The army said the operation to track down the infiltrators is underway and the exact situation on the ground is still unclear. The army said this was the second such bid this year following a ceasefire agreement between the armies of India and Pakistan in February. The army said since then, no ceasefire violation had been reported and there has been no instigation from Pakistan. "No ceasefire violation this year. We are prepared for any ceasefire violation. But frankly, there has been no instigation from across the border," NDTV.com quoted Lt General DP Panday, General Officer Commanding of 15 Corps. He said, unlike the past, there have been a few infiltration attempts this year and they are looking for the infiltrators in the Uri sector. "There is an operation which is ongoing for last 24 hours in Uri, in which we felt that there is an infiltration attempt which has been made. We are looking for them. Are they on this side or have they gone back after making attempt, that issue is not been clarified or verified on the ground," said Gen Panday. This is for the first time when phone services and the internet was suspended in the wake of a cross-border infiltration attempt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
21-09-2021||India||Active Covid caseload lowest in 184 days||India added 26,115 new cases of coronavirus infection in a single day taking the total tally to 3,35,04,534, while the active cases declined to 3,09,575, the lowest in 184 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll climbed to 4,45,385 with 252 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.92 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, the ministry said, adding the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.75 per cent. A reduction of 8,606 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 14,13,951 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 55,50,35,717. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.85 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 22 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.08 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 88 days, it said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,27,49,574, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 81.85 crore with 96.46 lakh doses being given on Monday. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 252 fresh fatalities include 92 from Kerala, 31 from Punjab and 28 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,45,385 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,546 from Maharashtra, 37,627 From Karnataka, 35,360 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 23,683 from Kerala, 22,887 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,664 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
21-09-2021||India||Jaishankar raises Covid quarantine issue during his meeting with UK counterpart||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar urged for an "early resolution" of the COVID-19 quarantine issue and discussed the situation in Afghanistan and the developments in the Indo-Pacific during his meeting with the newly appointed British Foreign Secretary Elizabeth Truss. Jaishankar arrived here on Monday to participate in the high-level 76th session of the UN General Assembly. Shortly after his arrival in the city, he held bilateral meetings with Norwegian Foreign Minister Ine Eriksen Soreide, Iraqi Foreign Minister Fuad Hussein and the UK's new Foreign Secretary. Pleased to meet new UK Foreign Secretary @trussliz. Discussed the progress of Roadmap 2030. Appreciated her contribution on the trade side. Exchanged views on developments in Afghanistan and the Indo-Pacific. Urged early resolution of quarantine issue in mutual interest, Jaishankar tweeted. The meeting in New York between Jaishankar and Truss came the same day as the UK announced new COVID-related travel restrictions that sparked sharp criticism and concerns in India. According to new rules, Indian travellers who have received both doses of the Covishield vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) will be considered unvaccinated and will have to undergo self-isolation for 10 days. From October 4, the current "traffic light system" of red, amber, green countries based on levels of COVID-19 risk will be replaced by one red list of countries. The scrapping of the amber list, which is what India is currently on, means a reduced PCR test cost burden only for some travellers. The expanded list of countries whose vaccines are recognised in the UK does not include India. It means Indians vaccinated with Covishield, the SII-produced Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, would be required to undergo compulsory PCR tests as well as self-isolation. After his meeting with Hussein, Jaishankar tweeted that he had a cordial meeting with FM Fuad Hussein of Iraq. Discussed our historical ties, economic, energy and development cooperation linkages. Exchanged views on regional and global issues. Earlier, Jaishankar said he began his UNGA meetings with Soreide. Appreciated our working together in the Security Council. A comprehensive discussion on Afghanistan. Important for the international community to take a unified approach he said. The UK has said it is engaging with India to explore how it could expand the recognition of the COVID-19 vaccine certification issued by Indian authorities amid criticism of the new British travel rules. Asked about the concerns in India over the new rules that will come into effect next month, a British High Commission spokesperson in New Delhi has said the UK is engaged with India on the issue and is committed to opening up international travel again "as soon as is practicable". "The UK is committed to opening up international travel again as soon as is practicable and this announcement is a further step to enable people to travel more freely again, in a safe and sustainable way, while protecting public health," the spokesperson said. "We are engaging with the Government of India to explore how we could expand the UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India," the official added. Jaishankar and senior Indian officials arrived in New York starting Monday for the annual high-level UNGA session which returned to a more hybrid and in-person format this year after going virtual last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. During the week, Jaishankar will meet his counterparts from several member states and participate in the G-20 meeting that will focus on Afghanistan and the G-4 Foreign Ministers meeting with focus on Security Council reforms. The BRICS meeting, which also traditionally takes place on the sidelines of the UNGA session, is not taking place since not all BRICS Foreign Ministers will be present during the high-level week, India's Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti had told PTI. India will participate in three high-level meetings organised by UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres on Climate, Energy and Food Systems. The 76th UNGA session commenced from September 14 under the Presidency of Abdulla Shahid. The high-level week - the General Debate - will commence September 21, with US President Joe Biden addressing world leaders on Tuesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the General Debate on September 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
21-09-2021||India||Modi-Biden bilateral meet will strengthen India-US relation, says White House official||The maiden bilateral meet between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden on September 24 will allow taking the relationship between the two countries from strength to strength while helping in reinforcing and giving momentum to the Quad grouping, a White House official has said. Biden will host Modi at the White House for their first bilateral meeting on September 24. Later on that day, Biden will host the first-ever in-person Quad Leaders' Summit at the White House with Modi, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison. Both Biden and PM Modi have spoken virtually on multiple occasions after the former, a Democrat, became US president in January. The last telephone conversation between Prime Minister Modi and President Biden took place on April 26. "The leaders will be focused on strengthening the deep ties between their people and shared democratic values that have underpinned the special bond between the United States and India for more than seven decades," a White House official told PTI. "The Biden-Harris administration has enhanced our partnership with India by working together to uphold a free and open Indo-Pacific, leading efforts to end the COVID-19 pandemic, and taking concerted action to address the climate crisis," the official said. Addressing a press conference earlier, a senior official of the administration said the Biden-Modi meeting would be an opportunity to go from strength to strength, from the point of view of the partnership with India. This can be done by working together to uphold a free and open Indo-Pacific, by taking steps to contribute to a global solution to the COVID-19 pandemic and by taking concerted action to address the climate crisis, the official said. "So, the bilateral discussion between the US and India will help reinforce and give momentum to the Quad discussion because many of the topics are very much interrelated," the official said. "Additionally, in the bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Modi, the two leaders will have the opportunity to talk about counter-terrorism, the Afghanistan situation and how we can work together to fight terrorism, our common enemy, as well as about a range of regional issues and developments where we'll have the opportunity to compare notes," said the senior administration official. The official noted that the relationship between the United States and India goes so much deeper than just a government-to-government relationship. "It is a relationship between the two peoples. I think Prime Minister Modi and President Biden want to talk about the ways of pulling our countries even closer together at basically every level of interaction between our societies," added the official. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
21-09-2021||India||US Vice-President Kamala Harris to meet PM Narendra Modi on September 23||US Vice-President Kamala Harris will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi here on September 23, a day ahead of the maiden bilateral meet between him and President Joe Biden and the Quad Summit at the White House, officials have said. Biden will host Modi for their first in-person bilateral meeting at the White House on September 24. Later on that day, Biden will host the first-ever in-person Quad Leaders' Summit at the White House with Modi, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison. "The Vice President will meet with His Excellency Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of the Republic of India," a White House official told PTI. This will be the first meeting between the two leaders. Harris had earlier spoken with Modi over the phone during the COVID-19 crisis. Harris is the first-ever person of Indian origin to be elected as the vice-president of the United States. During this week, when world leaders will gather in New York to attend the annual session of the UN General Assembly, Harris, according to the White House, is scheduled to hold meetings with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Tuesday, Zambian President Hakainde Hichilema on Wednesday and President of Ghana Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo on Thursday. On Wednesday, she will also lead a session at the President's virtual COVID Summit on building back better and preparing and preventing future pandemics, according to a senior White House official. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
21-09-2021||India||India to resume exports of Covid-19 vaccines from next quarter||India on Monday signalled plans to resume exports of Covid-19 vaccines, citing rising domestic production, although it has fully vaccinated less than half its population of those aged 45 or older and considered most vulnerable to severe disease. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya announced that India would in the fourth quarter of this year start providing Covid-19 vaccines to the world and to Covax, an international initiative to deliver vaccines to the poorest countries. The minister did not specify if he meant the calendar year or the financial year but officials later clarified that the exports would resume from the October-December quarter. “Our vaccination pace is increasing, vaccine production is rising…. Taking this into consideration and after meeting our requirements, we will proceed with vaccine maitri (friendship),” Mandaviya said. “In the coming fourth quarter, we will help the world and meet our responsibility towards Covax.” Health rights advocates concerned about the skewed distribution worldwide hailed the announcement. But sections of public health experts said India should ideally resume its exports only after all adults in the country have received at least one dose. “We’re happy to hear India will resume exports — without India’s help, Africa will not be able to beat Covid-19,” said Leena Menghaney, a lawyer campaigning for equitable access to drugs and vaccines. “In many African countries, just 3 to 10 per cent people have received doses.” Mandaviya said India had had access to around 260 million doses of domestically produced Covid-19 vaccines during September and expected over 300 million doses during October. He said the rising production had helped India increase the campaign’s pace steadily. Some experts, however, are concerned about the timing of the proposed exports because under its limited supplies, India has been able to fully vaccinate only 34 per cent of its people aged 45-59 and only 38 per cent of those aged 60 or older. Vaccination data from the Union health ministry up to Monday also suggests that while India has administered over 808 million doses, only about 151 million (73 per cent) of the estimated 207 million people aged 45-59 have received at least one dose. In people aged 60 or older, around 97 million (69 per cent) have received at least one dose. “We must ensure at least a single dose reaches all adults before we start exporting,” Rijo John, a health economist and adjunct professor at the Rajagiri College of Social Sciences, Kochi, tweeted. “If we maintain the current 7-day average speed, it’ll be 60 days more before all adults are covered with at least a single dose and which takes us to the second half of November.” Large vaccine producers such as India and the US are under pressure to export to African and other poor countries. But lack of planning and advance investments by the Indian government has meant India has had limited supplies of vaccines in relation to its population in contrast to other countries. In the US, more than 64 per cent of people aged 40-49, 72 per cent aged 50-64, and over 80 per cent aged 65 or older have been fully vaccinated. Under the vaccine maitri initiative, India had supplied around 66 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to 95 countries between January and April this year before the Centre announced a ban on exports amid concerns that limited supplies would slow down India’s domestic vaccination campaign. Those exports — commercial or routed through Covax — included 10 million doses to Bangladesh, 550,000 to Bhutan, 1.2 million to Sri Lanka, 7 million to Morocco, 4 million each to Brazil and Nigeria, and 828,000 to Sudan. Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine made in India, made up most of the exports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
21-09-2021||India||Vaccine export decision timed to US Covid virtual summit||The Centre’s decision to resume vaccine exports from October appears timed to the Covid virtual summit being convened by US President Joe Biden on Wednesday on the margins of the UN General Assembly and the Prime Minister’s visit to Washington and New York later this week. “This meeting is about expanding and enhancing our shared efforts to defeat Covid-19,’’ White House press secretary Jen Psaki had said on September 17 while announcing the summit. Increasing vaccine access is top on the agenda, and there is an expectation that India will live up to its reputation of being the “pharmacy of the world”. Psaki had said: “We will be asking participants to commit to a higher level of ambition across four themes’’, first of which is to “vaccinate the world by enhancing equitable access to vaccines and getting shots in arms’’. Last week, the Virginia-based American news website Axios had reported that “the Biden administration is quietly pressuring India to restart vaccine exports with plans to offer a higher-profile role for Prime Minister Narendra Modi at an upcoming Covid-19 global summit in New York if he agrees to release vaccines soon.…’’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
21-09-2021||India||Jordan Alexander King is the new epitome of success||Jordan Alexander King is a successful entrepreneur and is considered a business tycoon in several industries especially real estate. He is the founder and CEO of AK Enterprises, a Holdings company that acts as a parent to many others. One of the main initiatives under AK Enterprises is TUK Developments, an 8-figure real estate holding company. It is based in the greater Toronto area and has properties all over Ontario, Canada such as in the Niagara region, Hamilton, Brantford, Oakville and many others. TUK Developments is actually a sister company to TUK Capital which is a Consulting firm dealing in financing and turnkey development in creative projects. They also offer venture capital private funding as well as private funding for all your real estate needs.  “I started investing in real estate based companies as a private lender and then as an equity partner. After gaining substantial knowledge in the industry, I co-founded TUK Developments.” King said. Another of AK Enterprises’ notable Investments is Choice Renovations Canada which offers home renovations and new constructions as well as funding solutions for homeowners. Truly they are living up to their motto of “Building trust through quality work”. In just 3 years, King has brought himself to great heights. “I find off-market dilapidated properties that most people can't close on with traditional banks because they are not in the liveable condition as well as renovate old apartment buildings and convert them to luxury apartments. I also convert single-family homes into multi-family properties (duplexes, triplex, 4plex etc). I use a few different methods of investing but my favourite is the BRRR method (Buy, Rehab, Rent, Refinance, Repeat). I also do flips for profit as well as invest in new builds. My portfolio consists of luxury and affordable housing properties. I purchase these properties with a hard money lender which typically have higher rates but because the properties have so much margin it only ends up being a fraction of the total cost.”, Jordan King says, when asked about what his secret to such success is. As you can understand King is quite a prominent figure in the real estate industry. He is planning to expand his services not only for greater benefits to his own account but also for those who deserve quality work at affordable rates. Jordan Alexander King is also working as a philanthropist and believes in giving back to the community as much as possible, especially if one is in the position to do so. His kind-hearted and charming personality have made him a global favourite and many hope to avail of Jordan Alexander King and AK Enterprises' services soon. In case you wish to know more about Jordan Alexander King, visit the links given below: https://jordanalexanderking.com// https://tukcapital.com/ https://choicerenos.com/ https://ca.linkedin.com/in/jordan-king-01475598||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
21-09-2021||India||Punjab: Congress seeks to scotch Channi stopgap theory||The Congress on Monday intervened forcefully to reject speculation that Charanjit Singh Channi’s elevation was a stopgap arrangement and that Navjot Singh Sidhu would be projected as the next chief minister of Punjab in the coming election. Congress communications chief Randeep Singh Surjewala said: “Parties like the BJP, Akali Dal, AAP and BSP should stop attacking the poor and the Dalits of the country. They are having heartburn because the Congress has created history in Punjab by giving a Dalit chief minister. Sidhu is the head of the party and Channi is the head of the government. Both will together lead the party to victory. These two leaders and all the workers will be the face of the party in the election.” The controversy erupted when Harish Rawat, the general secretary in charge of Punjab, was quoted as saying Sidhu would be the party’s face in the elections, due in February. What amplified this statement was the prompt reaction from senior Congress leader Sunil Jakhar. “On the swearing-in day of Charanjit Singh Channi as chief minister, Mr Rawat’s statement that ‘elections will be fought under Sidhu’ is baffling. It’s likely to undermine the chief minister’s authority but also negate the very raison d’être of his selection for this position,” tweeted Jakhar, who had initially been seen as a frontrunner for the chief minister’s post. The party high command also got rattled as this speculation could bulldoze the Dalit narrative that Channi’s appointment has built in favour of the Congress. Surjewala said he had spoken to Rawat who said his comments had been misinterpreted and that he had clearly stated that both the state president and the chief minister would lead the party in the election. “A false impression is being created. All the rival parties are having a stomach ache because the Congress has chosen a man from humble roots to head the government. Channi is now the only Dalit chief minister in the entire country. Why did the BJP not induct a Dalit chief minister? They have more than 12 chief ministers.” While the AAP, BJP and BSP lapped up Jakhar’s response, accusing the Congress of deceptively deploying Dalit symbolism for four months to win the election, Rahul Gandhi removed any doubts about Channi’s leadership by attending his swearing-in. Party sources insist that Channi will be given the freedom and authority to prove his worth and there should be no misgivings about the leadership’s intentions. There is no denying that several names were on the table but Channi was chosen because of the political significance of empowering a Dalit. Jakhar, who is also bitter about certain leaders opposing him on the basis of his religion, responded to the Akal Takht jathedar’s statement that the religion of the chief minister was secondary and not critical to the choice. “Sagacious words of Jathedar of Shri Akal Takht Sahib couldn’t have come at a better time when petty minded small people occupying high positions are trying to divide Punjab on basis of race/ caste/ identities, forgetting eternal message of Guru — manas ki jaat sabe ekai pahchanbo (the whole human race is one),” he tweeted. The jathedar is the head of the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of the Sikh community. Apart from some Punjab ministers, party veteran Ambika Soni, who has been an integral part of the high command structure for decades, had openly said she believed only a Sikh should lead the government in Punjab. Many senior leaders were aghast at the statement, which went against the party’s secular ethos. Hindus make up about 40 per cent of Punjab’s population. The Congress has been trying to get the Hindu votes, which largely went to the BJP and the AAP. The party tried to do fine balancing by appointing a Jat Sikh, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, and a Hindu, O.P. Soni, as deputy chief ministers. The first thing the new chief minister did after taking the oath of office was to send out an unambiguous message to the agitating farmers. “If farmers sink, the country will sink. Farming is the backbone of the economy. My government will stand with the farmers and not allow their interests to be damaged, come what may. I appeal to the central government to scrap the (new) farm laws,” Channi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
21-09-2021||India||Kanhaiya Kumar, Jignesh Mevani likely to join Congress||Amid suspicion within the CPI about his exit and confidence in the Congress about his entry, former JNU students’ union leader Kanhaiya Kumar has maintained complete silence over his next move even as a change appears inevitable. Sources in the Congress confirm that Kanhaiya has been in touch with Rahul Gandhi and is likely to join the party along with Gujarat Dalit activist Jignesh Mevani. Although Mevani, who became an MLA with the Congress’s support in the last election, is said to be keen on entering the Congress soon as Gujarat will go to the polls next year, Kanhaiya is still in two minds about the timing of his decision. A leader from Gujarat said: “We don’t have first-hand information because both Kanhaiya and Mevani deal with Rahul Gandhi directly but we hear Hardik Patel is working to bring both of them into the party.” The Congress had left a safe seat for Mevani in the last election and worked hard to ensure his victory even as he remained an independent MLA. Now he is willing to join the party to fight the BJP more effectively. Mevani dropped hints of softness towards the Congress in a tweet on Monday: “The decision of appointing Charanjit Singh ji as the Chief Minister of Punjab is a message that Rahul Gandhi and Congress have given. It will have tremendous impact amongst not just Dalits but all the subaltern masses. For Dalits, the move is not just brilliant but soothing too.” Activists usually tend to dismiss such decisions as symbolism but Mevani’s assessment suggests political pragmatism and a soft attitude towards the Congress. If Mevani eventually moves to the Congress, it will be a personal choice. Kanhaiya’s case is complex because of his position in the CPI, his ideological commitments and the Congress’s pitiable situation in Bihar. Although Kanhaiya is said to be disenchanted with the CPI because of its organisational limitations and India’s current political realities, he will still have ideological qualms over joining the Congress. The Congress’s reliance on the RJD may also be a concern as there is a perception that Kanhaiya doesn’t get along with Tejashwi Yadav. The dynamic young leader will also want greater freedom to rebuild the Congress in Bihar, and this means charting a course independent of the RJD at some point. The Congress has no misgivings about Kanhaiya’s entry as the party is aware that his appeal cuts across barriers of caste, religion and region. The Congress has been ridiculed for the exit of young leaders like Jyotiraditya Scindia, Jitin Prasada and Sushmita Dev, and Kanhaiya will be a big catch under these circumstances. Rahul will be eager to give Kanhaiya a key role in the organisation, providing a fillip to the restructuring process that he is silently executing in the party. While he has brought in most of the G23 leaders over the past few weeks, engaging them in party work at different levels, Rahul has consciously adopted a tough stance on a few leaders who are seen to be vocal against his leadership. “No reconciliation effort so far,” said a G23 leader. Rahul is indeed focused on creating a new face for the Congress. Replacing the deeply entrenched and powerful chief minister Amarinder Singh was never going to be an easy decision but he pushed it with exceptional determination. Rahul has already installed new leaders like Nana Patole, Revanth Reddy, D.K. Shiv Kumar and Navjot Singh Sidhu as state unit chiefs and more such decisions are in the pipeline. Kanhaiya’s entry into the party at this stage will bolster the perception of change.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
21-09-2021||India||SC bins plea to resume in-person classes across India||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to entertain a plea that sought a resumption of in-person classes across the country’s schools, saying no “judicial diktat” could be issued on a matter involving the safety of children who are not even vaccinated. “They (the states) are also conscious of the need for children to gradually go back to school. We cannot by judicial diktat say that you shall send your children back to school, oblivious of the danger which may be there,” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, who headed a two-judge bench that included Justice V. Nagarathna, said. “We have just come out of the second wave.... You still have the danger of a possible spike.… Fortunately, we have reports which say it may not be of such nature. Vaccinations are still taking place. I don’t think these are the kinds of relief where the court should issue general directions that you should send all children to school.” Justice Chandrachud added: “Let us leave something for the democratic way of life that the country has adopted. Let us leave it to the state governments. Surely they want their children to go back to school.... Let the states find out where the spike is taking place.” Addressing advocate Ravi Prakash Mehrotra, who was representing the petitioner, a Class XII student from Delhi, the bench said: “Mr Mehrotra, you ask the child to focus on studies and not seek these reliefs....” Petitioner Amar Prem Prakash had argued that the long closure of schools and prolonged online education were causing “severe psychological and medical issues” among children. Schools had closed across the country from late March last year because of the pandemic. But between late July this year and now, most states have resumed physical teaching in the higher classes (X to XII) while a handful have resumed the lower classes too. There appears little possibility of children getting vaccinated anytime soon, though. The petition said: “However, a large number of states and Union Territories including central schools… are yet to take a decision.” The bench said these decisions were better left to the states. It noted that the Covid situation was still alarming in states such as Kerala and Maharashtra, and that a writ petition had been filed in Karnataka challenging the state government’s decision to restart in-person classrooms. Also, much depends on the Union government’s vaccination policy for children, the apex court said. “The issue is fraught with grave complexities. We cannot give a judicial mandate on a petition where we don’t have data,” it said. It added that the government had to tread with extreme care on a question of exposing children to Covid, “so the court must be equally or even more careful because there is absence of data before us”. The court later allowed the petitioner to withdraw the petition. The petitioner had argued that the long school closure was causing “depression, social reclusiveness” among children. Also, children from poor families were being forced to work to buttress the household income. Underprivileged children were being left out of the online classes. Also, in the absence of regular school, children were being forced to take private tuition. The petition invoked Articles 14 (equality), 21 (life and personal liberty) and 21A (free and compulsory education for all children).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
21-09-2021||India||Tikait blames PM of selling national assets and destroying farmers||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Monday said the Narendra Modi government had “imprisoned the BJP and its leaders”, and that the Prime Minister was bent on selling every asset of the nation and destroying its farmers. “The Narendra Modi government has imprisoned the BJP and its leaders. The BJP had not said in its election manifesto that it would dispose of public properties,” Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson, told a kisan mahapanchayat in Sitapur town on Monday. “It’s proof that this is not a BJP government, this is Modi rule. Many BJP leaders are against the activities of the Modi government but they are afraid.” The mahapanchayat (rally) was convened by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella organisation of farmers that has been spearheading the nationwide movement against the three controversial farm laws enacted last year. “Modi has started privatising airports, a part of the Indian Railways and some public-sector enterprises. He has sold the country’s Parliament to industrialists,” Tikait alleged. The agitating farmers say the new farm laws, railroaded through Parliament without discussion, would leave them to be exploited by big companies. Before the rally, Tikait had told reporters: “We will soon start a Mukti Abhiyan (Freedom Movement) to set India free from the clutches of Modi, who is anti-people and anti-India.” Addressing the rally, he said: “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath should be given a gold medal for lying. He says he has improved law and order but he is running a government of goondas. We have to remove Yogi Baba from power in the 2022 Assembly polls.” The agitating farmers have vowed to defeat the BJP in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, due next March. Social worker Medha Patkar too addressed the farmers and promised support to them in their battle against Modi and Adityanath. About 30,000 people attended the rally in Sitapur, 85km from Lucknow. Talking to reporters in Lakhimpur Kheri on his way to Sitapur, Tikait had accused the Adityanath government of deploying police at the doors of many BKU leaders at places across central Uttar Pradesh, including Shahjahanpur, Bareilly, Hardoi, Lucknow and Lakhimpur Kheri, to prevent them from reaching the rally site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
21-09-2021||India||Top naga sadhu, Narendra Giri, found dead in Allahabad||Narendra Giri, the country’s top naga sadhu who had always been close to power, was found hanging from the ceiling of his room at the Baghambari Mutt in Allahabad on Monday evening. The police claimed the chairman of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad — an umbrella body of the country’s 15 major akharas or sects of naga sadhus — wrote a suicide note naming people he had differences with. Officers said three of those named had been detained. Among them was Narendra’s estranged disciple Anand Giri who had in May accused the guru of selling off the mutt’s properties and passing off the proceeds to his family and a few politicians. Anand Giri told reporters Narendra was murdered and that a fake suicide note had been prepared to frame him. Narendra, who was in his late 60s, had had a meeting on Sunday with deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya at the Bade Hanuman Temple in Allahabad where he was head priest. Maurya said it was a chance meeting. Narendra is said to have been close to chief minister Yogi Adityanath, as well as to Akhilesh Yadav and Mulayam Singh Yadav when they were in power. He loved the trappings of power, and the state government had obliged him with Y-plus security. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted in Hindi that Narendra Giri had “united many streams of the saint communities” and that “God will give him a place at His feet”. Narendra Giri headed the mutt as well as the Niranjani Akhara, to which the mutt belongs. Inspector-general of police (Allahabad zone) K.P. Singh said a disciple of Narendra had called the police after bringing the body down. “We have found an eight-page suicide note in which he says it had become impossible for him to live without dignity (samman),” he said. Singh said a forensic team would examine the note. “The suicide note is more like a will, in which he has named two-three disciples and said the saints of the mutt should look after them. He has described in detail which property of the mutt should be given to whom,” he said. The heads of mutts in Uttar Pradesh are custodians but not owners of their properties. Asked whether the note named those with whom Narendra had developed differences over the mutt’s properties, Singh said: “Yes, he has mentioned four-five names.” Asked whether Anand Giri was among them, the officer said he was. Singh said sadhus of the Niranjani Akhara would be arriving on Tuesday morning from across the country. The post-mortem would be done after taking their consent. A disciple of Narendra said: “He had his lunch around noon and went to his room. He usually came out at 3.30pm and worshipped at the Bade Hanuman temple. “When he failed to come out even at 4pm, we called him on his phone but there was no response. We then knocked and eventually broke the door down around 5.20pm. He was hanging from the ceiling.” The police have detained Adhya Tiwari — a priest at the Bade Hanuman temple — and his son Sandeep Tiwari, who has a sweets shop near the temple. Uttarakhand police have detained Anand Giri in Haridwar, where he had relocated after Narendra suspended him following his allegations. He will be brought to Allahabad. Anand Giri told reporters: “I believe some people killed Guruji and then hanged him. He was being pressured for money. I believe some police officers and mutt members are involved.” He added: “My name being in the note is a conspiracy. He never wrote that note.” Maurya told reporters: “I had gone to the Bade Hanuman temple on Sunday simply to worship. He (Narendra) conducted the prayers in my presence. I was in a hurry and returned to Lucknow thereafter.” He added: “He was not happy after Anand Giri levelled allegations against him. But he was a sadhu of indomitable spirit.” Kailashanand, the mahamandaleshwar (an official) of the Niranjani Akhara, said he found it difficult to believe Narendra would commit suicide. Champat Rai, VHP international vice-president and general secretary of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, expressed sorrow at Narendra’s death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
21-09-2021||India||Jammu top business body calls for shutdown against central policies||Jammu’s top business body, whose office-bearers are known for their close links with the BJP, has called a shutdown to protest against the Narendra Modi government’s alleged anti-Jammu policies. Jammu traders have a long list of complaints against the Centre but the trigger for the fresh outrage is the purported government move to allow Reliance to open 100 stores in Jammu, which they say, will put 20,000 local outlets out of business. The Jammu Chamber of Commerce and Industry has also accused the government of killing the brotherhood between the Jammu and Kashmir regions. The JCCI, whose office-bearers had cheered the scrapping of the state’s special status, have called for a shutdown on September 22, the first such call since the dilution of Article 370 in August 2019. “There is a need to understand that their (Centre’s) only intention, whichever way they can do it, is to disturb everything that belongs to Jammu,” JCCI president Arun Gupta told reporters. “Today, you have a position where people in Leh (Ladakh) have put their issues before the government and the government has agreed. Locals alone will get jobs and trade there. But here (in Jammu), you have all the traders coming from outside and settling here. They (Centre) were much concerned that they will settle people (outsiders) in Kashmir, but in two years two persons have purchased property there.” Gupta said the government was pursuing pro-Kashmir and anti-Jammu policies. “They (Reliance) are opening not one or two but hundreds of outlets in Jammu which will function 24/7. There will be just three outlets in Srinagar…. What kind of justice is this?” he said. “You will give jobs to 1,000 youths, but snatch the livelihood of 20,000 people. The way Jammu trade is being disrupted, we will not accept it.” The JCCI president hit out at the government for stopping the Darbar move practice, a bi-annual shifting of offices between summer capital Srinagar and winter capital Jammu. Gupta said when the Muslim community from Kashmir came to Jammu in winters and Jammu people went to the Valley in summers, it not only helped business but also bound the regions together. “Why do they (government) want to kill this brotherhood?” Gupta asked. BJP’s J&K general secretary Ashok Koul said everybody has a right to protest, but Jammu is and will remain the stronghold of the BJP. “The BJP’s graph will not go down,” Koul told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
21-09-2021||India||SSB alerts Centre on ‘anti-India’ propaganda by China in Nepal||The Sashastra Seema Bal has alerted the Centre about growing anti-India propaganda by China in Nepal’s districts that border India, triggering a security threat, sources in the paramilitary force have told The Telegraph. This propaganda comes amid an India-China border standoff in eastern Ladakh since May last year, and at a time Beijing’s influence has been growing in Nepal and Bhutan, said sources in the SSB, which guards India’s 1,751km border with Nepal and 699km border with Bhutan. Reports from the SSB’s intelligence wing suggest that China has opened “Chinese study centres” on the Nepalese side of the open border with India, and that these are engaged in fear-mongering about New Delhi’s allegedly sinister plans for Nepal, the sources said. Such propaganda can pose a security threat by turning the local population hostile to India and therefore hospitable to terrorist activity directed against India, they said. It can also provoke clashes between India’s and Nepal’s border populations, testing bilateral relations at a time New Delhi and Kathmandu are locked in an ownership dispute over a Himalayan area called Kalapani, and China’s presence in Nepal is growing. “India was already wary of China’s growing influence in Bhutan and Nepal, where Beijing is said to have invested in hospitals, roads, hydropower projects and airports,” an SSB official said. “Now, we are witnessing China’s growing anti-India propaganda along the India-Nepal border where it has opened study centres. These centres also impart knowledge of Chinese culture and language as part of pro-China propaganda in Nepal.” To counter this, the SSB is setting up “India cultural centres” on the Indian side of the Nepal border, a frontier across which Indians and Nepalis travel freely, the sources said. Doklam worry Intelligence reports have also suggested heightened activities and deployment by the Chinese army near Doklam, a plateau at the tri-junction of the India, Bhutan and China borders where the Indian and Chinese armies were locked in a 10-week standoff in 2017. Sources said the heightened Chinese activity came despite an understanding in 2017 on disengagement and the avoidance of a repeat of the circumstances that had triggered the standoff — Chinese road-building at Doklam and Indian troops stopping them on foreign soil. Bhutan had at the time claimed that Doklam was a disputed territory between Thimpu and Beijing. China insisted the territory belonged to it while India said its troops had entered at Bhutan’s request. “We have increased our outposts and deployment on the India-Bhutan border along Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Bengal and Assam and also along the India-Nepal border that runs across Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bengal, Bihar and Sikkim,” an SSB official said. With China showing no intention of ceding the India-claimed territories it has occupied since May 2020 in Ladakh, fear is growing within India’s security establishment that Chinese dominance in the region would change the dynamics of India’s relations with Bhutan and Nepal. The Chinese are estimated to have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. The SSB, which reports to the home ministry, was formed in March 1963 after the 1962 war with China, and was earlier known as the Special Service Bureau. It has nearly 70 battalions (around 70,000 personnel).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
21-09-2021||India||Kerala: Govt missing, Cong plays peacemaker in 'narcotic jihad' row||The lack of initiative from Kerala’s Left Democratic Front government to engage leaders of two minority communities to find lasting peace to the communal tension triggered by a Catholic bishop’s “jihad” allegations against Muslims has brought the Congress to the forefront as the lead troubleshooter. Twelve days after Bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt of Pala Diocese made controversial claims of “love jihad” and “narcotic jihad”, literally placing the entire Muslim community in a shadow of suspicion, it is the Congress that took the initiative to meet leaders from the two communities. Muslim leaders have categorically stated that they would settle for nothing less than Bishop Kallarangatt withdrawing his statement. State Congress president K. Sudhakaran and leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan have been meeting Christian bishops and Muslim leaders in an effort to bring them to the table. Former minister and CPM state committee member A.K. Balan on Monday lashed out against Congress leaders. “This is a closed chapter. They are keeping this alive with a larger political agenda,” Balan told reporters. He added: “These are people who usually fish in troubled waters. Now they are trying to be doves of peace.” CPM state secretary A. Vijayaraghavan accused the Congress leaders of adopting “BJP’s style of communal polarisation. What Sudhakaran and Satheesan are doing now is that kind of work”. Congress leaders slammed the Left government for not doing anything to find a solution. “Whose responsibility is it to organise such a meeting? The government has a larger responsibility to organise a conciliatory meeting than the Opposition Congress,” the party’s state president, K. Sudhakaran, told reporters on Monday. “The chief minister instead sent a minister (cooperation minister V.N. Vasavan) to meet the Pala bishop (on September 17) a day after we met him. Vasavan later said everything was sorted out. Who told him it’s over? Did he even talk to the Muslim community?” Sudhakaran said. Satheesan, who has been urging the government to summon a meeting of all sides, slammed the CPM. “The CPM doesn’t even have any stand on this. Doesn’t the party secretary live here (in Kerala)? Can’t he see what is happening?” Even a neutral observer like retired academic and social thinker M.N. Karassery found fault with the Left government in failing to talk to all sides. “It is twelve days since the Pala bishop made those remarks and the government did nothing apart from sending Vasavan to meet the bishop, and not the Muslim community, giving the impression that they were not concerned about the feelings of Muslims,” Karassery told The Telegraph. He flayed the CPM for treating it as a “closed chapter”. “Who closed the chapter? Did they even make half an attempt to close it? It is the government’s duty to step in and douse the fire,” he said, adding that, “the response of the chief minister and CPM have been extremely irresponsible”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
21-09-2021||India||Covid: SC issues notice to Centre on jabs at doorstep for disabled||The Supreme Court on Monday issued a notice to the Union government on a PIL seeking door-to-door vaccination facilities for those with physical and mental disabilities and their caregivers. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and V. Nagarathna sought the Centre’s response on the petition filed by NGO Evara Foundation and posted the matter for further hearing. The NGO has also referred to an earlier media release issued by the Indian Medical Association wherein it had said that vaccination on the doorstep should happen for the vulnerable sections of the population. It was also pointed out that some of the states such as Kerala and Jharkhand had already adopted such measures. Besides door-to-door vaccination, the NGO sought a dedicated helpline facility on the CoWIN portal for persons with disabilities and their caregivers to register and book slots. The court agreed with the NGO that the issue raised substantial questions of law dealing with the rights of the disabled that needed to be addressed. The bench, however, disagreed with the plea of the counsel for the NGO that notices be issued to the states too. Justice Chandrachud, heading the bench, said issuing notices to the states would lead to unnecessary delay in the whole process by another two months. “If we issue notice to states, it will take two months. The Union of India frames the policy. Let us see what steps it takes,” Justice Chandrachud said. The bench also issued a separate notice to the Centre on a petition filed by the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) for giving priority in vaccination to pregnant and lactating mothers under “high risk”. Advocate Vrinda Grover appearing for DCPCR also told the court that there was a need to conduct scientific research to understand the effect of the Covid-19 virus on pregnant and lactating women and a dedicated registry for ensuring their continuous monitoring. The bench in its order recorded Grover’s submission that although certain operational guidelines had been issued for pregnant and lactating mothers by the Union government, there were some issues raised by the petitioner that needed to be addressed by the court. “Issue notice to the Union of India. Learned solicitor-general is required to assist the court on the policy, which has been formulated and applicable guidelines that are to be framed,” the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
21-09-2021||India||Students to get a chance to pursue engineering courses in Odia||Students in Odisha will get a chance to pursue engineering courses in their mother tongue Odia from the next academic year 2022-23, official sources have said. In order to create a blueprint for this plan, the Odisha government and the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) had already met and also held a meeting last week. However, those students who want to pursue engineering courses in English will be allowed to do so. Educationist Prof. Pritish Chandra Acharya told The Telegraph: “Though we welcome the decision, there are a number of issues attached to teaching engineering courses through Indian languages. But we need to brood over the issue of whether we are ready at this point to do it. All the study materials, including syllabuses and subjects outside the curriculum, should be available in Odia language in plenty.” The educationist further said: “Those who are going to teach engineering subjects in regional languages, we need to know whether they are proficient in their mother tongue. If these issues are not addressed, the students who pass out from engineering colleges studying in their mother tongue would not be able to compete at the all-India level and get a job in a private company.” Like Acharya, many educationists and parents point out that in order to teach engineering courses in Odia, a systematic and pragmatic approach should be made from Class X onwards. “The courses at Plus Two level should also be taught in Odia so that a student can pursue the engineering courses in Odia without finding any difficulties,” said another educationist Akshay Pradhan. The Odisha Private Engineering College Association has welcomed the move. “Mostly 70 per cent students enrolled in engineering colleges are from state-run Odia medium schools. The students find it difficult to pursue the engineering courses in English. Once the medium of education turns out to be the mother tongue, they can excel,” association secretary Binod Das told this newspaper. The association is also hopeful that all the engineering seats will be filled up. “Now the state has 34,000 engineering seats both at government and private level. Only 20,000 seats are getting filled up. Once the engineering courses are being taught in Odia, all the seats would be filled up,” Das said. It has also scotched criticism that the students will not be able to compete at the all-India level. “Countries like Germany, France and Korea are imparting engineering courses in their mother tongue and they are the world leaders, Similarly, a majority of the south Indian states and Maharashtra are imparting the courses in engineering through English.” Das said. Sources said the government would rope in the Institute of Odia Studies and Research and the Odisha Bhasa Pratisthan, an institution for preservation, development and extension of Odia language, to carry out the translation of various engineering courses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
21-09-2021||India||KIIT names two of its stadiums after Pramod Bhagat, Dutee Chand||The Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology (KIIT) has decided to name two of its stadiums after Pramod Bhagat, the para-shuttler who won the first gold medal for India in the Tokyo Paralympics, and Olympian sprinter Dutee Chand. The announcement was made by Achyuta Samanta, founder, KIIT and KISS (Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences), while felicitating the two Olympians on Monday. Two stadiums of the KIIT will be named after these two Olympians in December 2021, said Samanta. With this, the KIIT has become the first university in India to name stadiums after Olympians. In recognition of Bhagat’s achievements, Samanta felicitated him and honoured him with a cash prize of Rs 5 lakh. The indoor stadium at Campus-12 (where Bhagat practised his game) will be named as “Pramod Bhagat Indoor Stadium”. Besides, Bhagat will be honoured with an honorary doctor of letters (DLitt) degree from the KIIT or KISS Deemed to be University, the KIIT said in a media release. Dutee, a student of KIIT School of Law, has been on the Olympic tracks for two successive terms, including the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics. She has also bagged two silver medals in the Asiad, and become the first woman in the country to win the gold medal in the World University Games representing this university. In appreciation of her contribution to Indian sports, KIIT has decided to name its Synthetic Athletic Stadium as “Dutee Chand Stadium”. Dutee’s name is also considered for an honorary doctor of letters (DLitt) from KIIT or KISS next year. Another para-athlete, world champion Rakhal Sethy was presented a cheque of Rs 2.7 lakh for a wheelchair to participate in the Fencing Para World Cup in November. Prof. Sasmita Samanta, pro vice-chancellor, KIIT, Jnyana Ranjan Mohanty, registrar, and Gaganendu Dash, director, sports, among others, were present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
