22-09-2021||India||Drug haul at Mundra Port: DRI seizes over 37 kg of suspected heroin, cocaine in Delhi and Noida||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) has so far arrested eight persons including five foreign nationals in connection with the seizure of a staggering 2,988 kg of heroin at Mundra Port in Gujarat, an official release said here on Wednesday.  Those arrested included an Indian couple who allegedly ran the firm which had imported the consignment claiming it to be of `semi-processed talc stones'.  The drug haul is considered to be one of the biggest in the world with the value of the seized heroin estimated to be Rs 21,000 crore in the international markets. One kg of the drug sells at Rs 5 to 7 crore.  "A total of eight persons including four Afghan nationals, one Uzbek and three Indians have been arrested so far. The arrested Indian nationals include the holder of the Import Export Code (IEC) which was used to import the consignment. He was arrested from Chennai. Investigations are in progress," said the statement issued by the Press Information Bureau (PIB) of the Indian government.  Following the seizure of an astounding quantity of heroin from two containers which had arrived at Mundra Port in Kutch district a few days back, the DRI conducted raids across the country and seized another 16.1 kg of heroin from a godown in Delhi, it said.  It took the total heroin seizure in the case to 3,004 kg, said the release.  The agency also recovered 10.2 kg of suspected cocaine and 11 kg of another substance suspected to be heroin from "a residential place in Noida", it added.  On September 13, the DRI detained two containers that had arrived at Mundra Port from Kandahar in Afghanistan via Bandar Abbas port of Iran. The declaration accompanying the containers claimed that they contained "semi-processed talc stones".  On September 17 and 19 it established that the two containers in fact contained heroin which was concealed in "the lower layers" of "jumbo bags" topped with talc stones, the release said. The drug had to be "painstakingly separated from the talc stones," it added.  The DRI then arrested -- from Chennai -- M Sudhakar and his wife Durga Vaishali who allegedly ran Vijayawada-registered M/S Aashi Trading Company which had imported the consignment of `talc stones'.  On Monday, a special court for cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act in Bhuj remanded the couple in 10-day custody of the DRI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
22-09-2021||India||Anil Vij directs officials to open alternative routes to Delhi||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Wednesday directed officials to immediately open alternative routes in Sonipat and Jhajjar districts towards Delhi as the Singhu and Tikri borders remain closed due to the farmers' protest. He asked them to start repairs on these roads so that people do not face any kind of problem commuting to Delhi on these routes from Haryana, an official statement said. Keeping in mind the inconvenience faced by the people due to the closure of the main roads on the highway by the agitating farmers, all alternative routes will have to be opened and repaired at the earliest, and work in this regard will start soon, the minister said. He said that repairs and filling of potholes on the roads being used by the people going to Delhi should be started from Thursday. Haryana BKU (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni, addressing a farmers'' gathering in Kurukshetra district on Wednesday, said the farmers sitting at Delhi''s borders will not budge till the three contentious farm laws are repealed. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and elsewhere have been sitting at Delhi''s borders for nearly 10 months demanding the repeal of the laws. At the meeting with officials, Vij said Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation roads are the main alternative routes from Sonipat to Delhi, and they should be repaired at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
22-09-2021||India||Rahul & Priyanka Gandhi inexperienced, will field strong candidate against Sidhu: Amarinder||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday called Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra "inexperienced", and said he will pit a strong candidate against state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu in the upcoming Assembly polls. Amarinder Singh had resigned as the Punjab CM recently amid infighting in the state Congress. In a series of interviews, he said, "Priyanka and Rahul are like my children. This should not have ended like this. I am hurt." "I would not have taken MLAs on a flight to Goa or some place. That is not how I operate. I don't do gimmicks and the Gandhi siblings know that is not my way," he said in a statement. The "Gandhi children" were quite "inexperienced" and their advisers were clearly "misguiding" them, the Congress leader asserted. Singh said he will fight Sidhu's elevation to the Punjab chief ministership "tooth and nail", adding that he was ready to make any sacrifice to save the country from such a "dangerous man". He will pit a strong candidate against the PPCC president in the 2022 Assembly polls to ensure his defeat, Amarinder Singh said. Singh said he had even told Congress president Sonia Gandhi that he was ready to hang his boots and allow someone else to take over as the CM after leading the Congress to another sweeping win in Punjab. "But that did not happen, so I will fight," he asserted taking strong exception to his "humiliation" by calling a Congress Legislative Party in a secretive manner. The former CM said he is still keeping his political options open and talking to his friends before deciding on his future course of action. "You can be old at 40 and young at 80," he said, making it clear that he did not see his age as a hurdle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
22-09-2021||India||Vaccine certification real issue, not Covishield, say UK officials||Indian travellers vaccinated with two doses of Covishield will still have to undergo 10 days of quarantine in the UK even as the vaccine has been approved under the revised British guidelines for travel, according to UK officials. They said the main issue is vaccine certification and not the Covishield vaccine and that both India and the UK are holding talks to mutually resolve the matter. Referring to the latest guidelines issued by the UK government that will come into effect on October 4, the officials said on Wednesday that London does not have any problem with the Covishield vaccine but there are certain issues related to vaccine certification in India. They said the UK is engaging with the government of India to explore how it could expand its recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India. Quoting new guidelines, the officials said Indian travellers to the UK must follow the "non-vaccinated rules" set out by the authorities. India had on Tuesday warned of "reciprocal measures" if the UK does not address its concerns over the new travel rules relating to COVID-19 vaccine certification with Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla describing these norms as "discriminatory". External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also took up the issue of Covishield-vaccinated travellers being required to quarantine in the UK with newly-appointed British Foreign Secretary Elizabeth Truss at a meeting in New York on Tuesday. On Wednesday, the UK government added Covishield, the Indian-manufactured Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, to an updated international travel advisory. "The UK is committed to opening up international travel again as soon as is practicable and this announcement is a further step to enable people to travel more freely again, in a safe and sustainable way, while protecting public health," a spokesperson in the British High Commission said. "We are engaging with the Government of India to explore how we could expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India," the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
22-09-2021||India||States to provide Rs 50,000 ex-gratia to kin of Covid victims: Centre to SC||The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has recommended that Rs 50,000 be given to the kin of those who died of Covid-19, the Centre informed the Supreme Court on Wednesday. It said that ex-gratia assistance will also be given to the kin of those who died of the virus due to involvement in Covid-19 relief operations or activities associated with the preparedness for dealing with the pandemic. The ex-gratia assistance will be given subject to the cause of death being certified as Covid-19 as per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and ICMR, the government said. It added that the ex-gratia assistance will be provided by states from State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). On September 3, the top court had expressed displeasure over the delay in the framing of guidelines for issuance of death certificates to the families of those who died of Covid-19. The apex court had in its June 30 verdict directed the NDMA to recommend within six weeks the guidelines for ex-gratia assistance on account of loss of life to the family members of persons who died due to Covid-19. India’s Covid-19 deaths may be four to 11 times higher than officially reported, researchers said after pooling estimates from multiple studies. The researchers at the University of Michigan and the Delhi School of Economics have surveyed existing studies that suggest that India had lost 1.7 million to 4.9 million people to Covid-19 till July 1, 2021, when the Centre’s count was a little over 400,000. Their calculations are the latest among a series of independent efforts to estimate excess deaths from Covid-19 across the country using an array of research methodologies amid concerns in health circles that authorities might have vastly undercounted infections and deaths. The Centre had earlier told the Supreme Court that the health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have come out with guidelines for issuing "official document" for Covid-related deaths. In an affidavit filed before the top court, the Centre also submitted that the Office of the Registrar General of India on September 3 had issued a circular to provide a Medical Certificate of Cause of Death to the next of kin of the deceased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
22-09-2021||India||Sit together and frame steps to regulate bail pleas of convicts, SC tells UP & Allahabad HC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked both the Uttar Pradesh government and officials of Allahabad High Court to sit together and jointly submit the suggestions for regulating the matters of bail applications during the pendency of the appeals of the convicted persons. The top court said that if the suggestions are not given, then it may formulate some guidelines on its own. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai said that Allahabad High Court registry has 20-25 page suggestions which are like counter-suggestions to those already given by Uttar Pradesh government. The top court was informed that Allahabad High Court had filed the suggestions last evening. State government has said something and now you (Allahabad High Court) have said something. They have given suggestions and now you have given counter-suggestions of 20-25 pages. How are we supposed to zero in on the most suitable ones? If you are unable to give suggestions then we will formulate some guidelines on our own, the bench said. Additional Advocate General Garima Prashad, appearing for Uttar Pradesh, said that sometime be given to them as now they have come to know about the thinking of the High Court and they will sit together and compile the most suitable suggestions. The bench said that the High Court may itself issue some directions which may meet its expectation and both the UP government and registry staff of the High Court can sit together and sort out the problem. It posted the matter for further hearing on October 5. The top court is hearing 18 criminal appeals of the convicts in heinous offences seeking bail on the ground that they have spent seven or more years in jail and be granted bail as their appeals against the convictions are yet to be listed for regular hearing in the high court due to the long pendency. The High Court has given a slew of suggestions to the top court like in cases of serious and grave offences, rights of the victim and his family should be considered before granting bail to an accused. It suggested to the top court that a victim impact assessment' report should be obtained after consulting the victim and the report should clearly state all concerns along with vital information on physical, mental and social impact of the crime and impact the bail may have on the victim. The high court's registry has given its suggestions to the top court in pursuance of an earlier order asking it to help in laying down broad parameters for regulating the matters of bail applications during the pendency of the appeals of the convicted persons. That when a person is convicted, the presumption of innocence vanishes and a heavy presumption of guilt supplants it. However, a person accused of crime shall not, until he has been finally adjudged guilty in the court of last resort, be absolutely compelled to undergo imprisonment or punishment, but may be admitted to bail also after conviction and pending the appeal , it has said. The high court further said that priority should be given to hearing those criminal appeals where the accused has undergone more than half sentence in view of provisions of CrPC. A different yardstick will have to be evolved for grant of bail to more serious crimes like white collar and organised crimes against the State and its citizens since the criminals involved here are habitual and hardened criminals who commit crimes in a planned and sophisticated manner, it said. To address the huge pendency of cases, the High Court suggested that dedicated benches should be constituted for hearing long pending criminal appeals. "If a person is released after spending - years in jail, the very object of imposing a life sentence would be defeated. If an accused of heinous crimes is released on bail after spending - years in jail, he will never make any effort to decide his appeal early, it said. On August 25, the top court had said that before the court gives its "imprimatur" or authoritative approval to any suggestions/proposals given by the UP government it would be appropriate that the high court itself examines it and makes its own suggestions. On August 23, the UP government had suggested to the top court that bail pleas of life convicts, if they have undergone 10 years of jail term, and in other cases where half of the period of the maximum sentence awarded have been spent, can be considered by the High Court. It has said that to ensure public peace and the well-being of the society, life convicts who are hardened criminals, repeat offenders, kidnappers, in crimes related to massacre (three or more than three murders), habitual criminals, and fall in prohibited categories as per the U.P Jail Standing Policy - no bail should be granted . As of August 2021, there are approximately 1,83,000 Criminal Appeals pending both at Lucknow Bench and Allahabad High Court, it said. As of August 2021, there are 7,214 convicts in various jails across Uttar Pradesh who have already undergone more than 10 years of their conviction and their Criminal appeals are pending before the High Court, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
22-09-2021||India||Supporting Taliban means supporting anti-India act, says Yogi Adityanath||Supporting the Taliban means supporting anti-India, anti-humanity, anti-women and anti-children acts, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday, cautioning people to be wary of sympathisers of the Islamic extremist group. He made the remarks while addressing a public event in Dholana assembly area of western UP's Hapur district, where he inaugurated and laid foundation stones for projects worth around Rs 340 crore. "You must have seen that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is leading the country towards a new India in Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat. Following suit, UP is also transforming and becoming a new model for development, good governance and security. "But still, there are some elements who do not like India's development. Somewhere, they try to create hurdles in the country's development path. We need to identify such people who support the cruelty of Taliban," the chief minister told the crowd. The Taliban had taken over power in Afghanistan a month ago in a dramatic turn of events even before the US could completely pull out its troops from the two-decade-old war theatre. Supporting the Taliban means supporting anti-India, anti-humanity, anti-women and anti-children acts. You would be knowing the kind of atrocities and acts that are being committed today and there are some shameless people who keep supporting the militant group, Adityanath said. "This cannot be accepted. We have to be cautious of such people who support the wrong acts of Taliban," he said. The CM shared the stage with Union Minister of State for Civil Aviation V K Singh, BJP MP Anil Agarwal, local BJP leaders and others. Hitting out at previous non-BJP governments in the state, the priest-turned politician said administrations would deny permission for celebrations and Kanwar Yatra processions prior to 2017, but it has changed under his regime in the last four-and-a-half years. He said people of every faith and community are now free to celebrate their festivals as long as they are within the laws of the land, adding that aastha (devotion) is the biggest strength of the country. "We have asked devotees of all faiths and communities to celebrate their festivals peacefully and abide by the law. There is no problem and it is the responsibility of the government to ensure their security and facilities to them. The BJP government has provided this atmosphere in the state," he said. Adityanath, however, said personal faith should not become an impediment to national security and sovereignty. "Every person should keep this in mind that our identities cannot be our individual identity alone. Our identity cannot be bigger than our nation's identity. Our individual faith cannot be bigger than the nation. "We should have a sense of dedication and devotion towards the nation and when that is done, no power in the world can harm us. The India of today is rapidly marching forward on this path," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
22-09-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir government sacks six employees for terror links||Six employees of the Jammu and Kashmir government, including two police constables, were sacked on Wednesday for alleged links with terrorists, officials said. These sackings were cleared by a designated committee of the Jammu and Kashmir administration constituted for recommending cases under Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution. The six employees were dismissed from government service for having terror links and working as Over Ground Workers (OGW). They included Abdul Hamid Wani, a resident of Bijbehara in Anantnag, who was working as a teacher. The officials alleged that before being in government service, he was a district commander of the now-defunct terrorist outfit, Allah Tigers. It is alleged that he secured the employment without any selection process, by leveraging influence of the banned Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) and that he was among the key speakers and organisers during the 2016 agitations following the death of Burhan Wani, the poster boy of banned terror group Hizbul Mujahideen. It is also alleged that he propagated secessionist ideology. Police constable Jaffer Hussain Butt, a resident of Kishtwar in Jammu region, was arrested by the police and chargesheeted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in a case on gun-running, the officials said. At present on bail, Butt is alleged to have provided his car to Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists and facilitated their safe movement, a fact which is explained in the NIA chargesheet. Junior assistant Mohd Rafi Butt, also a resident of Kishtwar and posted in the Road and Building Department, was sacked for providing logistical support to Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists in Kishtwar and for providing them a safe environment to execute terror plans, they said. His name also figures in an FIR registered by the NIA. He was arrested and is at present on bail. Liyaqat Ali Kakroo, a resident of Baramulla in North Kashmir and a teacher by profession since 1983, was arrested in 2001 which "revealed that he was a locally trained terrorist", they said. An explosive substance was recovered from his possession and he was booked under the Public Safety Act (PSA) for two years in 2002. He was subsequently acquitted by the court in both cases. Tariq Mehmood Kohli, a resident of Poonch and posted as a range officer in the Forest Department, was also sacked for allegedly being involved in smuggling of illegal arms, ammunition, explosives, including hard drugs and Fake Indian Currency Notes (FICN) from Pakistan, the officials said. He is alleged to have remained in touch with active militants and is recorded as an OGW in police records. Another police constable, Showkat Ahmad Khan, a resident of Budgam in Central Kashmir, is alleged to have been involved in looting of weapons from an MLC's house. He was posted as a PSO with the member of the Legislative Council. He was detained under the PSA in 2019, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
22-09-2021||India||Covishield approved by UK, but confusion over travel remains||There is confusion over the UK government's vaccine recognition process for Indian travellers as even though Oxford/AstraZeneca Covishield, the India-manufactured Oxford/AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine, is on an updated international travel advisory, India is not yet on a list of 17 approved countries. The UK's Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) has said on Wednesday that they are unable to confirm this and will require further clarifications even though the advisory states: Formulations of the 4 listed vaccines, such as AstraZeneca Covishield, AstraZeneca Vaxzevria and Moderna Takeda, qualify as approved vaccines. There has been widespread condemnation of the Serum Institute of India manufactured vaccines not being included in a list of eligible COVID-19 vaccines recognised under Britain's reviewed international travel norms, effective from October 4. From October 4, England's current traffic light system of red, amber and green countries based on levels of COVID-19 risk will be scrapped and replaced with one red list only. However, there is a lack of clarity over whether Indians vaccinated with any vaccines in India including Covishield fall within the UK's eligibility criteria or not. "We have to see how it goes. But if we do not get satisfaction we would be within our rights to impose reciprocal measures," Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said in response to a question on the issue in New Delhi on Tuesday. "The basic issue is that here is a vaccine, Covishield, which is a licensed product of the UK company, manufactured in India of which we have supplied five million doses to the UK at the request of the government of the UK. We understand that this is being used under the national health system, and, therefore, non-recognition of Covishield is a discriminatory policy and does impact those of our citizens travelling to the UK," he said. Covishield and other Indian vaccines being covered as eligible would mean that a pre-departure PCR test is no longer required as long as vaccinated travellers pre-book a day two test post-arrival in England and complete the compulsory passenger locator form in advance. From October 4, travellers from 17 additional countries with eligible vaccines, including Australia, Japan, Singapore and Malaysia, will fall under the UK's list of recognised jabs of Oxford/AstraZeneca, Pfizer BioNTech, Moderna or Janssen vaccines. The DHSC has said this list is reviewed fortnightly. So far it means, under the new rules from October 4, travellers from India must take a COVID test three days before departure and book in advance for two COVID tests to be taken upon arrival in England. On arrival in England, the passengers must self-isolate in the place they have confirmed on their passenger locator form for 10 days. A privately paid-for "Test to Release" option does exist at day five, which allows an early end to the 10-day quarantine with a negative PCR test. The Indian government has said it is working with several countries to recognise India's vaccine certification on a mutual reciprocal basis. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
22-09-2021||India||Kerala Covid cases finally declining, experts say 'worrying phase is over' ||Kerala was the one-time star pupil in the Covid-19 class that’s now become the laggard accounting for more than half the country’s daily new cases. But it’s hoping to move back toward the head of the class thanks to a state-wide vaccination blitzkrieg and case numbers that are finally coming down. Kerala’s high up on the vaccination scoreboard with more than 90 per cent of the state’s 26.75 million eligible people having received their first jab compared to 65 per cent nationally. Equally impressively, around 35 per cent have now had their second doses too compared to 26 per cent across the country. The state’s target is to deliver all the first doses in another two weeks and have everyone fully vaccinated around 82 days from now – that’s the time lag required between the two doses. In terms of the number of cases too, while Kerala accounts for more than 50 per cent of the country’s active Covid-19 cases, the number of patients falling sick with the virus each day has been declining. The R-value, or reproductive number that reflects how swiftly the virus is spreading, has also fallen to below 1 in Kerala. Below one is the ideal number in a pandemic as the number of new infections is below the level needed to sustain the outbreak. “In Kerala, the worrying phase is over. The numbers should only be going down from here on in,” says Health Economist and WHO consultant Rijo M. John. From a peak of 32,762 new infections on September 5, numbers were at 15,768 on Tuesday. What’s more, the numbers have been steadying at lower levels in the last few days. The figures had started seriously spiking higher around 10 days after Onam, Kerala’s most important festival, when many people left their homes on shopping excursions and to visit family. "It’s definitely a more comfortable situation now,” said Arun Nair, a Kerala health economist who works closely with the state government. “With vaccination, we’re not having as many severe cases,” he added. Looking at the outlook nationally, John is equally reassuring. “The cases are genuinely lower in most of the country. “I don’t expect to see any major surge or anything happening at the national level,” he said. “I’m pretty sure that even by the end of May, when the serosurvey took place, sero-prevalence was close to 70 per cent. Now, (national) sero-prevalence must have easily hit 80-to-85 per cent with the vaccinations and everything,” John said. The Kerala government’s particularly proud of the fact that the mammoth task of vaccinating everyone over 18 has almost entirely been done by the government with very few people using the private sector. The state’s been moving in other ways to ensure that the disease is eliminated in every district. It’s been accused of depending too heavily on the less accurate rapid antigen tests. In the last few weeks, it has moved to phase out rapid antigen testing and switch to using only the more reliable RT-PCR tests, except in emergencies such as if an emergency operation has to be performed. However, there are defenders of the rapid antigen tests both in government and outside. Rapid antigen tests have two huge advantages. Firstly, results are delivered in 20 minutes. By comparison, it take a minimum of a day and more often two, to get RT-PCR results back from the lab. Secondly, rapid antigen tests are priced at about one-fifth the cost of the more expensive RT-PCR tests. Says John: “If you are testing in a population which is already traced and tracked well, and you have a reasonable expectation that the person is going to be positive, then it’s better to do antigen testing.” The state government says it’s been a major struggle to get the vaccinations up and case figures down. The greatest difficulties with the vaccination programme were caused by the erratic supplies coming to the state that made planning impossible. “You had 4 lakh vaccinations coming one day and 2 lakh the next. In the beginning, it was impossible to get the workflow algorithms right. How do you plan?” says a senior government official who did not wish to be named. He adds: “The local self-government people and the Asha workers make sure people turn up for vaccinations. What can you do if you plan and bring people to the centre and you have reduced supply? The vaccine supply situation began to fall into place after a Central government team visited the state and “in July it was perfectly fine,” he says. Then the government focused on how to get priority individuals vaccinated. These included people over 60, people with health conditions that made them vulnerable, tribals living in remote hamlets and pregnant women. Once these segments were done then the focus turned to getting the 18-plus sector vaccinated. For this, more centres were opened and even one 24x7 one in Thiruvanthapuram, where people could book and get vaccinated. Kerala’s strong take-up of the vaccine suggests that “vaccine hesitancy” may not be a major concern for India, unlike for the developed world, John noted. The government is conducting a serosurvey of the population that will also include children.aged five to 17. Epidemiologists have suggested that the state’s successful track-and-trace containment of the virus during the first wave may have meant that a higher share of its population was without Covid-19 antibodies and vulnerable to the far more virulent Delta variant. In a national seropositivity survey in July, Kerala had the lowest seropositivity rate among the states at 44.4 per cent while Madhya Pradesh had the highest at 79 per cent. “The serosurvey is being done currently by the health department. The last national survey was 44 per cent but with the vaccination having picked up, the results will be different. They’re also looking what’s happening amongst children,” the government official said. Experts say they believe the government should have the situation well under control in Kerala in around two months at the latest. With this in mind, the government has said that schools will reopen on November 1. A government committee has also drawn up guidelines to be followed if schools reopen. This includes the number of pupils in a class, how many to a bench and also that no food should be served in schools. Besides that, schools would have to be sanitised daily and have medical equipment for checking temperatures. Consultations will now be held with teachers’ groups on these proposals All decisions are likely to be reviewed around October 15 when officials will look at the data. Both parents and teachers have voiced alarm about restarting face-to-face classes too early. (Figures released Tuesday showed that in England where schools have reopened, over half of confirmed cases were in the mainly unvaccinated under-20 age group with close to 40 per cent clustered in the 10-to-19-year age bracket).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
22-09-2021||India||Centre did politics over O2 crisis in Delhi, alleges Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday accused the Centre of doing politics over the issue of oxygen crisis here during the second wave of the Covid pandemic, and also trying to stop the formation of a city government's panel to probe deaths allegedly due to its shortage. His remarks in response to a question during a press conference came a day after the Delhi High Court said that it saw no difficulty in the constitution of a high-powered committee (HPC) by the AAP government to probe the deaths caused by the alleged medical oxygen shortage. The court, which was dealing with a plea to operationalise the HPC, noted the Delhi government's stand that the committee would not attribute any fault to any hospital and any compensation will be paid and absorbed by the government alone. Jain said the Delhi government had set up a four-member panel comprising medical experts in June and the files were sent to the Delhi Lt governor for approval. However, the Centre tried to stop it via the LG office, he alleged. "The Centre also did politics over the issue of oxygen crisis and even said in Parliament that no deaths due to oxygen shortage was reported," Jain further alleged. They did a "wrong thing" by "trying to hide deaths" that may have occurred due to shortage of the life-saving gas, Jain charged, and added that the court had now cleared the way for the formation of the panel. The high court on Tuesday had also recorded that as per the Delhi government, the criteria for determining compensation will be open to scrutiny and its task would not overlap with that of a sub-group constituted by the Supreme Court on allocation and utilisation of oxygen. "The job of this committee is to probe any death that any person claims has taken due to oxygen shortage, whether at home or a hospital. The panel will investigate and recommend a compensation of up to Rs 5 lakh accordingly. It will not probe any medical negligence, that is the job of the medical council," Jain told reporters. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had on July 21 charged the Centre with trying to "hide its fault" and alleged that its "mismanagement" and change in oxygen distribution policy after April 13 had caused shortage of oxygen in hospitals across the country, leading to a "disaster". Jain said several media channels were reporting live on the oxygen crisis issue during the second wave of the pandemic in Delhi. Was it all wrong, he asked. The number of COVID-19 cumulative cases on Tuesday stood at 14,38,556. Over 14.13 lakh patients have recovered from the virus, while the death toll stands at 25,085. On the UK rules related to Covishield vaccine, the Delhi minister said the MEA will respond on this, but, "I feel there is no question of not recognising it," as it is the same vaccine used in the UK but with a different name of AstraZeneca. The UK government on Wednesday added Covishield to an updated international travel advisory. The move follows widespread condemnation of the Serum Institute of India manufactured vaccines not being included in a list of eligible COVID-19 vaccines recognised under Britain's reviewed international travel norms, effective from October 4. The updated advisory means that Indians fully vaccinated with Covishield will no longer be required to undergo compulsory 10-day self-isolation at home or declared location on entry to England.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
22-09-2021||India||UK adds Covishield to updated list of approved vaccine after India warning||The UK government on Wednesday added Covishield, the Indian-manufactured Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, to an updated international travel advisory. The move follows widespread condemnation of the Serum Institute of India manufactured vaccines not being included in a list of eligible Covid-19 vaccines recognised under Britain's reviewed international travel norms, effective from October 4. The updated advisory means that Indians fully vaccinated with Covishield will no longer be required to undergo compulsory 10-day self-isolation at home or declared location on entry to England. "Formulations of the 4 listed vaccines, such as AstraZeneca Covishield, AstraZeneca Vaxzevria and Moderna Takeda, qualify as approved vaccines," reads the advisory from the UK's Department for Transport (DfT) and Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC). "You must have had a complete course of an approved vaccine at least 14 days before you arrive in England," it adds. The move will also mean that a pre-departure PCR test is no longer required as long as vaccinated travellers pre-book a day two test post-arrival in England and complete the compulsory passenger locator form in advance. The move comes a day after foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said India will be well within its rights to initiate reciprocal measures if the UK does not address New Delhi’s concerns regarding London’s refusal to recognise Indian Covid vaccination certificates. Shringla dwelt at length on London’s refusal to even accept those vaccinated with Covishield “which is a licensed product of a UK company, manufactured in India, of which we have given five million doses to the UK at the request of the UK government”. Stating that it is India’s understanding that the Indian-manufactured Covishield vaccine is being used in the UK’s National Health Service, Shringla said: “Therefore, non-recognition of Covishield is a discriminatory policy.” He added that “I am told certain assurances have been given that this issue would be resolved”. He pointed out that India had offered some partner countries the option of a mutual recognition of vaccine certification. “These are reciprocal measures... if we don’t get satisfaction, we would be within our rights to impose reciprocal measures.” From October 4, the current traffic light system of red, amber and green countries based on levels of Covid-19 risk will be scrapped and replaced with one red list only. However, until this latest update, Indians vaccinated with any vaccines in India including Covishield were not recognised as vaccinated under the UK's eligibility criteria. The National Indian Students and Alumni Union (NISAU) UK, whose patron Congress Party MP Shashi Tharoor cancelled his planned UK visit in retaliation of the "offensive" rules, was among the many organisations in the UK rallying against the policy that would impact thousands of Indian students. Delighted that Covishield has now been recognised by the UK government, and that all the lobbying has worked, said NISAU chair Sanam Arora. "Though the vaccine is now approved, India is not yet in the list of approved countries making it apparent that the 10-day quarantine and all associated rules still apply for other Indian vaccines. We will continue to urge authorities to take this to its natural conclusion," she said. From October 4, travellers from 17 additional countries with eligible vaccines, including Australia, Japan, Singapore and Malaysia, will fall under the UK's list of recognised jabs of Oxford/AstraZeneca, Pfizer BioNTech, Moderna or Janssen vaccines. The DHSC has said this list is reviewed fortnightly. Under the new rules from October 4, unvaccinated Indian travellers or those not vaccinated with Covishield must take a COVID test three days before departure and book in advance for two COVID tests to be taken upon arrival in England. On arrival in England, the passengers must self-isolate in the place they have confirmed on their passenger locator form for 10 days. A privately paid-for "Test to Release" option does exist at day five, which allows an early end to the 10-day quarantine with a negative PCR test.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
22-09-2021||India||Mahant Giri's autopsy concludes, report submitted to officials||A panel of five doctors on Wednesday conducted the post-mortem examination of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri and submitted the report to officials. After the post-mortem, the body was taken to the Baghambri Gaddi Muth where preparations were being made to bathe the body in the Ganges and the last rites will be held later in the day. The examination lasted for about two-and-a-half hours and the report was handed over to senior police officials in a sealed cover. There was heavy deployment of security personnel at the site where the autopsy was conducted. The Uttar Pradesh Police had on Tuesday constituted an 18-member SIT to probe the death of the seer and detained a disciple of his in Haridwar while Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said all aspects related to the death are being investigated and the guilty will not be spared. The seer, who was the president of the largest organisation of sadhus in India, was found hanging by his disciples at Baghambari Muth in Allahabad on Monday. A purported suicide note was also found, in which the seer had written that he was mentally disturbed and upset with one of his disciples, police had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
22-09-2021||India||SC pushes Centre to allow women cadets to join NDA from this year||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to accept the Centre's request to allow women candidates to appear for the entrance exam to the NDA from next year, saying it doesn't want women to be denied their right. The induction of women cannot be posted by one year, it said. "We gave hope to the girls. We cannot deny them that hope now," said the judges. The Centre had told the top court that a notification allowing women candidates to appear for the entrance exam to the National Defence Academy will be out by May next year. A bench headed by Justice S K Kaul said the armed forces are the best response team to deal with emergency situations and it is hopeful that necessary arrangements will be put in place to pave the way for the induction of women in NDA without delay. It said the needful should be done by the defence department in collaboration with the UPSC. The top court noted the submissions made by senior advocate Chinmoy Pradip Sharma, appearing on behalf of the petitioner Kush Kalra, and said that it cannot postpone the induction of women by one year. Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati submitted that a study group has been formed to facilitate the entry of women, and the necessary mechanism to facilitate that can be put in place by May 2022. The ASG sought to skip the next NDA entrance examination, scheduled to be held on November 14. "We appreciate your problems. I'm sure you people are capable of finding solutions. Let us see the results. The planning can go on...It is difficult for us to accept this submission from the Centre in view of the aspirations of the candidates willing to take the exam. "Armed services have dealt with very difficult situations. To deal with emergencies is a part of their training. We are sure that they will be able to come at par with this "emergency too". We would thus not like to vacate the order effectively passed by us," the bench also comprising Justice B R Gavai said. The "no exam today, exam tomorrow" approach would go against the aspirations of young women, the court said, directing a notification for exams on November 14. The Centre yesterday had told the court that while the educational standards would be the same for both male and female candidates, a separate module is being worked out for women aspirants to ensure minimum physical fitness so as not to compromise on the operational safety of the defence forces. “While the education curriculum is well set, all the rest of aspects of the training are required to be formulated separately for the women candidates like outdoor training involving drill, equitation, swimming, games, sports, etc, shall have to be formulated." Shantanu Sharma, director, department of military affairs, stated in an affidavit. “Hence the issue needs detailed analysis, including expert inputs to maintain operational readiness. It is needless to add that any dilution of physical training and service subject like parameters of firing, endurance training, field craft and living off the land kind of aspects, for the defence services’ women cadets/officers, would invariably impact the battle worthiness of the Armed Forces adversely,” the affidavit stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
22-09-2021||India||Pregnant Kyrgyz woman, son found murdered at friend's house in Delhi||A pregnant woman from Kyrgyzstan and her one-year-old son were found murdered at a friend's house in southeast Delhi's Kalkaji area on Tuesday morning, police said. Myskal Zhumabaeva (28) and her son Manas were found lying dead on the bed with stab wounds to the chest and other body parts, they said. The woman was five months pregnant. She was a housewife and lived with her husband Vinay Chauhan at Greater Kailash, police said. The couple have been married for more than two years and had a 13-month-old son, who was also found dead along with her, a senior police officer said, adding Chauhan used to run guest houses. When the incident took place, the woman and her son were at her friends place in Kalkaji. Her husband Chauhan made the PCR call after he was informed about the deaths by her friends over the phone, the officer said. A case of murder has been registered in connection with the incident, police said, adding further investigation is underway to nab the culprit and ascertain the motive behind the killing. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) R P Meena said, "We received a call about a murder of a woman and her child at Kalkaji. On reaching the spot, we found bodies of the Kyrgyzstan woman and her son lying on the bed with stab injuries." The spot was also visited by crime and forensic teams, he said. Preliminary inquiry has found that Myskal had an argument with her husband on Monday night over going to hospital. She complained of stomach ache due to pregnancy and wanted to visit a hospital. After the argument, Chauhan left her at home in Greater Kailash and went to meet his friend Wahid, the police officer said. The same night Myskal called her friend Matluba Madusmonova, who then took her to the hospital with her friend Avinish, the DCP said. Police said Matluba is an Uzbek national and stays in Kalkaji. After visiting the hospital, Matluba took Myskal and the child to her residence in Kalkaji where the two were found dead on Tuesday morning, the officer said. The inquiry so far has revealed that the victim along with her son and Matluba and Avinish reached the Kalkaji house after visiting the hospital late Monday night. Her flatmate was also at home and later two other common friends visited them for sometime and left the place, the senior police officer said. The victim did have conversations over the phone with her husband the same night about her subsequent hospital visit and other whereabouts of her stay, he said. There is no CCTV camera inside the house, and even those installed outside the building have not shows entry of any other outsider into the flat so far, police said. Police does not suspect any outsider's role so far but said they are investigating the case from all possible angles. "We have registered a case of murder and further investigation is going on," Meena said. The knife used in the crime was recovered from the spot, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
22-09-2021||India||WHO thanks Health Minister Mandaviya for announcing resumption of Covid jab shipments||World Health Organisation (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Wednesday thanked Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya for announcing resumption of COVID-19 vaccine shipments to the COVAX global pool in October. COVAX is an initiative for equitable global access to COVID-19 vaccines. "Thank you Health Minister @mansukhmandviya for announcing #India will resume crucial #COVID19 vaccine shipments to #COVAX in October. This is an important development in support of reaching the 40% vaccination target in all countries by the end of the year. #VaccinEquity," Ghebreyesus said in a tweet. Mandaviya on Monday announced that India will resume export of surplus COVID-19 vaccines in the fourth quarter of 2021 under the 'Vaccine Maitri' programme and to meet its commitment to the COVAX global pool, but vaccinating its own citizens remains the topmost priority of the government. Talking about the expected production and supply trends in the coming months, the minister said the government will receive over 30 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines in October and over 100 crore doses in the coming quarter from October-December. The cumulative doses administered so far across the country has crossed 82.65 crore. Asserting that vaccination of its citizens remains the government's topmost priority, Mandaviya had said, "India will be resuming export of COVID-19 vaccines under Vaccine Maitri in order to fulfil the commitment of India towards COVAX in line with our motto of 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam'." The surplus supply of vaccines will be used to fulfil India's commitment towards the world for the collective fight against COVID-19, he said. COVAX is co-led by Gavi, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and the WHO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
22-09-2021||India||Modi leaves for US, says visit occasion to strengthen strategic ties||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said his visit to the United States would be an occasion to strengthen the Indo-US Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership and consolidate ties with Japan and Australia. In a statement just before leaving for the US, Modi said he will conclude his visit with an address at the United Nations General Assembly focusing on the pressing global challenges including the COVID-19 pandemic, the need to combat terrorism, climate change and other important issues. Modi emplaned for the United States this morning with his office tweeting a picture of him just before boarding the plane for the US where he will take part in a wide range of programmes. "I will be visiting the USA from 22-25 September, 2021 at the invitation of His Excellency President Joe Biden of the United States of America. During my visit, I will review the India-US Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with President Biden and exchange views on regional and global issues of mutual interest," the prime minister said. "I am also looking forward to meeting Vice President Kamala Harris to explore opportunities for cooperation between our two nations particularly in the area of science and technology," he said. Modi said he will participate in the first in-person Quad Leaders' Summit along with President Biden, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Premier Yoshihide Suga. The Summit provides an opportunity to take stock of the outcomes of the Quad leaders' Virtual Summit in March this year and identify priorities for future engagements based on our shared vision for the Indo-Pacific region, he said. "I will also meet Prime Minister Morrison of Australia and Prime Minister Suga of Japan to take stock of the strong bilateral relations with their respective countries and continue our useful exchanges on regional and global issues," Modi said. "My visit to the US would be an occasion to strengthen the Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with the USA, consolidate relations with our strategic partners -- Japan and Australia -- and to take forward our collaboration on important global issues," he said in his departure statement. The Afghan crisis and its implications, China's growing assertiveness, ways to stem radicalism and cross-border terrorism and further expansion of India-US global partnership are expected to be the central focus of the first in-person meeting between Prime Minister Modi and President Biden in Washington on September 24. At a media briefing on the prime minister's visit to the US, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Tuesday said the developments in Afghanistan will be extensively discussed in the bilateral talks between Modi and Biden and the Indian side will convey that Washington needs to continue focus on that country. Shringla said Modi will also participate in the COVID-19 global summit being hosted by President Biden. After concluding his engagements in Washington, Modi will travel to New York on the evening of September 24 and address the 76th session of the UN General Assembly the next day. The prime minister is also scheduled to meet a number of top executives of major American companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
22-09-2021||India||India's active Covid caseload lowest in 184 days||India logged 26,964 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,35,31,498, while the active cases declined to 3,01,989, the lowest in 186 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,27,83,741 and the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent as the death toll climbed to 4,45,768 with 383 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.90 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.77 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A reduction of 7,586 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 15,92,395 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 55,67,54,282. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.69 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 23 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.08 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 89 days, according to the ministry. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 82.65 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 383 new fatalities include 214 from Kerala and 70 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,45,768 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,616 from Maharashtra, 37,648 From Karnataka, 35,379 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 23,897 from Kerala, 22,887 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,678 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
22-09-2021||India||Modi congratulates Trudeau on election win||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday congratulated his Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau on his election win, and said he looked forward to continue working with him to further strengthen India-Canada relations. Trudeau secured victory in parliamentary elections but failed to get the majority he wanted. He, however, leads a strong minority government that won't be toppled by the opposition anytime soon. Modi tweeted, "Congratulations Prime Minister @JustinTrudeau on your victory in the elections! I look forward to continue working with you to further strengthen India-Canada relations, as well as our cooperation on global and multilateral issues."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
22-09-2021||India|| Women cadets expected to enter NDA in May 2022||The Centre on Tuesday told the Supreme Court there would not be any compromise on the minimum physical fitness and other endurance standards for women cadets expected to enter the National Defence Academy (NDA) for the first time when the UPSC rolls out the notification in May 2022. In an affidavit filed before the top court, Shantanu Sharma, director, department of military affairs, stated that while the educational standards would be the same for both male and female candidates, a separate module is being worked out for women aspirants to ensure minimum physical fitness so as not to compromise on the operational safety of the defence forces. This would be the first time that women candidates would be entering the NDA, hitherto a male bastion. The Centre had agreed to induct women candidates following two separate PILs alleging discrimination by not allowing them to join the defence forces through the NDA. “While the education curriculum is well set, all the rest of aspects of the training are required to be formulated separately for the women candidates like outdoor training involving drill, equitation, swimming, games, sports, etc, shall have to be formulated. “Hence the issue needs detailed analysis, including expert inputs to maintain operational readiness. It is needless to add that any dilution of physical training and service subject like parameters of firing, endurance training, field craft and living off the land kind of aspects, for the defence services’ women cadets/officers, would invariably impact the battle worthiness of the Armed Forces adversely,” the affidavit stated. According to the government, a study group has been constituted by the defence services comprising experts to expeditiously formulate the comprehensive curriculum for women cadets at the NDA. “A board of officers has been convened to give a holistic and futuristic proposal for training of women cadets at the NDA incorporating all relevant aspects,” it added. The Government of India in line with its commitment hereby, places on record its clear and categorical stand that the women candidates shall be considered for entry in the three defence services, in the existing streams through National Defence Academy. “To open the entry of women candidates for entry in all the three Defence services in the existing streams through National Defence Academy and in furtherance, publication of notification in May 2022 for entrance examination permitting women candidates…” is being undertaken, the Centre said. The entrance exams for entry into the NDA are held twice a year and the government proposes to have the necessary mechanism in place by May 22, the time by which the Union Public Service Commission is required to publish the first notification of the year 2022. Cadets aged from 16-and-a-half to 19-and-a-half years, after passing Class XII, join the academy for training after a rigorous selection process. Only medically fit candidates meeting the selection criteria are allowed to join the academy. They are also required to meet laid down medical standards. While medical standards for male cadets are in place, appropriate medical standards for women candidates are in the process of formulation. The Directorate General Armed Forces Medical Services and the body of experts from the three defence services will determine and formulate the medical standards taking into account various aspects like their young age, nature of training to be undergone, as also functional/operational requirements of the Indian Army, navy and air force, etc, the government said. On September 8, the Centre had admitted that “nudged” by the Supreme Court it had agreed to induct women into the NDA for the posts of permanent commissioned officers from next year. Appearing before a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M.M. Sundresh, additional solicitor-general Aishwarya Bhati had admitted that the decision taken to induct women cadets in the NDA was propelled by the apex court’s nudge on the issue. The apex court during the earlier round of hearing had questioned the logic of not allowing women officers the status of permanent commission and entry into the NDA, since it amounted to gender discrimination. However, it did not pass any order since it related to the country’s defence forces. On March 10, the apex court had issued notice to the Centre on two separate petitions seeking equal opportunities for female candidates to enter the prestigious NDA for recruitment into the armed forces on par with men. The top court had sought the response on the two separate pleas filed by petitioners Kush Kalra and Anita alleging that the present system of confining the eligibility criteria only to male candidates is unconstitutional and discriminatory under Articles 14 (equality) 15 (non-discrimination), 16 (equal opportunities in government jobs) and 19 (right to practice one’s profession or livelihood). According to the petitioners, eligible and willing female candidates are being denied opportunity of entry to the NDA on the basis of their sex, thereby categorically denying them opportunity to train at the premier training institute of Indian armed forces. Anita contended that due to the discrimination she could not join the NDA but had to pursue a post-graduate course in law. It was submitted that under the present rule the Centre allows only unmarried male candidates having adequate qualification to take the NDA and Naval Academy examination. However, eligible and willing female candidates are not allowed to take the examination on the sole ground of their sex and without any reasonable or justifiable explanations. After the judgment passed by the Supreme Court in the matter of secretary, ministry of defence vs Babita Puniya and others in 2013, “Permanent Commission” has been extended to the women officers of the army, who had put in a minimum of 14 years service. However, as of now, female candidates do not have any mode of entry into the armed forces as permanent commissioned officers. Female candidates have to apply through the appropriate mode of entry into the armed forces as a Short Service Commission officer and after serving for not less than 14 years, have the option to opt for permanent commission. However, there is no such Short Service Commission status for male officers in the defence forces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
22-09-2021||India||Gujarat: 3,000kg of Afghan heroin seized from Adani-operated port||Nearly 3,000kg of heroin originating from Afghanistan was seized from the Adani-operated Mundra port in Gujarat on September 16, officials announced on Tuesday. The drug haul drew attention for multiple reasons. ⚫ Valued at Rs 15,000 crore, the 3 tonnes of contraband are said to be the single largest such consignment netted anywhere in the world in recent memory. ⚫ The consignment found its way to India during the chaos that followed the takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban. With an eye on the Uttar Pradesh elections, the Right-wing ecosystem has been dog-whistling and whipping up fears about drugs from Afghanistan swamping India with the help of “anti-national” criminals. But the seizures underscore the fact that drugs have been flowing to India even before the Taliban found their feet in Afghanistan, and the doomsayers will now be hard put to explain how such a big consignment entered India through Gujarat where the BJP is entrenched in power for years. ⚫ The huge haul has thrown up another question: why has Gujarat become the most preferred gateway to India for drug smugglers. The Congress cited several instances and pointed out that the post of a full-time Narcotics Control Bureau chief had been lying vacant for 18 months. The Enforcement Directorate has now launched a money-laundering probe into the Gujarat haul. ⚫ The seizure coincides with a raging controversy in Kerala about “narcotics jihad” — cited by a bishop to suggest that Muslims are luring Christian youths with drugs — that has driven a communal wedge in the southern state. Those arrested so far in connection with the Gujarat haul are a couple whose names — M. Sudhakar and his wife Durga Vaishali — suggest crimes are not confined to any particular religion. Some Afghans are also involved, PTI quoted official sources as saying. ⚫ The lukewarm reaction of the government-friendly media also caught the attention of many. Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi tweeted: “59 grams of marijuana found in a WhatsApp chat conversation had led to near heart seizures of TV newstainment anchors. Surprised to note that 3000kg of heroin found has not had the same result. Clearly these newstainment channels outrage also depends on their Sarkar ki seva.” In a statement, the Adanis congratulated the investigators for seizing the drugs and said no port operator in the country can examine a container. “We sincerely hope that this statement will put to rest the motivated, malicious and false propaganda being run on social media against the Adani Group…. We have no policing authority over the containers….” The 2,988.21kg of heroin was seized by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) from two containers at the Mundra port in Kutch district. The narcotics were headed to Delhi and the two arrested persons had sought an import-export licence based on a house address in Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh. The containers had been declared as containing semi-processed talc stones from Afghanistan and had been shipped from the Bandar Abbas port in Iran to the Mundra port. The couple, who were arrested in Chennai and brought to Bhuj in Kutch, run an importing firm called Aashi Trading Company. The Congress said the responsibility lay with the central government. Party spokesperson Pawan Khera said at a news conference: “Prime Minister Narendra Modi is from Gujarat, home minister Amit Shah is from Gujarat. How come the Gujarat coast has become the most preferred route to smuggle in drugs? This consignment was meant for Andhra Pradesh, which also has ports. India has a huge coastline. Why was this sent to Gujarat?” Khera added: “The matter of concern is that the seizure wasn’t done through a coordinated plan of agencies, it was just a routine inspection by the DRI. Is this the tip of an iceberg? Is it that 10 such consignments passed before this was caught? Why was the surveillance network not strengthened after regular seizures in Gujarat?” “The consignment of 3,000kg of heroin is perhaps the largest such batch seized anywhere in the world. In fact, over the last few years, the Gujarat coast has become the favourite route for smuggling drugs into India from Pakistan, Iran and Afghanistan. In July 2017, an Indian Coast Guard vessel had seized approximately 1,500kg of heroin valued at about Rs 3,500 crore from a merchant vessel off the coast of Gujarat,” Khera said. The Congress spokesperson added: “In January 2020, five Pakistani nationals on a fishing boat were apprehended mid-sea off the coast of Gujarat while they were attempting to smuggle in drugs worth Rs 175 crore. In April 2021, eight Pakistani nationals onboard a boat were apprehended with heroin worth Rs 150 crore off the coast of Gujarat. On September 17, 3 tonnes of heroin were seized by the DRI at the Mundra port — a privately owned port of the Adani group in Gujarat’s Bhuj. “On September 18, again, the Indian Coast Guard and the anti-terrorism squad of Gujarat police in a joint operation on an Iranian boat found 30kg heroin worth more than Rs 150 crore off the coast of Gujarat.” Asking what steps the government and the Narcotics Control Bureau had taken after the alleged spurt in drug smuggling through Gujarat, Khera said: “How is such a drug syndicate operating in India under the nose of the Government of India, government of Gujarat and the Narcotics Control Bureau? Who are these operators, importers and individuals/syndicate running the procurement and distribution network of drugs in this country? Why is the NCB misused for retail politics when the international mafia have established a network for drug distribution in the country?” Additional reporting from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
22-09-2021||India||Bihar: Cop found with Rs 10cr assets||The economic offences unit of Bihar police on Tuesday raided premises belonging to a 57-year-old constable on charges of amassing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. According to officials, Narendra Kumar Dheeraj had allegedly amassed ill-gotten wealth running into several crores of rupees. “He is president of the Bihar Police Men’s Association. We registered an FIR against him on Monday and requested the court for permission to conduct search on his premises,” EOU additional director-general Nayyar Hasnain Khan told The Telegraph. The raids have yielded assets worth Rs 10 crore so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
22-09-2021||India||NEET coaching turn students into 'marks-scoring machines': Study||Private coaching centres for the medical entrance exam NEET have turned students into “marks-scoring machines” who have no exposure to all-round skill development and are “poor” candidates for the healthcare profession, a study in Tamil Nadu has found. The Tamil Nadu government-appointed nine-member panel headed by retired judge A.K. Rajen studied the impact of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for aspiring medical undergraduates on various social strata of the society. The study found that over 71 per cent of the respondents had cracked the NEET in a repeat attempt. In 2016-17, only 12.47 per cent of the successful candidates had been repeaters. The panel did not reveal the number of respondents but said the study had been conducted only in Tamil Nadu, a state famous for its quality healthcare. Many students do not enrol for graduation after passing Class XII and instead get admitted to private coaching centres in the hope of clearing the NEET, the study found. According to the panel, 99 per cent of the students who had cracked the NEET and entered the MBBS and BDS (dental) courses had studied at private preparatory coaching centres. “The coaching centres make the students ‘marks-scoring machines’ as learning is discouraged in favour of coaching. The prospective medical aspirants do not get the opportunity to acquire all-round skills… including cognitive, reasoning, creative, social and behavioural skills that are very much essential prior to enter medical studies,” the report said. Based on the findings, the Tamil Nadu government last week passed a bill seeking to exempt the state from the NEET under the National Medical Commission Act. The bill, now with the governor, will be sent to the President, whose assent is needed to override a central act through a state law. In Tamil Nadu alone, more than 400 coaching centres have come up, a business worth around Rs 5,750 crore annually, the study found. The report said coaching centres had mushroomed since the advent of the NEET as the national eligibility test in 2016. It was enforced on all states as the solitary medical entrance exam the next year. The medical entrance coaching centres offer short-term, long-term and crash courses based on when a student enrols. Enrolment begins in Class IX. For a crash course, the fees are between Rs 10,000 and Rs 38,000, while they are in the range of Rs 30,000 to Rs 1.5 lakh for a one-year course and from Rs 2.5 lakh to Rs 4.5 lakh for four-year training. The cost goes up to as high as Rs 10 lakh in case students do not make it in the NEET exam in the first attempt and once again seek the help of the coaching centres. “Both educational institutions and parents are now inclined more towards coaching the kids to prepare them for successfully appearing in the NEET rather than grooming them all round as educated human beings with all relevant knowledge, skills and attitudes,” the report said. “This trend confirms that coaching has replaced learning and paved the way for the entry of poorly skilled candidates (who are financially and socially strong) belonging to the affluent segment of the society into medical education,” it added. The panel feared that the medical profession could become even more commercialised and dominated by inept players. Average scorers Studying the profiles of students who had studied at coaching centres, the panel found that the majority of those who make it to the medical colleges had cleared the NEET with average grades. Many had secured seats after barely clearing the NEET, whose pass marks is 20 per cent. Toll on poor The annual income of about 97 per cent of the families of government school students is less than Rs 1 lakh in Tamil Nadu and they cannot afford coaching centre fees, the panel found. Private medical colleges charge steep fees of around Rs 30 lakh per year. The committee felt that the hope that a common entrance exam would help get around problems such as capitation fees and ensure good quality students had not materialised. In both government and private colleges, the share of students who had studied in Tamil-medium schools has declined after the NEET was made mandatory in 2017, the panel found. In 2011 when there was no NEET and medical students were selected on the basis of Class XII marks, 19.79 per cent of MBBS seats had been filled up by students from Tamil-medium schools. Post-NEET, that figure had declined to 1.99 per cent in 2020, with English-medium students reaping the benefits. In both government and private colleges, students from families of first-generation graduates had taken up 24.61 per cent of the medical seats in 2011, which fell to 14.46 in 2020. Low predictability Predictability is a key feature of a common entrance test and it should be able to determine more precisely the ability of a student to perform well in higher studies, the panel observed. The committee examined the performance of MBBS students pre-NEET and post-NEET and found no improvement. Had the NEET helped pick the best students as envisaged, performance in the MBBS would have improved, but that had not happened, the study found. Therefore, the NEET cannot be considered the best predictor, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
22-09-2021||India||Gauri Lankesh murder: SC reserves orders on sister's plea ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday observed that Karnataka High Court had erroneously quashed the charges under the Karnataka Control of Organised Crime Act against one of the suspects in the murder of journalist Gauri Lankesh. “You can argue lack of evidence but the high court has quashed the chargesheet itself. This is incorrect and this is in excess of the jurisdiction. It cannot be quashed like this. The high court has not analysed the chargesheet. We have to say the high court has not dealt with the chargesheet correctly,” the apex court told senior advocate Basvaraju Prabhu appearing for the accused. The bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Ravi Kumar made the oral observations while reserving its orders on an appeal by filmmaker Kavita Lankesh challenging the high court’s judgment which quashed charges under the KCOCA against suspect Mohan Nayak in the murder of her sister. Prabhu argued that there was no evidence to prove that Nayak was part of any organised syndicate as required under the KCOCA for being prosecuted. However, senior advocate Huzefi Ahmadi appearing for Kavitha told the bench that even a person harbouring those accused under the act can be named as an accused under the KCOCA. The apex court had earlier issued notices to the accused and the Karnataka government on the special leave petition filed by Kavitha challenging withdrawal of the charges under the KCOCA, 2000, against Nayak, a key accused in the murder of Gauri on September 5, 2017, outside her residence in Bangalore. The murder was seen as an attempt to silence voices critical of the fundamentalist elements in the state. In her petition filed through advocate Aparna Bhat, Kavita had submitted she was constrained to move the plea on her own as she was “greatly aggrieved by the impugned order and is therefore, approaching this Hon’ble Court since the State of Karnataka which is the prosecuting agency has not challenged the same”. Her contention was that the BJP government in Karnataka should have ideally challenged the high court order which it had not done.’ According to the petitioner, the high court had erroneously quashed the order dated August 14, 2018, passed by respondent no. 3 (commissioner of police, Bangalore) granting sanction for Nayak and also quashed the supplementary chargesheet filed by respondent no. 4 (Special Investigation Team) against respondent no. 6 (Nayak) for the offences under Sections 3(1)(i), 3(2), 3(3) and 3(4) of the KCOCA. Under the said offences, the accused faced a minimum punishment of life imprisonment and the maximum of death penalty. After the nationwide outrage over Gauri’s killing, the Karnataka government had entrusted the investigation inot the murder to the SIT. The investigation by the SIT indicated clearly that the accused persons were involved in organised crime as a syndicate and this attracted the provisions of Section 3 of the KCOCA, the petition said. It was submitted that the investigation found that Nayak has been actively involved in providing shelter to the killers prior to and after committing the offence and has participated in a series of conspiracies, abetting, planning, providing logistics. “Therefore, he is involved in ‘continuous unlawful activity’. With regard to Respondent No. 6’s involvement in the murder of Gauri Lankesh, the investigating agency has collected sufficient material to connect him with the case and establish his intimate nexus with the master mind behind the entire event, that is, Accused No.1 Amol Kale and master arms trainer Accused No. 8 Rajesh D. Bangera who are part and parcel of an ‘organised crime syndicate’ from its inception,” the petition stated. According to the petition, the investigation undertaken so far has revealed that Nayak is part of the syndicate led by Kale which has committed multiple organised crimes apart from the murder of Gauri. It was alleged that chargesheets against the members of syndicate have also been filed with respect to the murders of Narendra Dabolkar in 2013, Govinda Pansare in 2015, M.M. Kalburgi in 2015 and conspiracy to murder Prof. Bhagavan in 2018. Yet the high court chose to quash the charges against Nayak, the petitioner said. According to the petitioner, the alleged syndicate is involved in the following cases: 2013: Narendra Dabolkar was murdered in Pune, Maharashtra. The same syndicate is involved. 2015: Govinda Pansare was murdered at Kolhapur, Maharashtra. In connection with this case (Crime No. 39/2015), an FIR and chargesheet has been filed against Kale (leader of the syndicate), Amith Degvekar, Vasudev Suryavanshi alias Mechanic, Bharath Kurne and Sharad Kalaskar under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 3 and 25 of the Arms Act. August 30, 2015: M.M. Kalburgi was shot dead. A case (Crime No. 142/2015) under Section 302 of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act has been registered at Vidyagiri police station, Dharwad. A chargesheet (CC No. 2736/2019) has been filed against Kale, Ganesh Miskin, Praveen Prakash Chatur, Suryavanshi, Kalaskar and Amith Baddi for the offence punishable under Sections 120(b), 109, 449, 302, 201 and 35 of the IPC and Sections 25(1A), 25(1B) and 27(1) of the Arms Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
22-09-2021||India||Uddhav takes on governor on women safety and growing attacks||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has said governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari should request Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to convene a Parliament session to discuss the safety of women and growing attacks on them, hitting back after Koshyari asked him to convene a special session of the Assembly against the backdrop of the rape and murder of a young woman in Mumbai. In his letter to the governor on Monday, the chief minister said such “instructions” by the governor could stoke a “new controversy” and were “damaging” democratic parliamentary procedures. A governor is expected to go by the advice of the cabinet on convening the Assembly. Uddhav gave figures of crimes against women in BJP-ruled states, including Uttarakhand that is the home state of RSS veteran Koshyari. “I can understand your feelings for calling a special session of the Maharashtra Assembly against the backdrop of the Saki Naka incident in Mumbai. Your soul is of a political worker. However, the instructions given by you could stoke a new controversy,” the chief minister wrote. A 34-year-old woman was allegedly raped inside a stationary tempo in Saki Naka area earlier this month. She died in hospital. Uddhav said women’s safety was a nationwide issue and the governor should ask Modi and Shah to convene a four-day special session of Parliament, at which the Saki Naka incident too could be discussed. “It is damaging to parliamentary democratic procedures that the governor also makes the same demand being made by those who are opposing the state government. The state is taking firm steps to curb such incidents,” Uddhav stated. “Uttarakhand, your home state, is also known as Devbhoomi. Government data show that attacks on women have increased by 150 per cent. Can a special session be called there?” he asked. He pointed out that 14,229 women had been reported missing in Gujarat in the last two years. “A Gujarat police report says that at least 14 women daily face rape or sexual assault. Going by such high numbers, Gujarat would need at least a month-long session. “Despite many attacks on women in Uttar Pradesh, the BJP has not made any demand for a special session,” Thackeray added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
22-09-2021||India||Delay in release of ‘Despotism’ book raises concerns||The authors of a book titled To Kill A Democracy: India’s Passage to Despotism have gone public with their concerns over the delay on the part of Oxford University Press (OUP), India, in releasing the Indian edition. The book and one of its authors have been criticised in an article in the Organiser magazine that usually echoes the views of the Sangh. Authored by Hong Kong-based Indian journalist Debasish Roy Chowdhury and Sydney University political science professor John Keane, the book had been scheduled for release in India in the first week of July but there is no sign of it two months later. OUP India said a second review was being done because the sales team in India had found the contents to be “provocative” and attributed the delay to the pandemic, among other reasons. The company denied “any pressure” to stall the release of the edition. The book, among other things, deals with the “growing alarm” about India’s “democratic health”. Roy Chowdhury, along with the book, had been blasted in the Organiser magazine for articles he wrote in the Time magazine criticising the Narendra Modi government’s handling of the pandemic. On May 30, almost a month before the global release of the book, the Organiser had carried the article alleging a “deep-rooted conspiracy” against the BJP and Modi. Last week, upset with the delay, Keane took to social media to allege possible censorship. He tweeted on September 15: “3 months after its global publication, the promised Indian edition of To Kill A Democracy @OxUniPress is still unavailable to readers there…. Is this censorship, the cowardly art of killing a book?” Keane posted a video clip from a discussion hosted by a Hyderabad-based forum for public discourse, Manthan, earlier this month where he had said: “This is a tragi-comic remark but Debasish and I are beginning to worry that a book with the title To Kill A Democracy is actually killed in a democracy. This would be an outcome that we never anticipated. It makes us very sad to ponder that possibility.” Contacted by The Telegraph, Roy Chowdhury said that in April, the authors had been told by OUP that a cheaper Indian edition would be out in the first week of July after the global launch in the last week of June. “But before the global launch, OUP (Oxford) said (OUP) India wanted to do a second review, which will not affect the UK launch,” he said. This took the authors by surprise as the book had already been reviewed favourably in the UK by OUP Oxford. Although they had not been intimated earlier about a second review, the authors went along, expecting little more than a short delay. Alarm bells started ringing for them when there was no sign of the book even a month later and there was no communication from OUP India. The book began showing up on Amazon India at a price equivalent to the rupee value (around Rs 2,000) of the global edition. Both authors said OUP India had not given them a satisfactory reply on what necessitated a second review. Why was the second review initiated as late as May-June when OUP India itself had scheduled the book for release for early July, they asked. Neither has OUP India shared a copy of the second review with the two authors, they said. An OUP India spokesperson told this newspaper that the delay was on account of the second wave of the pandemic in India and warehouse shifting, adding that the book would be released this week. As for the second review, the spokesperson said this was standard policy, adding that the “sales team felt the content is provocative”. The spokesperson categorically denied that the article in the Organiser had anything to do with the delay. “There was no pressure from anywhere to delay or stop publishing the book,” the spokesperson said. This newspaper reached out to Organiser editor Prafulla Ketkar on Monday for his response on whether the magazine team had read the book before writing such an indictment or if the criticism was based on Roy Chowdhury’s articles. There was no response till Tuesday evening. The description of the book on the OUP website suggests it has not confined itself to the Modi regime. The description says the book “rejects the belief that India was once a beacon of democracy but is now being ruined by the destructive forces of Modi-style populism. The book details the much deeper historical roots of the present-day assaults on civil liberties and democratic institutions.” The book’s authors said they had no way of knowing if OUP India had acted under pressure. “We cannot claim to have any knowledge about the reasons for the delay. We do not want to make conjectures about political pressure, etc. We really have no proof of that. But the delay is mystifying, the mystery deepened by OUP India’s complete lack of communication on just what it is that’s holding up the book,” Roy Chowdhury said. “We were not told about any ‘concern’ of their sales team.” Keane said: “The unexplained confusion and delay comes as a total surprise after the way OUP had encouraged us throughout our book journey. Our book wouldn’t have been possible without the unwavering and very professional support of the OUP team members at Oxford who’ve tirelessly supported and promoted the book. But the experience with the India leg of OUP worries us deeply.” Another sore point is OUP India’s apparent decision to increase the price. “We now understand the book is priced at Rs 995 by OUP India, which is far higher than the Rs 695 that it had originally set for the locally published edition. The local price was meant to be affordable so that more people can read it. We do not think this is a mass-market price, and are deeply unhappy that OUP India did not even bother to inform the authors of a nearly 50 per cent price increase, let alone explain the reasons for it,” Roy Chowdhury said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
22-09-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir: Helicopter crash kills two majors at Patnitop||Two major-rank pilots were killed after an army helicopter crash-landed in a dense forest at the Patnitop area of Jammu and Kashmir’s Udhampur district on Tuesday. “During an operational area clearance sortie at Patnitop, Major Rohit Kumar and Major Anuj Rajput met with an accident while manoeuvring the helicopter they were flying. During the crash-landing of the helicopter, both pilots suffered grave injuries,” defence spokesman Lt Colonel Devinder Anand said. “They were immediately evacuated to Command Hospital, Udhampur. However, the officers succumbed to their injuries,” he added. Major Kumar was 35 and Major Rajput 28. Bad weather is believed to have contributed to the crash. Officials said the Cheetah helicopter belonged to the Army Aviation Corps. On August 3, the army’s advanced light helicopter Dhruv had crashed into the Ranjit Sagar dam lake in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kathua district, leaving the two pilots missing for days. The body of Lt Colonel A.S. Batth was recovered on August 15 evening but Captain Jayant Joshi remains untraced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
22-09-2021||India||India warns UK on vaccination terms for visitors||India will be well within its rights to initiate reciprocal measures if the UK does not address New Delhi’s concerns regarding London’s refusal to recognise Indian Covid vaccination certificates, foreign secretary Harsh V. Shringla said on Tuesday. He billed as discriminatory the UK’s insistence that all those fully vaccinated in India take pre-departure tests and home quarantine for 10 days on arrival, besides two tests during that period. Shringla dwelt at length on London’s refusal to even accept those vaccinated with Covishield “which is a licensed product of a UK company, manufactured in India, of which we have given five million doses to the UK at the request of the UK government”. Stating that it is India’s understanding that the Indian-manufactured Covishield vaccine is being used in the UK’s National Health Service, Shringla said: “Therefore, non-recognition of Covishield is a discriminatory policy.” The issue was raised by external affairs minister S. Jaishankar with his British counterpart Elizabeth Truss when the two met in New York on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly on Tuesday. “Urged early resolution of quarantine issue in mutual interest,” he tweeted. Shringla added that “I am told certain assurances have been given that this issue would be resolved”. He pointed out that India had offered some partner countries the option of a mutual recognition of vaccine certification. “These are reciprocal measures... if we don’t get satisfaction, we would be within our rights to impose reciprocal measures.” Last week, the UK government had announced new rules for travellers entering the country from October 4. The list of authorised vaccines recognises only the full course of the Oxford/AstraZeneca, Pfizer BioNTech, Moderna or Janssen vaccines from a relevant public health body in Australia, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Bahrain, Brunei, Canada, Dominica, Israel, Japan, Kuwait, Malaysia, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea or Taiwan. A mix of two-dose vaccines — Oxford/AstraZeneca, Pfizer BioNTech and Moderna — is acceptable but not any of the vaccines from India. Apparently, the main concern is about the authenticity of India’s certification as there is a fear that vaccine certificates may be forged. As a result, those administered Covaxin or even Covishield in India will have to take a pre-departure Covid-19 test in the three days before travelling to England; book and pay for two tests to be taken in the UK (two and eight days after arrival); and home quarantine for 10 days. Congress MP Jairam Ramesh said the UK decision smacked of racism. “Absolutely bizarre considering Covishield was originally developed in the UK and The Serum Institute, Pune, has supplied to that country too! This smacks of racism.” His party colleague in the Lok Sabha, Shashi Tharoor, pulled out of a debate at The Cambridge Union in protest. “Because of this I have pulled out of a debate at the @cambridgeunion & out of launch events for the UK edition of my book #TheBattleOfBelonging (published there as #TheStruggleForIndiasSoul). It is offensive to ask fully vaccinated Indians to quarantine. The Brits are reviewing!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
22-09-2021||India||Scientists suggest full vaccination for travel and social gatherings||Scientists with India’s health research agency have proposed that states adopt full vaccination among prerequisites for tourist travel and social gatherings to reduce the risk of fresh localised Covid-19 surges amid growing travel and the upcoming festive season. The prerequisites are primarily intended for holiday travel and tourist sites awaiting guests but are also relevant to cultural, religious, or social gatherings that might cause large increases in the population density, the researchers with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said. The ICMR researchers have said states may consider seeking proof of completed vaccination status or a Covid-19 negative test result from people seeking to stay at hotels within the state. Local health authorities would need to maintain high levels of infection surveillance through vigilance and testing at tourist sites or other places of congregation even in periods of low infection activity, the researchers said. “The possibility of a severe third wave in India (is) still looming, it remains critical to recognise and mitigate the risks involved,” the researchers said in a report. An increase in population density due to tourists or mass congregations due to social, political or religious reasons “can worsen the third wave scenario”. An earlier ICMR study based on computer simulations of likely surges had suggested that a third wave — if at all one occurs — was likely to be less severe than the second wave that rose to a peak of around 400,000 daily infections. The latest simulations have, however, also suggested that the peak of a possible third wave at a typical tourist site that experiences a 40 per cent increase in its population density would increase by up to 47 per cent. India on Tuesday recorded 26,115 new Covid-19 infections, the lowest daily count in 184 days, but 32 districts across the country, including 13 in Kerala,  have test positivity rates of 10 per cent or higher, implying large epidemics. An additional 25 districts across the country, including Calcutta, have test positivity rates between 5 and 10 per cent. Health officials view an epidemic under relative control when test positivity rates are below 5 per cent. Health experts say India’s epidemic, while near-continuously shrinking since early May, retains the potential to trigger localised surges wherever large proportions of the population are susceptible and wherever the virus can spread. “The greater the population density, the more conducive the environment for the virus to spread — and population density can rise significantly both at tourist sites and sites of large congregations,” said Samiran Panda, the chief of epidemiology at the ICMR and a member of the simulations team. The ICMR researchers have said the national government cannot always issue mandates at a federal level and states may adopt guidelines according to their own circumstances and needs. However, hospitality industry executives have said the Covid-19 pandemic has hit the tourism sector so hard that hotels are unlikely to turn away unvaccinated or partially vaccinated guests. An executive with the Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Associations of India had told this newspaper last week that most hotels and restaurants would be hesitant to decline services to potential guests who are unvaccinated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
22-09-2021||India||Youth jumps into river  to escape arrest by excise department, dies ||A 20-year-old suspected bootlegger, who had jumped into a river to evade arrest by excise department officials on Monday, was found dead on Tuesday. The body of Sapan Majhi was fished out from the Kantiachara river in Balasore district. Following a tip-off that four youths were moving towards Balasore town with 600 litres of illicit liquor, the special anti-liquor squad of the excise department laid a trap to catch them. The mobile squad intercepted the youths who were on motorcycles. However, while the excise officials managed to arrest three of the bootleggers, Sapan jumped into the river while being chased and was swept away by the strong currents. Locals along with fire brigade officials conducted a search operation and retrieved his body. Following the recovery of Sapan’s body, local residents protested against what they called “excessive” action of the excise department and even blocked the Old Balasore road for sometime by burning tyres. However, officials said that the situation was now under control. Deputy commissioner, excise (Balasore), Ashok Satpathy told The Telegraph: “It is our duty to curb the illicit liquor trade. If we won’t act, there is a chance that a hooch tragedy may occur. No one can guarantee the quality of the liquor being produced illegally and sold in the market.” “In this particular incident, Sapan, who did not know swimming, jumped into the river out of desperation to evade arrest. But before we could act and rescue him, he was swept away by the currents. His body was recovered today morning.” He said there was a group of bootleggers active in Balasore town and its periphery areas. “Because of our initiative, the smuggling of liquor has been curtailed. We want to bring an end to it,” Satpathy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
