23-09-2021||India||Seer Narendra Giri shot video on phone hour before alleged suicide ||Narendra Giri, the religious leader who allegedly died by suicide on Monday, had recorded a video on his mobile phone just one hour before his death, the police say. His allegations in the video reportedly match what he wrote in a 13-page suicide note found near his body. Narendra Giri, the head of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad and an influential seer photographed with many top politicians of the country, was found dead in his ashram in Uttar Pradesh's Prayagraj on Monday afternoon. The 4 minute 30 second mobile phone video, say police sources, points at premeditation. Narendra Giri, according to sources, did not know how to record videos on the selfie mode. On Sunday, the day before his death, he reportedly called a trusted disciple, Sarvesh Dwivedi, and took a quick lesson. Mobile phone data shows the seer recorded a couple of test videos before the final one. "After checking the quality of the test videos, he recorded the final video," said sources. In the video, Narendra Giri reportedly says he was afraid that his disciple Anand Giri wanted to make a morphed photo of him with a woman viral and he would be shamed. He says, according to sources, that he was so distraught that he didn't see any purpose in living. Like in his suicide note, the seer blames Anand Giri - the virtual number two in the ashram - Aadya Tiwari and his son Sandeep Tiwari for his suicide, according to sources who have seen the video. He accuses the three of blackmailing him. All three were arrested on Tuesday. The mobile phone was found from Narendra Giri's room after his death. The police have also seized the mobile phones of the three accused. According to officers, Sandeep Tiwari had a phone worth over ₹ 1 lakh despite working at a temple for ₹ 9,000 a month. Anand Giri, the seer's top disciple, used an iPhone, say the police. He was expelled by Narendra Giri earlier this year over allegations of financial fraud and irregularities but apparently returned. A video showed him at the feet of his mentor, seeking forgiveness. But the patch-up was short-lived, and Anand Giri was accused of harassing Narendra Giri along with the Tiwaris. Soon after the seer was found dead, Anand Giri had alleged a conspiracy "by people who used to extort money from Narendra Giri". "It is a huge conspiracy by people who used to extort money from Guruji and wrote my name in the letter. It needs to be investigated as guru Ji has not written a letter in his life and could not do suicide. His handwriting needs to be probed," he had said. UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has asked for a CBI probe into the death. "I want to thank the Chief Minister for handing over the case to the CBI. I want to request the Home Minister to order the CBI to immediately take over the case," Kailashanand Brahmachari, head of the Niranjani Akhada, one of the constituents of the Akhada Parishad, told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
23-09-2021||India||Punjab CM Channi leaves for Delhi, likely to discuss Cabinet expansion with Congress leadership||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday left for Delhi, where he is likely to discuss the expansion of the state Cabinet with the party's central leadership, sources said. Channi flew from the Amritsar airport. His visit to Delhi assumes significance as Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had returned to the national capital from Shimla on Wednesday. Former state party chief Sunil Jakhar had also accompanied Rahul and Priyanka on a flight to Delhi. Channi, his two deputies Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday had gone to the national capital to discuss the expansion of the new Cabinet with the party leadership. The team had met AICC general secretary K C Venugopal and general secretary Harish Rawat. The cabinet is likely to see some fresh faces, said the sources. Names of Pargat Singh, Raj Kumar Verka, Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Surjit Dhiman, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Kuljit Singh Nagra are doing the rounds. Pargat Singh, considered close to Sidhu, is at present the Punjab Congress general secretary and Gilzian is a working president of the party's state unit. There is a speculation that Amarinder Singh's staunch loyalists--Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, who was the sports minister and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, who was the social justice empowerment minister--may be dropped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
23-09-2021||India||Defence ministry order 118 battle tanks at a cost of Rs 7,523 crore||The defence ministry on Thursday placed an order for 118 Arjun main battle tanks for the army at a cost of Rs 7,523 crore. The ministry placed the order for the Arjun Mk-1A tanks with the Heavy Vehicles Factory (HVF) at Avadi in Chennai. The MBT Mk-1A is a new variant of the Arjun tank designed to enhance firepower, mobility and survivability, infused with 72 new features and more indigenous content compared with the Mk-1 variant. The ministry said the tanks would ensure effortless mobility in all terrains, besides precise target engagement during day and night. The tank has been designed and developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation by incorporating numerous upgrades on Arjun MBT, the in-service main battle tank with the Indian Army. “The MK-1A is equipped with accurate and superior firepower, all-terrain mobility and an invincible multi-layered protection provided by an array of advanced technology systems. It can take on the enemy during day and night conditions and in both static and dynamic modes,” the ministry said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
23-09-2021||India||Pegasus: Cong welcomes SC’s directive to set up of tech expert committee||The Congress Thursday said the Supreme Court's oral directive to set up a technical expert committee to inquire into the Pegasus snooping row is a step in the right direction, but asserted a "full investigation" monitored by the apex court is the "simple solution". "The Pegasus Spy scandal is not an issue to protect national security but an assault on national security and privacy by the Modi government," Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said. "The solution is simple -- A SC-monitored full investigation. SC observation of setting up a "technical committee" is a right step in this direction," he said on Twitter. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate also said that based on media reports, a probe into the matter will ensure that national security is not compromised. She said one should also understand that the people allegedly snooped upon were not just political opponents of the ruling party, but also those in constitutional positions. "The reality is that snooping was done on people who were in elected positions of power, which also compromises the Official Secrets Act and there was never a bigger compromise on national security than Pegasus," she said. "We will only say that there has to be a full-fledged probe by the Supreme Court of India under its supervision because anything less than that is not going to be satisfactory as far as national security is concerned," Shrinate said. The Congress leader said the party welcomes the setting up of the technical expert, "but it has to be a part of a larger probe. And I hope it will be". In a significant development, the Supreme Court Thursday observed orally that it will set up a technical expert committee to inquire into the Pegasus snooping matter and pass an interim order next week on a batch of pleas seeking an independent probe into the entire issue. The apex court's observations on constituting the committee assume significance in view of the Centre's statement that it would set up an expert panel on its own to look into the grievances of the alleged surveillance of certain eminent Indians by hacking their phones using Israeli firm NSO's spyware, Pegasus. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana, which was to hear some other matter, addressed senior lawyer C U Singh, one of the counsels in the pleas, that the order will be pronounced next week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
23-09-2021||India||India, UK hold talks on jab certification process: British envoy||British High Commissioner Alex Ellis on Thursday said India and the UK held "excellent" technical discussion on the issue of vaccine certification. Referring to new British travel rules, Ellis had on Wednesday said there was no problem with Covishield vaccine and that the main issue is COVID-19 vaccine certification done through the CoWIN app. “Excellent technical discussions with @rssharma3 @AyushmanNHA. Neither side raised technical concerns with each other's certification process. An important step forward in our joint aim to facilitate travel and fully protect public health of UK and India,” he tweeted on Thursday. Following India's strong criticism over the UK's refusal to recognise Covishield, London on Wednesday amended its new guidelines to include the Indian-made version of the AstraZeneca vaccine in its updated international travel advisory. However, Indian travellers vaccinated with two doses of Covishield will still have to undergo 10 days of quarantine in the UK notwithstanding the amendment, UK officials clarified on Wednesday saying the inclusion of the vaccine will not make much of a difference. "We're clear Covishield is not a problem. The UK is open to travel and we're already seeing a lot of people going from India to the UK, be it tourists, business people or students," Ellis said in a statement on Wednesday. "We have been having detailed technical discussions regarding certification, with the builders of the CoWIN app and the NHS app, about both apps. They're happening at a rapid pace, to ensure that both countries mutually recognise the vaccine certificates issued by each other," he said. According to new rules, Indian travellers who received both doses of the Covishield vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India will be considered unvaccinated and will have to undergo self-isolation for 10 days. In a strong reaction, India had on Tuesday warned of "reciprocal measures" if the UK does not address its concerns over the new travel rules relating to COVID-19 vaccine certification with Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla describing these norms as "discriminatory". Referring to the latest guidelines issued by the UK government that will come into effect on October 4, another UK officials had said that London does not have any problem with the Covishield vaccine but there are certain issues related to vaccine certification in India. The new British rules have triggered massive criticism in India. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also took up the issue of Covishield-vaccinated travellers being required to quarantine in the UK with newly-appointed British Foreign Secretary Elizabeth Truss at a meeting in New York on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
23-09-2021||India||Vaccine at home for differently-abled and people with restricted mobility, says Centre||The government Thursday announced that differently-abled people and those with restricted mobility will be given Covid vaccine doses at their homes. Addressing a press conference here, Union Health Ministry officials also said the country is still in the midst of the second wave of Covid-19 even though the number of daily new cases are declining. However, they added, 62.73% of total infections reported last week were from Kerala alone, which is also the only state with over 1 lakh active Covid cases. Thirty-three districts in the country are now reporting over 10 per cent weekly positivity rate, while 23 are recording between 5-10 per cent, the officials said. Under Covid guidelines for the upcoming festival season, mass gatherings has to be avoided in containment zones and in districts with over 5 per cent positivity rate, they said. On the ongoing vaccination drive, they said that 66 per cent of the country's adult population has been given at least one jab while 23 per cent is fully vaccinated. They also said that 63.7 per cent doses of COVID-19 vaccine has been administered at centres in rural areas and 35.4 per cent in urban areas. A total of 68.2 lakh doses (approximately 0.95 per cent) has been administered at Covid vaccination centres not tagged as rural or urban, they said. On the UK rule of 10-day quarantine for those vaccinated in India, the ministry officials said it was a discriminatory practice. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said both the countries are in dialogue on the matter. "We believe that the dispensation that is proposed to be implemented from October 4 is a discriminatory practice. Both the sides are in dialogue and we believe a resolution will be found. We do reserve the right to reciprocate in a similar manner," Bhushan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
23-09-2021||India||Thane: 33 booked, 24 arrested and two detained for gangrape of minor||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped multiple times at different places in Thane district of Maharashtra over the last eight months, and police have arrested 24 persons and detained two minors in this connection so far, a senior official said on Thursday. Based on the girl's complaint, the Manpada police at Dombivli in Kalyan have registered a case on Wednesday night against 33 accused under IPC sections 376 (rape), 376 (n) (repeated rape), 376 (d) (gang-rape), 376 (3) (rape on a woman under sixteen years of age) and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, he said. Talking to reporters, Additional Commissioner of Police (East region), Dattatray Karale, said the offences were committed between January 29 this year and September 22. "It all started when the lover of the girl raped her in January and made a video of the incident. He started blackmailing her on the basis of that video. Later on, his friends and acquaintances gang-raped her at least on four to five occasions at different places, including Dombivili, Badlapur, Murbad and Rabale in the district," he said. A special investigation team (SIT) has been formed under ACP Sonali Dhole to probe the case, he added. "The victim has named 33 persons. Out of them, 24 persons have been arrested and two minors detained in this connection. The girl's condition is said to be stable," Karale said. Search is on to nab the other accused involved in the crime, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
23-09-2021||India||NCW asks Delhi Police to probe restaurant denying entry to saree-clad woman||The National Commission for Women on Thursday asked the Delhi Police commissioner to probe the incident wherein a woman was allegedly denied entry in a city restaurant for wearing a saree, and take necessary action in the matter. The National Commission for Women (NCW), in a statement, said it has also written to the marketing and public relations director of the restaurant to appear before the Commission on September 28 along with supporting documents and explanation. It said it came across a social media post wherein the restaurant allegedly denied entry to the woman because she was wearing saree. Reportedly, the restaurant's dress code policy for guests allows only smart casuals and according to the eatery, saree does not fall under smart casuals. “Saree is a part of Indian culture and women in India majorly wear saree, therefore denying any woman entry to a restaurant on the basis of her attire is a violation of her right to live with dignity,” the statement said. “The Commission condemns the arbitrary and bizarre behaviour of the restaurant staff and its policies,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
23-09-2021||India||Army foils infiltration bid near LoC in JK's Baramulla||The Army on Thursday foiled an infiltration bid near the Line of Control (LoC) in Uri in Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla district, killing three terrorists and recovering a cache of arms and ammunition, officials said. "We noticed some suspicious movement in the Hathlanga area near the LoC. The infiltrators were challenged and three of them were killed," an Army officer said. He said a large cache of arms and ammunition, including five assault rifles, seven pistols and grenades, were recovered. Briefing the media at the Army's Chinar Corps headquarters here, General Officer Commanding Lt General D P Pandey said there has been increased activity at the launch pads on the other side of the LoC recently. "While there was no infiltration since the beginning of the year, there has been a little activity at the launch pads which cannot happen without the knowledge of Pakistan army commanders, he said. Lt Gen Pandey said this was evident from the infiltration bid that was foiled on Thursday as well as the one in the Uri sector on September 18-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
23-09-2021||India||There's no Hindu-Muslim divide when it comes to population||Will Hindus end up as a minority in their own country? That’s the Project Fear story that pro-Hindutva political parties sell to their followers. It has always been just a scare story and that’s borne out by the latest report by the Pew Research Center tracking the trajectories of India's religious communities. In fact, there have been only modest changes in the overall religious makeup of the population since 1951 when India conducted its first census as an independent nation. The report says that Muslims are expected to continue to grow slowly as a share of the Indian population in the coming decades, while Hindus will remain an overwhelmingly large majority. Even though India's population is still growing way too fast, India’s fertility rates have dropped sharply over the last 71 years and this is true among the major communities -- Hindus, Muslims and Christians – and also the smaller ones like Buddhism, Jainism and Sikhism. The Pew Research Center study looks at the religious makeup of India’s population and how it has altered between 1951 and 2011 when the last census took place.  The 2021 census has not taken place this year because of Covid-19. "Over the decades, population growth rates have slowed considerably – overall and among Muslims in particular. Before its steep fertility declines, India was on a trajectory that would have resulted in a much larger total population, as well as a greater change in the distribution of religious population," the report notes. Indian women are still having more children than their counterparts in the West. The National Family Health Survey (NFHS) in 2015 estimated it was 2.2 compared to 1.6 in the United States. But that’s a steep drop from 3.4 in 1992 and a huge 5.9 in 1950. The fertility rate among Muslim women is still slightly higher than other communities but has dropped sharply from 4.4 children in 1992 to 2.6 just six years ago in 2015, according to NFHS figures. The National Family Health Survey actually offers a more accurate take on fertility rates as it is a “household survey with more extensive information about childbearing than the census,” says the Pew report. Fertility rate differences “India’s Muslim population has grown somewhat faster than other religious groups because of fertility differences. But….there have been only modest changes in the overall religious makeup of the population since 1951, when India conducted its first census as an independent nation,” the report says. According to the survey, in percentage terms, the Muslim population grew by 4.4 per cent between 1951 and 2011, to 14.2 per cent and the Hindu population declined by 4.3 per cent to 79.8 per cent. But in absolute numbers, and these are the figures to focus on when looking at India's religious composition, in the most recent decade between censuses, Hindus added 138 million people, while Muslims grew by 34 million. India’s total population increased by nearly 200 million in that time, from about 1 billion in 2001 to 1.2 billion in 2011. Around 94 per cent of the world's Hindus live in India. The 3 per cent of Indians who identify with religions other than Hinduism, Islam or Christianity have grown to represent tens of millions of people in the decades since independence. Sikhs, India’s fourth-largest religious group, have increased from seven million adherents in 1951 to nearly 21 million in 2011, while remaining a consistent share of India’s population at just under 2 per cent. Buddhists and Jains show a similar pattern – their numbers have doubled or tripled over the decades, while their shares have held steady, both under 1 per cent. Roughly eight million people said in the 2011 census that they did not belong to any of the six largest religious groups. Nearly all of these people volunteered some other religious affiliation. Only about 30,000 Indians described themselves as atheists. General pattern the same The report says: “The general (fertility) pattern is largely the same as it was in 1992, when Muslims had the highest fertility rate at 4.4, followed by Hindus at 3.3. But the gaps in childbearing between India’s religious groups are generally much smaller than they used to be. For example, while Muslim women were expected to have an average of 1.1 more children than Hindu women in 1992, the gap had shrunk to 0.5 by 2015.” In geographical terms in 2011, the women of the Central Indian states – Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Haryana– along with Assam and the Northeastern states excluding Tripura and Sikkim, have more children than other parts of the country. Women in Bihar have an average of 3.4 children followed by Uttar Pradesh with an average of 2.7 children. These states are followed by Jharkhand with 2.5 children and Rajasthan with 2.4 children. At the other end of the spectrum, Kerala has the lowest number of births with 1.6 children per woman and Tamil Nadu and Goa at 1.7. West Bengal, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have an average of 1.8 children. The high birth rates in Uttar Pradesh mean there has been high population growth both in the Hindu and Muslim communities between 2001 and 2011. In absolute numbers, the number of Hindus grew by 25 million to 159 million during the first decade of the new century. Similarly, the number of Muslims rose by 8 million to 38 million during the same period. In Bihar, Hindus rose by 17 million to 86 million. The report notes: "Both Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have higher than average rates of poverty and, relatedly, exceptionally high fertility rates.” Education a primary factor In India and elsewhere, education is a primary factor in how many children women tend to have. Other prosperity indicators – such as life expectancy and average levels of wealth – also frequently correlate with fertility measures. It's a well-established fact that women who have better access to schooling, jobs and health care tend to have fewer children, the report notes. In West Bengal, too, between 2001-2011, the percentage of Hindus decreased by 2 per cent to 71 per cent and the percentage of Muslims climbed by 2 per cent. In Assam, the Muslim population during this time rose by over 3 per cent. Sikhs form 2 per cent of the population and that has stayed steady since 1951. In actual numbers, they have multiplied from 7 million to 21 million in 2011. Christians have formed 2 per cent to 3 per cent of the population since 1951 and this is unchanged.  Some Christians don’t declare their religion publicly so that they can continue to claim caste-based reservation benefits available to Hindus and others, so the number of Christians may be undercounted, the report says. Parsis are the only group whose numbers have declined from 110,000 in 1951. Currently, they total about half that number. There are thought to be about 4,000-to-5,000 Jews and 4,000-to-5,000 Baha’is each. Migration as a mechanism Migration is one of three main mechanisms, along with fertility and conversion, that cause religious groups to shrink or expand. But since the 1950s, migration has had only a modest impact on India’s religious composition. More than 99 per cent of people who live in India were also born in India. Migrants leaving India outnumber immigrants three-to-one, and religious minorities are more likely than Hindus to leave. Religious switching, or conversion – when an individual leaves one religion for another or stops affiliating with any religion – also appears to have had a relatively small impact on India’s overall composition, with 98 per cent of Indian adults still identifying with the religion in which they were raised. notes. Growing much too fast India’s population is still growing much too fast. The report says: India’s population has more than tripled in the six decades following Partition, from 361 million people in the 1951 census to more than 1.2 billion in 2011.” Even more seriously, the report adds:  “As of 2020, India gains roughly 1 million inhabitants each month, putting it on course to surpass China as the world’s most populous country by 2030, according to the United Nations Population Division.” The Pew Research Center estimates that India is now home to about 1.4 billion people. As of 2020, the report estimates that about 15 per cent of Indians are Muslim compared with 14.2 per cent in the 2011 census, 79 per cent are Hindus versus 79.8 per cent in 2011 and  2 per cent are Christians in line with 2011. Looking at population projections, Muslims will make up 311 million people which would be an increase of 76 per cent by 2050. But Hindus would comprise a massive 1.3 billion people. The number of Christians would increase by 18 per cent to 37 million. In percentage terms, though, Hindus are projected to represent 77 per cent of the population, Muslims 18 per cent and Christians still 2 per cent. Buddhists, Sikhs and Jains all have fertility rates well below the national average and are therefore projected to shrink as a share of the population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
23-09-2021||India||SC lauds Centre's move to provide ex-gratia to kin of Covid victims||The Supreme Court Thursday appreciated the Centre's step to grant ex-gratia assistance to the kin of those who died due to COVID-19 saying it has to take judicial notice of the fact that what India has done, no other country has been able to do. "We are happy that something has been done to wipe the tears of many families,: apex court said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Centre said, "We cannot repair the loss of life but whatever the country could do for the families who have suffered, is being done." A bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna, which took on record two affidavits filed by the Centre, said it will pass orders on October 4 with some directions, authorising the grievance redressal committees at district level to call for hospital records of the deceased, in case of any dispute over the issuance of death certificates. "We are happy that there will be some solace to the persons who have suffered. It will wipe the tears of many families. We must take judicial notice of the fact despite so many problems of population and overpopulation, something has been done. What India has done, no other country has been able to do," the bench said. The top court was hearing a batch of pleas filed by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal and some intervenors who lost their family members to COVID-19. Represented by advocate Sumeer Sodhi, they were seeking ex-gratia assistance to kin of those who lost their lives to the deadly virus. At the outset, the top court raised some concern as to what will happen if hospitals do not mention the cause of death as COVID-19, despite the person losing his life due to post COVID complications. Mehta said the next of kin can approach the district level committee, to be constituted under the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) guidelines, for redressal of grievances over the issuance of death certificate. The bench said, "Sometimes hospitals behave like a monarch and don't give medical records to the family members or hand over the dead bodies to them. We have to take care of those people also." "Such family members of the COVID-19 victims can also approach the committee which can call for the hospital records," Mehta said. The bench said it will pass orders authorising such committees to call for hospital records of patients, if needed. Mehta said the next of the kin of the deceased can show to the committee some evidence like RT-PCR test report to show that the patient was COVID positive before his death in case the hospital does not mention the cause of death. The NDMA has recommended that Rs 50,000 be given to the kin of those who died of COVID-19, the Centre had informed the top court on Wednesday. It had said that ex-gratia assistance will also be given to the kin of those who died of the virus due to involvement in COVID-19 relief operations or activities associated with the preparedness for dealing with the pandemic. The government had said that NDMA has issued the guidelines on September 11 in compliance with the directions of the apex court given on June 30 wherein it had directed the authority to recommend guidelines for ex-gratia assistance. The authority recommends an amount of Rs. 50,000 per deceased person including those involved in relief operations or associated in preparedness activities, subject to cause of death being certified as COVID-19, as per the NDMA guidelines. The assistance will not be limited to families affected by COVID-19 deaths in the first and second wave of pandemic but will continue in future phases of the pandemic as well, the authority had said. The family will get ex-gratia assistance subject to cause of death of their kin being certified as COVID-19 as per the guidelines issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), it had said. The ex-gratia assistance will be provided by states from State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) and all claims will be settled within 30 days of submission of required documents, and disbursed through Aadhaar linked Direct Benefit Transfer procedures, it had added. Detailing the methodology, the guidelines have stated that the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA)/district administration would disburse the ex-gratia assistance to the next of kin of the deceased persons. The concerned families will submit their claims through a form issued by the State Authority along with specified documents including the death certificate that certifies the cause of death to be COVID-19 , it had said. The affidavit had said that the DDMA will ensure that the process of claim, verification, sanction, and the final disbursement of ex-gratia payment will be through a robust yet simple and people friendly procedure. The NDMA guidelines further state that in case of any grievances with regards to certification of the death, a committee at the district level -- consisting of Additional District Collector, Chief Medical Officer of Health, principal of Head of Department of a Medical College (if existing in the district) and a subject expert -- will propose remedial measures, including issuance of amended official documents for COVID-19 death after verifying facts. The apex court had in its June 30 verdict directed the NDMA to recommend within six weeks the guidelines for ex-gratia assistance on account of loss of life to the family members of persons who died due to COVID-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
23-09-2021||India||Three killed, four injured in blast in Bengaluru||An explosion rocked a locality in Bengaluru on Thursday afternoon killing at least three people and leaving four others injured, a police official said. "The blast took place in a transport godown next to a puncture shop. Three people were killed including two in the puncture shop while four were injured," the Bengaluru South Deputy Commissioner of Police Harish Pandey told reporters here. He also said the victims of the blast in Tharagupet locality have been identified. The official also clarified that the explosion took place due to some 'unstable chemical', which was an industrial consignment. "The origin of the blast is being investigated. It was neither a cylinder blast nor cracker blast or a blast caused by a short circuit. There were no pieces of compressors also," Pandey added. Forensic experts will give their opinion on the cause of the blast, he said. He further said there were 60 boxes of the 'unstable explosive' still inside the godown. The source and owner of the consignment is also being investigated. According to eyewitnesses, the blast was so powerful that people up to 2 km away heard the sound while the locals felt that there was an earthquake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
23-09-2021||India||BJP MP slams Harish Rawat for calling Pakistan army chief 'brother'||BJP Rajya Sabha MP Anil Baluni on Thursday slammed former Uttarakhand CM Harish Rawat for calling the Pakistan army chief "brother", drawing a sharp reaction from the Congress leader who said he doesn't need a lecture on nationalism from him. Rawat recently in a tweet justified his party's Punjab unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu's act of hugging Pakistan army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa at the swearing-in of Imran Khan in Islamabad, asking how could one Punjabi "bhra" (brother) hugging another be an act of sedition. "If there was nothing wrong in Narendra Modi going uninvited to Nawaz Sharif's birthday and hugging him, how could Sidhu hugging Bajwa be an act of sedition," he had said. Objecting to it, Baluni said it was "unfortunate and hurting" that Rawat had used the word for someone "whose hands are steeped in the blood of India's brave soldiers". "What sort of politics of appeasement is this," he asked. "It is more shocking as it comes from a man who belongs to Devbhoomi where every family has someone in the armed forces," Baluni said. The BJP MP also lashed out at Rawat for praising Sidhu. "How could he praise Sidhu who has been described by his own senior party colleague and former chief minister Amarinder Singh as a threat to national security," Baluni asked referring to a comment by the ex-Punjab CM, who resigned from the post recently. Rawat, who is also the chief of the Congress campaign committee in poll-bound Uttarakhand, said he does not want a lecture from his BJP friends on nationalism and martyrdom. He said his relatives are in the armed forces from the rank of a jawan to brigadier. Rawat said he was proud of the fact that his son-in-law attained martyrdom fighting terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir. "Baluni does not need reminding me of our great military traditions," he said. Justifying his description of Bajwa as Punjabi "brother", he said that part of India's Punjab which is now in Pakistan is also called Punjab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
23-09-2021||India||Former telecom prodigy, Sumant Kant Kaul launching Bliss GenX, a blessing for Wellness Seekers||The former Managing Director of Hitech Cellular and Paging Services, Sumant Kant Kaul is often credited for revamping the Indian Telecom Sector through his vision and his smart policies. He made sure that technology reaches the poorest of poor and the underprivileged section of the society  in our country and people are able to utilise these tools to connect and communicate with each other. The man, after creating a niche in the domain of the telecom industry is now ready to unleash a new era of modernisation through his four new upcoming stellar projects. The visionary entrepreneur has announced different projects which can give a new lease of life to various crumbling sectors in this post COVID era. Bliss GenX, a platform that aims to give a complete overhaul to the Education, Healthcare, and Wellness industry is the first project which Sumant Kant Kaul has announced. It has been a terrible time since COVID hit the world. The depleting economy, the surge in unemployment have been a major concern for people and the establishment. There has been a major shift in the working of various sectors. Moreover, there is a growing need to bring forth new policies and tech-driven approaches to boost different sectors that have been at the forefront of the havoc unleashed by the pandemic. Catering to this, Sumant Kant Kaul has come up with Bliss GenX in order to revamp the education and wellness sector. People have often heard the phrase 'Health is Wealth' and this proves to be true especially at a time when the world is dealing with a deadly virus. To combat COVID, people need to be aware and educated about wellness, especially mental health. Through Bliss GenX, the platform Sumant aims to impart knowledge on healthcare. This platform tends to launch a global application that will impact the lives of billions directly and indirectly as he feels his projects will create the ripple effect and there would be millions joining his and also bring similar projects like these. Through this new initiative, the virtuoso is emphasising innovative ways of imparting education in wellness. The platform provides an effective, new-age education system where a Bliss GenX member would be guided to master the concept of education in Wellness. The platform will also provide certification after a member has successfully completed his/her masterclass and online assessment. New age requires new tech-driven solutions and through Bliss GenX, Sumant Kant Kaul is ensuring this. The initiative is slated to be launched in 2021. The platform is believed to be the future of education and will focus on skill-based learning. The much-hyped second project that Sumant Kant Kaul has announced is -Fourth Eye Meditation App. It will be a multilingual global mediation app aggregator that tends to connect different communities globally. It will be focusing on providing high-quality wellness and healthcare products along with semi precious an precious gemstones and jewellery. It will be launched in 2021 only but fully operational in 2022.Believing in the magical power of Meditation, Sumant has been excited to announce this venture. The app wants to make people aware of the benefits of meditation not only in India but across the globe and hence the app will be available in various popular languages which include English, Hindi, Chinese, Japanese, Hungarian, Russian, Spanish, French, German. The app will cater meditation solutions to a wide range of issues be it pre and post-pregnancy, stress, insomnia, anger, traumas, abuse, relationship issue and special meditations for students  to resolve their  mental stress due to fear of exams and failure in life . 'Online is the New Offline' and believing in this, the astute entrepreneur has decided to launch his third project,  which is a software development platform named App Dukaan. Loaded with advanced tools like Artificial Intelligence (AI), the platform will be a boon to a wide range of small, medium, and growth-stage enterprises. These firms can boost their online presence with the help of pre-packaged, low-cost applications. App Dukaan will be formally launched by 2022. This venture is announced keeping in mind the growing needs of web development services that are hired by a lot of brands to boost their online presence. App Dukan will be an Artificial Intelligence (AI) driven software development program that will help industries in establishing their online presence through affordable pre-packaged applications. The platform is currently under the developing stage and will be operational fully by 2022. Taking into account the vast potential of e-commerce companies, the 4th project, Dazzle, will be a C2C social e-commerce platform. The project is believed to bring a stride in the online business segment by empowering consumers directly with suppliers /manufacturers customers by enabling them to connect with one another without any intermediaries. Dazzle is expected to be operational by 2022. Dazzle is going to be a social e-commerce platform which is the 4th project that Sumant has announced, will be a platform based on the Customer to Customer (C2C) model. It will provide an all-new innovative way for customers to freely interact with each other without any intermediaries. It aims to abolish traditional markets where consumers were required to interact with businesses in order to purchase a product or service. Dazzle is slated to be released in India, the India, USA, Hungary, and the United Arab Emirates in the year 2022-23. The platform will also be operational in more than 80 countries by the end of 2024. It is out in the open for everyone to see that e-commerce giants are slowly taking up all the business. It won't be wrong to say that they are the future of the business globally. With these stellar projects, one can, without an iota of doubt, say that Sumant Kant Kaul has a vision for the future. He is the man who understands the need for technologies in touching people's lives. Through his strategically designed futuristic projects, he seeks to revamp these crucial sectors that have immense potential in contributing to the country's economy and growth as well as touching the lives of billions of people in this post COVID era.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
23-09-2021||India||Koko Petkov on the Importance of Appreciating the Little Things in Life||The little things in life are often overlooked, especially in the business world. However, these little things are often what aspiring entrepreneurs need to achieve in small steps before accomplishing their bigger goals. As shown by Koko Petkov’s students, appreciating the little things in life is what can help you achieve your career dreams. Koko Petkov is the owner of Koko Trading, a firm that offers trading and stock market education to those looking to build their portfolios. Primarily, Koko works with those looking to be active in the markets and who are interested in day trading and long-term investments. Koko took up this occupation after being burned out from 100-hour weeks. After discovering his love and entrepreneurial mindset, he started trading. Koko Trading was then established, led by requests from aspiring traders who wanted to learn the Koko way. Koko began by offering free trials for aspiring traders. This initiative soon turned into a successful business and Koko became a millionaire at the age of 34. Throughout his educational programs, Koko has witnessed how clients can be excited and most appreciative of the little tips he gives them. Although the programs involve extensive knowledge, the small and personal tips that the educational service provides to the students prove to be those that are most treasured. Koko recognizes that all trading is now done online. Due to the technological advancements and competitive markets, which change on a day-to-day basis, not every trader can be successful. In fact, only around 5% of new traders emerge successful. Such little tips can help the traders go the extra mile and achieve success in their trading careers. Koko Trading operates within a small and niche market, which aligns itself with a certain type of students. Notably, all are willing to learn and take on board the unique and personal tips. Koko Petkov recognizes how important the small offering of a free trial was important to his clients. Furthermore, he acknowledges how important the little things in life are, such as personal tips and one-on-one sessions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
23-09-2021||India||List of Covid deaths to be updated based on Centre's guidelines, says Kerala minister||The list of those who succumbed to COVID-19 was being updated based on the new guidelines of the Centre, Kerala Health Minister Veena George said on Thursday. The minister, speaking to reporters after visiting the new ICUs at the Government Medical College here, also said that even the state's guidelines would be updated as per the Centre's norms and the finalised version would be ready in a few days. She said that the new guidelines would cover various aspects, including considering deaths 30 days after turning negative as a COVID fatality. A comprehensive list will be published in this regard, she added. Besides that the Health Department will also be looking into the number of COVID deaths reported in the state and is taking steps to rectify the same, she said, adding that steps are being taken to resolve the complaints and grievances it has received on this issue. She said the state government was of the view that all those who have suffered loss of loved ones due to the pandemic should get some relief and will do everything possible to ensure the same.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
23-09-2021||India||PM-CARES fund not a government entity but functions with transparency, HC told||The PM CARES Fund is not a Government of India fund and the amount collected by it does not go to the Consolidated Fund of India, the Delhi High Court has been informed. An affidavit filed by an Under Secretary at the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) who is discharging his functions in the PM Cares Trust on honorary basis, has said the trust functions with transparency and its funds are audited by an auditor -- a chartered accountant drawn from the panel prepared by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. The affidavit was filed in response to a petition seeking a direction to declare the PM CARES Fund a 'State' under the Constitution to ensure transparency in its functioning. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Amit Bansal has fixed the matter for further hearing on September 27. "To ensure transparency, the audited report is put on the official website of the trust along with the details of utilisation of funds received by the trust, says the affidavit filed by Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, Under Secretary at the PMO. "I state that when the petitioner is claiming to be a public-spirited person and seeking to pray for various reliefs only for transparency, it does not matter whether PM Cares is a State' within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India," the officer said in the affidavit. "Irrespective of whether the trust is a State or other authority within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution or whether it is a public authority' within the meaning of provisions of the Right to Information Act (RTI), it is not permissible to disclose third party information," he added. It said that all donations received by the trust are received via online payments, cheques or Demand Drafts and the amount received is audited with the audited report and the expenditure of trust fund displayed on the website. "The trust functions on the principles of transparency and public good in larger public interest like any other charitable trust and, therefore, cannot have any objection in uploading all its resolutions on its website to ensure transparency," it said, while reiterating that the trust's fund is not a fund of Government of India and the amount does not go in the Consolidated Fund of India. The officer said he is discharging his functions in the PM Cares Trust on honorary basis which is a charitable trust not created by or under the Constitution or by any law made by the Parliament or by any State legislature. "Despite being an officer of the Central government, I am permitted to discharge my functions in PM Care Trust on an honorary basis," he said. The court was hearing a petition filed by Samyak Gangwal who has said that the PM CARES Fund is a 'State' as it was formed by the Prime Minister on March 27, 2020 to extend assistance to the citizens of India in the wake of the public health emergency -- the ongoing COVID-19 Pandemic. His counsel had told the court that if it is found that the PM CARES Fund is not 'State' under the Constitution, usage of the domain name 'gov', the Prime Minister's photograph, state emblem etc has to be stopped. The petition said that the Trustees of the fund are the Prime Minister, Defence Minister, Home Minister and the Finance Minister and immediately after the formation of the fund, the Centre through its high government functionaries represented that the fund was set up and operated by the Government of India. To ensure transparency and accountability, the plea has sought a direction for periodic auditing of PM CARES website and disclosure of the details of donations received by it. In his alterative prayers, Gangwal has sought to direct the Centre to publicise that the PM CARES Fund is not a fund of the Government of India and to restrain PM CARES from using 'Prime Minister of India' or 'Prime Minister', including its abbreviations its name, on its website, Trust Deed and other official or unofficial communications and advertisements. On March 9, the court had said it was not inclined to issue notice on the plea as the Centre was already represented through counsel who may file their written submissions. The petitioner has also filed another petition to declare PM CARES as a 'public authority' under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, which is being heard together with the first plea. This petition challenges a June 2, 2020 order of the Central Public Information Officer (CPIO), PMO, refusing to provide documents sought by him on the ground that PM Cares Fund is not a public authority under the RTI Act. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who represented PMO, had opposed the petition, stating that it was not maintainable and that he would file a response explaining why it should not be entertained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
23-09-2021||India||Pegasus: SC likely to set up committee to probe snooping row||The Supreme Court on Thursday orally observed that it would be setting up a technical expert committee to inquire into the Pegasus snooping matter, and an order will be passed next week on a batch of pleas seeking an independent probe into the issue. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana said the order, which was to be pronounced earlier, will now be delivered next week. "We will be able to finalise the members of technical expert team by next week and then pronounce our orders, said the bench. The observation assumes significance as the Centre had earlier offered to set up an expert panel on its own to look into the grievances of alleged snooping on phones. The top court on September 13 had reserved its order, saying it only wanted to know whether or not the Centre used the Pegasus spyware through illegal methods to allegedly snoop on citizens. The Centre had stoutly refused to file an affidavit citing national security on pleas seeking an independent probe into the snooping row. The pleas seeking an independent probe are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
23-09-2021||India||Four injured in building wall collapse in Calcutta||Four people were injured as the wall of a building in eastern Kolkata's Kareya area collapsed on Thursday morning, following a loud noise, suspected to be that of a blast, police said. The incident happened around 6.30 am in Ahiripukur 1st Lane, they said. "Locals heard a loud sound from the building and informed the police. On reaching the spot, we found that a wall on the ground floor of the four-storied building collapsed and four inhabitants were injured," a senior police officer said. The injured persons were admitted to a hospital, he said. Forensic experts were examining the spot, he said, adding that an investigation was started.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
23-09-2021||India||Delhi riots: Hearing in Umar Khalid's bail plea adjourned to Oct 9||A Delhi court on Thursday adjourned to October 9 hearing on the bail plea of former JNU student leader Umar Khalid in the 2020 Delhi riots conspiracy case. The hearing was adjourned to next month as Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat is on leave. This was informed to Khalid's counsels by the court staff through video conference. Khalid along with several others has been booked under the anti-terror law in the case. They are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. On September 6, Khalid had withdrawn his bail plea and filed a fresh one after the prosecution's objected to its maintainability. In a hearing on September 3, Khalid, through his lawyer, told the court that the charge sheet in the case has made hyperbolic allegations without any factual basis and reads like a script from a web series and news channels. The Delhi Police had earlier said that the bail plea has no merit and that it will demonstrate the prima facie case against him before the court by referring to the charge sheet filed in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
23-09-2021||India||India logs over 31,000 fresh Covid cases, 282 casualties in a day||India added 31,923 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,35,63,421, while the active cases declined to 3,01,640, the lowest in 187 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,46,050 with 282 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.90 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.77 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. As many as 15,27,443 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 55,83,67,013. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.09 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 24 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.11 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 90 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,28,15,731, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 83.39 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 282 new fatalities include 142 from Kerala and 48 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,46,050 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,664 from Maharashtra, 37,668 from Karnataka, 35,400 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 24,039 from Kerala, 22,888 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,691 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
23-09-2021||India||Taliban's commitment not to allow use of Afghan soil for terrorism should be implemented: Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has told the G20 nations that the Taliban's commitment not to allow the use of Afghanistan's soil for terrorism in any manner should be implemented and the world expects a broad-based, inclusive process that involves representation from all sections of the Afghan society. Jaishankar addressed the G20 Foreign Ministers' Meeting on Afghanistan on Wednesday, held on the sidelines of the high-level 76th session of the UN General Assembly. International community must come together in response to humanitarian needs. Assistance providers must be accorded unimpeded, unrestricted and direct access, Jaishankar said in a series of tweets after the virtual meeting. Taliban's commitment not to allow the use of Afghan soil for terrorism in any manner should be implemented. The world expects a broad-based inclusive process that involves representation from all sections of Afghan society, he said. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan last month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities in the backdrop of withdrawal of the US forces that began on May 1. On August 15, the capital city of Kabul fell to the insurgents. The Taliban claimed victory over opposition forces in the last holdout province of Panjshir on September 6, completing their takeover of Afghanistan three weeks after capturing Kabul. The Taliban has said that Afghan territory will not be used against any country. Jaishankar said the UN Security Council resolution 2593 on Afghanistan reflects global sentiment and should continue to guide our approach. India's engagement will be driven by its historical friendship with the Afghan people. The resolution, adopted under India's Presidency of the 15-nation Council in August, demanded that Afghan territory not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train terrorists, or to plan or to finance terrorist acts, and reiterated the importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan, including those individuals and entities designated pursuant to resolution 1267 (1999), and noted the Taliban's relevant commitments. It had condemned in the strongest terms the deplorable attacks of August 26 near Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul, which were claimed by the Islamic State in Khorasan Province, an entity affiliated with the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (Da'esh), and resulted in deaths and injuries of over 300 civilians and 28 military personnel. The resolution took note of the Taliban's condemnation of this attack. Following the G20 meeting, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken tweeted Had a productive dialogue at #UNGA76 with G20 Foreign Ministers and International Organisation Principals on Afghanistan. The international community is united in its expectations for the Taliban to adhere to their commitments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
23-09-2021||India||Militant killed in encounter with security forces in JK's Shopian||A militant who was involved in a firing incident on Wednesday night has been killed in an encounter with security forces in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Thursday. "Last night, recently active terrorist who was earlier an OGW (overground worker) and also involved in drugs, namely Anayat Ashraf Dar...fired upon a civilian Jeewer Hameed Bhat, who got seriously injured and is still hospitalised," the Kashmir Zone police said on its Twitter handle. The police said Anayat also used to threaten other people in and around his village with his illegally acquired weapons. "After thorough interrogation of several suspects after attack and input from sources, a CASO ( cordon and search operation) was launched at village Keshwa. While laying cordon he fired upon joint search party," the police said. It said all the civilians in the adjoining houses of the target area were evacuated. "He (militant) was offered to surrender for whole night, but he didn't surrender. Later on, during encounter the said newly active terrorist got neutralised. One pistol and ammunition were also recovered from his possession," the police added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
23-09-2021||India||Modi arrives in US to attend Quad leaders' summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived here on Wednesday on an official visit to the US during which he will hold the first face-to-face meeting with President Joe Biden and his deputy Kamala Harris, attend the maiden in-person Quad summit and address the 76th session of the UN General Assembly in New York. Modi, who is visiting the US for the 7th time after assuming office in 2014, said his visit would be an occasion to strengthen the Indo-US Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership and consolidate ties with Japan and Australia. "Landed in Washington DC. Over the next two days, will be meeting @POTUS @JoeBiden and @VP @KamalaHarris, Prime Ministers @ScottMorrisonMP and @sugawitter. Will attend the Quad meeting and would also interact with leading CEOs to highlight economic opportunities in India," Modi tweeted. He was received at the airport by senior officials of the Biden Administration and India's Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu. "Namaste USA! PM @narendramodi was greeted on arrival by Shri Taranjit Singh Sandhu, Ambassador of India to USA and Mr. T. H. Brian McKeon, US Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources," Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted. Despite heavy rains since early in the morning, a significant number of Indian Americans were also there at the Andrews Joint Airforce Base to welcome the Prime Minister. "Exuberant members of the Indian diaspora welcoming PM @narendramodi upon landing in Washington D.C," Bagchi tweeted along with pictures of Modi interacting with Indian-Americans. Prime Minister Modi has a packed agenda over the next three days. President Biden will host Modi at the White House for their first bilateral meeting on September 24. Later on that day, Biden will host the first-ever in-person Quad Leaders' Summit with Modi, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison. Both Biden and Prime Minister Modi have spoken virtually on multiple occasions after the former, a Democrat, became US president in January. The last telephone conversation between them took place on April 26. Vice President Harris will meet Prime Minister Modi on September 23. This will be the first meeting between the two leaders. Harris had earlier spoken with Modi over the phone in June during the COVID-19 crisis. Harris is the first woman, the first Black American, and the first South Asian American to be elected Vice President. "During my visit, I will review the India-US Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with President Biden and exchange views on regional and global issues of mutual interest," Modi said just before leaving for the US. "I am also looking forward to meeting Vice President Kamala Harris to explore opportunities for cooperation between our two nations particularly in the area of science and technology," said Modi, who is visiting the US at the invitation of President Biden. Modi said he will participate in the first in-person Quad Leaders' Summit. The Summit provides an opportunity to take stock of the outcomes of the Quad leaders' Virtual Summit in March this year and identify priorities for future engagements based on our shared vision for the Indo-Pacific region, he said. Prime Minister Modi will also hold bilateral meetings with Prime Minister Morrison and Prime Minister Suga and take stock of the strong bilateral relations. "My visit to the US would be an occasion to strengthen the Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with the USA, consolidate relations with our strategic partners - Japan and Australia - and to take forward our collaboration on important global issues," he said in his departure statement. Modi said that he will conclude his visit with an address at the 76th session UN General Assembly on Saturday, focusing on the pressing global challenges including the COVID-19 pandemic, the need to combat terrorism, climate change and other important issues. At a media briefing in New Delhi, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Tuesday that the developments in Afghanistan will be extensively discussed in the bilateral talks between Modi and Biden and the Indian side will convey that Washington needs to continue to focus on that country. Prime Minister Modi will also hold one-on-one meetings with five top executives from the US. These include Cristiano E Amon from Qualcomm, Shantanu Narayen from Adobe, Mark Widmar from First Solar, Vivek Lall from General Atomics and Stephen A Schwarzman from Blackstone. All of Prime Minister Modi's previous visits had his signature massive meetings with the Indian American community in particular the one at the Madison Square Garden in 2015, and thereafter in the Silicon Valley and the last one was Houston in 2019. However, because of COVID-19 restrictions, no large event for the prime minister is being planned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
23-09-2021||India||Centre offers Rs 50,000 ex gratia to Covid victims' kin||The Centre on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that the family of each Covid dead would be awarded an ex gratia of Rs 50,000 and that the states would pay the money from the state disaster relief funds (SDRFs). The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) had in an order in April 2015 announced that ex gratia for families of those dying of a disaster should be Rs 4 lakh. But in an affidavit on Wednesday, the home ministry said “different norms” needed to be applied to Covid for the following reasons: ⚫ The pandemic was still continuing and the number of deaths rising, with uncertainty about new variants of the virus and likely future waves. This made it impossible to estimate the total financial burden that the ex gratia — which would be given to the families of all future Covid dead too — would eventually run up. So, financial prudence demanded a sum that the authorities could go on providing even if the Covid fatalities continued to rise. ⚫ The states have already incurred huge expenditures from the SDRFs on various aspects of Covid prevention, management and response. ⚫ The possibility of other natural disasters that occur more frequently has not abated. So the SDRFs should maintain sufficient funds to provide timely relief in case of other disasters too. The Supreme Court, dealing with a batch of petitions seeking ex gratia of Rs 4 lakh for each Covid-bereaved family, had on June 30 directed the Centre to provide the relief but allowed it to decide the amount. The government had contended that ex gratia was discretionary and not mandatory, and that no judicial directive could be passed on the matter under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. But the court had rejected the argument. Wednesday’s affidavit made it clear that the ex gratia would be given only if the death has been certified by a qualified medical practitioner as resulting from Covid, and sufficient identity proof provided. In the June 30 order, the apex court had also directed the NDMA to frame guidelines for the payment of Covid ex gratia and simplify the procedure for issuing Covid death certificates to avoid harassment of the claimants. Apart from the ex gratia, the families of the Covid dead have the option of seeking additional remedies such as compensation claims in civil courts against the government or insurance companies. The official Covid death toll in India is about 4.45 lakh although independent sources such as The New York Times have estimated a far higher count. The June 30 directions had come on petitions filed by advocates Reepak Kansal, Gaurav Kumar Bansal and a couple of others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
23-09-2021||India||Govt sets up committee to develop National Curriculum Frameworks||The government has set up an expert committee to develop the National Curriculum Frameworks, the guiding documents for the preparation of school, preschool and teacher-training textbooks. The ministry of education has formed the 12-member National Steering Committee under the chairmanship of former Isro chairman K. Kasturirangan, who had also headed the panel that prepared the draft National Education Policy. The committee will develop four NCFs — one each for school education, early childhood care and education, teacher education and adult education. According to the committee’s terms of reference, it will discuss the various aspects of these four areas, draw inputs from state curriculum frameworks prepared by the SCERTs, and develop the NCFs. The committee may invite subject experts if required. Its tenure will be three years. The other members of the panel are Mahesh Chandra Pant, chancellor of the National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration; Govind Prasad Sharma, chairman of the National Book Trust; Najma Akhtar, vice-chancellor of the Jamia Millia Islamia; T.V. Kattimani, vice-chancellor of the Central Tribal University of Andhra Pradesh; Michel Danino, a Padma Shri recipient for his work on literature and education; Milind Kamble, entrepreneur; Jagbir Singh, chancellor of the Central University of Punjab; Manjul Bhargava, an American mathematician of Indian origin; M.K. Sridhar, a member of the NEP committee ; Dhir Jhingran, founder-director of the Language and Learning Foundation, an NGO working on foundational learning for children; and Shankar Maruwada, co-founder of the EkStep Foundation, an NGO working for child literacy and numeracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
23-09-2021||India||MCC's new rules replaces 'batsman' with 'gender-neutral' term 'batter'||Back in July 2014, when members of M.S. Dhoni’s team were introducing themselves at a garden party hosted by then Indian high commissioner Ranjan Mathai, Virat Kohli announced himself with characteristic chutzpah: “My name is Virat Kohli and I am the batsman of India.” Let’s forget about the “the” for a moment but today to fit in with the new laws of the Marylebone Cricket Club, the guardians of the game, he would be saying: “I am the batter of India.” Batsman? Batter? The MCC has changed its rules so that “batsman” is replaced with the “gender-neutral” term “batter”. The change has been talked about for some time to take account of women cricketers, but now it’s official. No doubt, the MCC will be accused of going “woke” by Right-wing newspapers and commentators, but on Wednesday morning came the formal declaration from Lord’s: “The Laws of Cricket have been amended throughout to include the term ‘batter’ in place of ‘batsman’ and ‘batters’ instead of ‘batsmen’ wherever these terms appear.” The MCC said the change was “effective immediately” and “updates have been made to the Laws of Cricket published at www.lords.org/laws, with the Laws of Cricket App and printed editions to be amended accordingly at their next updates”. “MCC believes that the use of gender-neutral terminology helps reinforce cricket’s status as an inclusive game for all,” the announcement said. “A number of governing bodies and media organisations are already using the term ‘batter’ in their playing conditions and reporting. We expect and encourage others to adopt the updated terminology following today’s announcement of the change to the Laws.” The MCC added: “At the time of the last redraft in 2017 it was agreed, following consultation with the International Cricket Council (ICC) and key figures within women’s cricket, that the terminology would remain as ‘batsman’ and ‘batsmen’ within the Laws of the game. “The changes announced today reflect the wider usage of the terms ‘batter’ and ‘batters’ which has occurred in cricketing circles in the intervening period. The move to ‘batter’ is a natural progression, aligning with the terms of bowlers and fielders that already sit within the Laws.” Some old school buffers will think back to the days when women were not allowed into the Long Room at Lord’s. But the MCC underlined: “Women’s cricket has enjoyed unprecedented growth at all levels around the world in the same period. England’s victory over India in the 2017 World Cup final took place in front of a capacity crowd at Lord’s. “A record international crowd saw Australia defeat India in the T20 World Cup final in Melbourne three years later and earlier this year, Lord’s broke the record for a domestic women’s match as 17,116 watched Oval Invincibles defeat Southern Brave.” Jamie Cox, assistant secretary (cricket and operations) at MCC, said: “MCC believes in cricket being a game for all and this move recognises the changing landscape of the game in modern times.” So now we know. Bradman was the world’s best batter. Some Indians would say he was equalled only by Sachin, the best batter from Bombay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
23-09-2021||India||SC hands off ‘toolkit’ stay||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to interfere with a Chhattisgarh High Court order staying the probe ordered by the state government into the alleged role of former chief minister Raman Singh and BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra in the Congress “toolkit” controversy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
23-09-2021||India||Jammu observes first shutdown since abrogation of Article 370 ||Jammu on Wednesday observed its first shutdown against the government since the abrogation of Article 370 provisions two years ago, accusing it of putting the region “on sale” to outsiders that included a suspicion that Reliance would open 100 retail outlets. The strike was called by the Jammu Chamber of Commerce and Industry, whose office-bearers are close to the BJP and had for long been averse to going against the government. Although Reliance Industries had on Tuesday categorically denied any plan to set up retail outlets in Jammu, it did not assuage the concerns of local traders who fear they would be thrown out of business if the behemoth entered the arena. Many in Jammu had cheered the Narendra Modi government’s move to scrap the erstwhile state’s special status in August 2019. However, Wednesday’s shutdown was a reflection of how people of Jammu were feeling increasingly unnerved over “outsiders” invading their livelihood. Anger has been brewing in Jammu over a slew of measures including a new mining policy where non-locals reportedly got a larger share of the pie. Matters came to a head recently when there were reports that Reliance would make a foray into Jammu. Local traders claimed they had credible information on such a possibility and had also seen advertisement hoardings. Wednesday’s shutdown by the chamber was supported by several political parties and groups. Normal life remained paralysed in Jammu as markets wore a deserted look and vehicles largely stayed off the roads. Traders and political parties staged protests at several places while work in courts was also affected with the J&K High Court Bar Association supporting the shutdown call. Protesting traders carried placards that said “Jammu on Sale”. Chamber president Arun Gupta said 99 per cent of shops stayed closed. “Even those areas that had never shut down before, even during the worst of crises, responded to our call,” Gupta said, wondering why non-locals were choosing Jammu when Prime Minister Modi “wanted more and more people to settle in Kashmir”. “No store (by non-locals) is being opened there (in Kashmir),” he added. Wednesday’s shutdown was also against the government’s decision to discontinue the annual Darbar move, a 150-year-old tradition where main government offices shuttled between Jammu and Srinagar every six months. Tens of thousands of Kashmiris would visit Jammu every winter during the administration shift, and Jammu traders fear the halt would badly affect their business. A Reliance Retail spokesman had on Tuesday evening said the claim that the company would open 100 outlets in Jammu was “completely untrue”. “We have not opened any stores in Jammu. We have a few delivery points in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir and these are set up by our delivery partners to support the small traders,” the spokesperson had said. Jammu Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Gupta, however, said the statement was “misleading” and the “situation on the ground is different”. Traders Federation Warehouse president Deepak Gupta, who led a protest at Nehru Market in Jammu, said 50,000 small shopkeepers would be rendered jobless if Reliance opened retail stores. “We will not tolerate any decision that we feel is against the interests of the Jammu business community,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
23-09-2021||India||SC directs govt to allow women cadets to join NDA from this year||The Supreme Court on Wednesday rejected the Narendra Modi government’s request to allow the entry of women cadets into the National Defence Academy (NDA) only from May next year and directed the Centre to permit them to take the entrance exam scheduled this November. The defence ministry had cited lack of time to develop infrastructure and logistics to accommodate women at the NDA, where only male cadets were allowed, and fix criteria for physical fitness. The ministry pleaded that women be allowed to appear for the next instalment of the entrance exam in May 2022. The court, however, said the armed forces were equipped to deal with emergencies and would have no difficulty in allowing women cadets into the NDA. It refused to vacate its earlier interim order in favour of women taking the November exam. “It is not so complex, what you are saying? The armed forces are the people who deal with everything in emergencies. They are the best response team we can get in the country. So I don’t believe that the armed forces’ response team will not be able to deal with the scenario…. Not many have enrolled for the exams this time,” a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B.R. Gavai told additional solicitor-general Aishwarya Bhati appearing for the Centre. “This (exam) is something which is happening for the first time in the country. Instead of postponing it, try to work something out for them,” the court added. Bhati said the government would be pushed into a “tight situation”. But Justice Kaul, heading the bench, said: “Ms Bhati, the armed forces have been in more difficult and tight situations than this…. We are sure they would be able to deal with this emergency.” “We are not saying problems are not there. But I am sure the armed forces are capable of finding a solution. What we are finding difficult to accept is to postpone everything by a year. Having given some hope to the women to take the examination in November, we don’t want to belie that hope now…,” Justice Kaul said. “…What answer would we have for the students who are on the anvil of taking the exam? Don’t ask us to effectively vacate the order. You go on with the exercise. Let us see the result and see how many women get it,” the bench added. “We will thus not vacate the order passed by us. We will keep the plea pending here so that directions can be sought as situations arise,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
23-09-2021||India||Bihar: Molester granted bail on condition to wash, iron clothes ||A Bihar court has granted bail to a youth accused in a molestation case on the condition that he would wash and iron the clothes of all the women in his village for free for six months to atone for his crime. Additional district judge–I Avinash Kumar of Jhanjharpur court in Madhubani district, located around 180km northeast of state capital Patna, asked accused Lalan Kumar Safi, 20, to obtain a certificate from the mukhiya (headman) of his village panchayat, sarpanch (head judge of panchayat) or any government official that he has completed the free service, and present it to the court. “Bail is being granted to him (Lalan) on the condition that he will collect, wash and press clothes of all women of his village for six months. This will help inculcate respect for women in him,” the judge said in his order on Tuesday. The judge also asserted that the youth would have to visit all households in his village to return the washed and ironed clothes. He was also asked to furnish two bail bonds of Rs 10,000 each. A copy of the order was being sent to the panchayat so that the elected representatives could keep an eye on whether Lalan, a washerman by profession, was abiding by it or not. The youth, a resident of Majhaura village, had assaulted a woman in Laukaha Bazar area on the night of April 17 and tried to molest her. A case (FIR no. 130/2021) was registered at Laukaha police station in connection with the incident on April 18. The police arrested him on the same day and forwarded him to jail. “We had charged Lalan under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 354B (assault or use of criminal force on a woman with an intent to disrobe her). The charge-sheet in the case was submitted in the court in May and the judgment has come now,” Laukaha station house officer Santosh Kumar told The Telegraph. The SHO also said that the police would also keep a watch on the youth to see whether he was following the court’s order. Incidentally, the court’s order came after the advocate of the victim said that she did not wish to pursue the case any further. A reconciliatory petition was also filed to end the prosecution proceedings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
23-09-2021||India||Post-mortem report of Mahant Narendra Giri tilts to suicide||The post-mortem report of Mahant Narendra Giri, who was found hanging at an Allahabad mutt on Monday, has confirmed death due to suffocation and a ligature mark around his neck, sources in the Uttar Pradesh home department said on Wednesday. A source said: “If we look at the post-mortem report together with the police report that says the two doors of Narendra Giri’s room were locked from inside, then the suicide theory is substantiated.” The post-mortem was done on Wednesday by a panel of five doctors. Some family members and disciples of Narendra, the chairman of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad that is an umbrella body of the country’s 15 major akharas or sects of naga sadhus, have alleged that he was blackmailed and murdered. The police have claimed to have found an eight-page suicide note in his room at the Baghambari Mutt. Media reports have said Narendra had mentioned in his suicide note that his estranged disciple Anand Giri had been blackmailing him. Anand is in police custody. After the autopsy, Narendra’s body was taken for a bath to the Ganga in Allahabad in a procession led by deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. He was then laid to rest at the Baghambari Mutt. Hindu seers are buried, not cremated. Ravindra Puri, secretary of the Niranjani Akhara to which the Baghambari Mutt belongs, said: “The suicide note is fake.”  Narendra Giri didn’t know how to write.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
23-09-2021||India||Cong demands probe into heroin haul at Adani-operated port||The Congress on Wednesday demanded investigations by sitting Supreme Court judges into the smuggling of heroin through the Adani-operated Mundra port in Gujarat, and into allegations that e-commerce giant Amazon had paid Rs 8,546 crore in bribes in India as “legal fee”. While officials have said nearly 3,000kg heroin was seized at Mundra port last week, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala cited a newspaper report that said the same company had imported a much larger quantity of heroin — 25,000kg — in June but it had gone undetected. “The Narendra Modi government’s objective is clear: sell off national assets, destroy small and medium businesses, hand over everything to a few companies and push the youth into drugs,” Surjewala said. “These two sensational disclosures have proved that the Modi government has taken a contract to sell India’s future. Their motto is obvious: take money and allow the loot.” Surjewala added: “Now we realise they took Rs 8,546 crore from the e-commerce giant. Who in the government — which official or which politician — took the bribe? Was this bribe meant for changing policies to destroy small businesses and suit e-commerce? Six companies of Amazon paid the money as what they called ‘legal fee’. How are these companies inter-related?” Surjewala asked whether Modi, who is on a US tour, would ask President Joe Biden to initiate a criminal investigation against Amazon and whether the Prime Minister would himself order an inquiry by a sitting Supreme Court judge. Amazon has promised to look into the matter, as lobbying for business is a crime in both the US and India. On Monday, a report by The Morning Context, a research and media company, had stated that Amazon had initiated an investigation against some of its legal representatives for allegedly bribing Indian government officials, PTI reported. PTI said that while initially Amazon had declined to comment on the news agency’s query on the matter, later in the evening, an Amazon spokesperson said a line item from its statutory filings on legal fees had been misrepresented. The line item is “actually termed legal and professional expenses that includes not just the legal costs but also the costs related to other professional services such as outsourcing, tax consultants, customer research, logistic support services, merchant onboarding services, customer service cost, etc”, the spokesperson said. “For instance, for the year ended March 31, 2020, the legal fee was Rs 52 crore, from the total legal and professional expenses of Rs 1,967 crore,” the spokesperson added. Surjewala said the same company whose consignment of 3,000kg heroin was seized last week had imported 25,000kg heroin in the garb of semi-cut talcum powder in June. “The cost of the stuff in the market is Rs 175,000 crore. Where is that stuff? Being sold to India’s youth? The same route was used for that consignment also. Why no investigation against Mundra port owned by Adani?” The Deccan Chronicle newspaper has reported that 25,000kg of heroin was imported in June through a little-known Vijayawada firm but the stuff never came to Andhra Pradesh. “If the Andhra firm has to import something, why will it not use the ports of Visakhapatnam, Thiruvananthapuram or Goa instead of opting for the Mundra port in Gujarat?” Surjewala asked. He said reports suggested that the company was only a conduit and had received a commission of Rs 10 lakh. He said the government must find out who the real operator of the drug cartel was. “Will the Prime Minister answer: were the Narcotics Bureau, CBI, directorate of revenue intelligence, Intelligence Bureau sleeping? Or are they meant only to harass critics of the government?” he said. “Is it not a breach of national security? How is such a huge drug cartel flourishing under the nose of the government?” Surjewala also said that more than 1.14 crore jobs were lost in the last one year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
