24-09-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi to hold meetings with Council of Ministers next week||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting with the Union Council of Ministers on Tuesday at 4 pm at Rashtrapati Bhavan where the last Council of Ministers' meeting was held on September 14, officials said. This will be the fourth such meeting since July when a mega cabinet reshuffle took place. The Prime Minister has named these meetings as "Chintan baithak" (brainstorming session). Officials have indicated that in the coming weeks, three or four more such meetings - that do not have a prior agenda - are likely to be held, where the Union Ministers are encouraged to openly share their ideas and concerns amid an informal set-up. In the last meeting, Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya delivered presentations on improving time management and efficiency. The Prime Minister - while giving the example of former Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar - had stressed on the need of remaining connected to the roots and simplicity. He also stressed on coming up with "out-of-the-box-ideas", officials said. After the last Council of Ministers' meeting, PM Modi had met all the secretaries of the ministries for a follow-up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
24-09-2021||India||China’s provocative behaviour on LAC disrupted normal ties: India ||India on Friday blamed China’s “provocative behaviour” and unilateral makes an attempt to change establishment on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) for disruption of bilateral ties and rejected Beijing’s competition that the Indian aspect was chargeable for the lethal Galwan Valley conflict final year. The remarks by exterior affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi had been a response to the Chinese overseas ministry’s assertion earlier within the day that the Galwan Valley incident was the results of Indian forces illegally trespassing on the LAC to “encroach on Chinese territory”. The brutal conflict in Galwan Valley on June 15 final year, which noticed troops from each side combating one another for a number of hours with rods, golf equipment lined with barbed wire and rocks, resulted within the first fatalities on the LAC in 45 years. The Indian aspect misplaced 20 troopers whereas China has acknowledged 4 deaths. The testy alternate on Friday mirrored the tensions attributable to the dragging army standoff on the LAC that started in May 2020. The two sides withdrew frontline troops from the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February and from Gogra in August. India has insisted bilateral ties will be normalised solely when disengagement and de-escalation is accomplished at different friction factors on the LAC reminiscent of Hot Springs and Depsang. Responding to a query on the reorganisation of the Indian army into theatre instructions and its impression on the Sino-India border on the Chinese overseas ministry’s common information briefing, spokesperson Zhao Lijian stated: “The Galwan Valley incident last year was caused by the Indian side’s illegal trespass of the LAC to encroach on Chinese territory, in violation of previously signed treaties and agreements.” Zhao added, “We hope that the Indian side will strictly abide by relevant treaties and agreements signed by the two countries and take concrete actions to safeguard peace and stability in the China-India border areas.” The collection of treaties and agreements signed by the 2 sides over time on sustaining peace and tranquillity alongside the LAC had “played an important role in upholding stability along the China-India border”, he stated. The exterior affairs ministry spokesperson dismissed Zhao’s remarks that the Galwan Valley incident occurred as a result of India violated all treaties and agreements and encroached on Chinese territory. Bagchi stated: “We reject such statements. Our position with regard to developments last year along the LAC in eastern Ladakh has been clear and consistent. It was the provocative behaviour and unilateral attempts of the Chinese side to alter status quo in contravention of all our bilateral agreements that resulted in serious disturbance of peace and tranquillity.” He added, “This has also impacted the bilateral relations. As emphasized by [external affairs minister S Jaishankar] in his meeting with Chinese [foreign minister Wang Yi] earlier this month, it is our expectation that the Chinese side will work towards early resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols.” Following a gathering between Jaishankar and Wang on the margins of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Summit in Dushanbe on September 17, the Indian aspect had stated each ministers had agreed on additional conferences of army and diplomatic officers to speedily resolve the remaining points associated to the standoff. Several rounds of diplomatic and army talks have failed to finish the tensions, the worst in a long time. India has constantly rejected China’s accusations that Indian troops crossed the LAC in japanese Ladakh, and asserted that New Delhi has all the time taken a accountable method to frame administration and sustaining peace and tranquillity. Meanwhile, Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong stated in a digital deal with to a observe II dialogue occasion on Friday that “peace and tranquillity in the border areas is important, but it is not the whole story of the bilateral relations”. His remarks mirrored the Chinese place that the standoff be delinked from ties in different areas reminiscent of commerce. Addressing the occasion co-hosted by the School of International Studies of Sichuan University (SCU), China Center for South Asian Studies and the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, Sun stated the difficulties witnessed in bilateral ties since 2020 had been “unseen for many years”. The two international locations ought to search a “fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable solution” to the LAC standoff via dialogue, he stated. “We hope that the Indian side will meet us halfway to move the situation towards stability and shift it from urgent dispute settlement to regular management and control, so as to jointly safeguard the peace and tranquillity of the border area,” he added. Sun contended it is crucial for India and China to cooperate to counter turbulence and alter on the worldwide stage, the Covid-19 pandemic, sluggish financial restoration and the sudden adjustments in Afghanistan. “The current status of bilateral relations [is] obviously not in the fundamental interest of either side. Many far-sighted people from both countries have advocated that China and India should improve their relations, and bring…relations back on track,” he stated. In an obvious jibe at groupings such because the Quad and AUKUS, Sun stated some international locations with a Cold War mentality had been in search of “closed and exclusive ‘small cliques’ with the aim of containing a third party, stoking bloc confrontation and geopolitical games”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
24-09-2021||India||Previous govts withdrew cases against terrorists: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday alleged that previous governments in the country "withdrew" cases against terrorists and said they lacked courage to take decisions like the abrogation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. He also said in today’s time, no one can “glorify” terrorists. The Chief Minister made the remarks while addressing a gathering during a programme held to mark death anniversaries of Mahant Digvijaynath and Manant Avaidyanath at the Gorakhnath temple in Gorakhpur. Speaking on the occasion, the chief minister said, “No one can doubt PM Narendra Modi and Gorakshpeeth for re-establishment of national values.” “People have chosen a capable government and the glory of the nation could be seen worldwide unlike previous governments when cases against terrorists were withdrawn,” he said. Everyone knows about the successful leadership of PM Narendra Modi and in his leadership, the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 of the Constitution was abrogated, citizenship was given to Hindus and Sikhs harassed in Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh through a law, he said. “Previous governments didn't have the courage for such decisions,” he added. The chief minister said a “deepotsav” on Diwali in Ayodhaya under the guidance of PM Modi represented feelings of all seers. While appreciating the work done by the Gorakshpeeth, he said it promoted ayurveda in 1960s and during the coronavirus pandemic, the entire world agreed to the strength of ayush and yoga. I met an American and he used to mix Tulsi in a glass of water and when I asked him about it, he said the US understood the strength of Tulsi, the Chief Minister said. “During the pandemic, people in New York used to stand in queues for haldi (turmeric) water,” he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
24-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi slams Modi over eastern Ladakh standoff||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleging that he is "scared" of China. "Mr 56-inch is scared of China," he said on Twitter, putting out a short video clip detailing the events at the border with China. The video, titled 'chronology samajhiye' (understand the chronology), is a compilation of news reports on the Sino-India military standoff that erupted in eastern Ladakh on May 5 last year. The 54-second video also showed the chronology of the events in eastern Ladakh since the standoff broke out. Gandhi and his Congress party have been critical of Prime Minister Modi's policy on China. India on Friday asserted that the "provocative behaviour and unilateral" attempts by the Chinese side to alter the status quo in eastern Ladakh resulted in serious disturbance of peace and tranquillity in the mountainous region. Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi rejected China's fresh comments blaming India for the Galwan valley clashes on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel and at least five Chinese military officers and soldiers were killed. "Our position with regard to developments last year along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh has been clear and consistent.... It was the provocative behaviour and unilateral attempts of the Chinese side to alter status quo in contravention of all our bilateral agreements that resulted in serious disturbance of peace and tranquillity. This has also impacted the bilateral relations," Bagchi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
24-09-2021||India||Delhi lawyers' association demand probe into courtroom shootout incident||Lawyers' bodies in Delhi have demanded a probe into Friday's Rohini courtroom shootout, which killed three people including a gangster, and called for abstaining from work tomorrow to revise security norms inside all the seven district courts premises in the national capital. The 'Coordination Committee of all District Courts Bar Associations in Delhi' called for suspension of work on Saturday and said it will decide the further course of action in a meeting that has been called for Monday. In a meeting held virtually after the incident on Friday afternoon, the committee also proposed that a common policy related to the security was needed in all the district courts. Jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi was shot dead inside a packed Rohini courtroom here by two assailants dressed as lawyers who were also killed in a police counter-fire, officials said. Delhi Bar Association President Sanjeev Nasiar termed the incident as unfortunate and said the police was negligent in its duty. A senior level investigation is required to look into the incident. This raises a question mark on the security. How could someone, lawyer or litigant, take a gun not just inside the premises but inside a courtroom, he questioned. He said in view of the call given by co-ordination committee, the working in all the district courts will be suspended due to revision of security norms on account of the today's incident in Rohini Court, Delhi. Chairman of Bar Council of Delhi, Rakesh Sehrawat sought action against those responsible for security at the Rohini district courts premises and said nothing can be more shameful than what happened today. The bar body has urged the police to take action against those responsible for the security in the court premises there. We are meeting the commissioner or police tomorrow and will raise our concerns. Nobody, including the judges and the lawyers, is safe, he said. If the steps are not taken to safeguard those inside the court premises, the committee will extend the strike further, he said. He said such incidents have been repeatedly happening not just in the Rohini but also in Karkardooma courts premises and that the court security was at stake. Despite raising this issue to Delhi Police Commissioner in multiple occasions in the recent past, no concrete step has been taken. It is due to the security personnel's carelessness that such incidents have been recurring, he said. He also urged the lawyers to cooperate with the security checking. He also said there was requirement of a separate gate for entry and exits for the lawyers. Rohini District Courts Bar Association Secretary Manjit Mathur said that in a meeting held with the judges and the representatives of Delhi Police in Rohini courts after the incident, the body raised the demand of devising a 'common police' related to the security. There should be a common police. Only improving the security after such an incident takes place will not do any good. We have assured to assist the police and want them to do their part, he said. He added that the bar body has demanded a 'high level enquiry' in the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
24-09-2021||India||Odisha set to face heavy rainfall as depression forms over Bay of Bengal||Odisha, which was reeling under rain fury last week, is expected to receive more showers owing to the formation of a low-pressure area over Bay of Bengal that may further intensify into depression. The Met office has warned of heavy to very heavy rain in the coastal state over the next four days. "Under the influence of the cyclonic circulation, a low-pressure area has formed over Bay of Bengal and (its) neighbourhood," the Bhubaneswar Meteorological Centre said in a bulletin. The system is now a well-marked low pressure area over east-central and adjoining northeast Bay of Bengal, the centre said. "It is likely to concentrate into depression during (the) next 12 hrs & move west-northwestwards towards Odisha coast during (the) next 48 hrs," the Met Centre tweeted. The Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) issued an advisory asking all collectors to closely monitor the districts where a yellow-weather warning of heavy to very heavy rain has been issued. Officials have been asked to remain prepared to tackle any localised flood-like situation or possibility of landslides in hilly areas, while also ensuring that the control room stays operational round the clock. The weatherman has forecast heavy rainfall at one or two places in Bhadrak, Kendrapara, Cuttack, Khordha, Puri and Jagatsinghpur districts on Saturday. On Sunday, heavy to very heavy rain is likely to occur in Puri, Khordha, Ganjam, Gajapati, Kandhamal. There is a likelihood of heavy to very heavy showers in Nabarangpur, Nuapada, Bolangir, Kalahandi, Koraput and Malkangiri districts on Monday and Tuesday. Fisherfolk have been advised not to venture into the deep sea and return to the coast by Saturday. Squally weather with wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph and gusting up to 60 kmph are expected along and off the Odisha coast during the period. Parts of Odisha had experienced flood after a deep depression-induced rainfall lashed the state earlier this month, leaving at least nine people dead and causing widespread destruction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
24-09-2021||India||Rajnath lauds Adityanath, says mere mention of his name scares criminals||Lavishing praises on Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said no one can cast doubts on his honesty and that mere mention of his name gives criminals the shivers. Singh, a senior BJP leader, unveiled a statue of Adityanath's religious guru Avaidyanath in Maharajganj in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. He said Adityanath is walking on the path shown to him by his religious guru. Describing Adityanath as a personality who can play multiple roles, Singh said he is working for strengthening both 'sanatan dharma' and the state. Underlining that there should be proper law and order to ensure development, Singh said, "Criminals start shivering on hearing Yogi's name and their hearts start beating fast." "No one can doubt Adityanath's honesty, even if they are sleeping," he said. Uttar Pradesh goes to assembly polls early next year. Singh also hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his strong leadership and said after consulting him, he has given instructions to armed forces personnel not to initiate any attack but to give befitting reply to any instigation from other countries. Singh also recalled his student days at Gorakhpur University and said he had long association with Gorakhnath peeth head Avaidyanath. Speaking at the event, CM Adityanath hailed Singh and said that working along with Prime Minister Modi, he has strengthened the security of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
24-09-2021||India||Doctors scale hostile Himalayan terrain in mission to vaccinate all||To visit the Indian village of Malana deep in the Himalayas, a COVID-19 vaccination team scrambled over a landslide that blocked the road the day before, scaled a retaining wall and then began a three-hour trek down and up a river valley. Despite the hostile terrain, the northern state of Himachal Pradesh, where Malana is located, earlier this month became the first in India to administer at least one COVID-19 vaccine dose in all its adults. The steep topography was one challenge overcome by health workers walking for hours or days to reach remote villages and another was religious beliefs, as the tourism-dependent state immunised its roughly 5 million adults. On Sept. 14, a team of five led by district health officer Dr Atul Gupta set out to Malana to administer second vaccine doses. Blocked by the landslide, they left their vehicle with two blue vaccine boxes slung over their shoulders to manoeuvre over the rubble, climb the wall and then walk to the trailhead leading to the village, accompanied by a Reuters photographer. Before beginning the trek to the village, Gupta and his team placed the boxes onto a gondola connected to pulleys to carry the medicine across the river gorge that separates Malana from the road. That lightened their walk considerably as they set off to cross the gorge which drops down about 100 metres (330 feet). During a rest break on the trek, Gupta said that to convince Malana's 1,100 adults to take their first shots in August, its district chief had priests invoke a local Hindu deity. This helped health workers cover up to 700 people in three days, he said. When Gupta's team reached the village on Sept. 14, nearly three dozen people, who took their first shots before the invocation, lined up to get their second shots just opposite an ancient temple to the deity. "People were initially scared to take the vaccine, worried they would fall sick or die," said village head Rajuram, who gave just one name, sitting by the carved wood and concrete walls of the temple. "Then I took it and others also mustered the courage." Himachal Pradesh's Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur pins the state's vaccination success to its village-to-village drive, its decision to involve local-level politicians, and the federal government's push to prioritise immunisations in tourist hotspots. India wants to vaccinate nearly all of its adults by December, having administered at least one dose to two-thirds of people and two doses in less than a quarter. Thakur wants Himachal Pradesh to be the fastest state to reach the two-dose milestone, hopefully by November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
24-09-2021||India||Elgar Parishad case: Varavara Rao's bail plea hearing adjourned||The Bombay High Court on Friday adjourned till October 13 the hearing on a bail extension plea filed by poet-activist Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad case, and said he need not surrender before Taloja jail authorities till October 14. Rao (82) was granted interim bail for six months on medical grounds by the HC on February 22 this year, and was scheduled to surrender and return to judicial custody on September 5. However, Rao filed an application, through his lawyers R Sathyanarayanan and senior counsel Anand Grover, seeking extension of such bail, as well as permission to stay in his hometown, Hyderabad. while out on bail. On Friday. a bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar adjourned the hearing on his plea due to paucity of time, and said Rao needn't surrender until October 14 after the NIA said it was willing to extend till that date its interim statement that no coercive action will be taken against Rao. The NIA, in an affidavit filed earlier this month, opposed Rao's plea saying the 82-year-old's medical reports do not indicate that he suffers from any serious medical ailment, which made it necessary for him to take treatment at Hyderabad, neither did it form a ground for further extension of bail. The NIA affidavit said Taloja prison had adequate health care facilities, and Rao can be provided with the"best medical facilities" there. At the time of being granted bail, Rao was undergoing treatment at Nanavati Hospital here for multiple ailments. As part of the stringent conditions imposed while being given interim bail by HC, Rao has been staying with his wife in a rented accommodation in the city. In his plea seeking extension of medical bail and modification of bail conditions, Rao has said that, as per the doctors at Nanavati hospital, he is suspected to have a neurological issue known as cluster headache that needs further examination. Rao has further said in the plea that he continues to suffer from multiple ailments, including urinary tract infection with recurrent hyponatremia, suspicion of Parkinsons' disease, lacunar infarcts in six major lobes of the brain, and some eye problems. He said in his plea that if he returned to custody in the Taloja prison, which was not equipped to cater to his medical problems, his health would certainly deteriorate and he might die. Rao, who sought that his medical bail be extended for another six months, in his plea said he found living in Mumbai and accessing health facilities in the city unaffordable and had urged HC to let him stay in Hyderabad while out in bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
24-09-2021||India||BJP slams Opposition over caste census, says it believes in 'sabka saath'||A day after the Modi government in an affidavit in the Supreme Court virtually ruled out caste census, the BJP on Friday took a swipe at parties advocating it and asked how much representation have they given to different social groups in their organisations and among elected representatives. The ruling party made it clear that its stand on the politically fraught issue can be different from those, including some of its allies, supporting the step. Several parties, mostly regional ones which draw their core support from some of the Other Backward Classes, are pitching for a caste census. At a press conference, BJP spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi criticised parties such as the Samajwadi Party, Rashtriya Janata Dal and Bahujan Samaj Party, all of whom have called for caste census, alleging their leaders were projected as leaders of the poor and deprived communities but they ended up promoting their own families. Asked about the government's stand on the issue, he said it has taken a position on "technical grounds". Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav used to be called "dharti putra" (son of the soil) but he ended up promoting his son. Mayawati, addressed as "behan" (sister) by her admirers, spoke of the deprived communities but groomed her brother," Trivedi. He also slammed the RJD for its alleged family rule and corruption. "As far as the BJP is concerned, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's policy is clear. It is "sab ka saath, sabka vikas" (with everyone, development of all)," Trivedi said and cited the government's welfare measures like direct benefit transfer and supply of free grains and cooking gas cylinder to the poor irrespective of the beneficiaries' caste and community. "We stand for respecting all, giving space to everyone and progress of all. It is visible in the expansion of the (Union) council of ministers and also in our party's functioning," he said. Asked about some of BJP's allies, including Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's JD(U) and Union minister Anupriya Patel's Apna Dal, also demanding a caste count of the population, he said different parties are free to take an independent stand. He noted that many BJP allies had a different stand on the issue of Ram temple while his party strongly worked for it. "On that issue (Ram temple) we and our allies had a different stand. They can have a different stand on this issue (caste census)," the BJP spokesperson said. The Centre had told the Supreme Court on Thursday that caste census of backward classes is "administratively difficult and cumbersome" and excluding such information from the purview of Census is a "conscious policy decision." The Centre's stand assumes significance as recently, an all-party delegation from Bihar, which was led by Nitish Kumar, had met the prime minister demanding caste census. In an affidavit filed in the apex court, the government has said that caste enumeration in Socio-Economic and Caste Census 2011 was fraught with mistakes and inaccuracies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
24-09-2021||India||ZyCoV-D to be produced by Shilpa Medicare in India, says Cadilla||Drug firm Cadila Healthcare on Friday said it has entered into an agreement with Shilpa Medicare for the production of its COVID-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D. The company has, "entered into a definitive agreement with Shilpa Medicare, via its wholly owned subsidiary, Shilpa Biologicals for production-supply of the ZyCoV-D vaccine drug substance from its integrated biologics R&D cum manufacturing center at Dharwad, Karnataka," Cadila Healthcare said in a regulatory filing. The targeted production of the ZyCoV-D vaccine from this facility will be mutually agreed upon by both parties, it added. "The company will transfer the ZyCoV-D technology to Shilpa Biologicals Pvt Ltd (SBPL). Under the agreement, SBPL will be responsible for manufacture of the drug substance of the vaccine, while the company is responsible for filling / packaging / distribution / marketing of the vaccine in its marketing territories," Cadila Healthcare said. ZyCoV-D is the first DNA plasmid vaccine in the world for human use, developed indigenously by the company against the COVID-19 virus, it added. The vaccine was granted the Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) by the Indian drug regulator on August 20. Shares of Cadila Healthcare were trading at Rs 564.30 per scrip on BSE, down 0.46 per cent from its previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
24-09-2021||India||Which god will accept prayers of a priest who rapes a child, asks Kerala HC||We wonder which God would accept the obeisance and offerings of a priest who repeatedly molested a minor child in front of her siblings, the Kerala High Court has asked while sentencing an oracle to life imprisonment for raping a girl. A bench comprising Justices K Vinod Chandran and Ziyad Rahman A A, while imposing the maximum sentence on the accused Madhu, a Manjeri resident, said when a man abandons his wife and children, roving vultures wait to prey on not only the abandoned woman, but also the helpless children. The court's observation came on an appeal filed by the accused who was convicted for raping a minor girl. "When a man abandons his wife and children, roving vultures wait to prey on not only the abandoned woman, but also the helpless children. In this case we have a 'poojari'/ 'komaram' (priest/ oracle in a temple) taking the abandoned woman and the three children under his wing, only to repeatedly molest the elder girl child, that too in the presence of her siblings. We wonder which God would accept the obeisance and offerings of such a priest or make him a medium?" the court noted in its judgement. The high court was hearing the appeal against the POCSO court order. "However, the offence of rape having been proved, the accused is liable to be convicted under Section 376(1). Considering the special relationship the accused had with the victim and the status of a guardian, we are of the opinion that the maximum sentence of life imprisonment would have to be imposed on the appellant," the court said. According to the prosecution, a mother with signs of acute mental illness and her three children were found wandering and were rescued by the police on March 1, 2013. Upon interrogation, the elder child revealed that the person with whom her mother was staying with had been sexually molesting her for over a year. The court noted that the accused, a priest in a temple, usually came home drunk and used to assault the mother and the children and sexually molest the elder child in front of her siblings. "The mental state of the mother, a shame on society, is quite understandable from the stress of having been abandoned, with three children and no means of food or shelter; for which alone the children were subjected to physical, mental and sexual torture. No mother can remain sane in the said circumstances," the court said. The court held that medical evidence proved that the child was subjected to sexual assault. The high court also noted that the brother of the victim, who was the witness in the case corroborated the statements of the child.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
24-09-2021||India||Gangster, two others killed in shootout in Delhi courtroom||Jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi was shot dead Friday inside a packed Rohini courtroom here by two assailants dressed as lawyers who were also killed in a police counter-fire, officials said. In video footage of the shootout involving the two attackers, who were from the rival gang, gunshots could be heard and policemen and lawyers seen in a scramble. Witnesses said a woman lawyer has also received a bullet injury in her leg. Police said the incident happened around 1.15 pm when Gogi was brought to the courtroom number 207 for a hearing, and the two gangsters posing as lawyers opened fire at him. Advocate Sunil Tomar, who was present in the courtroom for his client's bail matters, said there were 15-17 people in the court of judge Gagandeep Singh when the incident happened. "As Gogi entered the courtroom, two persons, who were dressed as lawyers, whipped out their pistols and suddenly opened fire upon him. After hearing gunshots, people started running to save their lives inside the courtroom and the judge also went back to his office just behind the courtroom," Tomar told PTI. He claimed the assailants pumped around 10 bullets into Gogi. "For the first 15 minutes, I could not figure out what was happening there." Advocate Manoj Kumar Nigam, who was also there, said a woman lawyer also received a bullet injury on her leg. A senior police officer said that Gogi was also accompanied by members of the counterintelligence unit of the Delhi Police's Special Cell. "When Gogi entered the courtroom, the two assailants in lawyers' uniform took out their pistols and opened fire on Gogi. Immediately, the personnel from the counterintelligence team which was accompanying Gogi retaliated and the two assailants died on the spot," he said. Joint commissioner of police (northern range) has been asked to enquire into the incident and submit a report. Some lawyers claimed this is not the first such shootout incident at the Rohini court. "I was stepping out of the court when the incident happened. I heard firing and later more rounds were fired...this (incident of firing) has happened for the fourth or fifth time at Rohini. So, the situation has not improved so far," said advocate Rajiv Agnihotri. Jitender Maan alias Gogi, who carried a reward of Rs 6.5 lakh on his head, was arrested along with his three accomplices from Gurgaon by a team of Special Cell in March last year, according to police. He was arrested along with Kuldeep Naan alias Fajja, Kapil alias Gaurav and Rohit alias Koi. The Special Cell was on the lookout for Gogi, Fajja and Gaurav for a long time before tracing them to their hideout in Gurgaon. A few months ago, Fajja had managed to escape from the police custody when he was being produced in the Karkardooma court, another senior police official said. Since that incident, the counterintelligence team of the Special Cell used to accompany Gogi and his associates to court for hearings, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
24-09-2021||India||After SC verdict, UPSC allows unmarried women to apply for defence, naval academy exam||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) has allowed unmarried women to apply for the national defence academy (NDA) and naval academy exam, an official statement said Friday. The move follows a Supreme Court directive on the issue last month. In compliance with the apex court's interim direction, the UPSC has decided to open the application on upsconline.nic.in for this exam to enable "unmarried women candidates only" who are otherwise eligible in terms of nationality, age, educational qualification etc., the statement said. Physical standards and the number of vacancies for women candidates would be notified after it is received from the Ministry of Defence, it said. The application window will remain open for women candidates from September 24 to October 8 (till 6 PM), said the statement issued by the UPSC. No application will be accepted beyond the prescribed last date/time, i.e., 08.10.2021(till 6 PM) or through any mode other than the aforesaid online mode, it said. "Women candidates are not required to pay a fee for their application for this examination," the statement said. The examination is scheduled to be held on November 14, an official said. The admission of the women candidates in the national defence academy and naval academy examination (II), 2021, will remain provisional and subject to the final outcome of a writ petition pending in the court or such other order(s) as may be passed by the Supreme Court and action by the government of India in the matter, the statement said. In a major step towards gender equality, the apex court had on August 18 allowed eligible women to take the examination for admission to national defence academy. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy passed the interim order on a plea filed by a person named Kush Kalra who sought a direction to the authorities concerned to allow eligible female candidates to appear in the national defence academy and naval academy examination' and train at the NDA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
24-09-2021||India||Govt seals deal with Airbus for purchase of 56 C-295 military transport aircraft||India on Friday inked a nearly Rs 20,000 crore contract with Airbus Defence and Space to procure 56 C-295 transport aircraft to replace the Avro-748 planes of the IAF under a project that entails manufacturing of military aircraft in the country for the first time by a private company. Under the agreement, Airbus will deliver the first 16 aircraft in 'fly-away' condition from its final assembly line in Seville, Spain. The subsequent 40 aircraft will be manufactured and assembled by Tata Advanced Systems (TASL) in India as part of an industrial partnership between the two companies. The chairman of Tata Trusts, Ratan Tata, congratulated Airbus Defence, Tata Advanced Systems Limited and the Defence Ministry on the inking of the contract, saying it is a "great step" forward in the opening up of the aviation and avionics projects in India. In a signed statement posted on Twitter, he said the project will create a domestic supply chain capability to international standards, which has never been undertaken before. "The C-295 is a multi-role aircraft with several configurations to meet mission requirements. It envisages total manufacturing of the aircraft in India," he said. "The Tata Group congratulates Airbus and the Indian Defence Ministry for this bold step in fully building this state-of-the-art multi-role aircraft in India in support of the Make-in-India thrust to bolster the country's equity framework," Tata said. The contract was signed two weeks after it was cleared by the prime minister-led Cabinet Committee on Security. Airbus said the first 16 aircraft will be delivered over four years after the contract implementation and that all the planes will be equipped with an indigenous Electronic Warfare Suite (EWS). "This contract will support the further development of India's aerospace ecosystem, bringing investment and 15,000 skilled direct jobs and 10,000 indirect positions over the coming 10 years," said Michael Schoellhorn, CEO of Airbus Defence and Space. "The C295 has proven again as the segment leader, and with the addition of India as a new operator, the type will enlarge its footprint even more, not only on the operational aspects but on its own industrial and technological development," he said. Sukaran Singh, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Tata Advanced Systems Limited, described the sealing of the deal as a moment of pride for Tatas and a "milestone" for the Indian military manufacturing ecosystem. "For the first time, an Indian private company will be wholly manufacturing an aircraft in India. This endeavour demonstrates Tata Advanced Systems' capabilities as a defence manufacturer to build globally competitive complex platforms in India," he said. In a statement, Airbus said 'Make in India' is at the heart of its strategy in India, with the company constantly increasing the country's contribution to its global product portfolio. It said the C295 programme will see Airbus bring its complete bouquet of world-class aircraft manufacturing and servicing to India in collaboration with its industrial partners, including the Tatas and leading defence public sector units such as Bharat Electronics Ltd and Bharat Dynamics Ltd. With a proven capability of operating from short or unprepared airstrips, the C295 is used for tactical transport of up to 71 troops or 50 paratroopers, and for logistic operations to locations that are not accessible to current heavier aircraft, it said. The aircraft can airdrop paratroops and loads, and also be used for casualty or medical evacuation. The aircraft is capable of performing special missions as well as disaster response and maritime patrol duties. "The IAF becomes the 35th C295 operator worldwide, with the programme reaching 278 aircraft, 200 of which are already in operation and have booked more than half a million flight-hours," Airbus said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
24-09-2021||India||TMC leaders' visit to Goa triggers buzz ||A few senior leaders of the Trinamool Congress (TMC), including MP Derek O'Brien, have arrived in Goa, which has sparked speculation that the Mamata Banerjee-led party plans to make a foray into the BJP-ruled state's electoral politics by contesting next year's Assembly polls. O'Brien, accompanied by his party colleague Prasun Banerjee, landed at the Dabolim airport on Thursday afternoon, from where they travelled to Panaji. When reporters asked O'Brien about the purpose of their visit to the coastal state, he declined to comment. Sources in Goa's political circles claimed that the TMC was in touch with a few Congress leaders and an Indpendent MLA in Goa, and eyeing to join hands with them for the Assembly polls due in February next year. The name of Congress MLA and former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro is being discussed as one of the probables who might join the TMC. However, he has dismissed such reports. "No one has contacted me. If I take any step, I would do it only after consulting my workers," he told PTI. Talking to reporters on Thursday, former Congress MLA Agnelo Fernandes claimed that there has been a lot of resentment within the Congress, which might have triggered rumours about the party leaders switching sides to the TMC. Fernandes said that the Congress, despite emerging as the single largest party after winning 17 seats in the last state elections, was not allowed to form the government by the party's senior leaders. "Some leaders have been facing insult and humiliation in the party," he alleged. However, he refused to confirm whether there was a possibility of any Congress leader joining the TMC. In the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, the Congress had won the highest 17 seats in the 40-member House, restricting the BJP to 13. But surprising the Congress, the saffron party allied with regional parties and came to power under the leadership of senior leader Manohar Parrikar, now deceased. In the West Bengal Assembly polls held earlier this year, the Trinamool Congress bagged 213 of the 292 seats and secured a third straight term in office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
24-09-2021||India||Centre's refusal for caste Census of backward classes exposes BJP, says Mayawati||BSP president Mayawati on Friday expressed grave concern over the Central government's refusal for caste Census of backward classes and said it exposed the BJP of using the community only for its electoral interests. Mayawati's reaction comes after the Centre told the Supreme Court that caste Census of backward classes is administratively difficult and cumbersome" and excluding such information from the purview of Census is a "conscious policy decision. In a tweet in Hindi, the BSP supremo said, The categorical refusal of the Central government to conduct the caste census of the backward classes by filing an affidavit in the Hon'ble Supreme Court is a matter of grave concern which exposed the OBC politics of BJP's electoral interests and also the difference in their words and deeds. She said Like the SC/STs, the demand for conducting caste census of OBCs has gained momentum in the country. But the refusal of the Centre is going to hurt the community, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
24-09-2021||India||CBI to probe death of Mahant Narendra Giri||The Centre has given its approval for a CBI probe into the death of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri in Allahabad, officials said on Friday. The seer, who was the president of the largest organisation of sadhus in India, was found hanging by his disciples at the Baghambari Mutt in Allahabad on Monday. The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) has issued a notification for the CBI probe into the death of the Mahant. The move came following a request by the state government. "On the instructions of UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, a probe by the CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) has been recommended in the incident pertaining to the sad death of the chairman of Akhara Parishad Mahant Narendra Giri," the Uttar Pradesh's home department had said on Wednesday. The Uttar Pradesh Police had on Tuesday constituted an 18-member SIT to probe the death of the seer and detained a disciple of his in Haridwar. A purported suicide note was also found, in which the seer had written that he was mentally disturbed and upset with one of his disciples, the police had said. Former Union minister Swami Chinmayanand had on Tuesday demanded a CBI inquiry into the death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
24-09-2021||India||Hate speech: Delhi HC grants bail to organiser of Jantar Mantar event||The Delhi High Court on Friday granted bail to Preet Singh, one of organisers of an event at Jantar Mantar where communal slogans were allegedly raised last month. The petition is allowed. The petitioner has been granted bail, said Justice Mukta Gupta. Singh, who was remanded to judicial custody on August 10 after his arrest, is accused of creating enmity between different groups and inciting the youth to propagate against a particular religion at a rally at Jantar Mantar here on August 8. In his plea filed through advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain, Singh claimed that he was not involved in giving any inflammatory speech or raising any slogan against any person or community. He asserted that the demand of establishing a Hindu nation did not attract Section 153A (hate speech) of the IPC and that he was not even present at the site at the time of sloganeering. The Delhi Police had opposed Singh's plea for his release on bail. On August 27, Additional Sessions Judge Anil Antil had refused bail to Singh, arrested by the Delhi Police in the case, saying right to assemble and freedom to air one's thoughts are cherished under the Constitution. However, these are not absolute and have to be exercised with inherent reasonable restrictions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
24-09-2021||India||Modi holds meet with top American CEOs||Top American CEOs and business leaders during their meetings with Prime Minister Narendra Modi here were appreciative of the recent reform measures in India and felt that there were significant investment opportunities in the country, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla has said. Modi, who arrived here on Wednesday on an official visit to the US during which he will hold the first face-to-face meeting with President Joe Biden on Friday, held separate meetings with top American CEOs and business leaders on investment in India on Thursday. Modi met Vice President Kamala Harris on Thursday. Through the morning, had extensive discussions with top CEOs and business leaders on investment in India. They were appreciative of India's reform trajectory. Closer economic linkages between India and the USA benefit the people of our nations, Modi said in a tweet. These CEO's included Shantanu Narayen from Adobe and Vivek Lall from General Atomics, Cristiano E Amon from Qualcomm, Mark Widmar from First Solar and Stephen A Schwarzman from Blackstone. There is a clear message from the business leaders of their appreciation of the recent reform measures in India that has made India a more business-friendly environment, liberal investment rules across different sectors and they felt that there were significant investment opportunities in India, Shringla told reporters after the meetings. The prime minister discussed 5G connectivity and the Digital India flagship programme with Amon, the CEO of Qualcomm. The CEO was very very optimistic about India. He called it the number one growth destination for companies in the world, Shringla said. In his meeting with Narayen, the Adobe CEO, the Prime Minister discussed education technology, startups, innovation, animation for the youth. There was a lot of discussion on how technology can benefit younger people, particularly students, school going students, he said. Modi in a tweet said that Narayen is a great friend of India. "I sat down with him to discuss interesting ideas relating to ed-tech, supporting Indian start-ups and boosting innovation. Shantanu expressed keenness to take the joys of video and animation to every child in India," Modi said. The CEO of First Solar, Mark Widmar, discussed the green hydrogen mission that the Prime Minister announced. There was a sense of interest in the Prime Minister's vision of 'One world, One sun and One grid''. In his meeting with Lall, Chief Executive of General Atomics, the discussions centred around India's recent drone policy, including the Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme. Drone is an upcoming sector in India and it is of particular interest to the youth. Interacted with Mr Vivek Lall of General Atomics Global Corporation and spoke about how India is ushering a paradigm shift in drones policy, seen in our PLI scheme and reform measures, Modi tweeted after the meeting. During his meeting with Stephen Schwarzman, the CEO of Blackstone Group, investment opportunities in India, including those arising due to the National Infrastructure Pipeline and National Monetisation Pipeline were discussed. The Blackstone Group has a very large presence in India and is a very significant investor in India. He (Schwarzman) referred to India as the number one performing country in the world, said the foreign secretary. His commercial success and intellectual prowess are admirable. We talked about India's investment potential and why our country is one of the world's most attractive destinations for investment, Modi said in a tweet after the meeting with the Blackstone CEO. In a statement, Qualcomm CEO Cristiano Amon said he appreciates Modi's commitment to growing India's technology sector and creating a business-friendly environment. "We discussed the importance of semiconductors and the need for a reliable and geographically diverse supply chain," he said. I also expressed Qualcomm's continued support for India's transition to 5G and a digitally empowered society, as well as its semiconductor supply chain initiatives. 5G represents a substantial opportunity for India and we look forward to working with the government, India's technology-forward startup community and local industry to make it a reality, Amon said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
24-09-2021||India||India logs over 31,000 fresh Covid cases, 318 casualties in a day||India logged 31,382 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,35,94,803, while the active cases declined to 3,00,162, the lowest in 188 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,46,368 with 318 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.89 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.78 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A reduction of 1,478 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 15,65,696 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 55,99,32,709. The daily positivity rate was recorded at two per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 25 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.07 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 91 days, it said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,28,48,273 and the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 84.15 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 318 new fatalities include 152 from Kerala and 61 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,46,368 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,725 from Maharashtra, 37,683 From Karnataka, 35,427 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 24,191 from Kerala, 22,889 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,703 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
24-09-2021||India||We are natural allies, says Modi at meeting with Kamala Harris ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has described India and America as "natural partners" as he held the first in-person meeting with Vice President Kamala Harris at the White House during which they decided to further cement the Indo-US strategic partnership and discussed global issues of common interest, including threats to democracy, Afghanistan and the Indo-Pacific. "India and America are natural partners. We have similar values, similar geopolitical interests," Modi said in a joint media appearance with Harris on Thursday, the first-ever person of Indian origin to be elected as the vice-president of the United States. Noting that India and the US are the largest and oldest democracies, Modi said the two countries share values and their coordination and cooperation is also gradually increasing. Both the leaders appreciated that the bilateral relationship is on a sound footing, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla told reporters here while giving details of the meeting that lasted for an hour. This is the first meeting between the two leaders. Harris had earlier spoken with Modi over the phone in June during the COVID-19 crisis in India. "You are the source of inspiration for so many people across the world. I am completely confident that our bilateral relationship will touch new heights under President Biden and your leadership," Modi told Harris. Later in a tweet, Modi said, "Glad to have met @VP@KamalaHarris. Her feat has inspired the entire world. We talked about multiple subjects that will further cement the India-USA friendship, which is based on shared values and cultural linkages." The two leaders were wearing masks as they both spoke in front of a battery of  reporters from both India and the US. Modi invited the 56-year-old Democratic leader and Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff to visit India. "Both President Biden and you assumed office at a time when our planet faced very tough challenges. In a short time you have had many achievements to your credit be it COVID-19, climate change or the Quad," Modi said. In a statement, the Ministry of External Affairs said the two leaders exchanged views on recent global developments, including in Afghanistan and reaffirmed their commitment towards a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region. The two leaders discussed the COVID-19 situation in their countries, including ongoing efforts to contain the pandemic through expedited vaccination efforts, and ensuring supply of critical medicines, therapeutics and healthcare equipment, it said. "As relates to the Indo-Pacific, the US stresses on maintaining a free and open Indo-Pacific, Harris said, amidst China's aggressive moves in the strategically vital region. India, the US and several other world powers have been talking about the need to ensure a free, open and thriving Indo-Pacific in the backdrop of China's rising military manoeuvring in the region. China claims nearly all of the disputed South China Sea, though Taiwan, the Philippines, Brunei, Malaysia and Vietnam all claim parts of it. Beijing has built artificial islands and military installations in the South China Sea. Harris said the world is more interconnected and more interdependent than ever before. And the challenges that we face today have highlighted that fact. COVID-19, climate crisis and the importance of our shared belief in the Indo-Pacific region, she said. Both sides acknowledged the importance of collaborative action on climate change. Prime Minister spoke about India's push for increasing renewable energy and the recently launched National Hydrogen Mission. He also emphasized the importance of lifestyle changes to promote environmental sustainability, the statement said. Modi noted that he had the opportunity to speak to Harris after she assumed the Vice Presidency. "One of our interactions happened when India was battling a very tough wave of COVID-19 infections. I recall your kind words of solidarity that time," Modi said. India was confronted with the second wave of the COVID 19 pandemic. "A very difficult time for India," he said. "Like a family, the sense of kinship and so warmly, you extended a helping hand, the words that you chose when you spoke to me, I will always remember that, and I'd like to thank you from the bottom of my heart," the Prime Minister said. "Like a true friend, you had given a message of cooperation, and were very full of sensitivity and immediately after that we found that the US government, the US corporate sector and the Indian community, all came together to help India," he said. Modi said that the US Government, companies based in the USA and the Indian diaspora were very helpful when India was fighting a tough wave of COVID-19 infections. Both leaders acknowledged the vibrant people-to-people linkages as the bedrock of the mutually beneficial education linkages and the flow of knowledge, innovation and talent between our two countries. Modi said that four million people of Indian origin are acting as a bridge of friendship between the two countries. Harris described India as a "very important partner" to the US and welcomed New Delhi's announcement that it will soon resume vaccine export. India stopped the export of COVID-19 vaccines after the second wave of the pandemic hit the country in April this year. On Monday, India said that it will resume export of surplus COVID-19 vaccines in the fourth quarter of 2021 under the ''Vaccine Maitri'' programme and to meet its commitment to the COVAX global pool. On the issue of the climate crisis, she told Modi that the US working together with India can have not only a profound impact on people of nations but around the world itself. Harris said that it is incumbent on the two nations to protect democracies in the best interests of people of the two countries. "As democracies around the world are under threat, it is imperative that we defend democratic principles and institutions within our respective countries and around the world. And that we maintain what we must do to strengthen democracies at home and it is incumbent on our nations to of course protect democracies in the best interests of people of our countries," she said. Their meeting comes a day ahead of the maiden bilateral meeting between Modi and President Joe Biden and the Quad Leaders' Summit at the White House on Friday. They also discussed areas of future collaboration, including space cooperation, Information Technology, especially emerging and critical technologies, as well as the cooperation in healthcare sector. Shringla said, the contribution of Indian professionals, especially in the IT domain, biotechnology, space, and other areas, which represent the knowledge economy was appreciated by both. There was a sense that India had capable professionals, in the high tech sector including research and development capacities, and the US which is known for cutting edge technologies and innovation, were obvious partners, he said. Shringla said that the Vice President has graciously accepted the invitation of the Prime Minister to visit India. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
24-09-2021||India||PM shares photo of himself going through files on board flight to US||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday shared on social media a picture of himself going through files on board his flight to the US and wrote: “A long flight also means opportunities to go through papers and some file work.” Several social media users pointed out that the picture was similar to another that had done the rounds a few days ago. That photograph showed former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri reading files on a plane. Some wondered why the sheaf of papers in Modi’s hand had been illuminated from below. BJP leaders and friendly media channels hailed Modi as a “workaholic”. Law minister Kiren Rijiju and BJP spokesperson Shaina NC tweeted almost identical posts: “Very proud of India’s Prime Minister @NarendraModi Ji who has never taken a single leave and on duty all the time in the service of the nation.” The sole difference was the minister had opted for “India’s Prime Minister” while the spokesperson said “our Prime Minister”. Did Shakespeare foresee the events when he wrote As You Like It? All the world’s a stage,… And one man in his time plays many parts,… With eyes severe and beard of formal cut, Full of wise saws and modern instances; And so he plays his part.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
24-09-2021||India||PM CARES Fund a charitable trust, PMO tells Delhi High Court||The Prime Minister’s Office has told Delhi High Court that the PM CARES Fund is not a Government of India fund but a charitable trust whose collections do not go to the Consolidated Fund of India and that it does not come under the purview of the Right to Information Act. The Narendra Modi government has also dismissed as “irrelevant” a petitioner’s appeal that the Centre make it clear whether the fund comes under the ambit of the definition of “State” as mentioned in Article 12 of the Constitution. According to Article 12, “the State includes the government and Parliament of India and the government and the legislature of each of the states and all local or other authorities within the territory of India or under the control of the government of India”. If the PM CARES Fund is not part of the “State”, it would mean that the government is not liable to make public any information related to it under the RTI Act. Not including PM CARES under the Consolidated Fund of India, which is audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India and into which all government receipts flow, would free the government of the need to seek Parliament’s permission to make payments from it or be answerable for its strictest sanctity. The PM CARES Fund has been set up to tackle the Covid crisis. In an affidavit filed by the undersecretary at the PMO, Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, before the bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Amit Bansal, the PMO said: “It is reiterated that the Trust’s fund is not a fund of the Government of India and the amount does not go in the Consolidated Fund of India. “In view of the submissions made hereinabove, it is respectfully prayed that this Hon’ble Court may be pleased to dismiss the present petition. The answering respondent prays accordingly.” The PMO has sought the dismissal of a petition filed last year by social activist Samyak Gangwal seeking a direction to the PMO to disclose whether the PM CARES Fund is a government fund, if it falls under the definition of “State” and whether the RTI Act applies to it. The PMO affidavit by Srivastava said: “I submit that I am discharging my functions in the PM CARES Trust on honorary basis which is a charitable Trust not created by or under the Constitution of India or by any law made by the Parliament or by any state legislature. Despite being an officer of the Central Government, I am permitted to discharge my functions in PM CARES Trust on honorary basis. “…The prayers made in (the petition)… is not maintainable for the purpose of the Right to Information Act in general and Section 2(h) in particular which is irrelevant whether an authority, body or institution is a ‘State’ within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India.” Section 2(h) defines a public authority. The PMO questioned the locus of the petitioner. “When the petitioner is claiming to be a public-spirited person and seeking to pray for various reliefs only for transparency, it does not matter whether PM CARES is a ‘State’ within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India,” the affidavit stated. The PMO said transparency was maintained, and the fund was audited and the details uploaded for public viewing. “The Trust functions with transparency and its funds are audited by an auditor who is a chartered accountant drawn from the panel prepared by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. To ensure transparency, the audited report is put on the official website of the Trust along with the details of utilisation of funds received by the Trust,” the affidavit said. It stated that irrespective of whether the Trust was a “State” or any other authority within the meaning of Article 12 or whether it was a “public authority” within the meaning of Section 2(h) of the RTI Act, “it is not permissible to disclose third party information”. However, the PMO said, “All donations received by the Trust are received via online payments, cheques and/ or demand drafts and the amount so received is audited with the audited report and the expenditure of Trust fund displayed on the website.” On August 16 last year the Supreme Court had dismissed a PIL filed by the NGO Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL) questioning the legal validity of the PM CARES Trust on the ground that it was not subject to audits by the CAG or answerable to citizens’ queries under the RTI Act. While upholding the validity of the fund, the apex court had ruled that the mere fact that the administration of the trust was vested in trustees like the Prime Minister and his cabinet colleagues would not take away the public character of the trust. The court also said the PM CARES Fund was a charitable trust that did not receive any budgetary support or government money. The Modi government’s submission in Delhi High Court has resurrected the questions raised about the fund when it was launched in the fag end of March 2020. This is not the first time the Centre has claimed that PM CARES is not a government of India fund. This has been the government’s stock response to efforts to bring the fund under the ambit of the RTI Act. Many of the questions floating on social media stemmed from this reluctance on the part of the government to subject the fund to scrutiny under the RTI law, particularly in view of its assertions on transparency and accountability. Some of the questions raised after the PMO affidavit became public on Thursday included how a non-government entity had been allowed to use the government’s emblem, why Indian diplomatic missions across the world had been asked to seek donations for the fund, and why it was made eligible for corporate social responsibility donations. CSR donations can’t be made to the chief ministers’ relief funds. As a result of the push given by the government to the PM CARES Fund, the state governments, which did much of the heavy lifting relating to providing health facilities during the pandemic and bore the additional cost of providing free rations during the lockdown, and NGOs have been having trouble getting donations. More so, because there has been a general tightening of purses. In refusing to put the PM CARES Fund under RTI scrutiny and CAG audit, the Modi government has essentially borrowed the provisions of the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund, set up in 1948. The government is yet to give a satisfactory reply to the question why a separate fund was needed when India already had the PMNRF for all such exigencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
24-09-2021||India||Qutab Minar and Victoria Memorial not among 100 tourist destinations||A lock on India Gate, a putdown for the Qutab Minar, amnesia about the Victoria Memorial. The University Grants Commission has sent universities a list of 100 “tourist destinations” for organising student visits as part of the Centre’s Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat programme. Some academics have questioned the move as dictatorial, and the choice of sites as biased. “Which places students should visit should be left to individual institutions; why should the UGC or the government prescribe it?” said Abha Dev Habib, former member of Delhi University’s executive council. Pankaj Jha, history professor at Lady Shri Ram College, underlined the absence of many famous sites associated with Muslim and colonial rule as well as those reflective of independent India’s achievements. “There is a greater emphasis on the sites of ancient (apparently Hindu) history rather than medieval (apparently Muslim) or modern (apparently colonial but also Independent India) period,” Jha wrote in response to a query from The Telegraph. A host of ancient Buddhist sites figure on the list too. “The claim is that it would make students ‘understand the rich culture and diversity of the country’, but this top-down dictum for all students hardly promotes diversity. This is a clear attempt to promote uniformity not just of practice but also of thinking,” Jha wrote. While Bijapur and Murshidabad, both associated with the medieval period and Muslim rule, are on the list, the Red Fort and Humayun’s Tomb in Delhi have been snubbed. Agra, however, gets a mention under “monuments included in list of World Heritage and Iconic Sites” although the Taj Mahal is not named. Delhi — Old and New — with its layers and layers of history buried and alive across hundreds of monuments has been entirely ignored. Ditto Calcutta, the capital of British India till 1911, and Mumbai, hub of finance and films and the birthplace of the Indian Railways. Colonial structures like the two Victorias — Memorial and Terminus — are missing as are the Cellular Jail in the Andamans and Rashtrapati Bhavan, India Gate and the Gateway to India. Goa has two mentions, though — Old Goa and Colva Beach. The nudge to all the universities came in a letter, dated September 22, from UGC secretary Rajnish Jain that said the National Education Policy proposes to strengthen and promote the spirit of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat among students. “A list of 100 tourist destination shared by the ministry of tourism is enclosed. Educational institutions are required to send students under Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat Programme to study the destinations and their history, scientific contributions, traditions, indigenous literature and knowledge, etc, as a part of augmenting their knowledge about different areas to understand the rich culture and diversity of the country,” Jain wrote. “All the higher educational institutions are requested that the visits may be organised only when Covid restrictions are lifted fully. Meanwhile students can be encouraged to learn about these locations and have activities digitally.” The letter added: “A report of the activities undertaken may be sent to ministry of education.” Jha said the UGC move was in line with the government’s recent attempts to closely “control and regulate” academic activities in institutions of higher education. So, all students of all streams, all regions, and all universities have been asked to visit the same set of sites, he said. “Are most of our achievements confined to the ancient period? Did the residents of this subcontinent stop growing after the ancient period? Did we never learn or did anything remarkable in the medieval and modern period?” Jha asked. The Northeast is heavily represented on the list, with Imphal, Aizawl and Itanagar featuring under the head “capital of state” — although Itanagar has been placed in Nagaland rather than Arunachal Pradesh — and Agartala, Dimapur, Dibrugarh and Silchar mentioned for their “airports”. Shillong makes it under “identified for wi-fi based on footfalls” — a strange and unexplained description that occurs about 30 times on the list, covering sites from Chilika Lake and Nagarjunakonda (Buddhist site in Andhra Pradesh) to Fort Kochi and the Jain pilgrimage spot of Sravanabelagola in Karnataka. But Bangalore gets a thumbs-down, despite its contribution to Indian science (IISc and Isro) and the country’s infotech revolution. Sarnath, Shravasti, Kapilavastu and Kushinagar of Uttar Pradesh and Bodhgaya, Vaishali and Rajgir of Bihar make it under “Buddhist Circuit”. Somnath and Dholavira (archaeological site in Kutch) in Gujarat are “iconic sites”. Jammu and Kashmir gets the nod in the form of Gulmarg, Pahalgam and Patnitop while Ladakh contributes Kargil and the Pangong Lake — sites of old and current confrontations with neighbours. Khajuraho from Madhya Pradesh and Konarak from Odisha are included as “world heritage sites”. An email was sent to UGC chairman D.P. Singh asking whether the commission had tried to find out from the tourism ministry why it had excluded Delhi and its monuments from the list. It remained unanswered. Another email to the tourism ministry seeking the reasons for the absence of some apparently obvious candidates evoked no response, either.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
24-09-2021||India||Supreme Court to set up expert panel on Israeli spyware Pegasus ||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Thursday said the Supreme Court would pass orders next week on the constitution of an “expert committee” to probe allegations that the government had used the Israeli spyware Pegasus to illegally snoop on citizens. The court’s decision implies a prima facie finding that there might be some substance to the allegations and an inference that only an independent probe can establish the truth. Justice Ramana said the court would have passed the order this week but had to postpone it to next week because some of the prospective members for the proposed committee it wanted involved had expressed inability to take up the task citing personal reasons. There was no hearing of the Pegasus case on Thursday. Justice Ramana conveyed the decision during the morning mentioning time in open court, while sitting on a bench that included Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli. “Mr C.U. Singh, I wanted to tell you that on this Pegasus case, we wanted to pass this week some orders appointing a committee. But we could not pass the orders because many of the members who we had in our mind said they cannot participate due to personal reasons,” he told senior lawyer Singh. Singh represents some among the batch of more than two dozen petitioners who have sought a court-monitored special investigation team (SIT) probe into allegations of Pegasus-enabled snooping on judges, lawyers, activists, journalists and others. He was in the court on Thursday in connection with a different matter. Justice Ramana did not elaborate on the composition, nature or contours of the committee. The committee is expected to include a few information technology experts and possibly a retired Supreme Court judge. The court decision comes after the Centre refused to file a fresh affidavit either admitting or denying the allegations of illegal surveillance through Pegasus — a point its earlier two-page affidavit did not clarify. The Centre has claimed it cannot file the fresh affidavit because making the matter public would hurt national security. On September 13, the apex court had given the government three days to reconsider its decision, failing which it said it would pass the necessary orders. “Mr Mehta, beating around the bush is not the question here…. You have two-three days, Mr Mehta; if you have any rethinking you can mention before this court,” Justice Ramana had told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta on September 13. “We are not interested to know about national interest issues but we are only (interested in the matter) in the face of allegations that some software was used to snoop on certain citizens like lawyers, etc. We wanted to know if it’s done and, if so, to see if it is permissible under law….” Justice Ramana had added: “You have been repeatedly saying that you don’t want to put anything on affidavit. We also don’t want security issues to be put here. Presumably a committee has to be formed and then the report will be submitted here. Now we have to look into the whole issue and decide something. Then everything will be in public.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
24-09-2021||India||Rs 50,000 compensation to families of Covid victims a crude joke: Cong||The Congress on Thursday blasted the Narendra Modi government for filing an affidavit in the Supreme Court proposing a compensation of Rs 50,000 to the families of Covid victims, saying this demonstrated the arrogance and insensitivity of a regime that was initially reluctant to offer any assistance at all. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “We demand Rs 5 lakh for every death. There is no scarcity of money. The Modi government has earned Rs 4 lakh crore from the people by taxing petroleum products last year alone. The official figure of Covid deaths is 4.5 lakh. The government will require only Rs 22,000 crore to give Rs 5 lakh each for every death. After all, such a large number of people died because of the government’s mismanagement.” Arguing that the offer of Rs 50,000 was like rubbing salt in the wound, Shrinate said: “This is a crude joke. Rs 50,000 is spent in getting a patient admitted to a hospital. People were struggling to get admission, there was no medicine, no injection, not even oxygen. The main breadwinner of the family has died in many cases. Young people have lost their lives. Children have been orphaned. What will happen with Rs 50,000? Why can’t the government return Rs 22,000 crore from the Rs 4 lakh crore they have extorted from the people?” Recalling that the Modi government was initially not willing to pay any compensation, as is manifested in the earlier affidavits, the Congress spokesperson alleged that they agreed to shell out Rs 50,000 when no option was left after being rebuked by the Supreme Court. The government had earlier told the court that Covid was not a natural disaster. This was rejected by the court. Shrinate said: “The offer of Rs 50,000 is also illegal. On April 8, 2015, the same Modi government released amended guidelines under the NDRF (National Disaster Response Fund), clearly stating that Rs 4 lakh will be given to the family of a person dying because of natural disasters. Even the petitioners had demanded Rs 4 lakh. Modi is now violating the law framed by his own government. What is the basis of calculating Rs 50,000 when the extent of tragedy is so big?” She also raised questions about the PM CARES Fund, wondering what was being done with the thousands of crores collected for Covid relief. “The money was collected from public sector units, corporate houses and individuals in the name of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister’s Office and the Government of India emblem were used for collecting funds. Why is there no accountability?” Shrinate asked. There has been confusion about the PM CARES Fund as the government has given different replies in response to different RTI queries. Finally, it has said in court that the fund is a private trust and doesn’t belong to the Government of India. Shrinate insisted there was no dearth of resources and said: “Rs 5 lakh be fixed as compensation amount. There should not be any attempt to hide the number of actual deaths. The state governments should be asked to conduct surveys to ascertain the number of deaths and accept the claims for compensation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
24-09-2021||India||Suicide kin on central government's Covid cash list||The Centre on Thursday submitted in the Supreme Court a set of guidelines on eligibility for the ex gratia of Rs 50,000 pledged to the family of each Covid dead, including among the beneficiaries the kin of those who died by suicide after testing positive. In an affidavit, the Centre said the guidelines would be “binding” on all state governments and urged the apex court to make this point clear in its order. The ex gratia is to be paid from the state disaster relief funds. The affidavit filed through the Union home ministry has fixed the following criteria to determine a Covid death: ⚫ Proof of diagnosis of Covid through an RT-PCR, rapid antigen or molecular test. Clinical determination of Covid through other investigations in a hospital or any other inpatient facility by the attending doctor will also be accepted. ⚫ A death certificate issued by a doctor in hospital or at home through Forms 4 and 4A, as required under Section 10 of the Registration of Birth and Death Act, 1969. ⚫ Deaths occurring within 30 days of testing positive for Covid or collection of samples that yield a positive result. It will be immaterial whether the death had taken place in hospital or at home or elsewhere. ⚫ Deaths occurring after 30 days of remaining in hospital or any other inpatient facility. ⚫ Review and rectifications will be allowed of certificates of death issued before the guidelines dated September 3, 2021, came into force. Fresh certificates issued after rectifications will also be accepted. The central government affidavit states that the next of kin of the Covid dead will be at liberty to raise grievances before district-level committees that the states will have to set up for selection of beneficiaries. The families of those whose death certificates do not recognise Covid as the reason before the guidelines came into force but could now be identified as Covid deaths under the new rules will also be permitted to approach these committees. “On such application, the district-level committee will examine the contemporaneous medical records of the deceased patient in light of the guidelines dated 3.09.2021, and if the district-level committee comes to the conclusion that the case of the applicant indeed falls within the parameters contemplated under the guidelines… then (it) would issue a fresh or corrected certificate for the deceased in accordance with the guidelines… certifying his death to be a Covid-related death eligible for financial/other assistance as provided by the central government/SDRF,” the affidavit says. The committees will have the power to look into disputes between a hospital and a family regarding the cause of death. The government has made it clear that the Union home ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research has clarified that all Covid-related death certificates issued before the guidelines came into force and those corrected or issued afresh after that will be considered as valid documents. “Furthermore, in addition to the above, this Hon’ble court may also pass a mandamus directing all state governments/UTs to constitute the said committee within 30 days in the interest of justice,” the central government affidavit says. According to the Centre, “all the state governments are respondents in the present petition and the guidelines have been framed in pursuance” of the apex court’s directions. “Hence, it is binding on state governments to implement it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
24-09-2021||India||Union government plea against Kerala HC order on Covishield||The Union government has filed an appeal before Kerala High Court against its order reducing the interval between two doses of Covishield vaccine to 28 days from 84 days. The appeal was filed on Wednesday against the September 6 order of the single-judge bench of Justice P.B. Suresh Kumar that allowed Kitex Garments Ltd’s petition to administer the second dose of Covishield after 28 days of the first one. The order had meant that people across the country would have benefited from the shorter interval between the two doses of the vaccine just like the indigenously manufactured Covaxin. The Centre’s appeal is based on the argument that the order of the single-judge bench was against the policy of the Union government that had opposed the Kitex plea for shortening the duration citing better efficacy in the 84-day interval. “The precedent if allowed to stay would set at naught the national policy for administration of vaccine and would cause serious prejudice for the larger segment. The judgment would militate against the settled position that in matters related to government supported by scientific study, the Court shall not meddle with or substitute its view with the view of the administration,” The Union government represented by assistant solicitor-general P. Vijayakumar stated in the appeal. In seeking the dismissal of Kitex’s petition, the Union government had stated that “the decision to increase the dose interval of Covishield vaccine was based on scientific evidences and expert opinion as per available efficacy data”. But the single-judge bench had allowed the plea by Kitex citing concessions given to NRIs and students travelling abroad. “If the government can permit persons who are intending to travel abroad to exercise a choice between early protection and better protection from Covid-19 infection, there is absolutely no reason why the same privilege shall not be extended to others who want early protection in connection with their employment, education etc,” the court had said. In its order, the single-judge bench had pointed out the absence of any compulsion on the people to get vaccinated. Hence, it had ruled, there was no reason for the government to stop them from taking an early second dose. Though the court had ordered the Centre to rectify its Cowin app to allow registration of the second dose of Covishield any time after 28 days of the first dose, the petitioner did not benefit from the order because the government did not make the changes. Sajeev T.K., general manager of Kitex Garments Ltd based in Kizhakkambalam in Ernakulam, told The Telegraph on Thursday that about 80 per cent of the employees who completed the 84-day interval had been inoculated. “We could have administered the second dose to all our employees and their families in just a few days if the government had modified the Cowin application,” he said. One of the biggest garment manufacturers in Kerala, Kitex had procured 10,000 second doses of Covishield through a private hospital to inoculate its employees and their family members. He said the company would continue the fight to reduce the vaccine interval as it would help others across the country. “Reducing the gap would only help people get faster protection from the Covid virus. So we will continue this fight,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
24-09-2021||India||Father’s hurt brims over before south Kashmir’s top army officer||When a heavily decomposed body was discovered at a village roadside in Kashmir on Wednesday, it killed a father’s last hopes, if any was still left, of seeing his son alive. But it also gave him a sense of vindication, removing what he called a “stain”. Manzoor Ahmad Wagay on Thursday bared his heart before south Kashmir’s top army officer, describing how he had to face taunts from the police since his son, Rifleman Shakir Manzoor, disappeared on August 2 last year. Eyewitnesses suggested the soldier had been abducted by militants. But some police officers suggested he must have joined the militants or gone over to Pakistan for arms training, Wagay said, providing a peek into how the families of local soldiers were called on to prove their loyalty even during their worst trials. A day after the body was found, confirming Shakir had been killed by militants, the soldier was buried on Thursday with full military honours. In attendance were senior army officers, including the head of the counter-insurgency Victor Force, Major General Rashim Bali. Wagay’s pent-up hurt bubbled over at the event. “Naturally, as a father I’m sad. But I’m also happy because whenever I went to the police, they would express suspicion that he had joined the militants,” the 56-year-old told Bali before a large crowd. “I was living with a stain and felt humiliated. I’m happy that the stigma is removed.” Bali did not respond to Wagay’s remarks but thanked the people for joining the family’s searches on several occasions. A police officer in Kulgam did not answer a text message seeking a clarification. Shakir was kidnapped while he was travelling home to Reshipora, Shopian, to celebrate Id. He was dragged out of his car, which was torched. His body was found at Mohammedpora in neighbouring Kulgam, a few kilometres from Wagay’s home. Wagay said someone must have brought the body to the spot and dumped it, after which some residents informed him. He identified his son from his bracelet and stitch marks on his foot. For the preceding 13 months, Wagay had travelled from village to village, often with shovels and spades, to find his son’s body. He had been almost certain the militants had killed Shakir, for he had found some of the young man’s clothes at three places in nearby Landoora. Soon after the abduction, Wagay had appealed to the militants through videos to release Shakir or hand over his body if they had killed him, promising he would bear them no grudge. “My son was in the army.... It is your job to fight the army, I have no complaints against you if you have killed him,” Wagay had said in Urdu in one video. “I shall have no complaints if the mujahideen have abducted and killed him, but I shall have a complaint if his body is not returned to me.” Many people in Kashmir address the militants as mujahideen, a reverential term that roughly translates as “holy warrior”. It is understandable for a father whose son could be in militant captivity to use the word. “Don’t give me my son back (alive),” he had said. “If you don’t want to forgive (him), then return his body. I won’t reproach you.” Family sources said Shakir was listed as missing and not dead, which means the family was not entitled to any compensation during these months. Emotional scenes were witnessed at Shakir’s funeral, with many local women bidding him a tearful farewell.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
24-09-2021||India||Plea to Jagan Mohan Reddy on Odisha border row ||Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who hails from Odisha, has urged Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to withdraw its police force from a disputed area on the inter-state border. Andhra Pradesh has claimed sovereign rights on Kutia panchayat under Potangi block in Koraput district of Odisha which comprises 20 villages. Officials of both the states have also engaged in verbal duels a number of times while settling the border issues. The skirmishes have spread to other villages in the neighbouring Gajapati district of Odisha. The situation is likely to be more tense in the coming days as Odisha is gearing up for polls in the Kutia gram panchayat. The Andhra Pradesh government had already conducted polls in a few villages of the Kutia panchayat defying the Odisha government’s request not to hold an election. “In the interest of residents of both the Odisha and Andhra Pradesh, I seek your personal intervention for a conducive and mutually agreeable resolution of the matter,” Pradhan said in a letter to Jagan on Wednesday, adding that such a dispute poses a threat both to the security as well as to the developmental aspirations of villagers located in border villages in both the states. “The persistent volatile situation arising out of inter-state conflicts on the issue of delimitation of physical boundaries is extremely unfortunate and uncalled for,” Pradhan wrote. Pradhan urged Jagan to initiate steps for retreat of the armed police force in the disputed villages and immediate withdrawal of police cases registered against local representatives and government officials in both the states. “Except for essential public utility facilities of rural infrastructure, health, education and basic civic amenities, new structural construction and earth moving activities be put on hold, as these actions have led to the ongoing altercation,” Pradhan said. Pradhan also suggested a bilateral discussion between the chief ministers to lay the broad parameters of a future road map to address the issues and a joint working group talks at the level of chief secretaries and developmental commissioners of both the states. Odisha, which has borders with four states, is facing boundary disputes with Bengal as well. The Odisha government on Tuesday stopped the construction work of a guard wall by the government of the neighbouring state on the Udaipur sea beach, which is close to the Digha beach in Bengal. Sources said that Odisha is determined to not allow the work till a high-level meeting comprising senior officials of both the states settles the border dispute.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
24-09-2021||India||Bihar: Lalu Prasad’s ‘go green’ missive to RJD workers||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) president Lalu Prasad has asked his workers to “go green” to strengthen the party in Bihar. Addressing party workers virtually on the final day of a two-day training camp in Patna on Wednesday, Lalu said: “Discipline is very important. Everybody should wear green caps just like the (red) caps of Samajwadi Party (of Uttar Pradesh), keep green gamchas with them and hoist green flags on their houses. The caps and gamchas are like our party’s licence. They will let government officials know that you are an RJD worker. The flags will establish our identity.” Asserting that the steps will inculcate discipline, unity and brotherhood among the party members, Lalu further asked them to “organise like the Left parties so that the RJD becomes stronger on the ground and the polling booths”. “Our party has such a huge public base in the state, yet our workers fail to show promptness at the polling booths. The public base of the Left parties is lesser than us, but their organisation is very strong because their leaders and workers have to regularly attend training camps,” Lalu said. “We also must hold regular training camps. We need to strengthen our organisation just like the Left parties. We need to have RJD workers at the booth level so that they could work vigorously and spare time for the party,” Lalu added. His emphasis on strengthening the party at the booth level is being seen as a step to counter the BJP, which has a strong organisation of workers at the polling booths. The leader, known for his rustic charm, also iterated that he would return to Bihar soon and tour all 38 districts to fight against the incompetent governments in the state and at the Centre. “I will come to Bihar very soon and tour each district in the state. We will fight against the state and central governments. Our party was defeated by unfair means in the 2020 Assembly elections,” Lalu said. The RJD chief is staying in New Delhi with his daughter and Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti due to poor health after getting bail in fodder scam cases. His wife — former chief minister Rabri Devi — is also staying with them. The RJD workers, leaders and office-bearers from the block to district level attended the training camp. Lalu said that speeches delivered by the leaders at the training camps would awaken and broaden the mental horizon of the workers. Asserting that his younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has emerged as a strong leader and has been accepted by all the party workers and leaders, the RJD chief asked everybody to prepare for the future polls by demanding a caste census. “A caste census is the need of the hour. It will help provide reservation to different castes according to their population. We need to break the barrier of 27 per cent reservation for the Other Backward Classes. Even Babasaheb Bhim Rao Ambedkar has talked about reservation for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes on the basis of their population,” the RJD president said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
24-09-2021||India||Odisha: Sweetmeat seller arrested for poisoning 20 stray dogs||A 53-year-old sweetmeat seller in Odisha was arrested on Thursday for allegedly killing 20 stray dogs with poison in the last five days. The accused, Ajay Kumar Sahoo, was held following his latest killing of six stray dogs in the Shankarpur area of Choudwar in Cuttack on Wednesday. “We arrested Sahoo after he confessed to the crime and admitted that he killed the dogs as they were creating nuisance in the area and near his shop. Their constant howling at night also disturbed his sleep,” an officer of Choudwar police station told The Telegraph. State secretary of the People for Animals, Jiban Ballav Das, told this newspaper: “The accused had mixed poison in a food item and fed it to the dogs, killing six of them on Wednesday. Among the six dogs, three were pregnant and could have given birth in recent days.” Das said the accused had mixed a poison called danadar (germicide) in gulgula (food item) and gave it to the dogs to eat. After consuming the poisoned gulgula, the canines vomited. They were all found dead on Wednesday afternoon. Das said: “The accused has so far poisoned to death about 20 stray dogs, including these six. After we brought it to the notice of the director-general of police, the police today arrested the accused and produced him in court.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
24-09-2021||India||Congress demands investigation into Pegasus snooping row||The Congress on Thursday iterated its demand for an investigation into the Pegasus snooping row, describing the Supreme Court’s decision to set up a “technical committee” to look into the matter as a step in the right direction. Party communications chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “Pegasus spy scandal is not an issue to protect ‘national security’ but an assault on ‘national security & privacy’ by Narendra Modi Government. The solution is simple: A Supreme Court-monitored full investigation. The Supreme Court observation of setting up a ‘technical committee’ is a right step in this direction.” Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “As far as the Supreme Court is concerned, I would want to react to it solely based on what I have read in media reports, watched on TV channels…. What happened with the Pegasus snooping scandal was the greatest threat to national security. A probe into this will ensure that national security is never compromised. “Please understand, who were the people snooped upon? It was not just political opponents, they were people in constitutional positions. They were people associated with the Chief Justice of India. They were people associated with the Election Commission.” Shrinate added: “These are very, very serious allegations. The reality is that snooping was done on people who were in elected positions of power (ministers), which also compromises the Official Secrets Act, and there was never a bigger compromise with national security than Pegasus. “There has to be a full-fledged probe under the supervision of the Supreme Court. Anything less than that is not going to be satisfactory.” Former finance minister P. Chidambaram referred to the drug seizure at the Adani-operated Mundra port in Gujarat and tweeted: “The seizure of over 3,000kg of heroin is unprecedented and points to a major crime syndicate operating freely in India. The same accused are reported to have successfully ‘imported’ a large quantity in June 2021 and got away with it. An import of this magnitude could not be attempted by anyone without official patronage at a high level. Why are the Prime Minister, Home Minister and Finance Minister silent on the incident?” The Congress had demanded an enquiry under the monitoring of the Supreme Court in this issue as well. The government has so far not commented on the drug seizure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
24-09-2021||India||Shiv Sena accuses governors of acting like rogue elephants||The Shiv Sena on Thursday accused the governors of non-BJP-ruled states of acting like rogue elephants and trampling under their feet constitutional democracy, laws and political culture. Without taking any  name, the party said in an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana: “The governors in non-BJP-ruled states are like rogue elephants and their mahouts (handlers) are sitting in New Delhi. Such elephants trample democratic processes, laws, political culture under their feet and set new precedence.” The Sena asked whether it was appropriate that the governors were using all their power to destabilise state governments because they had been formed by non-BJP parties. Such efforts are affecting the unity of the country, the editorial added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
24-09-2021||India||Delhi traffic police to release list of 100 'bad drivers'||Delhi traffic police will release a list of 100 “bad drivers” who are regularly violating rules, an official said on Thursday. This is the first time such a list is being prepared by the police. Those to be included in the list will be identified on the basis of four offences — jumping the red light, speeding, drink driving and dangerous driving. Special commissioner of police (traffic) Muktesh Chander said the motive was to inform the errant drivers that their driving skills were “very poor” and they needed to improve. “The motive is to tell them that their driving is so bad that they end up violating rules regularly. They themselves are in danger as well as their family and relatives who commute with them. People on the road are also in danger,” he said. “We want to tell them that their driving habits are not good and they should join our road safety classes,” he added. If an offender does not join the classes despite being asked repeatedly and keeps committing traffic offences, his or her licence will be cancelled permanently under the Motor Vehicles Act, the officer said. They will not be given a licence in the future as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
24-09-2021||India||Delhi saree row: NCW directs police chief to act against restaurant if allegations found true||The National Commission for Women on Thursday directed the Delhi police commissioner to probe an allegation that a woman was denied entry into a restaurant for wearing a sari. “Reportedly, the restaurant’s dress code policy for guests allows only smart casuals and according to the eatery, the sari does not fall under smart casuals…. Denying any woman entry to a restaurant on the basis of her attire is a violation of her right to live with dignity,” the NCW said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
