25-09-2021||India||India first to develop DNA vaccine, can be given to 12 and above: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said India has developed the world's first DNA vaccine against COVID-19, which can be administered to all people above the age of 12 years. "India, which lives on Sewa Paramo Dharma (service is the main duty), is engaged in vaccination development and manufacturing despite limited resources. I want to inform UNGA that India has developed the world's first DNA vaccine, which can be administered to all people above the age of 12 years," Modi said, addressing the 76th United Nations General Assembly session here. Last month, the Drugs Controller General of India gave Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) to Zydus Cadila's indigenously developed needle-free COVID-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D, which is to be administered to beneficiaries in the age group of 12-18 years in the country. "Another mRNA vaccine is in its late stages of development. Scientists in India are also engaged in the development of a nasal vaccine for Corona. Realising its responsibility towards humanity, India has once again started giving vaccines to the needy of the world. I also invite vaccine manufacturers from all over the world today to- Come, Make Vaccine in India," the prime minister said. ZyCoV-D when injected, produces the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus and elicits an immune response, which plays a vital role in protection from coronavirus as well as viral clearance. The "plug-and-play" technology on which the plasmid DNA platform is based can be easily adapted to deal with mutations in the virus, such as those already occurring. The vaccine has a 66-per cent efficacy and it is to be stored in a temperature range of two to eight degrees Celsius. The vaccine is needle-free, to be administered intradermally in three doses at days 0, 28 and 56. It is administered using PharmaJet, an applicator that ensures painless intradermal vaccine delivery. According to Johns Hopkins university data, the deadly virus has so far infected 231,154,501 people and killed 4,737,927 globally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
25-09-2021||India||SC to end extension granted on limitation period for filing court cases on Oct 2||The Supreme Court has said that the relaxation granted on the limitation period for filing court cases in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic would come to an end on October 2. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana ordered that period from March 15 last year till October 2 this year shall stand excluded from computing the period of limitation. Also, in cases where the limitation would have expired during the period between March 15, 2020 till October 2, 2021, all persons shall have a limitation period of 90 days from October 3, 2021 or the balance period originally left, whichever is longer. Earlier, the apex court had on March 23 last year invoked its plenary power under Article 142 of the Constitution to extend the limitation period indefinitely for appeals from courts or tribunals on account of the pandemic with effect from March 15, 2020. On March 8 this year, the top court had noted that the country is "returning to normalcy and had decided to end the extension of the limitation period which was granted in March 2020 to the litigants due to the pandemic. However, the court had on April 27 took note of the onset of the second COVID-19 wave and again relaxed the statutory period for filing petitions, including the election petitions, under the Representation of the People Act, 1951. In its September 23 order passed in the suo motu matter 'cognisance for extension of limitation', the apex court noted, In spite of all the uncertainties about another wave of the deadly COVID-19 virus, it is imminent that the order dated March 8, 2021 is restored as the situation is near normal. In computing the period of limitation for any suit, appeal, application or proceeding, the period from March 15, 2020 till October 2, 2021 shall stand excluded. Consequently, the balance period of limitation remaining as on March 15, 2021, if any, shall become available with effect from October 3, 2021, said the bench, also comprising justices L Nageswara Rao and Surya Kant. The bench noted that it had heard submissions of Attorney General K K Venugopal, senior advocate Vikas Singh, who was appearing for the Election Commission of India, counsel appearing for the Supreme Court Advocates on Record Association and other lawyers on the issue. There is consensus that there is no requirement for the continuance of the initial order passed by this court on March 23, 2020 and relaxation of the period of limitation need not be continued any further, the court said. It said the order was passed on March 23 last year in view of the extraordinary health crisis . On March 8, 2021, the order dated March 23, 2020 was brought to an end, permitting relaxation of the period of limitation between March 15, 2020 and March 14, 2021. While doing so, it was made clear that the period of limitation would start from March 15, 2021, it said. The bench said as the March 8 this year order was only a one-time measure , in view of the pandemic, it is not inclined to modify the conditions contained in that order. In cases where the limitation would have expired during the period between March 15, 2020 till October 2, 2021, notwithstanding the actual balance period of limitation remaining, all persons shall have a limitation period of 90 days from October 3, 2021. "In the event the actual balance period of limitation remaining, with effect from October 3, 2021, is greater than 90 days, that longer period shall apply, it said. The apex court said the period from March 15 last year till October 2, 2021 shall also stand excluded in computing the periods prescribed under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, the Commercial Courts Act, the Negotiable Instruments Act and any other laws which prescribe period of limitation. The Government of India shall amend the guidelines for containment zones, to state. Regulated movement will be allowed for medical emergencies, provision of essential goods and services, and other necessary functions, such as, time-bound applications, including for legal purposes, and educational and job-related requirements', the bench said in its order. While hearing the matter on September 23, the bench had taken note of the improved pandemic situation and observed that it will recall its April 27 order by which it had extended the operation of an earlier direction on limitation period. It had observed that the suo motu extension of the limitation period will be withdrawn and after that, the usual limitation period of 90 days for filing cases in courts will come into effect once again. During the hearing, the Attorney General had suggested that the March 8, 2021 order of the apex court, which had recalled the last year's direction extending the limitation period indefinitely, may be restored.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
25-09-2021||India||National Crisis Management Committee reviews preparedness for cyclone||The National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) on Saturday reviewed the preparedness to deal with a cyclonic storm developing in the Bay of Bengal and directed authorities to take all necessary measures. The storm is expected to cross the northern Andhra Pradesh and the southern Odisha coasts on Sunday evening with wind speeds ranging from 75-85 kmph, gusting to 95 kmph, accompanied by heavy rainfall. It is likely to affect districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Vishakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh, and Ganjam and Gajapati in Odisha. The NCMC under the chairmanship of Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba reviewed the preparedness of central ministries, agencies and state governments to deal with the situation arising out of the cyclonic storm developing in the Bay of Bengal, an official statement said. The director general of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) briefed the NCMC about the current status of the deep depression in the Bay of Bengal, which is likely to develop into a cyclonic storm by Saturday evening. The chief secretaries of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh apprised the NCMC of the preparatory measures being undertaken to protect the population in the expected path of the cyclonic storm as also measures being taken to ensure that there is minimal damage to infrastructure such as telecom and power in the aftermath of the storm. Necessary arrangements have been made to ensure that COVID-19 protocols are followed. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has deployed 18 teams in these states and additional teams have been kept ready. The rescue and relief teams of the Army and the Navy along with ships and aircraft have also been deployed. Reviewing the preparedness of the states and central agencies, Gauba stressed that all preventive and precautionary measures should be taken by authorities concerned of the state and central governments before the cyclonic storm makes landfall, the statement said. He said the aim should be to keep loss of life to near zero and minimise damage to property and infrastructure. The cabinet secretary assured the state governments that all central agencies are ready and will be available for assistance. The meeting was attended by the chief secretaries of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh, secretaries of ministries of home affairs and power. The directors general of the NDRF and the IMD, and senior officers from the Ministry of Home Affairs also attended the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
25-09-2021||India||When ‘poison of hatred’ is being spread, then what is ‘Amrit Mahotsav’: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said freedom does not mean anything when it is not for everyone and asked what 'Amrit Mahotsav' meant when the "poison of hatred" is being spread in the country. His remarks come in the wake of clashes between police and alleged encroachers during an eviction drive in Assam's Darrang district on Thursday that left two persons dead and 20 injured. A shocking video showing a man slinging a camera and hitting an apparently dead person with a bullet wound on his chest also surfaced after the incident. The man was later arrested and a judicial probe has been ordered into the incident. "When the poison of hatred is being spread in the country then what is 'Amrit Mahotsav'? What does freedom mean if it is not for everyone," Gandhi asked in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag 'Assam'. Congress leaders have met Assam Governor Jagadish Mukhi urging him to stop the eviction drive at Sipajhar in Darrang till a proper rehabilitation package is announced. Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Friday asserted that discussions were held for over four months before an eviction drive was launched to clear the land at Gorukhuti village in Darrang district where police firing claimed two lives during the exercise. A 12-hour bandh called by various organisations to protest against the incident affected normal life in Darrang district on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
25-09-2021||India||Terrorism will come back to haunt countries using terror as political tool, PM tells United Nations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that countries with "regressive thinking" that are using terrorism as a "political tool" must understand that it is an equally big threat for them also, in a veiled attack on Pakistan which is often accused by its neighbours of providing safe havens to terrorists. Addressing the 76th UN General Assembly here, Prime Minister Modi also said that in order to strengthen the rules-based world order, the international community must speak in unison, in an apparent reference to China which is flexing its military muscles in the Indo-Pacific. Noting that the world is facing an increased threat of regressive thinking and extremism, Modi said countries that are using terrorism as a political tool have to understand that terrorism is an equally big threat to them. "It is absolutely essential to ensure that Afghanistan's territory is not used to spread terrorism and for terrorist activities," he said. "We also need to ensure that no country tries to take advantage of the delicate situation in Afghanistan and use it for its own selfish interests." Pakistan's neighbours, including Afghanistan and India, and the US have long accused Islamabad of providing safe haven and support to militants, a charge denied by it. Modi said that oceans are also a shared heritage. "Our oceans are also the lifeline of international trade. We must protect them from the race for expansion. The international community must speak in one voice to strengthen a rule-based world order, he added. Calling India the "Mother of Democracy", the Prime Minister  Modi also showcased India's credentials as one of the world's oldest democracies and held out the example of how India's political system had empowered people and ensured "equitable development" for the country's masses. "Yes, democracy can deliver. Yes, democracy has delivered," Prime Minister Modi said emphatically. "The strength of our democracy is demonstrated by the fact that a little boy who used to help his father at a tea stall is addressing the UN General Assembly for the fourth time as Prime Minister of India," he said, citing his own example as he has often done in the past. He began the speech by paying tributes to the large number of lives lost since 2019 to the global Covid pandemic. The Prime Minister returned to the topic  a short while after, citing India's ability to develop and manufacture vaccines and the setting up of the Co-WIN platform to streamline the country's ongoing nationwide inoculation drive. He told the General Assembly that India had resumed the process of providing vaccines to those who need it in the world. "I'd like to inform the UN General Assembly that India has developed the world's first DNA-based vaccine...Another is in the final stages of development. Indian scientists are also working on developing a nasal vaccine for coronavirus," he said. "I extend my invitation to vaccine manufacturers from around the world: Come and make vaccines in India." Earlier, stating how the world grows when India grows and how the "world transforms when India reforms", PM Modi listed other achievements of the country on the welfare front. Inspired by the "Integral Humanism" philosophy of Deendayal Upadhyay, the ideological torchbearer of his party, the BJP, he said India was ensuring integrated and equitable development for all. Extending his favourite slogan, "sabka saath, sabka vikas" ("With everyone, everyone's progress"), he said the country's priority was inclusive, universal development that "nurtures all". "India has made homeless families home-owners...We are carrying out a campaign to ensure that piped clean water reaches homes...Drones are being used to map over 600,000 villages (to facilitate) digital land records...They reduce property disputes and increase access to credit and bank loans," PM Modi said, listing some of the projects being undertaken in India today||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
25-09-2021||India||Rohini shootout: Plea in HC to take steps to ensure safety, security of Delhi district courts||A plea has been moved in the Delhi High Court urging it to direct authorities to take requisite measures for the safety and security of district courts here, a day after a shootout inside the Rohini courtroom left three gangsters dead and a law intern injured. The petition filed by a woman advocate said she has been practicing in various Delhi courts for years, but it has become unsafe for her and thousands of fellow lawyers to visit there as they have become easy terrain for gangsters to settles scores. It is also painful that a young legal professional has also got severely injured in the scary incident. This shootout inside the court again puts a big question mark on the safety and security of judges, lawyers and litigants inside the district courts in Delhi, petitioner advocate Deepa Joseph said. The plea sought direction to the Delhi Police and the Bar Council of Delhi to consider instructing all police personnel at court entrances to ensure that they check the ID cards of every lawyer who enters the court premises. It also sought to direct the Delhi Police to raise security and frisking level of lawyers at par with the Supreme Court and Delhi High Court, and to take disciplinary action against the officers who fail to implement the direction with utmost diligence and seriousness. The plea, moved through lawyers Robin Raju and Blessan Mathews, said the BCD be asked to issue an advisory to all the District Bar Associations in the city to recommend members of their bar to cooperate with police personnel at the main entrance of courts. On Friday, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana expressed deep concern over the Rohini shootout and spoke to the Delhi High Court Chief Justice in this regard and advised him to talk to both police and the Bar to ensure that the functioning of the court is not affected. Meanwhile, a group of lawyers have also sent a letter to the Delhi High Court Chief Justice D N Patel to initiate a public interest litigation and take cognisance of the issue regarding serious lapse in security arrangement in district courts here. The letter, written by advocates Rishi Kapoor, Ankur Gogia and Shivam Sharma, has been emailed to the Registrar General of the high court. We fear the unpreparedness by the security arrangement in all district courts of Delhi and therefore, we are appealing to your Lordship to take appropriate action, the letter said. The lawyer's petition said the Friday's shootout is not the first-of-its-kind in Delhi and in the recent past, there have been incidents of shooting in the Dwarka court, a firing near the Saket court in May 2019 and an undertrial was killed after being shot inside the Rohini court complex in 2017. Another incident similar in line to the Rohini court also took place in Karkardooma court in 2015 in which a Delhi Police head constable was killed when four armed assailants open fired inside a courtroom. The incident that has happened on Friday, at Rohini court, was truly well planned. The assailants posed as lawyers and were present inside the courtroom before the dreaded gangster was produced before the court. The ease with which the assailants entered into the court premises in the attire shows that they were well aware that it is easy to get access into the court by being in a lawyers' attire, the plea said. Jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi and his two assailants posing as lawyers were killed inside the Rohini courtroom on Friday in a dramatic shootout that also saw the police fire bullets in retaliation, officials said. Video footage of the incident showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207. The two gunmen dressed as lawyers are suspected to be members of rival Tillu gang, an official said, adding that over 30 shots were fired. Witnesses said a law intern has also sustained bullet injury in her leg and some also claimed that the gang members pumped 10 bullets into Gogi, one of Delhi's most wanted criminals. Sources said Gogi received about seven bullet injuries, even as there was no official confirmation from police on this.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
25-09-2021||India||Digital 'de-addiction' centres in Kerala to stop gaming addiction among kids||In a major child-friendly initiative, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday announced the setting up of "digital de-addiction centres" in the state to bring children addicted to online games into the mainstream society. He also declared 20 more police stations as 'child-friendly', taking the total of such stations to 126 in the southern state. Vijayan made the significant announcements while inaugurating the newly constructed or renovated buildings under the police department via online. The police force has been able to lay a special mark in terms of public service through their exemplary work, he said, adding that they could prove through experience that they were ahead of others in serving people. "Digital de-addiction centres will be set up at the behest of police to bring children addicted to online games into the mainstream of society," the CM said while detailing various programmes of the police department. His statement assumes significance in the wake of a handful of incidents of children falling into the trap of online games reported in the state in recent times. Impressive achievements could be made in providing basic infrastructure facilities for police in the last five years, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
25-09-2021||India||Tourism sector heading for a comeback||With the help of large-scale vaccination programmes and new norms rolling out, the tourism sector is inching its way back to recovery, and restart of tourism will help kick-start recovery and growth, the Confederation of Hospitality, Technology and Tourism Industry said on Saturday. It is also essential that the benefits this will bring are enjoyed widely and fairly, the industry body said in a statement. "The travel sector, especially domestic travel, appears to be heading for a comeback. Indian travellers are looking for quick getaways through road trips, weekend breaks and staycations that offer local stay experiences," Airbnb India, Southeast Asia, Hong Kong and Taiwan General Manager, Amanpreet Bajaj said. Travellers are also becoming increasingly aware of sustainable travel and are making environment-friendly choices when travelling, he added. "The pandemic has helped promote environmental awareness amongst travellers and today, it's encouraging to see people actively seeking sustainable travel choices," MakeMyTrip Co-Founder & Group CEO Rajesh Magow said. In a similar vein, EaseMyTrip CEO and Co-Founder Nishant Pitti said, "We have noticed that Indian travellers have started making more sustainable travel decisions as the pandemic has made everyone think about the kind of impact they are creating while travelling." They are now more aware of their choices as they reevaluate their plans keeping sustainability in mind, he added. "The industry travel booking trends suggest that in a year from now we will be witnessing the best phase for the travel sector. The demand we are witnessing is fairly distributed and holiday patterns have changed tremendously," OYO India & South-East Asia CEO Rohit Kapoor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
25-09-2021||India||Indian Army officer cycles from Leh to Manali to set Guinness World Record||An Indian Army officer is cycling from Leh to Manali in an attempt to set a Guinness record for the "fastest solo cycling (men)", a defence spokesman said. Lt Col Sripada Sriram of the strategic Strikers Division started cycling for his mission after being flagged off by Brig R K Thakur from Leh at 4 am on Saturday, the spokesman said. He said the officer would attempt to cover the distance of 472 km with a total elevation gain of approximately 8,000 metres. The route involves crossing of five major passes in tough weather conditions, the spokesman said, adding the officer is expected to reach Manali in Himachal Pradesh by September 26 afternoon. "This event becomes more special as it is part of 'Swarnim Vijay Varsh' celebrations and marks the occasion of 195th Gunners' Day, the spokesman said. India is celebrating 'Swarnim Vijay Varsh' to mark the 50th anniversary of its victory against Pakistan in the 1971 war.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
25-09-2021||India||Legislature needs to revisit laws to suit needs of time, says NV Ramana||The Chief Justice of India, Justice N V Ramana Saturday said the Legislature needs to revisit laws and reform them to suit the needs of time and people so that they match "practical realities". The CJI while inaugurating the new building of the Odisha State Legal Service Authority here, also said there is need for the executive and the legislature to work hand in hand in realising "constitutional aspirations." "I emphasize, our laws must match with our practical realities. The executive has to match these efforts by way of simplifying the corresponding rules," Justice Ramana said. He also emphasised that it was important for the Executive and Legislature to "function in unison in realising Constitutional aspirations." The CJI noted that it is only then, the Judiciary would not be compelled to step in as a law-maker and would only be left with the duty of applying and interpreting laws. At the end of the day, it is the harmonious functioning of the three organs of the State that can remove procedural barriers to justice, he pointed out. Stating that the Indian Judicial system is faced with twin challenges, the CJI pointed out that the first one is that of Indianisation of Justice delivery system . Even after 74 years of Independence, traditional and agrarian societies which have been following customary ways of life, "feel hesitant to approach the courts, he noted. "The practices, procedures, language of our Courts feel alien to them", he said adding that between the complex language of the acts and the process of justice delivery, the common man seems to lose control over the fate of his grievance. Often in this trajectory, the justice-seeker feels like an outsider to the system, he pointed out. He, however, said that although it is a harsh reality, often the Indian legal system fails to take into consideration the social realities and implications. Sadly, our system is designed in such a way that by the time all the facts and law are churned in the court of law, much gets lost. People might be bringing their problems to the courts, but what remains at the end of a day is yet another case , the CJI said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
25-09-2021||India||Security beefed up at Rohini court after dramatic shootout||A day after a dramatic shootout in Rohini court left three people dead, the Delhi Police heightened its security arrangements on Saturday, with officials saying only vehicles with allotted stickers will be allowed to enter the court premises and lawyers and litigants will be thoroughly checked. A senior police official said adequate personnel have been deployed inside and outside the court to ensure no untoward incident takes place in the future. He said concerns have also been raised about functioning of metal detectors in the court premises and the matter has been taken up with the court administration. Jailed gangster Jitender Mann alias Gogi and two assailants were killed inside the courtroom in a dramatic shootout on Friday. Video footage of the incident, which exposed security lapses in the system, showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207. Although metal detectors were at the gates of the court, it was not known whether they were working or not, and how the armed men could get past, raising questions about security arrangements. "When it comes to checking and frisking, it has been observed that lawyers do not want to be frisked and that was a major problem faced. It is not limited to Rohini court alone as this has been observed in other lower courts as well. But we are in touch with the Bar Association of Rohini court and they are also cooperating," the police official said. A turf war broke out inside Rohini courtroom onFriday between two rival gangs in which Maan and his two assailants posing as lawyers were killed in the dramatic shootout that also saw police fire bullets in retaliation. The two gunmen dressed as lawyers were suspected to be members of rival Tillu gang, an official had said, adding that over 30 shots were fired. Following the incident, Bar Council of Delhi Chairman Rakesh Sherawat, along with other officials, had also met Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana on Friday to discuss the security situation. "An elaborate review of the existing security arrangements is being done and accordingly, a new set of security measures will be put in place very soon. Emphasis will be laid on improving CCTV surveillance, frisking and deployment of armed police personnel on each floor of the court building is also being considered, another police official said. The joint commissioner of police (northern range) has been asked to probe the incident and submit a report. Meanwhile, a case has been registered and is being handled by the Crime Branch of Delhi Police. Lawyers' bodies in Delhi have demanded a probe into the shootout and called for abstaining from work on Saturday demanding enhanced security norms inside all the seven district courts premises in the national capital. The 'Coordination Committee of all District Courts Bar Associations in Delhi' called for suspension of work on Saturday and said it will decide the further course of action in a meeting that has been called on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
25-09-2021||India||Biden reiterates US support for India's permanent inclusion in UN Security Council||US President Joe Biden has reiterated America's support for India's permanent membership on a reformed United Nations Security Council and its entry into the Nuclear Suppliers Group during his first in-person bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the White House. President Biden, in his talks with Prime Minister Modi, applauded India's strong leadership during its UN Security Council Presidency in August 2021, according to the US-India Joint Leaders' Statement issued after their meeting in the White House on Friday. In this context, President Biden also reiterated US support for India's permanent membership on a reformed UN Security Council and for other countries who are important champions of multilateral cooperation and aspire to permanent seats on the UN Security Council, it said. President Biden's support provides a big boost to New Delhi's push for the reform of the powerful UN organ as India has been at the forefront of efforts at the United Nations to push for an urgent long-pending reform of the Security Council, emphasising that it rightly deserves a place at the UN high table as a permanent member. India in June asserted that the Inter-Governmental Negotiations (IGN) on UN Security Council reforms can no longer be used as a smokescreen, as the General Assembly decided to roll over the IGN work to the next UNGA session and agreed to include an amendment proposed by the G4 nations of Brazil, Germany, India and Japan. At present, the UNSC comprises five permanent members and 10 non-permanent member countries which are elected for a two-year term by the General Assembly of the United Nations. The five permanent members are Russia, the UK, China, France and the United States and these countries can veto any substantive resolution. There has been growing demand to increase the number of permanent members to reflect the contemporary global reality. During his meeting with Prime Minister Modi, President Biden also reaffirmed US support for India's entry to the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG), the joint statement said. The NSG is a 48-member grouping which regulates global nuclear commerce. Ever since India applied for the membership of the NSG in May 2016, China has been insisting that only those countries which have signed the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) should be allowed to enter the organisation. India and Pakistan are not signatories of the NPT. After India's application, Pakistan too has applied for the NSG membership in 2016. China maintains that there would be no discussion on India's entry into the NSG before reaching a specific plan on non-NPT members' participation in the elite grouping, as it declined to give a timeline to reach a consensus among member states on this issue. President Biden's support to India's permanent seat in the UNSC assumes significance as last month, State Department Spokesperson Ned Price told reporters at his daily news conference that the US values "working with India at the United Nations, including in the context this month of the Security Council." Responding to a question on whether the Biden administration thinks that India should be a permanent member of the UN Security Council, Price said that the US supports building a consensus for a "modest" expansion of the Council for both permanent and non-permanent members, provided it does not diminish its effectiveness or its efficacy and does not alter or expand the veto. "We believe that a reformed Security Council that is representative, that is effective, and that is relevant is in the best interest of the United States and all of the UN member states," Price had said. In their talks on Friday, Prime Minister Modi and President Biden also welcomed the extension of the Statement of Guiding Principles on Triangular Cooperation for Global Development to leverage the combined capacities of India and the US to address global development challenges around the world, particularly in the Indo-Pacific and Africa, the statement said. They renewed their close relationship and charted a new course to advance the partnership between the world's largest democracies They also affirmed a clear vision that will guide the US-India relationship forward, the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
25-09-2021||India||CoWin certificates to mention date of birth of fully vaccinated people travelling abroad||People who are fully inoculated and want to travel abroad will have a CoWin certificate with their full date of birth, official sources said on Saturday amid ongoing discussions between India and the UK over Covid vaccination certificates. Currently, CoWin certificates mention the beneficiary's age based on the year of birth besides other details. The new feature is being introduced in compliance with the WHO norms and is likely to be available from next week. "It has been decided that a new feature will be added to the CoWin under which those who are fully vaccinated and want to travel abroad will have full date of birth on their vaccination certificates," an official source said. The UK on Wednesday had amended its new travel guidelines to include the Indian-made version of the AstraZeneca vaccine in its updated list of approved COVID-19 vaccines. Following India's strong criticism over the UK's refusal to recognise Covishield, London has included the vaccine in its updated international travel advisory. However, Indian travellers vaccinated with two doses of Covishield would still have to undergo 10 days of quarantine in the UK notwithstanding the amendment, UK officials had clarified on Wednesday saying the inclusion of the vaccine would not make much of a difference. "We're clear Covishield is not a problem. The UK is open to travel and we're already seeing a lot of people going from India to the UK, be it tourists, business people or students," British High Commissioner Alex Ellis had said in a statement on Wednesday. "We have been having detailed technical discussions regarding certification, with the builders of the CoWin app and the NHS app, about both apps. They're happening at a rapid pace, to ensure that both countries mutually recognise the vaccine certificates issued by each other," he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
25-09-2021||India||Centre to soon announce new cooperative policy, says Amit Shah||Union Cooperation Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said the Centre will soon come out with a new cooperative policy and work in tandem with states to strengthen the cooperative movement. Shah, who is also the Union Home Minister, also announced that the number of primary agriculture cooperatives (PACs) will be increased to 3 lakh in the next five years. At present, there are about 65,000 PACs. He was speaking at the first Sehkarita Sammelan or National Cooperative Conference here. The Ministry of Cooperation was formed in July this year. Addressing the gathering comprising over 2,100 representatives of different cooperatives and nearly 6 crore online participants, Shah said some people wonder why the Centre created this new ministry as the cooperatives are a state subject. Shah said there could be a legal response to it, but he does not want to "get into this argument". The Centre, he stressed, will cooperate with states and "there will be no friction". "We will work with all states to take forward the cooperative movement," he said, and added the Ministry of Cooperation has been formed to strengthen and modernise the sector. On the proposed new cooperative policy, Shah said a policy was brought in 2002 by the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, and now the Modi government will start working on a new policy. Stressing that the cooperative movement was more relevant today than ever, Shah said cooperatives can contribute a lot in the development of the country. According to him, the cooperatives will play a crucial part in making India a USD 5 trillion economy. Referring to the problems being faced by cooperatives on the taxation front and other issues, Shah said he was aware of the concerns and assured that there would be no injustice towards them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
25-09-2021||India||Afghanistan developments raised questions about power politics, says Rajnath||The developments in Afghanistan raised questions about role of power politics and the use of terrorism as a tool to change State structures and behaviour, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday. In an address at the National Defence College, Singh also said that there has been growing realisation of India's concerns over Pakistan's support to radical and terror groups. In a veiled reference to Pakistan, he said the turmoil caused in the region has been brought about by "aggressive designs" and the active support to non-State players by irresponsible States. "Today, the world is witness to the destabilising effects of terror and the especially dangerous precedence of violent radical forces attempting to gain legitimacy by creating new normals," he said. The defence minister said that there is a widespread realisation amongst all responsible nations over the need to come together against the common challenges. "The recent events in Afghanistan have reinforced the reality of our times. The only certainty about evolving geopolitics is its uncertainty. Changes in State boundaries may not be as frequent today," he said. "However, the fast-transforming structure of States and the influence that external powers can have on it is clearly evident," he said "These events raise questions regarding the very role of power politics and the use of terrorism as a tool to change State structures and behaviour," Singh added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
25-09-2021||India||Women's rights activist Kamla Bhasin passes away at 75||Eminent women's rights activist, poet and author Kamla Bhasin passed away on Saturday. She was 75. Activist Kavita Srivastava said on Twitter Bhasin breathed her last around 3 am. Bhasin has been a prominent voice in the women's movement in India and other South Asian countries. "Kamla Bhasin, our dear friend, passed away around 3am today 25th Sept. This is a big setback for the women's movement in India and the South Asian region. She celebrated life whatever the adversity. Kamla you will always live in our hearts. In Sisterhood, which is in deep grief," Kavita Srivastava tweeted. The chant of 'Azaadi' which echoed across protest sites in the country is said to have been popularised by Bhasin as a feminist slogan against patriarchy. Netizens took to Twitter to condole Bhasin's demise. Supreme Court lawyer Prashant Bhushan said Kamla Bhasin was not only a women's rights activist, but also a philanthropist who set up and helped setting up many fine public Interest institutions like Jagori in Himachal Pradesh and School for democracy in Rajasthan. "She will be missed by many. May her soul rest in peace," he tweeted. Social activist Harsh Mander also expressed grief at her passing away. "Immense grief at passing of Kamla Bhasin. She has been and will remain a massive influence on many generations, teaching us by word, action, poetry, song & storytelling the equality of genders. She loved life, loved people," he tweeted. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor also took to Twitter to condole her death. He shared her poem and posted a message, "Farewell to the inspiring Kamla Bhasin, voice of women's empowerment, heroine of girls' education, immortal poet." Historian S Irfan Habib said, "Very sad to hear about the tragic demise of dear friend and an exceptional human being Kamla Bhasin. We were just discussing her health yesterday but never realised that she will leave us next day. You will be terribly missed." Save the Children India, in a tweet, said, "Your legacy will live on in songs of hope and writings of courage. The spirit of movement will continue to ignite change. Rest in glory Kamla Bhasin. Your work will continue inspiring our collective efforts to drive change for every girl towards a vision of equality you espoused".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
25-09-2021||India||Punjab cabinet finalised, seven new faces find place||Seven new faces are likely to be inducted in the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Punjab cabinet while five ministers who were part of the Amarinder Singh-led government are expected to be dropped, sources said Saturday With the list of ministers for the new cabinet finalised, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi Saturday met Governor Banwarilal Purohit at Raj Bhavan here around 12:30 pm. After meeting the governor, Channi told reporters the oath-taking ceremony for the new ministers will take place at 4:30 pm on Sunday. His meeting with the governor came barely hours after he returned from Delhi having held a final round of discussion with the party high command on the cabinet formation. Pargat Singh, Raj Kumar Verka, Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring, Kuljit Nagra and Rana Gurjit Singh are likely to be included in the cabinet, according to the sources. The party is also learnt to have decided to retain Vijay Inder Singla, Manpreet Singh Badal, Brahm Mohindra, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Arunu Chaudhary, Razia Sultana and Bharat Bhushan Ashu from the Amarinder Singh government. However, five legislators -- Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Balbir Singh Sidhu, Gurpreet Singh Kangar and Sunder Sham Arora -- who were ministers in the Amarinder Singh-led cabinet are likely to be dropped, the sources said. A consensus on the names for the Channi-led cabinet was reached during his meeting with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and other senior party members in the national capital. Channi was summoned to Delhi by the Congress high command on Friday to discuss the cabinet formation. The visit came within hours of him returning from the national capital. A total of 18 MLAs can be included in the cabinet, including Chief Minister Channi and two his deputies Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
25-09-2021||India||Modi raises issue of H-1B visas with President Biden||Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his first-ever in-person meeting with President Joe Biden raised a number of issues involving the Indian community in America, including access for Indian professionals in the US and speaking about the H-1B visas, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla has said. Prime Minister Modi described as "outstanding" his first bilateral meeting in the Oval Office with US President Joe Biden who said the Indo-US relationship is destined to be "stronger, closer and tighter. The prime minister and his counterparts - Scott Morrison of Australia and Japan's Yoshihide Suga also attended the meeting of Quad leaders hosted by US President Biden in the US capital on Friday. He (Modi) spoke of the issue of getting access for Indian professionals to the United States. In that context he mentioned H-1B visa, Shringla told reporters at a news conference on Friday. The most sought-after H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in speciality occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. The technology companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries like India and China. He also spoke of the fact that many Indian professionals who work here contribute to Social Security. The return of those contributions in the United States is something that affects the number of Indian workers, Shringla said. A fact sheet issued by the White House later said that the United States was proud to have issued a record 62,000 visas to Indian students so far in 2021. The nearly 200,000 Indian students in the United States contribute USD 7.7 billion annually to the US economy. Celebrating the 75th anniversary of the Fulbright Programme worldwide, the programme has been bringing Americans and Indians closer together for 71 years since its launch in India. In 2008, we welcomed India's decision to jointly fund these fellowships with the United States, and renamed the program the Fulbright-Nehru Fellowship Program. Over 20,000 fellowships and grants have been awarded under this exchange programme, and the United States looks forward to building on these successes, it said. The Partnership 2020 programme continues to foster higher education cooperation to promote economic growth and technological advances. In collaboration with the University of Nebraska at Omaha, this programme funds 15 research partnerships between US and Indian universities in the fields of advanced engineering, artificial intelligence, public health, and energy, among others, the White House said. According to the White House, the upcoming launch of the US-India Alliance for Women's Economic Empowerment a public-private partnership between the Department of State, USAID, the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum, and George Washington University will help catalyse collaboration to advance women's economic resilience and empowerment in India. The US-funded Nexus startup and innovation hub showcases the best of American and Indian entrepreneurial innovation and technology commercialisation. Nexus serves as a central hub for entrepreneurs, innovators, faculty, industry players, and funding organisations interested in promoting Indian startups and the local entrepreneurial ecosystem, it said. Since 2016, Nexus's 138 graduates have raised over USD 19 million in outside funding and closed over 70 deals with many prominent Indian and US companies, it said. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration works closely with Indian counterparts in areas such as ocean and fisheries science, meteorology, and earth observation, which helps us better understand climate change and save lives through improved weather modeling and information sharing, the White House said. The US Department of Agriculture looks forward to cooperating with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research on climate-change issues related to agriculture through strategic research on crops, livestock, and fisheries, it said. USAID looks forward to working with the Indian government on establishing the US-India Gandhi-King Development Foundation to promote initiatives and exchanges that honor both visionary leaders, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
25-09-2021||India||Rahul calls for aggressive poll campaign in Goa||Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has directed the leaders of his party in Goa, where Assembly polls are due in February next year, to launch an aggressive campaign in the state and ensure the defeat of the ruling BJP. Gandhi gave this direction during a meeting of party leaders, which he chaired in New Delhi on Friday, Congress's Goa desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao said in a statement. Apart from Rao, party's senior election observer for the Goa Assembly polls P Chidambaram, general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal, GPCC president Girish Chodankar and Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader Digambar Kamat attended the meeting. "Our leader Rahul Gandhi wants the Congress party in Goa to fulfill the aspirations and respect the sentiments of people of Goa," Rao said. Gandhi asked the party leaders to launch an aggressive campaign and ensure the defeat of the BJP in the forthcoming Assembly elections, he said. "We will take along our well-wishers, sympathisers, supporters in our Victory March towards Elections-2022. We are certain to defeat Team BJP," Rao added. In the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, the Congress had won the highest 17 seats in the 40-member House, restricting the BJP to 13. However, surprising the Congress, the saffron party had allied with regional parties and came to power. Over the years, Congress's strength in the Legislative Assembly dwindled to five after many of its MLAs switched sides and joined the ruling BJP. Gandhi's meeting with the party leaders took place amid indications that the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) may jump into the poll fray in the coastal state. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is also gearing up for the polls. Earlier this week, the party's national convener Arvind Kejriwal visited the state and announced that if voted to power, his party would ensure that 80 per cent of jobs, including in the private sector, would be reserved for local people. He also assured a monthly remuneration of Rs 5,000 to families dependent on mining and tourism industries till these sectors are normalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
25-09-2021||India||India logs over 29,000 fresh Covid cases, 290 casualties in a day||India logged 29,616 new coronavirus infections, taking the total tally of cases to 3,36,24,419, while the active cases rose by 1,280 to reach 3,01,442, according to Union Health Ministry data updated Saturday. The death toll climbed to 4,46,658 with 290 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases now constitute 0.90 per cent of the total infections, while the nationwide COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.78 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. An increase of 1,280 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, it said. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.86 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate was 1.99 per cent. The latter has been below 3 per cent for the last 92 days, it said. India's tally of cases had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,28,76,319 and the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. On the inoculation front, the cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 84.89 crore. As many as 15,92,421 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 56,16,61,383. The 290 new fatalities include 127 from Kerala, 51 from Maharashtra and 27 from Tamil Nadu. A total of 4,46,658 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,776 from Maharashtra, 37,706 From Karnataka, 35,454 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 24,318 from Kerala, 22,890 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,716 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
25-09-2021||India||Mumbai crime branch officer caught taking Rs 2 lakh bribe||An assistant police inspector of the Mumbai crime branch was caught taking a bribe of Rs 2 lakh, which was part of the amount that he had demanded for not initiating any action against an accused in a car theft case, an official of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) said on Saturday. API Nagesh Ambadas Puranik, 45, was caught red-handed at the crime branch's property cell in Byculla of central Mumbai on Friday, he said. Puranik had demanded Rs 12 lakh bribe from the wife of a man, who is accused in a luxury car theft case. He had told her that if the money is paid, no action would be taken against her husband and his friend, the official said. Puranik had already received Rs 4 lakh bribe and was demanding the remaining Rs 8 lakh from the complainant, he said. However, she approached the officials of the ACB unit in Worli. After verifying the complaint, a trap was laid and Puranik was caught while collecting Rs 2 lakh bribe from the complainant, he said. An offence under section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered against Puranik and he was being questioned, the ACB official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
25-09-2021||India||Pakistan an 'arsonist' disguising itself as a 'fire-fighter', India tells UN||Pakistan, where terrorists enjoy free pass, is an "arsonist" disguising itself as a "fire-fighter", and the entire world has suffered because of its policies as the country nurtures terrorists in its backyard, India has said in a blistering retort after Prime Minister Imran Khan raked up the issue of Kashmir in his address to the UN General Assembly. "We exercise our Right of Reply to one more attempt by the leader of Pakistan to tarnish the image of this august forum by bringing in matters internal to my country, and going so far as to spew falsehoods on the world stage," First Secretary Sneha Dubey said in the UN General Assembly on Friday. "While such statements deserve our collective contempt and sympathy for the mindset of the person who utters falsehood repeatedly, I am taking the floor to set the record straight," the young Indian diplomat said, slamming the Pakistani leader for raking up the Kashmir issue in his address to the 76th session of the UN General Assembly. "We keep hearing that Pakistan is a 'victim of terrorism'. This is the country which is an arsonist disguising itself as a fire-fighter. Pakistan nurtures terrorists in their backyard in the hope that they will only harm their neighbours. Our region, and in fact the entire world, has suffered because of their policies. On the other hand, they are trying to cover up sectarian violence in their country as acts of terror," Dubey said. Khan in his address had spoken about the August 5, 2019 decision of the Indian government on the abrogation of Article 370 as well as the death of pro-Pakistan separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani. In the Right of Reply, Dubey strongly reiterated that the entire Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh "were, are and will always be an integral and inalienable part of India. This includes the areas that are under the illegal occupation of Pakistan. We call upon Pakistan to immediately vacate all areas under its illegal occupation". Khan and other Pakistani leaders and diplomats have consistently raked up the issue of Jammu and Kashmir and other internal matters of India in their addresses to the UN General Assembly and other forums of the world organisation. Pakistan's attempts to internationalise the Kashmir issue have gained no traction from the international community and the Member States, who maintain that Kashmir is a bilateral matter between the two countries. Later on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to address the Un General Assembly at 6.30pm IST. In Washington, Indian foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla also noted that Pakistan, which has been projecting itself as a facilitator, has been in many senses an instigator of some of the problems that India has been dealing with in its neighbourhood. Both during the India-US bilateral meeting by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden and the Quad summit comprising Australia, India, Japan and US, there was a clear sense of a more careful look, examination and monitoring of Pakistan's role in Afghanistan, Shringla said as the Indian delegation concluded its two days of hectic engagements in the city. "Both in the bilateral discussions as well as in the forum discussions there was the clear sense that a more careful look, and a more careful examination and monitoring of Pakistan's role in Afghanistan. Pakistan's role on the issue of terrorism, had to be kept, and that certainly weather it is Quad or its other partners have to keep track of that factor," Shringla told reporters at a news conference here on Friday. "An important factor which sometimes gets overlooked is when you see Pakistan, protecting itself as a facilitator, whereas, it has really been in many senses an instigator of some of the problems that we're dealing with in our neighbourhood and beyond," he said in response to a question. Shringla said during the bilateral discussions at the While House, there was a clear concern expressed on Pakistan's role in Afghanistan and the continuing support for an approach that did not seem to be conducive to the international community's expectations of what the war-torn country should be like. "Both India and the United States agreed that the issue of terrorism is very important. Both sides denounced any use of terrorist proxies and emphasised the importance of denying the logistical, financial or military support to terrorist groups, which could be used to plan, or launch terror attacks," he said. The leaders also noted that the US and India will be organising a counter-terrorism joint working group meeting designation dialogue and there is also going to be a renewed US India Homeland Security dialogue in the areas of law enforcement, he said. Noting that there was quite a bit of discussion on Afghanistan, Shringla said that there was a lot of importance attached to the fact that the United Nations resolution 2593 was adopted and India's Presidency of the Security Council. "This is an important resolution which reflected the international community's general view on the situation in Afghanistan and the obligations of the ruling dispensation there to fulfill certain conditionalities that the international community faced are important," he said. "So, the two sides underscored the importance of combat and terrorism in Afghanistan. They called on the Taliban to adhere to these and all of its commitments under resolution 2593. That includes, obviously the issue of ensuring that the Afghan territory is not used to threaten attack against any country, shelter any terrorist groups or finance terrorist attacks and underscores the importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan," he said. The two delegations also called upon Afghanistan to respect human rights of women, children, minorities, provision of humanitarian assistance and access to humanitarian workers, Shringla said. They also called upon the two sides to secure an inclusive politically negotiated settlement in Afghanistan, he said. "This is an important point. I think the fact that the current ruling dispensation did not appear to be an inclusive one, did not involve the ethnic minorities of Afghanistan to the extent that it should, that it did not did not include participation of women," he said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
25-09-2021||India||Modi photo and slogan in Supreme Court emails; now dropped||The Supreme Court was “shocked” to discover on Thursday evening that the Centre’s e-governance spearhead had appended to all the court’s outgoing emails a picture of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his “sabka saath” slogan, court sources said. After the matter came to the attention of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana, who is also the top court’s administrative head, the National Informatics Centre (NIC) was told to remove Modi's image and the slogan immediately and all its senior officials were pulled up, the sources added. “It complied within an hour of the directive being issued on Friday morning,” one of the sources told The Telegraph. On Friday evening, a source said: “Late last evening, it was brought to the notice of the Registry of the Supreme Court that the official emails of the Supreme Court of India were carrying an image as footer which has no connection whatsoever with the functioning of the judiciary.” The source added: “The National Informatics Centre, which provides the email services to the apex court, was directed to drop that image from the footer of the emails originating from the Supreme Court. It was also asked to use the picture of the Supreme Court of India, instead.” “The NIC has since complied with the directions of the SCI,” said the source. Other sources said Justice Ramana had sought a report on the issue so that appropriate action could be taken. The NIC, which operates under the ministry of electronics and information technology, manages the Supreme Court’s official website and almost all its digital networking infrastructure. The sources said some people had alerted the apex court registry that, over the past couple of days, all the court’s outgoing mails were displaying Modi’s picture and the slogan “Sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas, sabka prayas (Together with all, development of all, trust of all and effort by all)”. “Fortunately, we came to know within two or three days that our mails were carrying the slogans and the photograph of the Prime Minister. We immediately directed the NIC to delete all such endorsements and advertisements from our emails,” a source said. The sources said the display of political slogans or images of public figures on Supreme Court mails was unacceptable as it would send out an erroneous message that the top court endorsed the ruling party's political manifesto or agenda. Besides, it would damage perceptions about the judiciary's independence from the central government, which is the biggest litigant before the top court, they said. An official said the NIC was earlier allowed to display certain messages of public interest, for example those relating to social distancing and other Covid-19 protocols, on apex court emails. It had previously used the "Swachh Bharat" slogan with the portrait of Mahatma Gandhi in the background, and also a slogan urging polio vaccination. All these were accompanied with a visual of the Supreme Court building in the background. However, this visual was missing from the mails carrying the "sabka saath" slogan and the Prime Minister's photograph. The government's penchant for using Modi's picture on official documents appears to have already earned it ridicule abroad. According to media reports, Modi's photo on Covid vaccination certificates had caused merriment at foreign airports after baffled immigration officers initially accused Indian travellers of fraud because the faces didn't match. The NIC was established in 1976 to provide technology-driven solutions to central and state governments in various fields. Its website says it "offers a wide range of services which includes multi-gigabit nationwide networks NICNET, NKN, National Data Centres, National Cloud, pan-India VC infrastructure, Command and Control Centre, multi-layered GIS-based platform, Domain Registration and Webcast. This plays a significant role in delivering citizen-centric e-services."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
25-09-2021||India||CBI files FIR in Mahant Narendra Giri's death case||The CBI on Friday filed an FIR in connection with the death of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri in Allahabad. The agency has invoked Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the IPC in the FIR. The seer, who was the president of the largest organisation of sadhus in India, was found hanging at the Baghambari Mutt in Allahabad on Monday. Earlier in the day, the Centre gave its approval for a CBI probe with the department of personnel and training issuing a notification. The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday had said a recommendation for transferring the case to the CBI was made “on the instructions of chief minister Yogi Adityanath.... in the incident pertaining to the sad death of chairman of Akhara Parishad Mahant Narendra Giri”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
25-09-2021||India||Defence minitry signs Rs 20,000cr deal for medium transport aircraft||The defence ministry on Friday inked a nearly Rs 20,000-crore deal with the European aerospace manufacturer Airbus Defence and Space of Spain for the procurement of 56 C-295 medium transport aircraft. Airbus Defence and Space and Tata Advanced Systems Ltd will jointly execute the project to equip the force with the transport aircraft under the Make in India initiative in the aerospace sector. This is the first project in which a military aircraft will be manufactured in India by a private company. Airbus will supply the first 16 aircraft in flyaway condition from Spain within 48 months of signing the contract. The remaining 40 will be manufactured in India by the Tatas within 10 years of signing the contract. The C-295MW aircraft is a transport plane of 5-10 tonnes capacity with contemporary technology that will replace the ageing Avro fleet of the IAF. The C-295MW has a rear ramp door for quick reaction and para-dropping of troops and cargo. The contract was signed on Friday, two weeks after it was cleared by the Prime Minister-led cabinet committee on security.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
25-09-2021||India||Shootout at Delhi court kills three||Two men in lawyers’ black coats fired and killed gangster Jitender Maan alias Gogi on a corridor at Delhi’s Rohini court on Friday afternoon before being shot dead by the victim’s police guards. The killing of Gogi and the shootout with the police that followed a few feet from the door of court No. 207, where the accused was to be produced, sent lawyers and spectators ducking behind furniture inside the courtroom, videos show. People from other courtrooms, including child visitors who had come with their parents, ran helter-skelter. Gogi was riddled with six bullets from behind, suggesting he was exposed at the rear despite five to six armed cops accompanying him. He was declared dead on arrival at a hospital. No policeman or bystander was injured during the entire incident. Video footage shows policemen shooting, apparently at the two assailants who cannot be seen. Officers said the alleged killers, Rahul and Moris, were from a rival gang led by Sunil alias Tillu Tajpuria, who has been in Sonipat jail in Haryana since his arrest in 2015. Gogi, arrested last year, was in Tihar. Both Gogi and Sunil faced multiple cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion, illegal arms possession, carjacking and land-grabbing in Delhi and Haryana, the police said. The Coordination Committee of All District Bar Associations in Delhi resolved to abstain from work on Saturday citing the lack of security. “Such incidents have been happening repeatedly. Despite the issue being raised with the police commissioner, no concrete step has been taken,” said Rakesh Sherawat, chairperson, Bar Council of Delhi. Two accused were shot dead at the Rohini court complex in February and April 2017. In 2016, four gunmen barged into a fifth-floor courtroom in east Delhi and sprayed bullets, wounding an accused in the dock and killing a head constable. In July this year, a 45-year-old man was shot dead outside an advocate’s chamber at the Dwarka court complex. The Delhi police report to the Union home ministry. AAP parliamentarian Sanjay Singh tweeted: “Home minister @AmitShah where are you? Such a big incident in the capital of the country. Bullets echo in the temple of justice.” An officer said Rahul and Moris were from Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh. Student politics Police sources said the rivalry between Gogi and Tillu dated back to their days in the Delhi University-affiliated Swami Shraddhanand College in Alipur, north Delhi. Gogi and Tillu, from Alipur and Tajpur Kalan villages, respectively, on Delhi’s fringes, controlled student politics at the college from 2010 to 2015. They also started extortion rackets and formed separate gangs. Over 10 members from their two gangs were killed in their clashes over the past six years, sources said. Police said Gogi had been arrested by Haryana police but escaped from custody in 2016 and killed several of Tillu’s associates. He was arrested last year from Gurgaon. In 2015, Gogi’s gang allegedly killed Deepak of Tillu’s gang, ostensibly to punish him for his romantic advances towards a cousin of Gogi. In apparent retaliation, Arun alias “Commando” — an unsuccessful students’ union vice-presidential candidate in 2013 who was backed by Gogi — was killed. Kuldeep Maan alias Fajja, who was killed by the police in March this year, was a student of Kirori Mal College and had been brought to Gogi’s gang by Arun, sources said. Fajja, accused of committing a string of murders including that of Haryanvi singer Harshita Dahiya in 2017, had first been booked in 2013 for violence during the Shraddhanand College polls. “Many youngsters from the villages of Delhi and those near the Haryana border still look up to these gangsters, who try to influence DU student politics. It was practically impossible for anyone to campaign there without their consent until recently,” a former DU student activist told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
25-09-2021||India||TV reporter swept away in the currents of Mahanadi in Cuttack||A young television journalist was swept away in the strong currents of the swollen Mahanadi in Cuttack on Friday while covering an operation to rescue an elephant stranded in the river. Arindam Das, who worked for the news channel OTV, was swept away by the strong currents of the river, after a powerboat of the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF), in which they were carrying out the operation, capsized near the Mundali bridge, on the outskirts of Cuttack city, around 30km from here. While Arindam was declared brought dead at the SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack, his colleague cameraperson Prabhat Sinha is battling for his life. A search is on for an ODRAF jawan who was also swept away. Arindam and Prabhat had accompanied the five-member ODRAF team to cover the rescue operation from close quarters. However, the boat lost balance due to the strong currents of the river and capsized. Another ODRAF team started a rescue operation immediately after the incident. Hospital emergency officer Bhubanananda Maharana confirmed Arindam’s death. He said: “The cameraman’s condition is still critical but stable. The conditions of the three ODRAF personnel, who were also admitted to the hospital, is stable.” The tusker, which was part of a herd of 17 elephants, was on its way to Chandaka from Nuasasana in Athagarh block in Cuttack district. While other elephants in the herd were able to cross the river, the tusker got stuck. It was caught in the swirling waters of the river and was stranded for over seven hours. After getting information from locals, a team from the 6th battalion of the ODRAF and forest officials reached the spot and started the rescue operation. Arindam and Pravat joined the ODRAF team after donning life jackets as they wanted good visuals of the operation. But the powerboat could not withstand the assault of the turbulent river. The live-streaming of the operation was going on and Arindam was even heard saying that the boat was going to overturn. Everyone on the boat fell into the river within a matter of seconds. While six persons were rescued by another ODRAF team, Arindam and a jawan were swept away by the currents. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik, Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan and others condoled the death of the journalist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
