26-09-2021||India||Nitish reiterates demand for caste census||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday reiterated his demand for a caste census, saying it is in national interest and will facilitate development of the communities lagging in development. Asked about the Centre's affidavit in the Supreme Court that virtually ruled out census on the caste lines, he told reporters that it was "absolutely not correct" but added that the matter was not directly related to the issue of caste census. In the national capital to attend Home Minister Amit Shah's meeting with the chief ministers of naxal-affected states, the JD(U) leader also rejected arguments against caste census and asserted that the demand for it has been coming from not only Bihar but many states. Kumar said he will speak to members of different parties in Bihar over the issue to chart out their next course of action. He had led an all-party delegation from the state to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in support of such a headcount across the country. However, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Thursday that caste census of backward classes is "administratively difficult and cumbersome" and excluding such information from the purview of Census is a "conscious policy decision". In an affidavit filed in the apex court, the government has said that caste enumeration in Socio-Economic and Caste Census 2011 was fraught with mistakes and inaccuracies. Kumar asserted that caste census can be done by imparting appropriate training to people. However, the Bihar chief minister, whose party's ties with the BJP have been uneven for some time, refused to be drawn into any political implications of the issue. "Caste census is in the interest of the country. It will help the country's development," he said. After the Centre's stand, many BJP leaders in Bihar have strongly defended the move and questioned the need for caste census. The BJP has made it clear that its stand on the politically fraught issue can be different from those, including some of its allies, supporting the step. As far as the BJP is concerned, it stands for "sab ka saath, sabka vikas", the party had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
26-09-2021||India||Covid effect: Unclaimed ashes of 57 coronavirus victims immersed in river Narmada||A crematorium in Bhopal on Sunday immersed the ashes of 57 coronavirus victims in the Narmada river as the family members of these deceased failed to collect their cremated remains for months, its office-bearers said. Madhya Pradesh has so far registered 10,518 COVID-19 deaths, most of them during the second wave of the pandemic. "Vishram Ghat Trust and Sewa Sanskar Samiti on Sunday immersed the ashes of 57 persons, who died due to COVID-19 but their ashes were not collected by their families after the funerary rituals," Shobhraj Sukhwani, manager of Subhash Nagar Vishram Ghat (crematorium) told PTI. He said the family members of these deceased had failed to collect the ashes due to the pandemic situation. "So, after waiting for months, the asthiyan (cremated remains) were collected and immersed in the Narmada river in Hoshangabad with all the rituals," he said. Vishram Ghat Trust president Ramesh Sharma Guttu said the priests performed all Hindu rituals before the immersion of ashes in the river. "We will also hold 'tarpan' ritual for the peace of the departed souls," he said. In July this year, the management committee of Bhopal's Bhadbhada Vishram Ghat had decided to develop a park using 21 truckloads of ashes of those who died due to COVID-19 infection during the second wave of the pandemic. The decision to develop a park on 12,000 sq ft of land was taken after their relatives failed to collect them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
26-09-2021||India||Ahead of polls Yogi Adityanath expands his cabinet||Months ahead of the crucial Assembly polls, chief minister Yogi Adityanath opted for a crucial Uttar Pradesh cabinet expansion on Sunday. Chhatarpal Gangwar, Dharamveer Prajapati, Sanjeev Kumar Gaur, Dinesh Khatik, Sangeeta Balwant and Paltu Ram among new Ministers of State administered oath in UP. Former Congress leader Jitin Prasada, who switched from the Congress to the BJP was among several new faces that were inducted into the Yogi-led cabinet. He also took oath with the other six new faces of the Modi cabinet. The expansion of the council of ministers has taken place as the BJP prepares for the assembly elections in the crucial state of Uttar Pradesh early next year. The oath was administered by Governor Anandiben Patel at a function in the Gandhi auditorium in the Raj Bhavan in the presence of the chief minister. The new MOS are Paltu Ram, Chhatarpal Gangwar, Sangeeta Balwant Bind, Dharamveer Prajapati, Sanjeev Kumar Gaur and Dinesh Khatik. With the expansion, the upper limit of 60 of the ministry has been reached. The maximum strength of the ministry can be 15 percent of the total strength of the Assembly. The Uttar Pradesh Assembly has 403 seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
26-09-2021||India||Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi carries out first cabinet expansion||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi carried out his first cabinet expansion on Sunday, inducting 15 Cabinet Ministers which included seven new entrants. The new faces in the Channi Ministry are Randeep Singh Nabha, Raj Kumar Verka, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Pargat Singh, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Gurkirat Singh Kotli. Rana Gurjit Singh has made a comeback after resigning in 2018 from the Amrinder Singh Ministry. Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit administered the oath of office and secrecy to the legislators. Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Singh Badal, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Aruna Chaudhary, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Razia Sultana, Vijay Inder Singla and Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who were ministers in the previous Amarinder Singh led cabinet, were retained as Cabinet Ministers. Channi had taken oath as the chief minister following the unceremonious exit of Congress veteran Amarinder Singh after a prolonged power tussle with state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Rana Gurjit Singh, Mohindra and Singla are considered close to Amarinder Singh. A total of 18 MLAs, including the chief minister, can be included in the cabinet. Channi's two deputies Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni were sworn in on Monday. Earlier, a section of Congress leaders from the state had written to the party's Punjab unit chief Sidhu against the induction of former minister Rana Gurjit Singh, alleging he was corrupt and tainted". The leaders had also demanded that the cabinet berth may instead be filled up "by giving representation to a clean Dalit leader". A copy of the letter was also sent to the chief minister. Rana Gurjit Singh, after facing flak from the Opposition over allegations of impropriety in the auction of sand mining contracts, had to resign from the previous Amarinder Singh cabinet in 2018. At that time, he had held Irrigation and Power portfolios.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
26-09-2021||India||Justice Ramana calls for 50% reservation for women in Indian judiciary||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Sunday exhorted women lawyers to strongly raise their demand for 50 per cent reservation in the judiciary while assuring them of his "total support". "I don't want you to cry but with anger, you have to shout and demand that we need 50 per cent reservation," he said. The CJI said that it's an issue of thousands of years of suppression and women are entitled to the reservation and added, "It's a matter of right, and not a matter a charity." He said, "I want to say that I strongly recommend and support the demand of a certain percentage of reservation in all law schools of the country for women, so that they can join the judiciary." Speaking at a felicitation function organised by Lady Advocates of Supreme Court for the nine newly appointed judges, including three women judges, CJI Ramana said he has modified Karl Marx's "Workers of the world unite. You have nothing to lose but your chain" quote for the occasion and added: "Women of the world unite. You have nothing to lose but your chain." The CJI said, "You all are laughing. Yes, I don't want you to cry but with anger, you have to shout and demand that we need 50 per cent reservation. It's not a small issue but an issue of thousands of years of suppression. It is high time we have 50 per cent representation of women in the judiciary. You are entitled (to it), it's a matter of right. It is not a matter a charity. It is unfortunate that some things are realised very late." He said he will be "very happy" whenever the goal will be realised. "All my sisters and all of you have carved out exceptions for people in the society and women of the society and for that matter youngsters whether male or female are all waiting and looking at you as if you are role models. Your success stories will make them more impulsive and we expect more women will join the profession and we will achieve the goal of 50 per cent shortly. I wholeheartedly support all initiatives taken by you and so long as I am here I will support all of your causes," he said. The Chief Justice of India said that he believes in mixing with people, knowing about their ideas so that he understands what is the problem the society is facing, but added these days he is visiting lots of places and has got bored of giving speeches. "After coming back yesterday night from Odisha, I collected some information about the system in which we are working. In the entire country...in subordinate judiciary less than 30 per cent are women, in high courts women judges are 11.5 per cent and in Supreme Court four women judges out of 33...(that is) 11 or 12 per cent," the CJI said. He said that out of 1.7 million advocates in the country only 15 per cent are women and only two per cent elected representatives in the state bar councils are women. "The other day I have told Bar council of India chairman Manan Kumar Mishra, what is this in your bar council national committee you don't have any single woman member represented, this needs urgent correction," he said. CJI Ramana further said that people will often say easily that it is difficult to have 50 per cent reservation because women have a lot of problems but that's not correct. "I do agree that there is an uncomfortable environment, lack of infrastructure, crowded courtrooms, lack of washrooms, lack of creches and lack of sitting places, which are some of the major issues which are unfriendly to the women lawyers in the system," he said. He said that after gathering information about the prevailing conditions throughout the country he is proposing for Judicial Infrastructure Corporation, which is the need of the hour. "In 6,000 courts across the country, 22 per cent of them do not have separate toilets (for women) and even lady officers also have to suffer from this, the CJI said, adding, So these are the ground realities which we have to tackle immediately and that is the reason why I am proposing certain issues to the executive to take and correct this." With regard to lawyers' demand for opening of the top court for physical hearings which has been held virtually since the outset of the pandemic, the CJI said that hopefully after Dussehra vacation it may resume. "The problem is you know we have limited opening (both virtual and physical) but majority of the advocates do not prefer, I don't know why but for whatever reasons, particularly senior counsels have some reservations but youngsters and other lawyers are willing to come," he said. He said that senior advocate Vikas Singh, who is president of Supreme Court Bar Association, has raised certain issues with regard to hybrid hearing SOP and it is being corrected and made more liberal. "We can expect full opening of the courts but the problem is we don't want to take any risk because of the medical advice and suddenly they may say that there may be a third or fourth wave.... So you hope that there are no waves and most probably after Dussehra vacation, I think we can go for physical hearing," CJI Ramana said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
26-09-2021||India||Dalit students in UP's Mainpuri asked to wash dishes, keep them separate||A school principal in Mainpuri was suspended and two cooks terminated over complaints that scheduled caste students were asked to wash their mid-day meal utensils themselves and keep them separate, a senior official said Sunday. Chief Development Officer Vinod Kumar said the action was taken after village pradhan Manju Devi's husband Saheb Singh filed a complaint Saturday, alleging SC students were being discriminated against at the government primary school in Dodapur in Bewar block. Singh said in the complaint that the SC students, around 80 in all, unlike others were made to clean their utensils after eating the meal and asked to keep them separate. Upon receiving the complaint, the CDO, along with Basic Shiksha Adhikari Kamal Singh and project director KK Singh, inspected the school and its kitchen, and found the allegations true, the officer said. Taking cognisance of the matter, the CDO terminated the services of the cooks on the spot and suspended principal Garima Singh Rajput on the charges of dereliction of duty, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
26-09-2021||India||Five Uttar Pradesh teachers suspended after videos of them dancing in classroom goes viral||Five teachers of a government primary school in the Agra district have been suspended for "unethical behaviour" after a video purportedly showing them dancing to film songs in a classroom surfaced online, an official said on Sunday. The teachers, employed in the Basic Education Department, were suspended on Saturday. The video of the teachers dancing in the classroom, which did not have students, surfaced online on Thursday. Following this, the Basic Education Department, Agra, set up an investigation. "All five assistant teachers and the headteacher of the primary school at Sadhan in Achhnera block were asked to submit their clarifications. Four teachers replied, but one did not," Basic Shiksha Adhikari in-charge Brajraj Singh told PTI. He said all the five teachers were suspended after their clarifications were found wanting. Singh said according to Dinesh Chandra Parihar, the headteacher of the school, the video was shot on March 17 and he was not present on the day as he had gone to attend an educational workshop at the Block Resource Centre. "The clarification submitted by the four teachers was not satisfactory. They were suspended for harming the image of the Basic Education Department. Their behaviour was unethical. They should not have acted like this during school time in the classroom," Singh added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
26-09-2021||India||Canada lifts ban on direct flights from India after five months||Canada will allow direct flights from India from Monday, lifting the ban on them after a gap of more than five months. Announcing the decision, Transport Canada on Saturday in a tweet said: "Beginning at 00:01 EDT on September 27, direct flights from India can land in Canada with additional public health measures in place." "Travellers must have proof of a negative COVID-19 molecular test from the approved Genestrings Laboratory at the Delhi airport taken within 18 hours of the scheduled departure of their direct flight to Canada," it added. In April, Canada banned all direct flights to and from India when the second Covid wave hit India. The date of reopening has been postponed many times. Welcoming the decision, India's high commissioner to Canada Ajay Bisaria described it as a "decisive step towards normalising air mobility" between the two nations. "@airindiain and @AirCanada are now set to run daily flights between Delhi and Toronto/Vancouver from 27 September. Working with Canadian partners to further ease travel," he tweeted. Passengers who travel from India to Canada via an indirect route still need to provide a pre-departure negative COVID-19 molecular test result from a third country before continuing their journey to Canada.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
26-09-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath set to expand UP cabinet Sunday evening||Attempting to balance caste and regional aspiration, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will expand his ministry on Sunday evening, months ahead of the crucial assembly polls. The swearing-in ceremony is scheduled at Gandhi Auditorium in the Raj Bhavan at 5.30 pm, officials said. Officials, however, remained tight-lipped over the number and names of ministers to be sworn in amid the name of Congress Brahmin leader Jitin Prasada, who switched over to the saffron party, is doing rounds. UP Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma had recently told PTI that inspired by the work of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Prasada wanted to join the BJP much earlier. Prasada had been inducted into the BJP amid its internal worries about the thin representation of the community in the party. Repeated efforts to contact Prasada proved futile. Sanjay Nishad's name, whose party NISHAD -- Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Aam Dal -- will contest the 2022 UP assembly elections in alliance with the BJP is also making rounds. Nishad was in the news recently for his demand from the BJP to project him as a deputy chief minister face in the elections. He had claimed that 18 per cent of voters belong to Nishad (fishermen) community which plays a deciding role on 160 assembly seats. The Nishad Party had contested the 2017 assembly elections as an ally of the Peace Party, led by Dr Ayub, and contested 72 seats. Its candidate Vijay Mishra had won from Gyanpur seat in Bhadohi district. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the party had allied with the BJP and Sanjay Nishad's son Praveen Nishad was nominated from Sant Kabir Nagar from where he won the elections. Apart from this, the name of former Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya is also doing the rounds as a probable face for induction in the Yogi Adityanath ministry. There are 53 ministers in the UP Cabinet at present and seven more can be inducted as per the constitutional limit. At present, there are 23 Cabinet ministers in UP including the chief minister. There are nine ministers of state with independent charges and there are 21 ministers of state. The maximum strength of the UP Cabinet can be 15 per cent of the total strength of its Assembly. The Uttar Pradesh Assembly has 403 seats. In the 2017 UP Assembly elections, the BJP had won 312 seats out of the 403 seats. Its ally Apna Dal (Sonelal) had won nine seats. The Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) too had contested the 2017 assembly polls in alliance with the BJP and had won four seats but it had walked out of the alliance in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
26-09-2021||India||Some Congress leaders ask Sidhu to not let Rana Gurjit Singh become Punjab minister||Hours before the first cabinet expansion of the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Punjab government, a section of Congress leaders from the state on Sunday wrote to party's state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu demanding that tainted former minister Rana Gurjit Singh should not be included. The leaders also demanded that the cabinet berth may instead be filled up by giving representation to a clean Dalit leader . The copy of the letter was also sent to Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Seven new faces are likely to be inducted in the Punjab cabinet while five ministers, who were part of the Amarinder Singh-led government, are expected to be dropped, sources said. Pargat Singh, Raj Kumar Verka, Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring, Kuljit Nagra and Rana Gurjit Singh are likely to be included in the cabinet, according to the sources. However, the list of names is yet to be officially declared. After Channi, Sidhu and other leaders held deliberations over days with the party's senior leadership to finalise the names for the first cabinet expansion, it appears to have hit another hurdle with seven Congress leaders including a former PPCC chief writing to Sidhu demanding Rana Gurjit not be included. Rana Gurjit Singh, after facing flak from the Opposition over allegations of impropriety in the auction of sand mining contracts, had to resign from the previous Amarinder Singh cabinet in 2018. At that time, he had held Irrigation and Power portfolios. In the letter to Sidhu, these leaders demanded to drop Rana Gurjit Singh from the proposed cabinet berth, alleging that he is a known corrupt and tainted politician of Doaba . The letter was written by Mohinder Singh Kaypee, former PPCC president, MLA Sultanpur Navtej Singh Cheema, MLA Phagwara Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal, Jalandhar North legislator Bawa Henry, Chabbewal legislator Raj Kumar, MLA Sham Churasi, Pawan Adiya and Bholath legislator Sukhpal Singh Khaira. Khaira had defected from the Aam Aadmi Party and joined Congress recently. "We the undersigned MLAs and leaders of Doaba wish to convey huge resentment amongst the public and the Congress cadre on the proposed inclusion of tainted Rana Gurjit Singh. "Needless to mention, he was dropped from the cabinet in January 2018 due to the infamous mining scandal..., they alleged in the letter while detailing various allegations which were made against Rana Gurjit at that time. We wonder why Rana Gurjit Singh is being included in Cabinet as he was dropped in January 2018 because of these charges..," they wrote. They also pointed out that despite the Doaba region having approximately 38 percent Dalit population, no representation in the proposed cabinet expansion has been given to a leader from the community. Among MLAs from Doaba region proposed to be inducted in the cabinet include Pargat Singh and Rana Gurjit Singh. "It is amusing that all three ministers proposed to be included in the cabinet from Doaba region are Jat Sikhs and one OBC , whereas there is an approximately 38 percent Dalit population in this region," they wrote. "Therefore, we all request you to immediately drop Raja Gurjit Singh from the proposed Cabinet expansion and instead include a clean Dalit face in view of the upcoming elections," they said in the letter. Khaira later told reporters that (By including Rana) we are deliberately giving handle to the opposition to point fingers. By bringing him in cabinet, what impression will it give". In another development, Amloh legislator Randeep Singh Nabha is also learnt to be upset over being ignored for the ministerial post in the new cabinet. Six-time MLA Rakesh Pandey too expressed unhappiness over the proposed names in the expansion alleging seniors were ignored.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
26-09-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir: Two militants killed in Bandipora encounter||A militant involved in the killing of BJP leader Waseem Bari and two of his family members was among two ultras killed in an encounter with security forces in Bandipora district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Watrina area of Bandipora in north Kashmir following inputs about the presence of militants there, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after the militants fired upon the forces, who retaliated. In the ensuing encounter, two unidentified terrorists were killed, the official said. Among the slain militants is the killer of BJP district president Bari, his father and brother who were shot dead in July last year. #Killer of BJP leader late Waseem Bari, his father and brother #killed in the #encounter. Further details shall follow, Kashmir Zone Police said in a tweet. The official said incriminating material, including arms and ammunition, was recovered from the site of the encounter. The search operation is on in the area, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
26-09-2021||India||Cyclone Gulab makes landfall in Andhra, Odisha; Navy on standby ||Cyclone Gulab has made landfall in coastal regions of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha, India Meteorological Department (IMD) tweeted on Sunday evening, with officials adding that it would cross the coasts between Kalingapatnam in Andhra Pradesh and Gopalpur in Odisha in the next three hours. "The cloud bands have touched coastal regions and thus the landfall process has commenced over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and adjoining south coastal Odisha. System will cross coasts between Kalingapatnam and Gopalpur, about 25 km to north of Kalingapatnam, during the next three hours," the IMD tweeted. The Indian Navy said on Sunday that it was closely monitoring the movement of Cyclone Gulab and kept naval ships and aircraft on standby for rescue and relief operations. The Eastern Naval Command in Visakhapatnam and naval officers in charge of Odisha have carried out preparatory activities to combat the effects of the cyclone, according to an official statement. The Navy is in constant liaison with the state administrations for rendering assistance as required and closely monitoring the movement of the cyclonic storm, it said. As part of the preparedness, flood relief teams and diving teams are prepositioned in Odisha and ready at Visakhapatnam to render immediate assistance, it added. In the view of the cyclone, 13 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in Odisha and five in Andhra Pradesh, Satya Narayan Pradhan, Director General of the relief force, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Rainfall activity started in Odisha's southern and coastal regions on Sunday morning in the wake of cyclone Gulab, the IMD said. The Odisha government has deployed 168 specialised units in seven districts of the state where Cyclone Gulab is likely to make a severe impact following its landfall on Sunday midnight. The units comprise teams from the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF), NDRF (National Disaster Response Force) and fire service. Another 25 units have been kept on alert. The state government has cancelled leaves of the officials and asked them to remain on high alert. The cyclone is moving at 18km an hour, said the official. If its size is anything to go by, it is unlikely to be very severe. The system now has a diameter between 200km and 300km, said an IMD official. Cyclones Amphan and Yaas had a diameter of about 700km while at sea. The Railways have cancelled, diverted or rescheduled trains travelling in the east coast route in view of the cyclone, it said in a tweet. Officials said the Odisha government is working with a mission to achieve zero casualty and efforts would begin to evacuate people from the vulnerable areas. However, it seems that conditions for the cyclone are favourable at this point. “There was scorching heat in Ganjam today making it conducive for the movement of the cyclone towards the coast. I have been witnessing such a climate before any cyclone sets in,” said Berhampur-based photojournalist Gopal Krishna Reddy. Fishermen have been told not to venture into the sea. Many fishermen were seen bringing their boats from the sea to safe locations so that there would be no damage to them during the landfall of the cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
26-09-2021||India||Ensure no one is left out of vaccination's circle of safety, says Narendra Modi||Ahead of the festival season, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged people to keep following Covid protocol and ensure that no one is left out of vaccination's "circle of safety". In his monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' radio address, Modi said the festival season is approaching and when the whole country will celebrate 'Maryada Purshottam' Shri Ram's victory over evil, people should remember the fight against Covid also. "Team India is creating several records daily on this front. Several records have been created in the vaccination drive which are being discussed globally," Modi said. "We not only have to get the vaccine administered when it's our turn, but we also have to ensure that no one is left out of this circle of safety," he said. Even after getting vaccinated, the necessary protocol has to be followed, Modi said, adding that he hopes once again Team India will keep the flag flying high in this fight against the Covid pandemic. In his remarks, PM Modi, on the occasion of the World Rivers Day, called for collective efforts to keep our rivers pollution-free. He also called for making record business of Khadi products on Mahatma Gandhi's birth anniversary on October 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
26-09-2021||India||India logs 28,326 new Covid infections as active caseload increases||India saw a single-day rise of 28,326 new coronavirus infections,, taking the country's total tally of cases to 3,36,52,745, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll climbed to 4,46,918 with 260 daily fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases have increased to 3,03,476, comprising 0.90 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.77 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 2,034 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.90 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for last 27 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.98 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the last 93 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,29,02,351, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 85.60 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 260 new fatalities, include 120 deaths from Kerala and 58 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,46,918 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,38,834 from Maharashtra, 37,717 from Karnataka, 35,476 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 24,438 from Kerala, 22,890 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,727 from Bengal. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
26-09-2021||India||Student groups and Left parties protest against ‘murder’ in Assam||Student groups and Left parties have been protesting across India against “state-sponsored murder” in Assam’s Darrang district, where a child and a man died in police firing during an eviction drive on Thursday. In Delhi, police detained students on Friday when they attempted to protest in front of Assam Bhavan. Congress student arm NSUI burnt an effigy of Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, and the Left-led students’ union at JNU too held protests. On Saturday, activists from across the Opposition spectrum demonstrated on Jantar Mantar Road near the central secretariat. “This (firing) is a last warning for the whole country,” CPIML Liberation general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya said. “When the NRC (update) started in Assam and (Union home minister) Amit Shah was explaining the ‘chronology’ (of passing the Citizenship Amendment Act after the National Register of Citizens update to naturalise non-Muslim refugees), the future was hidden. It is being seen now.” Bhattacharya demanded the resignation of Himanta and the removal of the superintendent of police, Sushanta Sarma. “No human being living in our country can be called ‘illegal’; no one has the right to justify this barbarism. Not just the murder or the firing for displacement — the photographer’s celebration and dance are fascism’s dance....” A photographer, hired by the district administration to document the eviction at the minority-dominated settlement, was seen stamping on a motionless Moinul Hoque, one of the victims of the police firing. Bhattacharya said all this was the result of the spread of hatred by the BJP-RSS. “It needs to be stopped…. This was a state-sponsored murder of the most helpless.” The Fraternity Movement, backed by the Jamaat-e-Islami-i-Hind, too participated in Saturday’s protests after its cadres had courted detention opposite Assam Bhavan on Friday. Afreen Fatima, its national secretary and a student councillor at JNU, told The Telegraph: “The enactment of the NRC turned ethno-nationalism into ethno-fascism, and Bengali Muslims are facing the brunt of it. To call them illegal immigrants is a ploy to divert attention from the illegal land grab by the Assam government.” She demanded an “impartial probe” and the immediate suspension of the SP. “We’re here to tell the Muslims of Assam, they’re not alone. They are Indians and will stay in India.” The Assam government has ordered a judicial probe and asked for the CBI to take over the police investigation. Protests were held in Darbhanga (Bihar), Aligarh, Nagpur and several places in Kerala as well. A team from the CPM-backed All India Kisan Sabha will visit the flashpoint in Assam next month. The group said in a statement: “The eviction drive took place even as a case was pending with the Gauhati High Court on the matter, without even giving enough notice to the people…. AIKS demands dismissal of the authorities responsible for the killing and resignation of the Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma....” It added: “The entire eviction drive in the name of ‘illegal migrants’ is with an ulterior motive of communally polarising the state.... If the government was actually promoting a policy of community farming, it could have involved these 800 households who were cultivating the area for decades. “After the Haryana BJP government brutally killed a farmer, Sushil Kajal, now the Assam BJP government has also followed suit by shooting down two farmers with a sinister agenda of pitting communities against one another.” Kajal died of a heart attack after allegedly being injured in a lathi-charge on protesting farmers in Karnal, Haryana, last month. A video shows an administrative officer purportedly asking the police to break the protestors’ heads. In Ranchi, about 50 people representing Left parties such as the CPIML and the SUCI, and other organisations like the All India People’s Forum and Awami Insaf Manch, protested against the Assam firing. The Jharkhand Youth Federation, Awami Group and the Ranchi Youth Association too participated in the demonstration. “The Assam government was pretending to be helping the Adivasis by floating an agricultural project... but had earlier evicted the same Adivasi people elsewhere in the state.” Nadim Khan of the AIPF alleged. “The government move left 800 poor Muslim families homeless too.” Additional reporting by Achintya Ganguly from Ranchi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
26-09-2021||India||India, US to expand collaboration in new domains of critical technology||India and the US on Friday sought to chart a new course together by expanding collaboration in new domains and areas of critical and emerging technology with a view to defining the economic and security landscape of the next century; billing the bilateral relationship as a “partnership of global good’’. The joint statement issued after the bilateral engagement between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden at the White House committed the two countries to building a strategic partnership and working together with regional groupings, including Asean and Quad members; promoting shared interests in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond; developing trade and investment; finishing the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and other health challenges; galvanising global efforts to scale up climate action; strengthening democratic values and institutions in support of “our respective peoples’’; and enhancing people-to-people link. President Biden reaffirmed the strength of the defence relationship between the two countries and Washington’s “unwavering commitment to India as a Major Defence Partner’’ through close defence engagements in information and logistics sharing, military-to-military interactions, strengthening cooperation in advanced military technologies, and expanding engagements in a multilateral framework including with regional partners. The two leaders welcomed the deepening of advanced industrial cooperation; noting in this context the recent project to co-develop air-launched unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) under the Defence Technology and Trade Initiative, and encouraged more such joint efforts. They called upon government and private stakeholders to use the existing ecosystems of innovation and entrepreneurship in defence industries for co-development, co-production and expanding mutual defence trade. They also looked forward to the inaugural meeting of the Industrial Security Agreement summit to facilitate high-end defence industrial collaboration, the joint statement said. According to foreign secretary Harsh V. Shringla, the two sides finalized a memorandum of understanding on health and biomedical sciences — “a very comprehensive document that provides for cooperation in the health sector across the board and it also goes into areas like pandemic preparedness and biomedical research, to reduce the risk of future pandemics’’. On Afghanistan, the foreign secretary said, there was very careful consideration by both sides on the support given to certain hardline elements in that country, including terrorist groups by Pakistan. “I think there was a clear concern expressed on Pakistan’s role in Afghanistan and their continuing support for a certain approach that did not seem to be conducive to the international community’s expectations of what Afghanistan should be like,’’ Shringla said. After the bilateral engagement, the Prime Minister attended the first in-person Quad summit which brought the leadership of the four member countries together. Apart from vaccine cooperation which was announced at the first Quad summit held virtually in March, they announced a new partnership in infrastructure; an area in which China now dominates in scale. They also emphasised the importance of supporting open, fair, and transparent lending practices in line with international rules and standards for major creditor countries, including on debt sustainability and accountability, and call on all creditors to adhere to these rules and standards. This is a clear message to China which is often accused by the West of enticing countries into taking loans they can ill afford to pay back and putting them in a debt trap. The Quad joint statement also announced the Quad Fellowship which will be stewarded by Schmidt Futures with support from Accenture, Blackstone, Boeing, Google, Mastercard and Western Digital. It will provide 100 graduate fellowships to leading science, technology, engineering, and mathematics graduate students across the four countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
26-09-2021||India||Bihar: Tejashwi Prasad writes to 33 Opposition leaders||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Saturday wrote to 33 Opposition leaders to seek their support for the demand for a caste census. The Centre had in an affidavit in the Supreme Court on Thursday said it had no plans to enumerate castes or categories other than the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the upcoming census because it would not be feasible. Tejashwi’s letter is being seen as a serious effort to unite the Opposition against the BJP. Sources said it had the blessings of RJD chief Lalu Prasad. Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Nationalist Congress Party leader Sharad Pawar, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury and all non-BJP chief ministers — Mamata Banerjee (Bengal), Naveen Patnaik (Odisha), M.K. Stalin (Tamil Nadu), Pinarayi Vijayan (Kerala), Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh), Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan), Uddhav Thackeray (Maharashtra), Charanjit Singh Channi (Punjab), Arvind Kejriwal (Delhi), Hemant Soren (Jharkhand) — are among the leaders to whom Tejashwi has written. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav, Bahujan Samaj Party leader Mayawati, National Conference leaders Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah and PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti also figure on the list. So does Bihar chief minister and Janata Dal United leader Nitish Kumar, who is an ally of the BJP and leads the NDA government in the state. He had led an all-party delegation from the state to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month to demand a caste census. “The demand for caste-based census needs to be seen as an essential step in nation building. Once conducted, it would actually bring to the forefront the pressing concerns that a country like India must attend to with a sense of urgency. This is a historic opportunity before us to push for an agenda that is essential for making this country more just and egalitarian. It would play a pivotal role in ensuring social harmony and social cohesion,” Tejashwi wrote. Tejashwi said he was sure the leaders would agree with him on the need to join hands and push the government to see the crucial need to set the priorities of the socio-economic development of our country. “I am open to suggestions and inputs from you so that we immediately prepare our plan of action in this regard without any further delay,” the leader of the Opposition in the Bihar Legislative Assembly added. On Friday, reacting to the Centre’s refusal to hold the caste census, Tejashwi had said he would wait for a couple of days for Nitish’s response before revealing his own plans. His father Lalu had asked the BJP and the RSS why they had “so much hatred towards the backward and extremely backward castes”. Lalu had also appealed for the social boycott of BJP ministers, MPs and leaders over the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
26-09-2021||India||Mahendra Singh Dhoni on committee to revamp NCC course||The government has started reviewing the National Cadet Corps curriculum “to make it more relevant in changing times” amid a renewed push to have it introduced as a credit-carrying elective subject at all universities. Last week, the defence ministry appointed a 15-member committee that includes former Indian cricket captain M.S. Dhoni and is headed by former Biju Janata Dal MP Baijayant Panda, who is currently in the BJP. Among the other members are Mahindra Group chairperson Anand Mahindra, BJP parliamentarians Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore and Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, Jamia Millia Islamia vice-chancellor (VC) Najma Akhtar, former SNDT Women’s University VC Vasudha Kamat, and the secretary of the RSS-affiliated Bhartiya Shikshan Mandal, Mukul Kanitkar. The move comes at a time the University Grants Commission has renewed its five-year-old effort to have all the universities introduce NCC as an elective course. Currently, NCC is a sort of an additional course that some undergraduates in some universities take. Those who successfully complete it get a certificate. However, a letter that UGC secretary Rajnish Jain wrote to all the vice-chancellors on July 9 suggested the course would in future carry academic credits. It cited the new National Education Policy, which allows students to pursue some courses of their choice — from whichever stream — and earn credits. The UGC has since November 2016 written to all the universities to introduce NCC as an elective course, following a May 2016 nudge from the defence ministry to the education (then HRD) ministry. But the proposal’s implementation has remained tardy. The July 9 letter also outlined a revamped NCC syllabus. In the theory classes, NCC students will be taught about national integration, personality development, disaster management, social service, border and coastal areas, the armed forces, infantry weapons and military history. In their practical classes, the cadets will participate in drills, social service training, weapons training, map reading, field craft and battle craft. At the camps, they will undergo outdoor training. The objectives of the course include the creation of a pool of trained and motivated youths who will serve the nation regardless of which career they choose, the proposal said. A UGC official said that whatever new ideas the Panda panel suggests would be incorporated in the syllabus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
26-09-2021||India||Congress leadership plans for drastic changes in Rajasthan ||The Congress leadership appears to have decided to initiate the process of drastic changes in Rajasthan that will culminate in Sachin Pilot taking over as chief minister much before the next Assembly election in 2023. While there are no indications of any plan to force chief minister Ashok Gehlot to resign immediately as was done with Amarinder Singh in Punjab, sources said the road map is clear in Rahul Gandhi’s mind. “The party will have to offer Rajasthan a new deal if we dream of retaining power,” a senior leader said, arguing that Gehlot had played his innings with three terms as chief minister. The dominant view in the Congress is that change is inevitable and that the party will have to go to the polls in 2023 under the leadership of Pilot who played a critical role in the party’s comeback in 2018. The process will begin soon with a cabinet shuffle, followed by organisational changes and finally a new chief minister. Party strategists believe the new chief minister should be given time to make an impact, unlike in Punjab that has barely five months to go before the polls. Rajasthan is vital to the party’s future plan as it goes to the polls just before the parliamentary election in 2024, setting the tone of the public discourse for the big battle. Congress strategists believe the party cannot build a formidable challenge to Prime Minister Narendra Modi without winning Madhya Pradesh and retaining Rajasthan in December 2023. Gujarat and Karnataka, which will vote in 2022 and 2023, are the other two states that will draw the political trajectory of the Congress. Pilot, who held two meetings with Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi over the last few days, is not interested in any role in Delhi, sources said. Amid speculation about being shifted as general secretary, sources said he had conveyed his desire to continue in Rajasthan. Forcing a change is not easy in Rajasthan because, unlike Amarinder, Gehlot still commands the support of the majority of MLAs. Gehlot is reluctant to accept any other assignment but may be persuaded to give up and that exercise can take some time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
26-09-2021||India||Odisha: Cyclone Gulab to make landfall on Sunday evening||The Odisha government has deployed 168 specialised units in seven districts of the state where Cyclone Gulab is likely to make a severe impact following its landfall on Sunday evening. The units comprise teams from the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF), NDRF (National Disaster Response Force) and fire service. Another 25 units have been kept on alert. The state government has cancelled leaves of the officials and asked them to remain on high alert. Special relief commissioner P.K. Jena told reporters: “The landfall of the cyclonic storm will be near Kalingapatnam between Gopalpur in Ganjam district and Visakhapatnam (Andhra Pradesh). Districts like Kandhamal, Ganjam, Rayagada, Malkangiri, Koraput, Nabarangpur and Gajapati will witness heavy rainfall with strong wind.” A media release of the India Meteorological Department said: “The deep depression over northwest and adjoining west central Bay of Bengal moved westwards with a speed of 17km in last 6 hours and lay centred at 11.30 hrs over northwest and adjoining west central Bay of Bengal about 410 km east-southeast of Gopalpur (Odisha and 480 km east-northeast of Kalingapatnam in Andhra Pradesh). It is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during next 6 hours. It is likely to move nearly westwards and cross north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts between Kalingapatnum and Goapalpur by evening of 26th September.” Jena also warned of flash floods in the Rushikulya, Nagavali and Vanshadhara rivers. The state government is also worried about landslides under the impact of rainfall. When Cyclone Titli hit Odisha in 2018, landslides in the interior areas of Gajapati district had killed more than 24 people. “We are gearing up the administration to face possible devastation caused by strong winds, rainfall and flash floods. Timely evacuation will be made from the vulnerable areas,” Jena said. Officials said the state government is working with a mission to achieve zero casualty and efforts would begin to evacuate people from the vulnerable areas. However, it seems that conditions for the cyclone are favourable at this point. “There was scorching heat in Ganjam today making it conducive for the movement of the cyclone towards the coast. I have been witnessing such a climate before any cyclone sets in,” said Berhampur-based photojournalist Gopal Krishna Reddy. Fishermen have been told not to venture into the sea. Many fishermen were seen bringing their boats from the sea to safe locations so that there would be no damage to them during the landfall of the cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
26-09-2021||India||What a shame to be lectured about democracy, says Congress||The Congress on Saturday said it was a matter of “shame” that other countries were lecturing India about democracy, diversity and tolerance and insisted the country introspect on why it was suffering this ignominy under the Narendra Modi government. The comments came after US President Joe Biden and Vice-President Kamala Harris underscored the importance of democratic principles and Gandhian tolerance when they met Prime Minister Modi separately in Washington DC earlier in the week. The Congress, which has steadfastly accused Modi of trampling on democratic institutions and constitutional values, has found merit in the concerns expressed by Biden and Harris. The Congress has also extended support to the farmers’ call for a nationwide shutdown on Monday, accusing Modi of an undemocratic attitude towards a movement that has completed 10 months despite the death of over 600 protesters. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh cited how the world is coming to believe that democracy is in peril in India. “Freedom House is an independent agency that rates democracies in the world. They downgraded India and described us as a ‘partially independent democracy’,” he said. “(Swedish) institute V-Dem, which expressed concern about diminishing democracy, finally said in its latest report that India was an elected autocracy now.” Vallabh added: “Every Indian’s head will hang in shame when others express concern about democracy in our country.... We are the land of Mahatma Gandhi, and now the American President is tutoring us on Gandhian values of non-violence and tolerance. “Kamala Harris tells our Prime Minister that democracies are in danger across the world. We should understand that they too would be getting to know what is happening in India, that the Indian Prime Minister talks of shamshan-kabristan, a chief minister refers to ‘Abba Jan’.” Vallabh said: “People are now reminding us of Mahatma Gandhi because of the hate this government has spread in society for the last seven years.” “Shamshan-kabristan (cremation ground-graveyard)” was a reference to a comment Modi had made before the 2017 Uttar Pradesh polls that was seen as an attempt to polarise voters on religious lines. Yogi Adityanath recently referred to “Abba Jan”, again in what is seen as an attempt at polarisation. Biden on Friday said: “The world celebrates Mahatma Gandhi’s birthday next week. We’re all reminded that his message of non-violence, respect, tolerance, matters today, maybe more than ever.” A day before, Harris had said that “democracies around the world are under threat”. The Congress believes that Modi should be able to decipher these messages from Biden and Harris. Rahul Gandhi has spoken about the threats to Indian democracy before international audiences. The return of awards by writers, artists and scientists in protest against lynchings has drawn global attention, as have the movement against the citizenship amendment and the attacks on citizens’ eating habits and inter-community marriages. Modi has received adverse international media coverage for India’s mismanagement of the pandemic, and many prestigious journals and newspapers have described him as a divisive figure bent on enforcing a majoritarian agenda. The farmers’ movement too has attracted global spotlight, with the angry responses of the Right-wing ecosystem to international celebrities tweeting in support of the extraordinary protest ending up amplifying their message. The arrest of 22-year-old environment activist Disha Ravi on sedition charges, in a case relating to a social media toolkit created in support of the agitating farmers, got wide coverage because of her organisation’s link with the celebrated Swedish activist Greta Thunberg. The government’s decision to plant nails on the roads and erect barbed-wire fences to block the farmers too provoked critical reactions abroad. “We have reason to support this (farmers’) movement and the ‘Bharat bandh’ call,” Vallabh said. “The Government of India hasn’t shown any concern or sensitivity to the ordeal of farmers.... They have taken a series of anti-farmer decisions, from an exploitative insurance scheme to a savage hike in diesel prices. The input cost has increased by Rs 25,000 per hectare and the (farmers’) debt (has) almost doubled. A government survey shows a farmer’s average income is Rs 27 per day.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
26-09-2021||India||Modi cites own example to assert India is functioning democracy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday cited his own example to assert that India is a functioning democracy, using the platform of the United Nations General Assembly after two days of being nudged on democracy and tolerance by the US President and Vice-President. Modi referred to his rise from son of a tea seller to Prime Minister as proof that “democracy can deliver, democracy has delivered”. Appearing to follow advice that he had given the nation last year, Modi said he represented a country that was proud to be the “mother of democracy”. The Prime Minister had on December 10, 2020, said: “When we glorify our democratic history with confidence, the day is not far away when the world will also say: India is the mother of democracy.” On Saturday, Modi used the UNGA to do that in an address that increasingly sounded like a campaign speech as he invoked several schemes of his government after underscoring India’s diversity. “Our diversity is the identity of our strong democracy. This is a country which has dozens of languages, hundreds of dialects, various ways of living and eating. It is a marvellous example of a vibrant democracy,” the Prime Minister said. He spoke about the threat posed to the world by the increase in “regressive thinking” and extremism. “Under these circumstances, the entire world has to make science-based, rational and progressive thinking the basis of development,” he said. In the context of regressive thinking, he sought to admonish Pakistan without naming it by saying that a country that uses terrorism as a political tool should realise that terrorism can become a big threat to it too. He also appeared to be taking on China — again without naming the country — when he stressed that ocean resources were a common resource that should be used, not abused. “Our oceans are the lifeline of international trade. They should be protected from the race for expansion and exclusion,” the Prime Minister said. During this US visit, the Prime Minister has had to deal with subtle concern from the top echelons of power and voices from the streets — where protests were organised in both Washington and New York — at what the Economist Intelligence Unit has described as India’s “democratic backsliding”. Earlier, exercising India’s right of response at the UNGA to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s bid to broach Kashmir, Indian diplomat Sneha Dubey said: “Pakistan is a country which is an arsonist disguising itself as a fire-fighter.” Dubey underlined that Osama bin Laden had taken refuge in Pakistan. Stating that South Asia and the whole world had suffered because of its actions, the young diplomat accused Pakistan of trying to cover up sectarian violence within its borders as acts of terror. “Dissenting voices are muzzled daily…. Unlike Pakistan, India is a pluralistic democracy with a substantial population of minorities who have gone on to hold the highest offices in the country,” Dubey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
26-09-2021||India||Pandemic dries up talent pool of activists among students||Most student unions in India have been unable to hold elections since the pandemic began last year, which has dried up the talent pool of activists among students, many of whom graduate to electoral politics. While Covid has also restricted traditional union activities like agitations and cultural events, the students have found new ways of raising their concerns, mainly online. However, their effectiveness as a pressure group has waned. For many student groups such as the Congress’s National Students Union of India (NSUI) and the CPM-backed SFI, the immediate priority is to have all the students vaccinated and the campuses reopened so that normal student activity can resume. The NSUI swept the campus polls at the Sampurnanand Sanskrit Vishwavidyalaya in Varanasi, one of the few institutions to witness student elections this year. NSUI national president Neeraj Kundan has, however, had an uphill task mobilising students for agitations against unpaid scholarships, stalled public recruitment, the holding of exams despite the pandemic, and the authorities’ failure to offer fee waivers. “Third-year students, who would recruit freshers, now don’t know who the freshers are…. The government misused this period to bring in the New Education Policy (NEP) at a time when we were struggling to find medical oxygen and hospital beds,” Kundan said. The NEP makes no mention of socialism or secularism, upholds the Bhagavad Gita as its ideal, stresses fundamental duties without mentioning rights, and adds to the states’ fiscal burden. Critics say it will make education more expensive, promote online learning which will further exclude the poor, and dilute student representation. “We have an ongoing campaign to vaccinate students first so that the campuses can reopen,” Kundan said. “The NEP and the movement against privatisation — which effectively reduces jobs for the backward classes — are also issues on which we will seek to mobilise students this year,” he added. “Despite the restrictions of the lockdown (which shut campuses and banned gatherings), we managed to organise several street protests on these issues — even outside Parliament and the education ministry.” SFI general secretary Mayukh Biswas echoed Kundan and termed the pandemic a “golden opportunity for the Right-wing government to implement its policies”. “The SFI had won elections in major central universities such as Jawaharhal Nehru University, the University of Hyderabad and Pondicherry University. Before the pandemic, even apolitical campuses (like the Film and Television Institute of India and Jamia Millia Islamia) had raised their voice against this government,” he said. “This generation is the biggest threat for this regime and that’s why the shutdown of campuses and silencing of dissent.” The SFI had approached the Supreme Court in May to ensure vaccines for all. The union it leads at JNU is on strike outside an administrative office to demand that the campus be reopened. “The real problem is in the rural colleges, where the students are dropping out as they are unable to cope with online education. Child marriages are on the rise too. After the festive season, we will launch street protests for the reopening of campuses,” Biswas said. Crime records show a 50 per cent increase in child marriages last year. The Delhi University Students’ Union (DUSU), India’s largest elected students’ union, has tried a three-pronged strategy to keep itself relevant during the pandemic, its president, Akshit Dahiya of the RSS-backed ABVP, said. “The DUSU has held leadership summits with Union ministers and luminaries from different fields. It has also led protests against exams, and organised volunteers for lockdown relief,” Dahiya said. “Student activism and leadership has been affected because of the pandemic. DU students from all over India used to interact with each other and learn each other’s cultures and languages. From the elections, fresh leaders emerged.... Some 2,500 to 3,000 students used to contest for posts in the DUSU and the college unions, and more than 2 lakh used to vote.” Members of the CPIML Liberation’s All India Students’ Association were booked for violating the epidemic restrictions on gatherings when they recently held a demonstration demanding the reopening of colleges in Delhi. Last year, several JNU and Jamia students were arrested for protesting against the new citizenship regime. The crackdown has led to new modes of protest. Delhi University postponed its exams in May after an online campaign by Arya Ray, a theatre personality and BA English student at the Sri Venkateswara College. “Students and their families were suffering from Covid. Let alone the mental trauma, it was physically impossible for many to write their exams. As it is, online learning has excluded many who do not have the required facilities. DU was not going to budge, so some of our teachers told us to do all we can,” Ray, who does not belong to any political student group, said. “There is only so much that online protests can achieve without activity on the ground…. There is comparatively more freedom of expression online right now. As this exclusionary process of online learning continues, there are more reasons for outrage.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
