27-09-2021||India||Cyclone Gulab: Rains lash several parts of Telangana, IMD issues red alert to 14 districts||Rains pounded several parts of Telangana on Monday, even as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) warned that heavy rains are expected at isolated places in different districts of the State over the next 48 hours. Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao took stock of the situation with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar.  Rao directed the Chief Secretary to take necessary precautions against any loss of life or property due to heavy rains forecast across the State for another two days due to the impact of cyclone 'Gulab', an official press release said.  The Chief Minister said all government offices, including schools, colleges and educational institutions in the State, would remain closed on Tuesday due to heavy rains.  Examinations of engineering and degree courses scheduled for September 28 and 29 were also postponed in view of the heavy rains.  The Chief Secretary said the departments of Revenue, Police, Fire Services, Municipal, Panchayati Raj, Irrigation, Roads and Buildings should be on emergency duty to ensure that no property or lives are lost due to heavy rains, the release added.  The IMD, which issued a red alert to 14 districts of the State, warned of heavy to very heavy rain with extremely heavy rain that are very likely to occur at isolated places in Nirmal, Nizamabad, Jagityal, Rajanna Sircilla, Karimnagar, Peddapally, Bhadradri Kothagudem, Khammam, Mahabubabad, Warangal (Rural), Warangal (Urban), Janagaon, Siddipet, Kamareddy districts today.  The rains would result in massive water-pooling on roads and low-lying areas in most places and agriculture land submerge/crop damage, it said, adding, thunderstorm accompanied by lightning with wind speed 30-40 kmph is very likely to occur at isolated places in all the districts.  Bachodu in Khammam district received highest rainfall of 151.5 mm followed by Wyra (141.5 mm) till 3 PM today. Similarly, several parts of Hyderabad also witnessed rains since this morning.  The downpour caused waterlogging on some roads and low-lying areas.  The IMD further warned of heavy rain that is very likely to occur at isolated places in Adilabad, Nirmal, Nizamabad, Jagityal, Rajanna Sircilla, Vikarabad, Sangareddy, Medak and Kamareddy districts of Telangana between 0830 hours of September 28 and 0830 hours of September 29.  Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning very likely to occur at places in all the districts of Telangana.  Meanwhile, Somesh Kumar once again held a teleconference with District Collectors in the wake of heavy rains. Kumar said Collectors have been directed to remain vigilant in the wake of warnings from the Meteorological Department that there will be heavy rains for another two days across the State.  He said the Revenue, Police, Panchayati Raj, Irrigation and Fire departments in the district should work in tandem. If necessary, services of NDRF teams in Hyderabad, Kothagudem and Warangal should be utilised, he said, adding separate control room should be set up in each District Collectorate office and information should be provided to the control room set up in the Secretariat. The Chief Secretary further said the situation should be reviewed by appointing Special Officers at problematic areas such as inland areas, ponds, ditches and bridges.  Telangana Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy said he had directed the Police Commissioners and Superintendents of Police to work in coordination with the District Collectors.  The police advised citizens to stay indoors unless needed. "Do not cross overflowing streams. Remain indoors in view of heavy rainfall. Dial 100 in case of emergency," they said. Cyclone Gulab, which crossed the Bay of Bengal coast near Kalingapatnam on Sunday night, weakened into a depression and caused widespread rains in several districts of Andhra Pradesh on Monday and also left a trail of destruction, as the death toll rose to two with a woman's death.  Port city Visakhapatnam received a 30-year high rainfall of over 33.3 cm in 24 hours under the cyclone's impact and left a woman dead on Monday, taking the toll to two since Sunday.  On Sunday, a fisherman was killed in the cyclonic storm in Bay of Bengal in Srikakulam district.  Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy reviewed the situation with Collectors of the rain-affected districts and directed them to step up relief works.  The Chief Minister announced an ex-gratia relief of Rs 5 lakh each to the kin of those killed in the cyclonic storm.  In Vizianagaram district, agricultural crops in 13,122 hectares and horticultural crops in 291 hectares were damaged, according to the Collector A Surya Kumari.  Nine head of cattle also died in the cyclone.  In Visakhapatnam, boulders fell on a house, causing its collapse and killing a woman, district Collector A Mallikarjuna said.  The Collector, along with Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation Commissioner G Srujana, inspected the rain-affected areas in the city and supervised the relief operations.  Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das visited Srikakulam, the district worst affected by Gulab, and reviewed the rescue and relief operations.  The district administration sheltered over 1,500 persons in 38 relief camps and provided food.  Trees that were uprooted by the cyclone were cleared from the roads on a war-footing while the Eastern Power Distribution Company personnel carried out repair of the damaged power lines.  According to IMD data, rainfall ranging from 60.3 mm to 333 mm was recorded in over 450 places spread over Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West Godavari and Krishna districts in 24 hours.  Guntur and Prakasam districts received up to 7.5 mm rainfall while SPS Nellore and the four Rayalaseema districts received up to 2.4 mm of rain, according to the State Disaster Management Authority.  The sea still remained rough in north coastal Andhra, which could cause moderate to heavy rainfall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
27-09-2021||India||WHO further delays emergency use of Covaxin||The World Health Organization (WHO) has further delayed the emergency use authorisation (EUA) for Covaxin, the Covid vaccine developed in India, as the global body has sent more technical queries to its manufacturer Bharat Biotech, according to sources. This delay is likely to adversely affect Indians', especially students', international travel plans. Without EUA, Covaxin will not be considered an accepted vaccine by most countries around the world. WHO's queries for Bharat Biotech comes despite the Hyderabad-based drug maker asserting that it has submitted all data required for clearance. The indication of a delay comes merely days after the Union Health Ministry hinted that the global body was likely to give its nod anytime soon. "There is a procedure of submitting the documents for approval. WHO's emergency use authorisation to Covaxin is expected soon," Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar, Union Minister of State in the Health Ministry, had said last Friday, according to an ANI report. Earlier, Dr VK Paul, Chairperson of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration, had also said that WHO's approval for Covaxin was likely to come before the end of this month. According to Bharat Biotech, Phase III clinical trials of Covaxin had demonstrated an efficacy rate of 77.8 per cent. Covaxin, along with Covishield, was the vaccine first deployed by India in its massive nationwide inoculation drive against COVID-19 launched in January this year. Others like the Russia-made Sputnik were added to the country's armoury only later. Covishield is the only India-made vaccine on the WHO list now. It is manufactured by the Serum Institute of India in Pune and was developed by researchers at Oxford University and pharmaceutical firm AstraZeneca. The WHO has, till now, also approved vaccines manufactured by Pfizer-BioNTech, Johnson and Johnson, Moderna, and Sinopharm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
27-09-2021||India||Goa unit a cruel parody of Congress, Luizinho Faleiro tells Sonia Gandhi||Congress veteran from Goa, Luizinho Faleiro, on Monday said he was quitting as MLA and primary member of the party and slammed the state Congress unit which he described as a cruel parody of what the Congress stands for . Faleiro, however, didn't divulge his plans amid speculations that he might join the Trinamool Congress even as he hailed the leadership of TMC chief and Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Addressing his resignation letter to All India Congress Committee president Sonia Gandhi, Faleiro, who represented Navelim seat, has alleged that the Goa unit of the party is led by a "coterie" of leaders whose priority is personal gains. (The Goa Congress unit is) led by a coterie of leaders who prioritize personal gains over the responsibility we owe to our people. We have utterly failed to even be an effective opposition, he wrote. The two-page resignation letter also mentions that the Congress party in Goa is not the same party for which we had sacrificed and fought. "It is functioning contrary to every ideal and principle of its founding fathers upheld by Indiraji, Rajivji and you (Sonia Gandhi)," it said. Shri Rahul Gandhiji too has been uncompromising in his fight against the forces that seek to destroy the fabric of our nation. However, the Goa unit of the party has become a cruel parody of what the Congress stands for, he added. Faleiro, who tendered his resignation as an MLA to Goa Assembly speaker, said, till now, none is being held accountable for the loss of our 13 MLAs while sidelining of true Congress workers continues. "I see absolutely no hope or even the will to prevent the collapse of the party and the change for the better," he said. Faleiro was referring to the 13 MLAs crossing over to the BJP over the last five years, reducing Congress to a single-digit entity in the 40-member House. In his resignation letter, Faleiro has also accused former AICC Goa Desk in-charge Digvijaya Singh, without naming him, of stopping him to stake claim to form the government in 2017 despite the Congress having the required number of MLAs on its side. "I was prevented from going to the governor by the AICC desk in-charge and was asked to wait till we had 24 MLAs, a decision that eventually cost us the government and allowed the BJP to steal the mandate through manipulations and inducements," he alleged. He repeated the allegation in the press conference also without taking any name. Praising Mamata Benerjee and calling for the unification of the fragmented Congress, Faleiro told reporters that he wanted to bring a new dawn to Goa. "Goa needs a credible alternative and my resignation is a call for unification," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
27-09-2021||India||Countrywide response to bandh proves its pan-India nature, says Rakesh Tikait||The countrywide response to Monday's Bharat Bandh has proved that the protests against three farm laws of the Centre are pan-India, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said and urged the people who faced inconvenience due to the shutdown to forget it for the farmers' sake. He said people from not just three states (Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh) but across the country participated in the shutdown called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions leading the protests against the three contentious laws, from 6 am to 4 pm and no violence was reported from anywhere. "Some people had described the protest as an issue of farmers only in three states (Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh). But the response and support to today's bandh across the country has proved that it is a pan-India protest," the national spokesperson of the BKU, part of the SKM, said. The 10-hour shutdown led to several trains being cancelled, highways and key roads blocked and thousands stranded for hours in parts of the country, particularly in the north. "Some people may have faced inconvenience due to the Bharat Bandh today, which is natural, but they should forget it for just one day in the name of farmers," Tikait said in a statement. "The farmers have been on the roads, leaving their houses for the last 10 months, but the blind and deaf government neither sees nor hears anything," he was quoted as saying in the statement issued by BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik. Tikait said in a democracy, there is no other option but to protest and warned the government that the farmers would go back to their homes only after the laws are abolished. "It is an appeal to our government that the problems of the farmers should be resolved as soon as possible," he added. The influential BKU leader said the 10-month-long protests can end today if the government agrees to the farmers' demands and urged the Centre to look into the issue at the earliest. He thanked farmers and workers across the country for making the shutdown a complete "success" and said the movement will continue till the three laws are repealed and a legal guarantee provided by the Centre on the Minimum Support Price (MSP) on crops. "The Bharat Bandh called by the SKM today has been a complete success. Farmers across the country came out on the roads and expressed their anger against the laws. At thousands of places, people came out in support of the bandh and staged demonstrations. "Besides farmers, labourers, traders, private workers, trade unions and political parties extended support to the bandh across the country," Tikait said. He also hit out at the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over the Rs 25 per quintal hike on the MSP for sugarcane announced last week and said a separate agitation would be carried out by the BKU over the issue in the coming days. Tikait is leading hundreds of anti-farm law protesters and BKU supporters at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, one of the three key protest sites on the outskirts of the national capital, since November last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
27-09-2021||India||Congress calls RSS charges levelled against Amazon 'serious'||A day after RSS-linked weekly "Panchjanya" dubbed Amazon as "East India Company 2.0", the Congress on Monday said whatever the Sangh says is irrelevant as it does not say anything in national interest, but in the interest of the ruling BJP. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera, however, said the allegations against the US e-commerce giant are serious and cannot be ignored. "The issue of Amazon is a serious one and it merits everybody's attention. The allegations against Amazon are very serious and they cannot be ignored," he said. Asked about the comments of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), Khera said, "What the RSS says about Amazon is irrelevant because there is a duet going on between the RSS and the BJP. "We have seen that duet and they stand exposed in the farmers' agitation. We have seen the dubious role played by the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh as it has not come in support of the farmers even for one day in the last 10 months." The Congress leader said "nobody takes what the RSS says seriously anymore, because they do not speak the language in national interest, they talk in the interest of the BJP." Amazon was dubbed as "East India Company 2.0" by "Panchjanya", which has also alleged that the firm has paid crores of rupees in bribes for favourable government policies. In its latest edition, which will hit the stands on October 3, the RSS-linked weekly has carried a cover story that is highly critical of Amazon. "Whatever the East India Company did in the 18th century to capture India, the same is visible in the activities of Amazon," the article titled "East India Company 2.0" reads. Claiming that Amazon wants to establish its monopoly in the Indian market, it says, "For doing so, it has started taking initiatives for seizing the economic, political and personal freedom of the Indian citizens."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
27-09-2021||India||Young doctors not football in game of power, says SC on NEET row||Don't treat young doctors as football in the game of power, the Supreme Court said on Monday, warning the Centre that it may pass structures if it is not satisfied with justification for last-minute changes to the NEET Super Speciality Examination 2021 syllabus. The apex court said it will not allow these young doctors to be placed in the hands of some insensitive bureaucrats, and asked the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), National Medical Commission (NMC) and National Board of Examination (NBE) to put their house in order. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna asked Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Centre, to hold a meeting with other two authorities within a week. "Better come with some strong reasons as if we are not satisfied, we will pass structures," it said. "Don't treat these young doctors as footballs in the game of power. Hold the meeting and put your house in order. We will not allow the lives of these young doctors to be placed in the hands of some insensitive bureaucrats," it added. The top court was hearing a plea of 41 Post Graduate doctors who have challenged the last minute changes made to the syllabus after the notification for examination was issued. At the outset, senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for the young doctors, said that there is urgency in the matter and they have filed a written submission also in the matter. Advocate Gaurav Sharma, appearing for NMC, said that they would like to file reply in the matter and sought adjournment of one week. The bench said, "Mr Sharma, what is the NMC doing? We are dealing with the lives of young doctors who will pursue super speciality courses. You have issued the notification for examination on July 23 and then changed the syllabus on August 31. What is this? They are to sit for examinations on November 13 and 14". Senior advocate Maninder Singh, appearing for NBE, said that they be given time to file the reply till next Monday, as there were suitable reasons for doing the changes and authorities were well aware of the difficulties of the students and was after approvals of the three authorities concerned. The bench said, "Then why the notification for examination was issued, Mr Singh? Why cannot it happen next year? You see, students start preparing for these critical medicine courses months and months in advance. What was the need for last minute change?" Singh said that the change in the syllabus was in the offing for quite some time and preparation was on since 2018 and the authorities concerned have tried to take care of the difficulties. "Kindly give us one week, we will explain everything," he said. The bench told the senior counsel, "We are ready to hear you but tell the authorities that we are unsatisfied with the way the last minute changes were made. We are putting you on notice in advance that if we don't agree with your justification, we will pass structures and we will deal with you." It said, "Just because someone has the authority to wield power does not mean that he can wield power without application of mind. When you yourself issued notification for examination in July, then what was the need to rock the boat in August. Please talk to MoHFW and NMC and put your house in order." Justice Chandrachud said that this examination is very important for their (doctors) career and merely because these doctors have already passed the MBBS exams doesn't mean that they can change the exam pattern last minute. "You have to deal with these young doctors with sensitivity," he said. Justice Nagarathna said that Pattern of study for these young doctors will depend on the pattern of questions. "If you make last minute changes, they will be ruffled." She said the young doctors might be put at ruse due to the last minute changes. Justice Chandrachud said that he agrees with his sister judge and added, "We have an example of Common Law Admission Test (CLAT). I have heard that students need to study for two years to prepare for the exams. Here it takes months and months for these doctors who have to study critical medicines and to prepare for the examination and you cannot just make last minute changes." Singh said the court should hear the arguments first and then form any opinion in the matter. The bench said that it is open to the arguments but if it does not accept the submissions then the authorities concerned should also be ready to accept the strictures passed by the court. "These people who are doctors at NMC board have passed the stage which the young doctors are in at present but it does not mean that they will treat them like this. You better come up with strong reasons. List on Monday," it said. The plea has said that as per the prevailing pattern of examination, 60 per cent marks are given on questions from super speciality courses while 40 per cent of the marks are given from other courses. As per the notification issued on August 31 for modifying the pattern of examination, 100 per cent marks will be now given on questions from general medicines. The young doctors have said in their plea that they have been preparing for the examination as per the earlier pattern which has been in existence for the last three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
27-09-2021||India||Historic response to Monday's Bharat Bandh, says Samyukta Kisan Morcha||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), a united front of over 40 farmer unions protesting against three agriculture laws of the Centre, on Monday said its call for a "Bharat Bandh" received an "unprecedented and historic" response from more than 23 states and not a single untoward incident was reported from anywhere. It, however, said Monday's events were "unfortunately marked by three farmer deaths", adding that more details are awaited. The morcha claimed that the response to the bandh call was "more widespread than before" and nearly all opposition political parties extended an unconditional support to it. "Reports have been pouring in about the overwhelmingly positive and resounding response to the Bharat Bandh call to mark 10 months of peaceful protests with rightful demands from the 'annadaatas' of the country. Spontaneous participation from various sections of the society was witnessed at most places," it said in a statement. The SKM said the bandh was observed peacefully in "more than 23 states" and not a single untoward incident was reported. "Reports have come in from hundreds of locations in Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Kerala, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Puducherry, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and West Bengal about the bandh, and numerous events to accompany the same," the statement said. In Punjab alone, people gathered at more than 500 locations to express their support to the bandh. Numerous non-farmer associations also stood in solidarity with the farmers, it said. "Life came to a near standstill in several states like Kerala, Punjab, Haryana, Jharkhand and Bihar. Reports indicate that in several parts of southern Assam, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand, this was the situation. Scores of protests marked the day in states like Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand," the SKM said. "It is patently clear that the people of India are tired of the government's adamant and unreasonable stand on the protesting farmers' legitimate demands and anti-people policies in numerous sectors," it added. The morcha also said the Uttar Pradesh government insulted farmers by offering a meagre Rs 25 hike per quintal of sugarcane. Farmers are not ready to settle for anything less than Rs 425 per quintal of sugarcane, it said. Earlier in the day, several trains were cancelled, highways and key roads blocked and many thousands stranded for hours as the 10-hour shutdown against the three farm laws disrupted lives in parts of the country, particularly in the north. Protesters blocked highways and arterial roads and squatted on railway tracks at several places from 6 am as the shutdown called by the SKM got underway. The blockade was lifted at 4 pm. The day marks a year since President Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent to the three controversial laws and 10 months since thousands of farmers set up camps at Delhi's border points to voice their protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
27-09-2021||India||Congress asks Narendra Modi to talk to farmers, listen to their demands||As farmers across the country held protests as part of the Bharat Bandh, the Congress on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to talk to agitating farmers and listen to their legitimate grievances. The Congress also alleged that instead of redressing the grievances of farmers, the government is trying to paint them as enemies of the country and that is why the farmers are protesting on the roads. The Bharat Bandh was called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farm unions, to demand repeal of three agri laws enacted by the Centre. Expressing support for protesting farmers, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the farmers' non-violent 'satyagraha' is still resolute but the "exploitative" government does not like this and that is why a 'Bharat Bandh' has been called. Posting rhyming lines in Hindi on Twitter, Gandhi said, "Kisano ka ahimsak satyagraha aaj bhi akhand hai, lekin shoshankar sarkar ko ye nahi pasand hai, isliye aaj Bharat Bandh hai (Farmers' non-violent satyagraha is resolute even today, but the exploitative government does not like this and that's why it is Bharat Bandh today)." Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said farmers are facing angst and helplessness, based on which they have called for the Bandh which his party whole-heartedly supports. "We have to stand unitedly with the farmers, otherwise the future of our nation is dark," he told reporters. Noting that the country has seen many prime ministers and will see many more after Modi, Khera said "You cannot be arrogant when you are the prime minister." "You have to listen to your country and when 60 per cent of your country speaks, please speak to them," he said. "You have a strange confidence and a strange belief in your diversionary tactics and you are very confident that come elections and you will be able to distract the attention of the country again from the basic fundamental critical issues that the farmers face today. But, I am sorry this would not happen again," the Congress leader claimed. He alleged that the government has imposed GST on agri equipment and as if this was not enough, it went ahead without due process of consultations with stakeholders and "bulldozed all democratic norms and parliamentary practices" and brought these three "black" laws, which the farmers are protesting against. Khera said the prime minister made a loud announcement and people took him seriously when he said on January 22, 2021 that he is still a phone call away. "The farmers are still waiting for that phone call. But instead of that phone call what has the prime minister, his government and the party done is that they have tried to delegitimise the farmers of the country and they have tried to portray them as the enemies of the country," he charged. "Instead of engaging with them and telling them that we have gone wrong and we will correct and undo what we have done, this is what the government is doing and that is why the farmers and angry and that is why they are agitating and are on the roads," he told reporters. Khera said each one of us irrespective of our occupation and political affiliation, needs to support the farmers and only then will this government perhaps yield. He also said that it is a pity that the country, which is a civilisation and a civilisation which is the mother of democracies, is given a lecture on democracy when we travel abroad. "It is shameful for all of us," he noted. The government and farmer unions have held 11 rounds of talks so far, the last being on January 22, to break the deadlock and end the farmers' protest. Talks have not resumed following widespread violence during a tractor rally by protesting farmers on January 26. The three laws -- The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- were passed by Parliament in September last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
27-09-2021||India||Hundreds of farmers confront Noida cops in a separate stir||Hundreds of people from various villages here and a large number of police personnel were involved in a confrontation on Monday during a demonstration over land compensation outside the Noida Authority Office on Delhi's outskirts, coinciding with the Bharat Bandh call given by farmer unions against the Centre's three agri laws. The protestors, mostly supporters of the Bharatiya Kisan Parishad, have been staging a sit-in outside the Noida Authority's office for the past several days over a host of demands including hiked compensation for their land acquired by the government. Police officials said that security had been heightened in the area in view of the ongoing protest and barricades were also set up to prevent the protestors from moving towards the Authority's office in Sector 6. While trying to pacify the demonstrators, led by farmer leader Sukhvir Pahalwan, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Noida) Ranvijay Singh asked them not to take the law into their hands. "You have all the right to hold a protest, but you should also be thoughtful of your actions causing problems to other people, affecting their movement," Singh told the protestors, including several women. "We do not expect you to take the situation to a point wherein the police would be required to use force or initiate legal action against you all because that is not going to help anyone," the officer added. This protest by the Bharatiya Kisan Parishad is not linked with the bigger ongoing farmers' stir against the three contentious farm laws, but is related to the residents of 81 villages of Noida whose land has been acquired in the past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
27-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh: Parts of Delhi witness traffic jams as farmers go on strike||Markets remained open and business activities were largely unaffected in the national capital on Monday, though massive traffic snarls were witnessed in border areas due to road blockades by protesters and security checks by police during the Bharat Bandh called by farmers against the Centre's three agri laws. The auto and taxi unions as well as several traders' bodies extended only "in-principle support" to the Bharat Bandh and decided not to join the strike, saying their livelihood has already been hit hard due to the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown. According to Railway officials, about 25 trains have been affected due to the Bharat Bandh including Delhi-Amritsar Shan-e-Punjab, New Delhi-Moga Express, Old Delhi-Payhajot Express, Vande Bharat Express from New Delhi to Katra, and Amritsar Shatabdi. "More than 20 locations are being blocked in Delhi, Ambala, and Firozpur divisions. About 25 trains are affected due to this," a spokesperson for the Northern Railway said. A section of trade unions and civil society groups held a protest at Jantar Mantar in solidarity with the Bandh called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of over 40 farm unions spearheading the farmers' agitation. The protesters held banners of 'Long Live Farmers Unity' and demanded the repeal of the agri laws and equal opportunities for all. Parts of the national capital witnessed traffic snarls in morning hours as police closed some key roads to prevent any untoward incident during the bandh. Commuters faced difficulty while crossing the city borders, especially the Delhi-Gurgaon border. The traffic on DND was also affected. The Ghazipur border is closed for vehicular movement and the whole traffic is being diverted to DND and Apsara border for Noida and Ghaziabad respectively. There was chaos on one carriageway of the national highway coming from Ghazipur border to Sarai Kale Khan near Akshardham Mandir. The Delhi Police increased security checks at its border points which led to the slowing down of traffic and it informed commuters about road closures and traffic snarls on Twitter. According to police, roads around the historic Red Fort, which witnessed violent clashes during a farmers' tractor rally on January 26, as well as the dual carriageway at the Ghazipur border were closed for traffic. "The traffic is heavy at the Kalindi Kunj flyover and Kalindi Kunj metro station while it is moving slowly on DND flyway. The traffic is also heavy at Rajokri toll plaza as the local police have set up a checkpoint for vehicles," a senior police official said. A Delhi Metro station near Tikri Border, one of the sites of the ongoing farmers' protests, was also closed for security reasons in view of the Bandh. The station in Haryana -- Pandit Shree Ram Sharma -- falls on the Green Line of the network. Autorickshaws and taxis plied normally and shops were open. "Previously also we had supported Bharat Bandh by the farmers but continued to ply our autos and taxis. This time also we are in support of genuine farmers but we are not on strike because our members are in deep distress due to shrinking earnings in pandemic times," said Rajender Soni, the general secretary of the Delhi Auto Taxi Union. The Sarvoday Driver Association of Delhi, representing many drivers of cab aggregator platforms, also supported the farmers but did not join the strike. "We are in support of the farmers, but our work was affected due to the pandemic and we cannot afford to go in their support by striking," said Kamaljeet Gill, president of the Association. Other auto and taxi unions expressed the same sentiment. "We fully support the farmers. But in view of the financial crisis faced by us due to COVID, we are extending our moral and in-principle support to them and their demand while working normally," said Anuj Rathor, secretary of the Rashtriya Rajdhani Kshetra Auto Drivers Association. Markets and shops in the city were open as farmers have not contacted our associations for any strike, said Brijesh Goyal, chairman of the Chamber of Trade and Industry(CTI). "Also, the festival season is approaching and it is time for traders to recover some of the losses they faced due to the pandemic and lockdown. We do support the farmers and urge the government to meet their demand," he said. Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) Secretary General Praveen Khandelwal said there was no effect of the Bandh on the markets across the country including Delhi. "All the markets including in Delhi remained fully open and business activities in the markets went on as normal. We have advised the farmer leaders to leave the path of struggle and find ways to negotiate with the government," he said. To mark one year since the laws were passed, farmer organisations had called a Bharat Bandh on Monday from 6 AM to 4 PM. The three laws -- The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- were passed by Parliament in September last year. The government has projected them as major reforms but the unions allege that the laws will leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates and have been protesting on Delhi's borders since November last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
27-09-2021||India||HC to hear plea concerning safety at court premises on September 29||The Delhi High Court Monday said it would hear on September 29 a plea seeking enhanced security in district courts in the national capital which recently witnessed a courtroom shootout that killed three people. Lawyer Richa Singh informed a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh that she has moved an application for early hearing in the petition pending since 2019, seeking better safety and security at the courts where incidents of crime have taken place. The application specifically mentions the Rohini Court complex incident in which three people, including a gangster, were killed in a courtroom shootout last week. Counter affidavit was filed by the high court registry and loopholes on ground situation were pointed out, she added. Your application will come for hearing on Wednesday, said Chief Justice Patel. The application has sought an urgent hearing on account of the shootout inside a courtroom in Rohini court complex here on September 24, leaving three gangsters dead and a law intern injured. The Writ Petition...will take quite considerable time to come up in its own normal turn for hearing before this Hon'ble court. Therefore, the interest of justice demands that the Writ Petition (Civil)... is listed and finally heard at an early time convenient to this Hon'ble court, the application reads. The public interest litigation was filed by six law students and sought enhancement of security systems at the district courts in the national capital. The PIL highlighted several crimes that took place inside the court premises and stated that there has to be an atmosphere of dignity which could be achieved only when security lapses are attended to. In the counter affidavit filed in the case in September 2020, the high court registry had stated that steps were being actively taken and considered by the concerned committees of the district court with regards the safety and security at court premises. On September 24, Jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi and his two assailants posing as lawyers were killed inside the Rohini courtroom in a dramatic shootout that also saw the police fire bullets in retaliation, the officials said. Video footage of the incident showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207. The two gunmen dressed as lawyers are suspected to be members of rival Tillu gang, an official said, adding that over 30 shots were fired. Witnesses said a law intern has also sustained bullet injury in her leg and some also claimed that the gang members pumped 10 bullets into Gogi, one of Delhi's most wanted criminals. Sources said Gogi received about seven bullet injuries, even as there was no official confirmation from police on this. Chief Justice of India N V Ramana has expressed deep concern over the shootout inside the crowded courtroom here and spoken to the Delhi High Court Chief Justice D N Patel in this regard, an apex court official had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
27-09-2021||India||Goa Congress leader quits party after praising Bengal CM Mamata||Former Goa chief minister and Congress leader Luizinho Faleiro resigned as member of the state Legislative Assembly on Monday and is likely to join the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamul Congress (TMC). Minutes before resigning, Faleiro praised West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC head Mamata Banerjee and said the country needs a leader like her to take on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Faleiro, who represented the Navelim Assembly seat and was recently made the Goa Congress's campaign committee chief in the wake of the state polls due next year, submitted his resignation to Assembly Speaker Rajesh Patnekar. With his resignation, the Congress's strength in the 40-member House has been reduced to four. The Congress had won 17 seats in the 2017 state Assembly elections, but later a number of MLAs resigned from the party. In July 2019, 10 MLAs quit the party and joined the ruling BJP. Shortly before resigning, Faleiro said the country needs a leader like Mamata Banerjee to counter Narendra Modi. "I met certain leaders, they said yes, you are a Congressman, I am a Congressman for last 40 years, I will continue to be a Congressman and part of Congress family...," Faleiro told reporters at his private residence in Margao, about 30 km from Panaji. "This family has to come together to fight Modi. Mamata is the one who has given a fight to Narendra Modi and his juggernaut," he said. He further said the "Mamata formula" has won in Bengal. "She has been able to stand up...she is a street-fighter ," the 70-year-old leader said. Faleiro said Goa is also going through difficult times. "We need such fighters who have the same wavelength, ideology, principles and programmes. The country needs a leader like Mamata," he said. "I am a Congressman, I would like larger picture of all the Congress parties (which have split from the Congress) to come together and fight the next parliamentary election. I would do everything to achieve this dream. It is definitely my dream," he said. Amid rumours of him joining the TMC, Faleiro had on Sunday said he would make an "important announcement". TMC leader Derek O'Brien told PTI on Saturday in Goa that the party will be contesting the upcoming Assembly polls and they were in touch with several local leaders. He had said that the TMC will announce its chief ministerial candidate soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
27-09-2021||India||25 trains affected due to Bharat Bandh, says Railways||About 25 trains have been affected due to the Bharat Bandh called by farm unions on Monday, officials said. "More than 20 locations are being blocked in Delhi, Ambala, and Firozepur divisions. About 25 trains are affected due to this," a spokesperson for the Northern Railway said. Officials said the Delhi-Amritsar Shan-e-Punjab, New Delhi-Moga Express, Old Delhi-Payhajot Express, Vande Bharat Express from New Delhi to Katra, and Amritsar Shatabdi are some of the trains that have been affected. To mark one year since they were passed, farmer organisations have called a Bharat Bandh on Monday against the three contentious farm laws. The bandh began at 6 am and will continue till 4 pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
27-09-2021||India||PM Modi launches Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission, under which a digital health ID will be provided to people that will contain their health records, and asserted that it has the potential to bring revolutionary changes in healthcare. In his address after the launch, Modi said the mission marks a new phase in efforts of the last seven years to strengthen health facilities. The pilot project of the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission was announced by the prime minister from the ramparts of the Red Fort on August 15, 2020. Currently, Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission is being implemented in a pilot phase in six union territories. Its nationwide roll-out coincides with the National Health Authority celebrating the third anniversary of the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB PM-JAY). In his remarks, Modi said that the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission has the potential to bring revolutionary changes to our health facilities. The prime minister noted that India has nearly 130 crore Aadhaar users, 118 crore mobile subscribers, 43 crore Jan Dhan bank accounts, and such a connected infrastructure can be found nowhere else in the world. Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission will provide reliable data, leading to better treatment and ensuring savings for patients, he said. The prime minister said that under the mission, people of the country will now get a digital health ID. Health records of every citizen will be digitally protected, he said, adding that the poor and the middle class will benefit the most from this mission. Emphasizing on the importance of technology, the prime minister pointed out that the Aarogya Setu app helped a lot in preventing the spread of the coronavirus infection. He also noted that India has been able to administer about 90 crore vaccine doses, and the Co-WIN application and its portal played a big role in it. Based on the foundations laid down in the form of Jan Dhan, Aadhaar and Mobile (JAM) trinity and other digital initiatives of the government, Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission will create a seamless online platform through the provision of a wide range of data, information and infrastructure services, duly leveraging open, interoperable, standards-based digital systems while ensuring the security, confidentiality and privacy of health-related personal information, according to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). It will enable access and exchange of longitudinal health records of citizens with their consent, the PMO said. The key components of the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission include a health ID for every citizen that will also work as their health account, to which personal health records can be linked and viewed with the help of a mobile application, a Healthcare Professionals Registry (HPR) and Healthcare Facilities Registries (HFR) that will act as a repository of all healthcare providers across both modern and traditional systems of medicine. This will ensure ease of doing business for doctors, hospitals and healthcare service providers. The Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission Sandbox, created as a part of the mission, will act as a framework for technology and product testing that will help organisations, including private players, intending to be a part of the National Digital Health Ecosystem become a health information provider or a health information user or efficiently link with building blocks of Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission, the PMO said. This mission will create interoperability within the digital health ecosystem, similar to the role played by the Unified Payments Interface in revolutionising payments, it said. Citizens will only be a click away from accessing healthcare facilities, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
27-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh: Farmers block highways at many places in Punjab||Farmers on Monday blocked highways and other roads at many places in Punjab, where the ruling Congress said it firmly stands by the farm unions' call for Bharat Bandh against the Centre's three agri laws. In neighbouring Haryana too, there were reports of protesters blocking some highways, including in Sirsa, Fatehabad and Kurukshetra. There were also reports of farmers squatting on rail tracks at a few places in the two states. In Punjab, a complete shutdown was observed at several places, including Moga, where farmers blocked the Moga-Ferozepur and Moga-Ludhiana National Highways. The Bathinda-Chandigarh National Highway too was blocked by farmers, sources said. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi urged the Centre to repeal the three anti-farmer laws. #I Stand With Farmers & appeal the Union Govt. to repeal the three anti-farmer laws. Our farmers have been struggling for their rights since more than a year & it is high time that their voice is heard. I request the farmers to raise their voice in a peaceful manner (sic), Channi tweeted. Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu said the PPCC firmly stands by farmer unions' for Bharat Bandh. Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee firmly stands by Farmer Unions demand for Bharat Bandh on 27 Sept 2021. In the war of right and wrong you can not afford to be neutral !! We urge every Congress worker to fight with all their might against the three Unconstitutional Black Laws !! (sic), Sidhu tweeted. In Haryana, protesting farmers blocked the national highway in Charkhi Dadri while in Kurukshetra too, several roads were blocked. In an advisory issued on Sunday, the Haryana Police had stated that people could face traffic disruptions on various roads and highways of the state due to the bandh. In view of the bandh, elaborate arrangements have been put in place by the civil administration and police according to directions of the state government, a Haryana Police spokesperson said. Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of over 40 farm unions spearheading the farmers' agitation, had earlier appealed to the people to join the bandh. The SKM had also asked political parties to stand with farmers in their quest to defend principles of democracy and federalism. "As this historic struggle completes 10 months, SKM has called Monday (September 27) to be observed as Bharat Bandh against the anti-farmer Modi government, the SKM had said in a statement. The SKM appeals to every Indian to join this nationwide movement and make Bharat Bandh a resounding success. In particular, we appeal to all organisations of workers, traders, transporters, businessmen, students, youth and women and all social movements to extend solidarity with the farmers that day," it said. The bandh will be held from 6 am to 4 pm during which all government and private offices, educational and other institutions, shops, industries and commercial establishments, as well as public events and functions, will be closed throughout the country, it had said. All emergency establishments and essential services, including hospitals, medical stores, relief and rescue work and people attending to personal emergencies will be exempted. Farmers from different parts of the country, especially Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi borders since November last year, demanding the repeal of the three contentious farm laws that they fear would do away with the Minimum Support Price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. The government, however, has been projecting the three laws as major agricultural reforms. Over 10 rounds of talks between the two parties have failed to break the deadlock.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
27-09-2021||India||India's active Covid cases lowest in 191 days||India added 26,041 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,36,78,786, while the active cases declined to 2,99,620, the lowest in 191 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,47,194 with 276 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.89 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.78 per cent, the ministry said. A decrease of 3,856 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 92 consecutive days, the ministry said. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.24 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 28 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.94 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 94 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,29,31,972, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 86 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 276 new fatalities include 165 from Kerala and 36 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,47,194 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,870 from Maharashtra, 37,726 From Karnataka, 35,490 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 24,603 from Kerala, 22,890 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,736 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
27-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh: Rahul Gandhi voices support for farmers||Expressing support for protesting farmers, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the farmers' non-violent 'satyagraha' is still resolute but the "exploitative" government does not like this and that is why a 'Bharat Bandh' has been called. The Congress has asked its workers, state unit chiefs and heads of frontal organisations to take part in the 'Bharat Bandh' called by farmer unions to protest against the Centre's three agri laws. Many non-NDA parties have extended support to the nationwide 10-hour strike on Monday called by farmers protesting against the three agri laws under the aegis of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM). Posting rhyming lines in Hindi on Twitter, Gandhi said, "Kisano ka ahimsak satyagraha aaj bhi akhand hai, lekin shoshankar sarkar ko ye nahi pasand hai, isliye aaj Bharat Bandh hai (Farmers' non-violent satyagraha is resolute even today, but the exploitative government does not like this and that's why it is Bharat Bandh today)." Gandhi used the hashtag 'IStandWithFarmers' with his tweet. The SKM on Sunday had appealed for complete peace during the Bandh and urged all Indians to join the strike. The government and farmer unions have held 11 rounds of talks so far, the last being on January 22, to break the deadlock and end the farmers' protest. Talks have not resumed following widespread violence during a tractor rally by protesting farmers on January 26. The three laws -- The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- were passed by Parliament in September last year. Farmer groups have alleged that these laws will end the 'mandi' and the MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced and asserted that these steps will help increase farmers' income.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
27-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh: Delhi Police tightens security at border points||The Delhi Police has beefed up security in border areas of the national capital in view of the Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions against the Centre's three agri laws on Monday. Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of over 40 farm unions spearheading the farmers' agitation, had earlier appealed to the people to join the bandh. A senior police officer said adequate security arrangements have been made to maintain the law and order situation and prevent any untoward incident in the national capital during the bandh. Patrolling has been intensified, extra personnel have been deployed at the pickets especially across the border areas and every vehicle entering the national capital is being thoroughly checked, according to the police. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said, In view of Bharat Bandh, adequate security arrangements have been made as a precautionary measure. Pickets at the border areas have been strengthened and all vital installations, including India Gate and Vijay Chowk have adequate deployment. No protester is being allowed to enter Delhi from the three protest sites at the city's borders, the official said. The security is preventive and we are fully alert. There is no call for Bharat Bandh in Delhi, but we are watching the developments and adequate number of personnel are on ground, another officer said. Police personnel have been deployed on all roads leading to Delhi through villages near border areas while all vehicles are being checked at the pickets, they said. The SKM had also asked political parties to stand with farmers in their quest to defend principles of democracy and federalism. "As this historic struggle completes 10 months, SKM has called Monday (September 27) to be observed as Bharat Bandh against the anti-farmer Modi government, the SKM had said in a statement. The SKM appeals to every Indian to join this nationwide movement and make Bharat Bandh a resounding success. In particular, we appeal to all organisations of workers, traders, transporters, businessmen, students, youth and women and all social movements to extend solidarity with the farmers that day," it said. The bandh will be held from 6 am to 4 pm during which all government and private offices, educational and other institutions, shops, industries and commercial establishments, as well as public events and functions, will be closed throughout the country, it had said. All emergency establishments and essential services, including hospitals, medical stores, relief and rescue work and people attending to personal emergencies will be exempted. Farmers from different parts of the country, especially Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi borders since November last year, demanding the repeal of the three contentious farm laws that they fear would do away with the Minimum Support Price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. The government, however, has been projecting the three laws as major agricultural reforms. Over 10 rounds of talks between the two parties have failed to break the deadlock.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
27-09-2021||India||BJP projects Modi as 'vishwa priya neta' on his return from America||The BJP on Sunday sought to project Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a “vishwa priya neta” (a leader loved globally) as it welcomed him back from a three-day US visit with drumbeats and a red carpet laid outside the Palam airport gate. The exercise seemed aimed at taking advantage of Modi's foreign trip to hype his personal image at a time his government’s handling of Covid and treatment of minorities and the agitating farmers have attracted criticism at home and abroad. From a makeshift stage outside the airport, party president J.P. Nadda stressed the Prime Minister’s “friendship” with US President Joe Biden, similar to claims made before about Modi’s personal ties with then Presidents Donald Trump and Barack Obama. Earlier, Modi had walked a red carpet onto the stage where he was welcomed with a huge garland as supporters chanted “Modi, Modi....” During the US visit, Modi had had to endure a lecture on Gandhian tolerance from Biden and one on upholding democratic principles from Vice-President Kamala Harris. But the BJP portrayed the trip as a resounding success. “Prime Minister Modi’s friendship with US President Joe Biden is not new. They share an old bond. This was reiterated by the US President too,” Nadda said. “Prime Minister Modi's visit to the US proves that the world views India differently. He has established India as a global player.” A banner behind the stage proclaimed the Prime Minister a “vishwa priya neta” with pictures showing him meeting Biden and speaking at the United Nations General Assembly. Nadda said Modi had spoken like a “statesman” at the UNGA. At the UNGA, while purportedly trying to answer the concerns signalled by Biden and Harris, Modi had himself appeared to be focusing on his personal image, citing his own rise from a humble background as proof of India's functioning democracy. On Saturday, a host of Union ministers and BJP politicians had posted tweets praising Modi's UNGA address. Party sources said the effort to hold Modi up as a world leader was based on feedback from the ground that suggested that the ordinary Indian saw the Prime Minister as having enhanced India's global standing. Modi's return from the US coincided with his monthly radio address, Mann Ki Baat, which the Prime Minister said had been recorded before he left India. In the broadcast, Modi sought to suggest that the country was progressing under his leadership with the people's participation. He repeated his now familiar catchphrases about the "can do determination" of Indians and the need to become "vocal for local". He urged people to set a record in the purchase of khadi and handloom products during the upcoming festivals to try and make India self-reliant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
27-09-2021||India||Nearly 40 lakh pupils to participate in National Achievement Survey||Nearly 40 lakh pupils from government and private schools will in the second week of November participate in a National Achievement Survey, which will evaluate their learning levels and assess any decline during the pandemic. Students of Classes III, V, VIII and X will take the written, single-paper test — which will assess their competence in mathematics, social sciences, language and comprehension — on a single day. Education ministry officials said the survey report would be expected before the next academic session. “Several sample survey reports have come out in the past few months showing a learning loss, but their sample sizes were small. The NAS report will help us get a national picture,” a ministry official said. Earlier this month, a sample survey by a group of educationists had found a sharp decline in learning standards among underprivileged children enrolled in Classes I to VIII. About 42 per cent rural children and 35 per cent of urban children from Classes III to V were unable to read a single word from a simple sentence. Students from nearly 1.25 lakh of India’s 15 lakh schools will take part in the test, to be available in 22 languages including Nepali and Urdu. The three-yearly NAS was last held in 2017, with Covid preventing it being held last year. Till now, only students of government and government-aided schools took the tests for Classes III, V and VIII, while the Class X test featured both government and private schools. This year will be the first when students of both government and private schools will take the test for each of the four grades. A ministry official said this year’s test would therefore show, for the first time, how children from poor families who study in the lower classes at private schools, with the government paying their fees at a rate fixed by it, were doing. The Central Board of Secondary Education will conduct the test, while the National Council of Educational Research and Training will prepare the question papers. PISA deferred The internationally esteemed competency test, Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA), has been deferred to 2022 because of the Covid situation. The three-yearly worldwide test, conducted by the Paris-based Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, was to be held this year. The test assesses 15-year-olds’ competence in mathematics, reading and science. The Centre has an agreement with the OECD for the participation of Indian students. India had, however, participated only once, in 2009, when students from Tamil Nadu and Himachal Pradesh were selected to represent the country. India had ranked 73 out of 74 countries, finishing only above Kyrgyzstan, and did not participate in 2012, 2015 or 2018. Next year, select students from urban schools in Chandigarh and its neighbourhood will represent the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
27-09-2021||India||N.V. Ramana advocates 50% quota for women judges||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Sunday advocated 50 per cent reservation in the judiciary for women judges, arguing it was a “right” and “not a charity”. Justice Ramana also urged reservation of seats for women at all law schools and colleges as a way of increasing the number of women legal professionals in the country. Such changes would require legislative enactment, which requires government initiative and political will. Justice Ramana dropped a hint saying he was “forcing the executive to take certain decisions”. The Chief Justice was speaking at a felicitation organised by the Supreme Court Women Bar Association for the nine new judges recently elevated to the apex court. He said he would slightly modify Karl Marx’s rallying cry to say: “Women of the world, unite! You have nothing to lose but your chains.” Justice Ramana observed: “Granting 50 per cent reservation for women is not a small issue, because for thousands of years there has been suppression of women in the country. You are entitled to 50 per cent reservation as a matter of right and not as a charity.” He added: “I don’t know whether I will be here or somewhere else, but when we achieve this goal I will be really happy.” Justice Ramana said that after touring several parts of the country and interacting with stakeholders, he had realised that women were grossly underrepresented in the judiciary. He said women made up less that 30 per cent of the judges in the trial courts, 11.5 per cent in the high courts, and 11 per cent in the Supreme Court — that too after the recent induction of three women judges. The Supreme Court now has 4 women among its 33 judges (12 per cent). Of the 1.7 million lawyers in the country, only 15 per cent are women, the Chief Justice said. Women account for an abysmal two per cent of the office-bearers at the various state Bar councils, the Chief Justice added. Justice Ramana regretted the lack of toilet and other infrastructural facilities for women lawyers. He said he had obtained data that showed that of the country’s 60,000 court halls, 22 per cent lacked toilet facilities for women. Justice Ramana said: “These are the ground realities. We have to tackle the issues immediately. I am forcing the executive to take certain decisions and correct it.” The women lawyers at the event gave a standing ovation to Justice Ramana for “creating history” through the elevation of nine new judges to the Supreme Court, including three women, at one go. One of the new women judges, Justice V. Nagarathna, will become the first woman Chief Justice of India in 2027. Mahalakshmi Pavani, president of the women lawyers’ association, urged the Chief Justice to ensure that deserving women lawyers from the Supreme Court were elevated to the various high courts, particular in states that lacked enough women judges. She also underlined the need for facilities such as bar rooms, washrooms and enough seats for women lawyers in the various courts and their corridors. Court reopening Justice Ramana said the Supreme Court was keen on the resumption of physical court proceedings, as were the younger lawyers, but some senior lawyers were against it. He said he would try to get the courts reopened after the Dussehra vacation next month. He added that the Supreme Court wanted the courts reopened only with proper stands of procedure, particularly with a possible third wave of the pandemic looming.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
27-09-2021||India||Adityanath expands cabinet six months before Assembly polls||Yogi Adityanath on Sunday inducted seven new ministers into his government less than six months before Assembly polls are due, the exercise apparently aimed at balancing caste equations despite the BJP’s professed disdain for such concerns. One of the new ministers is Congress defector Jitin Prasada, who belongs to the Brahmin community that is perceived to be unhappy with Adityanath. Three are OBCs, the mainstay of the Samajwadi Party, and the remaining three are Dalits, a community that makes up the Bahujan Samaj Party vote bank. However, in an apparent show of defiance, Adityanath desisted from inducting Narendra Modi confidant Arvind Kumar Sharma, a retired IAS officer who had worked for about two decades with Modi in Gujarat and Delhi. Sharma was sent to Uttar Pradesh in January amid strong speculation that the Prime Minister wanted him appointed state home minister, but Adityanath didn’t oblige.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
27-09-2021||India||Gulab makes landfall between Odisha and Andhra Pradesh||The cyclonic storm Gulab made landfall on Sunday evening between Gopalpur in south Odisha and Kalingapatnam in north Andhra Pradesh, a few hours after two tourists from Bengal drowned in Balasore while bathing in an already turbulent sea. The storm’s impact was felt in the Odisha districts of Gajapati, Rayagada, Koraput and Malkangiri. Srikakulam district of Andhra has also been affected. Around 9pm — three hours since the landfall process started — the wind was not very strong in Odisha, special relief commissioner P.K. Jena told PTI. Intermittent mild to moderate rainfall is reported from a few districts, Jena added. Around midnight, reports suggested that the storm was weakening. Debarshi Singh, 23, and Abhradip Acharya, 22, both residents of Madhyamgram, were swept away at Talsari beach in Balasore district, which borders the Digha beach in Bengal, around 2.30-3pm. “They were from Madhyamgram in Bengal. Five tourists were bathing in the sea when two of them went in deep, defying the warnings from local people. They were swept away,” a source in the Talsari marine police told The Telegraph. Efforts are on to trace a fishing trawler that had put out to sea two days ago from somewhere between Puri and Konark and has not returned. As a precaution, the state government had ordered all schools closed in 11 districts. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik, who is in Delhi on an official visit, spoke to the collectors to review the safety measures. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Naveen and promised all help. All those living in vulnerable areas had been evacuated before the cyclonic storm struck. Mindful of the Covid situation, the state government sent masks and sanitisers to the shelters and urged people to adhere to the pandemic protocol. The landfall witnessed tidal waves about half a metre taller than those seen during astronomical tides, particularly in Ganjam district where many low-lying areas were flooded. Many parts of the state, particularly the seven worst-hit districts and Khurda, Puri and Bhubaneswar city, suffered heavy rainfall ahead of the landfall. Train services were cancelled, diverted, rescheduled or truncated. Flights from Bhubaneswar airport were cancelled in the evening. The Odisha government has deployed 42 Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force units, 24 National Disaster Response Force units and 103 fire services units. The navy has deployed two ships --- INS Dega and INS Rajaji -- and an aircraft in Visakhapatnam. Odisha is unlikely to seek navy or air force assistance, special relief commissioner P.K. Jena said. “Odisha already has a robust mechanism to deal with the aftermath of a cyclone. I don’t think we shall require the services of the navy or air force,” he said. Danger signals have been hoisted in all the ports of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
27-09-2021||India||Jharkhand delegation demands caste census in a letter to Amit Shah||An all-party delegation from Jharkhand, led by chief minister Hemant Soren, met Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on Sunday afternoon and submitted a letter demanding a caste census. Sources said Soren had earlier this month written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking an appointment with an all-party delegation over the issue. He had also sought Modi’s time to discuss the issues related to caste census and the inclusion of the Sarna tribal religion code in the census. The letter, addressed to the Prime Minister, was signed by all 11 members of the delegation, including state BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash. The letter emphasised the need for a caste-based census to ensure overall development of those belonging to backward and most backward classes. The census figures available since Independence of the country did not contain caste-specific break-up, making it difficult to assess the educational, social, political and economic status of those backward and most backward people, the letter said, adding that such figures, if available, would help in reaching special assistance to those people. It is unfortunate that the Union government declared that caste-based census would not be done in respect of these people during the ensuing 2021 census, the letter further said, adding that the Mandal Commission had recommended reservations for backward class people on the basis of data available from the census figures of 1931 that was done 90 years ago. “The demand of the time is to translate into reality the belief of Sabka saath, sabka vikas  (Together with all, development of all),” the letter reminded the Prime Minister, adding that the caste-based census would help realise that goal. “The home minister accepted the letter but didn’t commit anything,” state Congress president Rajesh Thakur told The Telegraph after meeting Shah. The demand for a caste-based census had already been raised in states like Maharashtra, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar. Earlier in the day, chief minister Soren attended a meeting of states affected by Left-wing extremism (LWE) that was also chaired by Shah in New Delhi. “Both the Centre and the state have the responsibility of weeding out extremists by working together in the true spirit of cooperative federalism,” Soren said at the meeting. As such, it was not practical that the Centre demanded payment for deployment of central forces in the states for the purpose, he added. He further demanded that the Centre write off the bill for Rs 10 crore raised against Jharkhand for the purpose and did not send any such bill for the same reason in future. Soren said that joint efforts by the central and state forces helped contain extremist activities to a large extent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
27-09-2021||India||Free online legal aid platform for journalists launched||An Internet watchdog and a journalists’ group have launched an online free legal aid platform where mediapersons can seek advice, second opinion on their legal strategy and pre-publication review while lawyers representing scribes can ask for counsel on technology-related matters. The Digital Patrakar Defence Clinic (DPDC), based in Delhi with lawyers from the Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF), is promoted by the Forum for Media Professionals. Started on September 5, the clinic’s brochure mentions the Anil Ambani group’s defamation case against The Wire news portal for its reports on the Rafale deal, and the arrest of Manipur journalist Kishorechandra Wangkhem for a Facebook post contesting claims that cow excreta can cure Covid as examples of journalists they would like to defend. “Over the last few years, India has slipped 20 ranks in the World Press Freedom Index. Journalists are exposed to police violence, ambushes by political activists, reprisals by criminal groups and prosecution for sedition. We believe that India urgently requires innovative strategies employed by principled and committed lawyers who are experienced in dealing with a diverse range and skills, including in criminal prosecution, civil lawsuits, physical violence, Internet shutdowns, website blocking and illegal surveillance. The Internet Freedom Foundation has several years’ worth of experience in these matters,” the clinic’s project manager, Tanmay Singh, told The Telegraph. Lawyers Abhinav Sekhri and Sanjana Srikumar are leading the clinic with support from fellow professionals Apar Gupta, Vrinda Bhandari, Anandita Mishra and Singh. Singh said: “Our members are assisting Ipsa Shatakshi and Rupesh Kumar Singh, among other journalists, on writ petitions relating to the use of (the) Pegasus (spyware) on their mobile phones before the Supreme Court. The DPDC has already provided advice on matters relating to civil and criminal defamation.” The IFF is fighting several free speech and privacy cases, including the Internet shutdowns in Kashmir, WhatsApp’s privacy policy and the repealed Section 66A of the Information Technology Act that continues to be used. Sekhri and Srikumar also represent environment activist Disha Ravi who had been arrested over a “toolkit” supporting the movement against the Narendra Modi government’s new farm regime. Reporters who need to see a lawyer for their work can fill a form on internetfreedom.in and get a link for a personal online consultation with Sekhri or Srikumar. This month, four-hour-long sessions are scheduled. The clinic is open to “all media workers and support staff, community media workers, cartoonists and citizen journalists”. Publications can also contact them for a clinic session for their employees. “In order to effectively defend themselves against legal threats related to their reportage, journalists must be aware of their rights under the Constitution of India, including their right to freedom of speech and expression. In today’s climate, journalists must also have close and direct communication with their legal team in order to de-risk themselves from potential legal action,” Tanmay added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
27-09-2021||India||Credentials of NCF panel members questioned by some academics||The government’s formation of an expert committee to develop the National Curriculum Frameworks, which guide the preparation of school, preschool, adult learning and teacher training textbooks, has set off a debate with some academics questioning the panel members’ credentials for the task. “Kindly educate me if there is any curriculum expert or of philosophy of education in the newly announced NCF committee,” a Facebook post by N.K. Ambasht, former chairperson of the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS), said on Wednesday after the formation of the 12-member NCF “steering committee”. The All India Peoples’ Science Network, a network of 40 organisations that work to spread scientific knowledge and attitudes at the grassroots, has protested the panel’s composition and demanded its reconstitution. “It is a matter of deep concern that the entire span of educational curriculum reform, from the early childhood years to adult education, has been entrusted to a small committee with no expertise in these crucial areas,” a statement from AIPSN secretary P. Rajamanickam said. “(The) members include educational administrators and even entrepreneurs. This seems to be in line with the trend of the National Education Policy 2020 to usher in private players while making subservient (the) established institutions of public education.” The AIPSN expressed surprise that the panel had no expert from the NCERT, which prepares school textbooks. (The committee’s terms of reference say the NCERT director would help the panel.) Anita Rampal, former dean of Delhi University’s faculty of education, too expressed surprise at the composition of the committee. “People who have worked in curriculum and those with research experience in school education, pedagogy or teacher education are best suited for the committee,” Rampal said. “This panel lacks the expertise to guide the preparation of any of the four NCFs.” Rampal compared the committee unfavourably with the panel, headed by educationist Yashpal, that prepared the previous NCF in 2005. The AIPSN statement said the 2005 committee had 11 members from the NCERT and 24 others, including eminent academics from the natural and social sciences, languages and mathematics, teachers and principals from schools and colleges, other educationists, and leaders of NGOs working in the fields of education and human rights. Many more well-known experts were invited as members of the focus groups, it said. “AIPSN calls for a reconstitution of the steering committee with persons having a deep understanding about learners in diverse and disparate socio-cultural contexts, disciplinary knowledge of school education and domain expertise in teacher education/adult education, as well as sound experience of the pedagogical processes required to develop (an) NCF,” the statement said. However, Yagnamurthy Sreekanth, principal of the Regional Institute of Education, Mysore, said the committee was well-equipped for the job. He said the four earlier NCFs had witnessed “a top-down approach”, with central panels preparing them and the states “adopting them for their use”. “Now the state-level SCERTs will prepare state curriculum frameworks (SCFs) according to their requirements. The national committee will examine, evaluate and sum up the SCFs to prepare the NCFs,” Sreekanth said. “For this, the members may not require expertise only on school education.” Sreekanth said the two foreign members on the panel, Manjul Bhargava and Michel Danino, would provide an international perspective that earlier  committees lacked. The members from the spheres of NGO work and entrepreneurship would bring “novelty”. Rampal said that while Mahesh Chandra Pant, a member of the current NCF committee, had been NIOS chairperson, his prior research work was mostly related to education administration. She also questioned the choice of a space scientist as panel head. Emails were sent to the accounts of nine of the panel members, and to Jhingran and Maruwada through the common email mentioned on the websites of their organisations, seeking their responses. The remaining member, National Book Trust chairperson Govind Prasad Sharma, was contacted over the phone. He said he had headed a committee set up by the Madhya Pradesh government to study the NCF of 2005 for adoption in the state. “I was also chairman of the textbook writing committee of Madhya Pradesh for nine years,” Sharma said. Sridhar replied through email: "Perceptions differ. What is critical is the outcome. Better we look for that. I also respect the perceptual differences". Comments from the others are awaited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
27-09-2021||India||Search on for more riches at Puri Emmar Mutt||The Emmar Mutt, which is one of the oldest in Odisha and associated with the culture of Lord Jagannath, is getting a close look from the state archaeological department officials who inspected its premises earlier this month following reports of recovery of some valuable metals. This religious institution was in news in 2011 when 522 silver ingots valued at Rs 90 crore were recovered from there. In April 2021 another 45 silver ingots weighing 35kg each had been recovered from the premises of the mutt. All the silver ingots are at present in possession of the state endowment commission. The inspection by the officials is being done on the request of Narayan Ramanuj Das, in-charge of Emmar Mutt. The state archeological officials used metal detectors to spot precious metals in presence of the district magistrate and collector Puri. Narayan Ramanuj Das was given the charge of Emmar mutt early this year after the previous mahant of the mutt was relieved of his duties in the wake of the controversy triggered by the discovery of silver ingots. Talking to the media in Puri, Ramanuj Das said: “I had urged the Endowment Commission to do a survey of the premises of the mutt with metal detectors particularly in the unused areas of the mutt, living room of the old mahant and other areas. Following the ongoing demolition process by the administration along the 100-metre periphery of the Jagannath temple, many new things have come before the public. As I suspect some valuables are still there underneath the ashram. I want it to be recovered and handed over to the administration before they are stolen by others.” Sources said the officials have identified four spots where they suspected that some valuable materials might be hidden. They will dig at these places. Talking to reporters, Endowment Commission superintendent Ananat Charan Murmu said: “This is a heritage mutt. With the permission of the ASI (Archaeological Survey of India), the search is being done. We suspect some valuable materials could be present underneath the structure at some places in the ashram. With a high-resolution metal detector, we will inspect the entire premises again. We will also dig at a few places to ascertain whether there is any valuable material there or not.” The mutt established by Swami Ramanuja in 1200 AD, spread over six acres just in front of the Jagannath temple has religious significance and is intrinsically associated with the Shree Jagannath culture. Ramanuja was one of the most important exponents of the Vaishnavite tradition of Hinduism. However, with the ongoing beautification around the periphery of the Jagannath temple, most of the areas have been taken over by the district administration with only a few structures inside the mutt premises left intact. Anil Dhir, a researcher and columnist, said: “Each of the ingots has got assay markings which can reveal its  origin and date. In my research on the great Odisha famine of 1866, the Na’Anka Durbhikshya, I had got conclusive evidence that the bullion was part of the payment made by the British authorities to various mutts for rice purchased from them during the famine years. The Emmar Mutt was among the biggest landowners of the period and had overflowing granaries. The British brought a major part of the relief stock by paying the mutt in silver ingots.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
27-09-2021||India||Naveen calls for banks in Maoist-affected areas||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Sunday asked the Centre to consider his proposal in setting up banks in Maoist-affected areas and observed that a banking correspondent cannot be a replacement for banks in areas hit by LWE (Left-wing extremism). Naveen assured the Centre that the state would provide land, building, etc, for setting up bank branches free of cost in such areas. Addressing a meeting convened by Union home minister Amit Shah on extremism in New Delhi, Naven said: “We have not been successful in creating banking facilities in these areas. The state government will provide land, building, etc, for setting up bank branches free of cost. I would urge the Union government to take expeditious steps to set up banks within a specific time frame of one year or so. Banking correspondent cannot be a replacement for banks in Left-wing extremism (LWE) areas.” Naveen stressed on the improvement of accessibility in the Maoist-affected areas and work done for their economic improvement. “In our experience in handling of LWE, one important learning point is that accessibility and in turn economic prosperity is the biggest anti-LWE measure we should aim for and these have to be done in scale,” he said. Providing mobile connectivity to areas in southern and western Odisha should be taken on a priority basis, the chief minister pointed out. Naveen said: “There are 6,278 villages in Odisha without any mobile access or connectivity, the largest number in the country. We thank the Union home ministry for sanctioning 488 mobile towers for Odisha recently. But to provide (mobile network) coverage to other uncovered villages, an estimated 2,000 more mobile base stations will be required.” Naveen also said that most of the interior areas depend on mobile connectivity and mobile Internet for banking, education and delivery of all government services. “Today, the basic need, therefore, is of 4G mobile base stations at all places. It is, therefore, required to upgrade the 2G base stations also erected earlier,” he said. Naveen also demanded the four-laning of National Highway 326 from Jeypore to Motu via Malkangiri up to Bhadrachalam. “This will provide a parallel road for traffic from eastern India and Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand to the south, especially to Bangalore and Hyderabad. This corridor in addition to reducing the travelling time substantially will also provide huge economic impetus to this region,” he said. The chief minister said LWE-affected districts are not part of the railway network. “The railway ministry and Odisha government are already constructing two legs — from Jeypore to Nabarangpur and Jeypore to Malkangiri — through cost sharing. The missing part between Malkangiri and Bhadrachalam of 153km length and the 118km-long Nabarangpur to Junagarh section can provide a very viable alternative path to the trunk routes of railway. This will have a huge impact on the economic growth of these areas,” Naveen said. Naveen also suggested the “MHA (ministry of home affairs) should do a study on how many children from these LWE-affected areas across the country are getting into national level exams like NEET, IIT, JEE, etc. If our systems continue to bypass these areas, it is not going to help the cause of people of LWE-affected areas”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
27-09-2021||India||Odisha govt to install beehive boxes to ward off elephants ||The Odisha government has decided to install wooden beehive boxes in select forest divisions of the state to keep elephants away from human habitations in a bid to bring down cases of human-animal conflict during the upcoming rabi season. “Engaging honey bees to ward off elephants has been successful in South Africa, Assam, Uttarakhand and Karnataka. We have planned to implement this in Odisha’s selective forest divisions on a pilot basis,” principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) Shashi Paul told The Telegraph. The project has been named RE-HAB (Reducing Elephant-Human Attacks using Bees). With this the government is hopeful that the human habitations as well as the crops will be safe from jumbo attacks. Cases of animal and human conflict are generally noticed in between October and March. According to the plan, the beehive boxes will be put up at several places known for the movement of elephants. “When a jumbo tries to cross the border and comes in touch with the wire connected to the beehive box, the door of the box will open. Angered at being disturbed, the army of honeybees will come out and attack the herd of elephants. Scared by the sudden attack, the elephants will run away and will not enter the human habitations and destroy the crops,” said Paul. According to the plan, the state government will launch a pilot scheme in Athmallik-Keonjhar forest division. “Once the pilot project is successful, we will expand it to other areas where the jumbos are creating havoc,” said Paul. The forest department will procure the beehive boxes from the Khadi and Village Industries Commission. “We have already held meetings with the people on the periphery of the forest division of Athmallik. We have received an overwhelming response,” officials said. The forest department has also decided to monitor the movement of elephant herds through GPS-fitted radio collars. “We are taking the help of the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore, for this. The radio coordinates will help track the movement of the elephants. Survey work is on,” an official said. The radio collars will be fitted in three elephants in Chandaka sanctuary and four in Similipal sanctuary. The radio collars will be fitted after tranquillising the elephants. A government report says that at least 282 pachyderms have died due to human and animal conflict in the last three years. Similarly, 912 people have lost their lives in elephant attacks during the last 10 years. The state government is also implementing the Gaja Sathi (Elephant Friend) Yojana by roping in members of Van Suraksha Samitis. “At least five members of the Van Suraksha Samitis will be given an opportunity to work as Gaja Sathis with the department. The samiti will recommend the names. Each samiti will be given a monetary assistance of Rs 25,000 per annum. They will work in coordination with the forest department to ward off the elephants. They will be given crackers, lights and other equipment for this purpose,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
