28-09-2021||India||Centre extends nationwide Covid-19 containment measures till Oct 31||The Centre on Tuesday extended the nationwide Covid-19 containment measures till October 31 in view of localised spreads of the virus in a few states and the disease continuing to be a public health challenge in the country. In a communication to chief secretaries of all states and union territories, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla also cautioned against the possibility of Covid-appropriate behaviour not being adhered to strictly during the upcoming festival which may lead to a surge in cases again. Despite a decline in Covid-19 cases, it is critical to enforce guidelines that allow regular festivities in a cautious, safe and Covid-appropriate manner, he asserted. He said the daily Covid-19 cases and the overall number of Covid-19 patients in the country are decreasing steadily but there are still localised spreads of virus in a few states and Covid-19 continues to be a public health challenge in the country. "Utmost vigil has to be maintained in respect of mass gathering events, so as to avoid any possibility of a surge in Covid-19 cases. "Consequently, large scale gatherings in fairs, festivals; and religious events and functions may lead to afresh surge in Covid-19 cases in the country," the communication said. The home secretary said states and UTs, on a regular basis, should closely monitor case positivity, hospital, ICU beds occupancy of every district falling under their jurisdiction. "The state governments and UT administrations concerned, having high positivity in their districts, should take proactive containment measures so as to effectively arrest the spike in cases and to contain the spread of transmission," he said. Bhalla said it is important to identify warning signs of potential surges early on and to take appropriate measures to curb the spread. "This would require a localised approach, as has been mentioned in Ministry of Health and Family Welfare advisory dated September 21, 2021," he said. The home secretary said there should be a continued focus on the five-fold strategy i.e. Test-Track-Treat-Vaccination and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour, to safely navigate through the festive season and avoid the possibility of a surge in Covid-19 cases. He said the state governments and UT administrations should continue with their vaccination programme with a focus to accelerate vaccination of eligible age groups and prioritisation of the second dose to eligible beneficiaries. The home secretary urged the chief secretaries to issue directions to the district and all other local authorities concerned to take necessary measures as advised in the union health ministry advisory for prompt and effective management of Covid-19. "I would also advise that orders issued by the respective state governments and UT administrations or district authorities in this regard should be widely disseminated to the public and to the field functionaries for their proper implementation," he said. The number of fresh coronavirus cases was recorded at below 20,000 (18,795) in India after 201 days on Tuesday, taking the country's Covid-19 tally to 3,36,97,581, while the number of active cases declined to 2,92,206, the lowest in 192 days, according to the Union health ministry. A total of 18,795 fresh Covid-19 cases were registered in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll due to the viral disease climbed to 4,47,373 with 179 more fatalities, the lowest in 193 days, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 AM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
28-09-2021||India||Covid virus expected to continue to transmit for a very long time: WHO||Stressing that the Covid virus may continue to transmit for a “very long time”, senior WHO official Poonam Khetrapal Singh says the level of immunity in a community, through vaccination and previous infection, will determine whether it will become endemic in the long run. WHO’s South-East Asia region regional director added that there is need to get to a situation where “we are fully in control of the virus, and not the virus in control of us”. The endemic stage is when a population learns to live with a virus, very different from the epidemic stage when the virus overwhelms a population. Populations where more people were previously infected and where vaccination coverage is high are expected to be less impacted by the virus in the future than other populations, Singh told PTI in an interview. “The Covid-19 virus is expected to continue to transmit for a very long time. A multitude of factors will decide whether the virus will become endemic in the long run, chief among them is the level of immunity in a community, both through vaccination and previous infection,” she said. On the granting of emergency use authorisation (EUA) for the indigenously developed Covaxin, she said Bharat Biotech's dossier seeking WHO's Emergency Use Listing (EUL) is being reviewed by technical experts and “we can expect a decision when the process is complete”. Discussing the role of booster doses to tackle waning immunity, Singh pointed out that cases and deaths in all countries are predominantly being driven by unvaccinated people. Using vaccines for booster doses constricts supply to countries where millions are still waiting for their first dose, she said. “Hence, WHO has called for a time-limited moratorium on Covid-19 booster doses until the end of 2021. This is to allow for at least 40 per cent of the population of each country - including those most at risk and health workers - to be vaccinated. We must remember that no one is safe till everyone is safe.” She said there is currently no conclusive evidence that Covid-19 vaccine efficacy against severe disease and death wanes significantly over time. The vaccines, the expert emphasised, have remained effective in preventing severe disease and death. “However, WHO has not ruled out that boosters for some population groups may be warranted in future.  WHO's recommendations on boosters will be guided by the scientific evidence, which is still evolving,” she said. “To make a recommendation on the use of booster doses for the general population, more data is needed on optimal timing, safety and dosage of booster doses, which may differ between vaccine products. More extensive research is needed to study the effect of booster doses in the body.” According to Singh, eradication is unlikely but what we can do is to prevent or minimise deaths, hospitalisations, tragedy and social, economic and health loss due to this pandemic. Current evidence, she said, shows that protection levels around the world remain low and most people continue to be susceptible to the virus. “WHO continues to recommend a strong public health response based on risk assessment, and for people to continue to protect themselves by getting vaccinated, maintaining physical distance, wearing a mask, avoiding poorly ventilated spaces, cleaning hands and following respiratory hygiene.” Referring to the probability of a third Covid wave, Singh said another surge and how intense it will be will depend on all of us. “If we together continue to adhere to public health and social measures and continue to vaccinate people as fast as possible, it will be hard for the virus to infect enough people to cause another wave,” she said. “From experience globally, there is enough evidence that the public health and social measures work, even against the Variants of Concern that are spreading more rapidly, and these measures are critical to limiting transmission of COVID-19 and reducing deaths.  For the public health and social measures to be effective, they must be implemented well and timely and must be tailored to local settings and conditions.” On India’s decision to restart exporting Covid-19 vaccines, Singh said there is need for equity of vaccination administration globally to ensure that the most vulnerable such as frontline workers and the elderly are fully vaccinated. “At the moment, several low and lower-middle-income countries are lagging behind in vaccinating their vulnerable populations.  An equitable vaccine distribution will also help check the emergence of variants by halting the spread of the virus.” Singh also noted that the pandemic has given “once-in-a-century opportunity” to strengthen the health system to build back better. “We must invest in strengthening health system resilience to ensure health security and achieve universal health coverage. It means allocation of more resources for health and its efficient governance,” she said. Now is also the time for countries to take lessons from the pandemic to strengthen health systems in her view. “Strong health systems that are primary healthcare-oriented, and which leave no one behind, create populations that are healthier, more productive and financially secure. Resilient health systems are the bedrock of emergency preparedness and response, and ensure that when acute events occur, essential health services can be maintained,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
28-09-2021||India||Complete ban on sale and bursting crackers in Delhi till January 1, 2022||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee on Tuesday ordered a complete ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the national capital till January 1, 2022. According to the order, several experts have indicated a possibility of another surge of Covid-19 and largescale celebrations by bursting of firecrackers will result not only in agglomeration of people in violation of social distancing norms but also a high level of air pollution leading to serious health issues in Delhi. The bursting of firecrackers under the prevalent pandemic crisis is not favourable for the cause of larger community health given the significant relationship between air pollution and respiratory infections, it said. "There will be a 'complete ban' on bursting and sale of all kinds of firecrackers up to 1.1.2022 in the territory of NCT of Delhi," the DPCC's order stated. The DPCC has also asked district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police to implement the directions and submit daily action taken reports to it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
28-09-2021||India||Punjab minister Razia Sultana quits in 'solidarity' with Navjot Singh Sidhu||Razia Sultana resigned as the Punjab Cabinet minister on Tuesday, just hours after Navjot Singh Sidhu quit as the state Congress chief. In her resignation letter to Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Sultana said she is resigning "in solidarity with Navjot Singh Sidhu". Sultana is considered close to Sidhu. Her husband Mohd Mustafa, who is a former IPS officer, is a principal strategic adviser to Sidhu. Earlier in the day, Sultana was given the charge of the water supply and sanitation, social security, women and child development, printing and stationery departments. She used to hold the transport department in the Amarinder Singh-led government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
28-09-2021||India||Kanhaiya Kumar and Dalit leader Jignesh Mevani join Congress||Former JNU students' union president Kanhaiya Kumar joined the Congress on Tuesday in the presence of Rahul Gandhi, saying the oldest party has to be strengthened to "save" the country. Kumar addressed a press conference at the Congress headquarters here along with independent Gujarat MLA and Dalit leader Jignesh Mevani who too extended his support to the Congress ideology. Asserting that it is detrimental to a country's interests if the Opposition is weakened, Kumar described the Congress party as a "big ship" and said the small ships will be saved only when the Congress is saved. "I have decided to join the country's oldest party and democratic party because I feel along with the lakhs of youths that if the Congress is not saved, the country will not be saved," he said. Kumar, who was flanked by senior Congress leaders, said the country is "in danger" and "we need the courage of Bhagat Singh, equality of Ambedkar and unity of Mahatma Gandhi". He also took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, describing him as "Govinda of our times who changes his clothes often". Kumar had joined the Communist Party of India (CPI) ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha election and had unsuccessfully contested from Begusarai in Bihar against Giriraj Singh of the BJP. Mevani, who is currently a legislator in Gujarat and represents the Vadgam constituency, is the convener of the Rashtriya Dalit Adhikar Manch (RDAM). He said there is a sense of urgency to save the country and the youth should create an atmosphere in this regard. Mevani said he is not joining the Congress due to "technical reasons" as he is still an independent MLA, but announced that he will contest the next Gujarat election on the Congress symbol and will participate in all Congress activities and campaign for the 2022 Gujarat assembly polls. He is a lawyer-activist and a former journalist. Mevani's entry into the Congress comes at a time when it is wooing the scheduled castes community after handpicking the first Dalit chief minister of Punjab. Charanjit Singh Channi succeeded Amarinder Singh as chief minister of Punjab, seen as a bold step by the party for wooing back the scheduled castes, traditionally considered the vote bank of the Congress. However, the party suffered a fresh setback in Punjab on Tuesday when state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu resigned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
28-09-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu couldn't stand a Dalit was made Punjab chief minister, claims AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday claimed that Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu quit from his post as he 'could not bear" that a Dalit has been made the chief minister of the state. Sidhu on Tuesday resigned as the chief of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee ahead of the Assembly elections in the state early next year. In a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Sidhu, however, said he will continue to serve the party. He had taken over as the state party chief in July this year. "This shows that Navjot Singh Sidhu is against Dalits. One poor son was made the chief minister... this, Sidhu could not bear. It is very sad," AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj told reporters. The AAP is the main opposition in Punjab. In his letter to Sonia Gandhi, Sidhu wrote, "The collapse of a man's character stems from the compromise corner, I can never compromise on Punjab's future and the agenda for the welfare of Punjab," he wrote in the letter. "Therefore, I hereby resign as the president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. Will continue to serve the Congress," he further wrote. It is immediately not known what prompted Sidhu to leave the post of the Punjab Congress chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
28-09-2021||India||Muslim artist playing Lord Ram in Ramlila gets death, ex-communication threats||A Muslim theatre artist, who has been playing Lord Ram in 'Ramlila' here for a long time, has been threatened that he would be excommunicated and killed if he does it this year. Thirty-year-old theatre artist Danish, a resident of the old city area, has conveyed the threat to him from a man of his own community in a complaint to Bareilly's Senior Superintendent of Police Rohit Singh Sajwan. In his complaint, Danish has said his tenant, who too belongs to his community and with whom he has some dispute, has tried to make an issue out of a Muslim playing the character of a Hindu god. On Danish's complaint, SSP Sajwan has ordered the Kotwali inspector of police to conduct a thorough inquiry, besides extending necessary security. Danish is associated with a local theatre group and has been playing the character of Lord Ram in Ramlila for the past six or seven years and he has got recognition for his feat. Like previous years, he said, he was preparing for the Ramlila this time too but one of his tenants and his associate did not like it and tried to pressurise him over it. When he did not relent, the tenant started threatening him that if he goes ahead with playing the character, he will be excommunicated and killed. Danish alleged that when he tried to oppose them, the tenant and his associate attacked him with a knife. He, however, managed to save himself somehow with the help of his cousin. Regarding the dispute, Danish said the tenant is neither paying him the rent nor vacating the two shops that he had hired from him. Now he has started threatening him on the pretext of a Muslim man playing a Hindu god's character in Ramlila, only to ensure that no rent is asked from him and he does not have to vacate the shops, Danish said. The Kotwali police said directives have been received from the SSP and security will be extended to the theatre artist and investigations will be done. It is a matter of dispute with the tenant and shows the wrong intentions of the tenant, police said. Danish said that he is an artist and respects all religions. "I play the role of Ram in Ram Lila, this time also the preparations are on but the tenant is making it a communal issue out of it and instigating people against it," Danish added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
28-09-2021||India||Cyclone Gulab: Heavy rainfall lashes parts of Maharashtra||Heavy rain in catchment areas of the Manjara dam forced authorities to open all its gates for water discharge on Tuesday, leading to flooding in some villages of Maharashtra's Beed district and neighbouring Latur, while an alert was sounded in other neighbouring districts of the Marathwada region, officials said. In Latur, the local administration and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) launched an operation to rescue 47 stranded residents of Sarsa village, which was flooded due to water discharge from the Manjara dam, they said. When contacted, Latur Collector Prithviraj B P told PTI that 158 villages in his district could be affected by the discharge of water from the Manjara dam. "We are closely monitoring the situation in villages located where the course of the Manjara river changes and the site where the Terna and Manajra rivers meet," he said. Besides, in Beed, several families from the affected villages were shifted to safer places, officials said, adding that so far there was no report of any casualty. After heavy rains on Monday night, the Manjara and Majalgaon dams in Beed were filled up to their maximum capacity. The local administration opened all 18 gates of the Manjara dam and 11 gates of the Majalgaon dam early Tuesday morning, resulting in discharge of 78,397 cusec 80,534 cusec water from them, respectively, officials said. The discharge of water from the Manjara dam led to flooding in villages under Kaij and Ambajogai talukas of Beed district, Ambajogai tehsildar Vipin Patil said. "Villages like Isthal (in Kaij taluka), Apegaon, Tadola, Kopra, Anjanpur, Deora, Tat Borgaon, Akola (all in Ambajogai taluka), located on the Manjara river banks, were facing flooding and water-logging. Nearly 110 families from some of these flood-affected areas were shifted to safer places," the official said. The Majalgaon irrigation department's office has also written to Beed, Parbhani and Nanded collectors to sound an alert in villages located along the Sindphana and Godavari rivers in their respective areas. Beed district disaster management authority official Umesh Shirke said, "The next 24 hours are crucial. No casualty has been reported so far." The district administration is on alert, Beed Collector Radhabinod Sharma said, adding that people were being shifted to safer places. The discharge of water from the Manjara dam also led to flooding in Sarsa village of Latur, located around 40 km from the city, sub-divisional officer Sunil Yadav said. Villagers who had set up their houses on farmland were stranded due to floods caused by water discharge from the dam, he said. "People had not witnessed this kind of flooding in the area. The water level here is nearly two feet, and as a precaution, we are shifting villagers to a safer place. An 11-member team of the NDRF has been deployed. The first batch of five persons is being rescued by a boat, the official said. The rescue operation started around 11.30 am, he said, adding that no casualty has been reported so far. In Beed district, Isthal village resident Pandhari Tokle said the water level began to rise in their area on Monday night. "The water rose up to nearly three feet. Residents started shifting to safer places from 4 am on Tuesday. There is no person or animal left in the village now. The situation is more or less the same in the nearby Anjanpur and Apegaon villages in Ambajogai taluka," he said. Heavy rains lashed eight districts in Marathwada on Monday, inundating several parts of the region, another official said. The cumulative rainfall in eight districts of Marathwada has reached 146.62 per cent, with several parts of 182 circles getting water-logged, the official said. Heavy rains were witnessed in 65 circles of Nanded, 30 in Latur, 29 in Beed, 17 in Hingoli, 13 in Jalna (13), 10 in Aurangabad and six in Parbhani, the official said. The region has received an average rainfall of 996.3 mm??? against average rainfall of 679.5 mm, expected during this period, it was stated. Nanded has so far received 1,149.6 mm rain, followed by Parbhani-1,085.3 mm and Jalna- 1,076.2 mm. Usuf circle in Beed received the highest 211 mm rain in a single day, followed by Shiradhon (in Osmanabad)-171 mm, Golegaon (Nanded)-167.50 mm, and Soyegaon (Aurangabad)-141.25 mm, it was stated. According to the district administration, the inflow in Jayakwadi dam of Aurangabad is 17,481 cusec and the dam is currently filled up to 85.04 per cent of its total capacity. Of the 13 reservoirs in the region, water is being discharged from 10, an official said, adding that the highest amount of discharge was from the Vishnupuri dam in Nanded at 1,11,594 cusec. The Nimn Terna dam in Osmanabad has reached 100 per cent storage. The storage in the reservoir on the same same day last year was 35.07 per cent, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
28-09-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu resigns as Punjab Congress chief, will continue to serve party||Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday resigned as the chief of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. In a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Sidhu, however, said he will continue to serve the party. Sidhu had taken over as the state party chief in July this year. "The collapse of a man's character stems from the compromise corner, I can never compromise on Punjab's future and the agenda for the welfare of Punjab," he wrote in the letter. "Therefore, I hereby resign as the president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. Will continue to serve the Congress," he further wrote. It is immediately not known what prompted Sidhu to leave the post of the Punjab Congress chief. Soon after the resignation of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Punjab Congress president, former chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday dubbed the cricketer-turned-politician as a man who is "not stable" and "not fit" for the border state. "I told you so...he is not a stable man and not fit for the border state of punjab," Singh tweeted. Sidhu resigned as the PCC chief and sent his resignation to Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday. Singh has been vehemently opposing Sidhu and has alleged that he has links with Pakistan. The former chief minister has openly challenged Sidhu, saying he will oppose him tooth and nail. Sidhu was instrumental in the ouster of Singh, who quit as chief minister earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
28-09-2021||India||Rohini court shootout: HC asks police to file status report||The Delhi High Court Tuesday asked the police to file a status report on a plea seeking to ensure adequate security in district courts in the national capital in the wake of a recent shootout inside the crowded Rohini courtroom here which left three people dead. Justice Rekha Palli issued notice to Delhi Police and Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) on a petition filed by a woman advocate and said the report be filed within five days. The court listed the matter for further hearing on October 11. The police informed the court that it was taking steps to ensure that the security in district courts is geared up adequately. The advocate said in her plea that she has been practising in various Delhi courts which have become unsafe and easy terrain for gangsters to settle scores with each other, making courts unsafe for thousands of lawyers. The plea sought direction to Delhi Police and BCD to consider instructing all the police personnel at court entrances to ensure that they check the ID cards of every lawyer who enters the court premises. Jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi and his two assailants posing as lawyers were killed inside the Rohini courtroom on September 24 in a dramatic shootout that also saw the police fire bullets in retaliation, the officials had said. Video footage of the incident showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207. The two gunmen dressed as lawyers are suspected to be members of rival Tillu gang, an official had said, adding that over 30 shots were fired.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
28-09-2021||India||Delhi riots 2020 a pre-meditated conspiracy, says HC||The Delhi High Court Monday refused to grant bail to an accused in a case concerning the northeast Delhi riots of 2020, saying that there was pre-planned and pre-meditated conspiracy to disturb law and order in the city and events did not take place in a spur of the moment. Justice Subramonium Prasad, while dealing with a bail application moved by one Mohd Ibrahim in the case concerning the alleged murder of Delhi Police head constable Ratan Lal, observed that there was a systematic disconnection and destruction of the CCTV cameras in areas near the place of the incident and innumerable rioters ruthlessly descended with sticks, dandas, bats, etc. upon a hopelessly outnumbered cohort of police officials. The riots which shook the National Capital of the country in February 2020 evidently did not take place in a spur of the moment, and the conduct of the protestors who are present in the video footage which has been placed on record by the prosecution visibly portrays that it was a calculated attempt to dislocate the functioning of the Government as well as to disrupt the normal life of the people in the city, the court said. The systematic disconnection and destruction of the CCTV cameras also confirm the existence of a preplanned and pre-meditated conspiracy to disturb law and order in the city, it added. Dismissing the bail application of Ibrahim, the court stated that the available video footage showing the petitioner with the sword was quite egregious and sufficient to keep him in custody. A perusal of the material on record has revealed to the court that the petitioner has been identified on multiple CCTV footages, carrying a sword and instigating the crowd. The clinching evidence that tilts this Court towards prolonging the incarceration of the Petitioner is that the weapon which is being carried by the Petitioner is capable of causing grievous injuries and/or death, and is prima facie a dangerous weapon, the court stated. The judge while acknowledging the importance of personal liberty in a democratic polity, clarified that individual liberty cannot be misused in a manner that threatens the very fabric of civilized society by attempting to destabilise it and cause hurt to other persons. Even though the petitioner cannot be seen at the Scene of the Crime, he was a part of the mob for the sole reason that the Petitioner had consciously travelled 1.6 km away from his neighbourhood with a sword which could only be used to incite violence and inflict damage, the court said. The petitioner, Ibrahim, was arrested in December 2020 and has been in judicial custody since then. He sought bail on the ground that he never participated in any protest or the riots at any point in time and the place on a record by the prosecution did not place him anywhere close to the scene of the crime. The court, in a separate order, granted bail to one Saleem Khan, saying that in the absence of any material to show that he was a part of the unlawful assembly at the crime scene, the veracity of the allegations levelled against him can be tested during trial.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
28-09-2021||India||Amit Shah hails India's handling of Covid pandemic||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday said that India has handled the COVID-19 pandemic in the best possible manner among all countries in the world despite limited resources. Addressing the 17th formation day of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) here, Shah also said that the Centre is planning to roll out the 'Aapda Mitra' (Friends in Disaster) project in 350 districts across the country by imparting training to citizens as first responders to any disaster. The home minister said despite limited resources and with such a large population of 130 crore, India has fought the COVID-19 pandemic in the best possible manner among all countries. If an analysis is done by any neutral agency, it will come to the conclusion that the country has done very well in fighting the pandemic and substantially reducing the death rate, he said. Many countries had a tough time in dealing with the pandemic (Pasina choot gaya tha bahut deshon ka), he noted. Shah also praised the NDMA for its commendable work during the pandemic. Referring to the cyclone that had hit some parts of the country during the pandemic, he said it was due to the excellent planning and preparations that not a single oxygen plant was damaged and there was no power cut to oxygen plants and hospitals in cyclone affected areas. "We have done excellent preparation under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership," he said. On the 'Aapda Mitra' scheme, he said a pilot scheme of the project has been successfully completed in 30 districts of 25 states in the country. Under the scheme, people will be given training on how to immediately respond to any disaster and how to help people in distress and rescue them, he said. Shah said thosepart of the project will be provided an insurance cover and agreements are being signed with 28 states in this regard. The home minister said the government's approach is to ensure zero loss of life during any disaster and it has been successful to a great extent. He said during the super cyclone in Odisha in 1999, about 10,000 people lost their lives but this year, less than 50 people have died in three cyclones so far. "Death of 50 people is also not good and we should target that there is no loss of any life in any disaster," he said. Shah said if an early warning system for disasters like lightning comes into effect, lives of a large number of people could be saved. The scheme for training of community volunteers in disaster response (Aapda Mitra) has been implementing by the NDMA with a focus on training of community volunteers in disaster response in selected 30 most flood prone districts of 25 states. The scheme aims to provide community volunteers with the skills that they would need to respond to their community's immediate needs in the aftermath of a disaster thereby enabling them to undertake basic relief and rescue tasks during emergency situations such as floods, flash-floods and urban flooding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
28-09-2021||India||Modi elated at BJP getting first RS seat from Puducherry||With the BJP getting its first Rajya Sabha member from Puducherry, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that it was a matter of immense pride for every member of the party. He also congratulated Union ministers Sarbananda Sonowal and L Murugan on being elected to the Rajya Sabha from Assam and Madhya Pradesh respectively. In a tweet, Modi said, "It is a matter of immense pride for every BJP Karyakarta that our Party has got its first ever Rajya Sabha MP from Puducherry in Shri S. Selvaganabathy Ji. The trust placed in us by the people of Puducherry is humbling. We will keep working for Puducherry's progress." He added, "Congratulations to my Ministerial colleagues, Shri @sarbanandsonwal Ji and Shri @Murugan_MoS Ji on being elected to the Rajya Sabha from Assam and Madhya Pradesh respectively. I am confident that they will enrich Parliamentary proceedings and further our agenda of public good". The AINRC-BJP alliance is in power in the union territory of Puducherry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
28-09-2021||India||India's daily Covid cases fall below 20,000 after 201 days||The number of fresh coronavirus cases was recorded at below 20,000 (18,795) in India after 201 days on Tuesday, taking the country's COVID-19 tally to 3,36,97,581, while the number of active cases declined to 2,92,206, the lowest in 192 days, according to the Union health ministry. A total of 18,795 fresh Covid cases were registered in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll due to the viral disease climbed to 4,47,373 with 179 more fatalities, the lowest in 193 days, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. The number of daily fatalities was recorded at 154 on March 19. The number of active cases has declined to 2,92,206, accounting for 0.87 per cent of the total number of cases -- the lowest since March 2020 -- while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.81 per cent, the highest since March last year, the ministry said. A decrease of 7,414 cases was recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Less than 50,000 daily cases are being reported in the country for 93 consecutive days now, the ministry said. Also, 13,21,780 tests were conducted to detect the infection on Monday, taking the total number of such tests conducted so far in the country to 56,57,30,031. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.42 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 29 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.88 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 95 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has gone up to 3,29,58,002, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative number of vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 87 crore with more than one crore doses administered in a span of 24 hours. India's COVID-19 tally crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore Covid cases on May 4 this year and the three-crore mark on June 23. The 179 new fatalities include 58 from Kerala and 32 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,47,373 deaths due to the viral disease have so far been reported in the country, including 1,38,902 from Maharashtra, 37,746 from Karnataka, 35,509 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 24,661 from Kerala, 22,890 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,751 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
28-09-2021||India||Jaishankar meets Mexican counterpart||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar held a "comprehensive discussion" with his Mexican counterpart Marcelo Ebrard Casaub n and reviewed cooperation in various fields, including trade, investment and space, stressing that the two countries must collaborate more closely in international forums. Jaishankar is on a three-day visit to Mexico, his first to the North American country as the External Affairs Minister. "Concluded a comprehensive discussion with FM @m_ebrard of Mexico. Reviewed our political cooperation, trade and investment, space and scientific potential, cultural exchanges and consular issues. Shared perspectives on governance challenges and global narratives," Jaishankar tweeted after the meeting on Monday. Jaishankar, the first External Affairs Minister to visit Mexico in 41 years, said that as independent powers committed to a multipolar world, "India and Mexico must collaborate more closely in international forums." "Glad to note our Mexican partners reciprocating this sentiment," he tweeted. Jaishankar also paid homage to Mahatma Gandhi in Mexico City by offering floral tributes to the statue of the father of the nation. "Particularly appropriate on the occasion of the anniversary of Mexican independence," he tweeted. As part of his other engagements, Jaishankar also attended the Independence Day celebrations of Mexico in Mexico City. He met Serbia's First Lady Tamara Vucic and Foreign Minister Nikola Selakovic. "Glad to learn that the First Lady is an enthusiastic and ardent practitioner of Yoga," he tweeted. Jaishankar also met Belize Prime Minister Johnny Briceno and Foreign Minister Eamon Courtenay. "Appreciated their warm words on our #vaccinemaitri," Jaishankar said. He also met Bangladeshi Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Md. Shahriar Alam on the sidelines of the independence day celebrations in Mexico City. Earlier, Jaishankar was received by Minister of Finance and Public Credit Rogelio Ram rez de la O with whom he discussed Mexico's response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Jaishankar reached Mexico at the invitation of his Mexican counterpart Casaub n after concluding his visit to the US for the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly. Jaishankar will interact with the leading CEOs and the business community in Mexico, which is currently India's second largest trade partner in Latin America and is a member of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) alongside India for the 2021-22 period, according to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). The two-way trade in 2018 was USD 10.155 billion, comprising exports worth USD 5.231 billion and imports valued at USD 4.923 billion, according to official data. India's exports comprise mainly of vehicles and auto parts, chemicals, aluminium products, electrical machinery and electronic equipment, steel, gems and ceramic products. India imports crude oil, electrical goods and machinery from Mexico.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
28-09-2021||India||RSS-linked Panchjanya slams Amazon as ‘modern East India Company’ in latest broadside against corporates||Panchjanya, the RSS-linked publication which recently made news by launching a savage attack on Infosys founder N. R. Narayana Murthy, is on the warpath again. This time, it’s lashed out at Amazon, the global e-commerce giant, accusing it of being a modern-day East India Company. The magazine accused Amazon of paying massive bribes and concealing them in different ways, including huge legal fees totalling around Rs 8,500 crore. In a statement last week, Amazon had indicated that its legal expenses were Rs 52 crore for the year ending March 31, 2020, and that the larger figure mentioned included a range of other expenses. Panchjanya’s cover splashed a photo of Amazon founder Jeff Bezos along with the provocative headline: “#Amazon: East India Company 2.0”. The story inside referred to Amazon’s alleged legal payments and asked the question: “What did it (the company) do wrong it needed to bribe...Why do people consider this company a threat to indigenous entrepreneurship, economic freedom and culture?” There was no immediate comment available from Amazon on the article. But in a statement last week, Amazon said: “Given a misleading representation of a line item from our statutory filings on legal fees in a section of the media, we clarify that the line item is actually termed legal and professional expenses.” Under that heading are “not just the legal costs but also the costs related to other professional services such as outsourcing, tax consultants, customer research, logistic support services, merchant onboarding services, customer service cost, etc,” Amazon said. The company noted that for the financial year ended March 31, 2020, for instance, “the legal fee was INR 52 Crore, from the total legal and professional expenses of INR 1967 Crore.” The Congress said whatever the Sangh says is “irrelevant as it does not say anything in the national interest but in the interest of the ruling BJP.” At the same time, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said, "The issue of Amazon is a serious one and it merits everybody's attention. The allegations against Amazon are very serious and they cannot be ignored," In early September Panchjanya attacked Infosys and its founder, N. R. Narayana Murthy, accusing the company of being in league with, “Naxals, Leftists, and the tukde tukde gang (the gang that wants to divide the country). Panchjanya’s broadside was ostensibly because of the glitches in the income tax portal that Infosys has been working on with the government. One fact that links the earlier story and the current one, is that Narayana Murthy and Amazon jointly own Cloudtail which is the biggest seller on the Amazon platform. Murthy has a majority stake in Cloudtail but the government has raised objections to this partnership and it is scheduled to be dissolved next year.  The RSS had later distanced itself from the Infosys attack, saying the article was the opinion of the author. The UK’s Financial Times had commented last week that tirades against foreign companies “are unlikely to help attract much-needed foreign investment to India.” Panchjanya’s earlier attack on Infosys and Murthy has caused considerable consternation in the Indian corporate world because it came soon after the Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal launched a vitriolic diatribe against the Tata Group at a meeting where many top industrialists were present, accusing it of not caring about the national interest and having “foreigners’ as business partners. The Tata Group is preparing to make a giant splash into e-commerce by launching a “super-app” which is currently being tested. The Tatas are unhappy about some proposed government regulations because it would prevent them from selling products by group companies like Starbucks. Also, it would not be able to sell products from 1MG, the online pharmaceutical retailer, which it bought recently. The e-commerce arena is likely to turn into fierce battle-zone next year with four powerful contenders, Amazon, Flipkart, the Tatas and Reliance all in the fray. Both the RSS and the BJP had distanced themselves from Panchjanya’s attack on Narayana Murthy and Infosys. RSS spokesman Sunil Ambekar tweeted that Panchjanya was not a “mouthpiece of the RSS and the said article or opinions expressed in it should not be linked with the RSS.” Ambekar added that the article, “only reflects the individual opinion of the author.” “Whatever the East India Company did in the 18th century to capture India, the same is visible in the activities of Amazon," the Panchjanya article said. Claiming that Amazon is seeking to establish its monopoly in the Indian market, the magazine said “it has started taking initiatives for seizing the economic, political and personal freedom of the Indian citizens.” The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), which represents small traders, has strongly lauded the article, saying, “it greatly appreciated” the Panchjanya story and that it shared the view that online retailers Amazon and Flipkart want to, “become a second edition of East India Company.” The, “business model of these two companies are similar (to) that of East India Company – selling goods at cheaper rate irrespective of the quality….killing competition… and monopolising the market in their favour,” B. C. Bhartia, CAIT national president said. The Panchjanya story added: “"For doing so, it has started taking initiatives for seizing the economic, political and personal freedom of the Indian citizens." The CAIT chief added: “This is exactly what East India Company did…both Amazon and Flipkart want to invade our country’s economic and social culture.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
28-09-2021||India||Dalit Christian boy who faced acid attack dies in Gaya||A 14-year-old Dalit Christian boy who had faced an acid attack in Gaya died at a Patna hospital on Sunday, with neither Gaya nor Patna police filing cases despite the family alleging longstanding threats by saffron-clad bullies and local people. Class VIII student Nitish Kumar, who had been fighting for life since being drenched with acid on a street on August 11, shares his name with the Bihar chief minister who runs a coalition government with the BJP. The victim’s local police station is in Mahkar, the village of former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, whose Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular too is part of the ruling NDA. A police officer suggested the death was a suicide; and a doctor said the family did not want to pursue the matter legally, possibly because matters needed to be speeded up to prevent the body of the burn victim decomposing. The statements of neither the police officer nor the doctor prove anything — only a post-mortem and an attendant investigation can establish the cause of the death; and if it was an unnatural death or a murder, an autopsy was mandatory. The Telegraph had contacted the family when the boy was fighting for his life in hospital. The family declined to speak. In fact, the relatives were so terrified of repercussions that they refused to even discuss their religion. They spoke to the newspaper only after Nitish died. The boy’s father Vakil Ravidas, a rickshaw-puller in Kamta Nagar village, had adopted Christianity with his family around five years ago. Family members said some local people, including a few who appeared Hindutva activists, had been threatening and warning them against attending church but the police refused to register a case before or after the acid attack. When this newspaper contacted the station house officer (SHO) of Mahkar, he refused to reveal his name and said the boy had immolated himself. “We conducted inquiries. It was the result of a family dispute. The victim was sporting long hair and his elder brothers forcibly cut it. Peeved, he set himself on fire and suffered burns,” the SHO said. Asked about the police version, Nitish’s eldest brother Rajeev Kumar told this newspaper: “This is not true. Some people threw acid at him. We wanted to register an FIR and had gone to the police station, but the police were not helpful.” Dr Kamod Narayan Tiwary, owner of the hospital where Nitish was treated, said the local police (from Agamkuan police station in Patna) were informed after Nitish died. “The police came and said they did not want to get involved in the case. It was getting late and the bodies of burn victims decompose fast,” Tiwary said. “Finally, the guardians of the boy were asked (by the hospital) to give a declaration that they did not want to register a case. The body was released after that.” Tiwary added: “The family signed on a consent sheet declaring they were not interested in pursuing the matter further with the police or the courts, did not want a post-mortem and wanted to take the body with them. They took the body away after that.” Shailesh Kumar Jha, a criminal lawyer, said: “It’s the responsibility of the hospital to ensure that a post-mortem is conducted in purported cases of crime, accident or unnatural death. In the case of the boy, too, the hospital should have ensured this even if the family did not want to pursue the case and was willing to give it in writing.” Jha added: “However, Nitish’s family are free to approach the police or court irrespective of their submission to any hospital.” Sanjeet, elder brother of Nitish and a Class X student, said: “My brother (Nitish) had gone to buy vegetables from the local market around 6.30am on August 11. He had hardly gone 750 metres when three men on a motorcycle threw acid on him. He started burning and rushed back screaming.” A local doctor provided first aid. Nitish was admitted to the Apollo Burns Hospital in Patna, about 100km from Gaya, on August 12. “When I saw the boy, 70 per cent of his body had burns. Both hands, his back, parts of the chest, both thighs and a leg had severe burns that seemed to have been caused by acid or a similar chemical,” Tiwary said. “Around 18 per cent of his burns were third-degree burns, reaching deep into his muscles. He was critical. He used to tell me how some people had thrown acid on him.” Agamkuan SHO Abhijeet (who goes by one name) said: “We did not get any information from the hospital; otherwise we would have definitely gone there.” He added: “In any case the hospital did not give us anything in writing.” Asked about this, Tiwary reaffirmed that the police did come to the hospital. “I wasn’t there on Sunday morning. It seems the statement of the family wasn’t recorded,” Tiwary said. Nitish was buried on Sunday afternoon. His mother has taken ill and is repeatedly falling unconscious. Nitish’s eldest brother Rajeev, who’s looking for a job, said the threats to the family had increased recently. “Some local people used to ask us not to attend church or hold prayers at home. In July, threats were being issued all around that all Christians would be chased away from the area,” he said. In December last year, a group of people had blocked the roads leading to the church in Kurwa, which the family and other local Christians attended, he added. Rajeev said the local police had refused to register an FIR after the acid attack. “Later, Gaya city superintendent of police Rakesh Kumar talked to us, but nothing happened after that,” he said. Phone calls by this newspaper to the Gaya city SP and to senior superintendent of police Aditya Kumar were not answered. A local Christian said, asking not to be named, that the people who had threatened Nitish’s family “would not take the name of any organisation but often sported saffron gamchhas, turbans and kurtas”. “They were threatening Christians at many places in Gaya and neighbouring districts. We are afraid to go to the police because our homes, land and businesses are here. I just wish somebody would do something to stop this torture.” Tiwary said Nitish needed skin grafting but had just around 22 per cent normal skin left. And this too was mostly over the belly and therefore unusable, for the boy had to sleep on his stomach. “But his will to live was strong and he kept battling the hopeless condition. It’s a pity we couldn’t save him.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
28-09-2021||India||Two telling responses mark SKM's Bharat Bandh||Two telling responses marked the Bharat Bandh called on Monday by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which has been spearheading the farmers’ protests for the past 10 months against three farm laws. One, Ashutosh of Swaraj India, a constituent of the SKM, said in a recorded statement: “We apologise to all those who were inconvenienced by our blockade. But people should realise that we were forced to give this call by the central government which has refused to listen to us and talk to us sincerely to resolve the stalemate.” This is not the first time the SKM or a constituent has apologised for inconveniencing common people but it is a habit that stands out. Two, the Right-wing ecosystem sought to discredit the bandh by using an undated picture of a bustling thoroughfare. Messages were posted on social media, stating that “my city is fully open” and naming the city. The same image was used for Pune, Delhi, Surat and Patna. Fact-checking website AltNews performed a reverse image search and found that the image used in all these social media posts was a five-year-old photograph from Patna. As always with bandh mobilisations, the response was mixed, the call being more effective in some states than others. But there were reports of some form of mobilisation from practically every state, including the BJP’s showpiece province of Gujarat. North Western Railway officials said train services in Punjab and Haryana were affected during the bandh from 6am to 4pm as farmers picketed the tracks. Several highways leading into the national capital witnessed traffic snarls because of blockades. The response to the bandh call in Punjab and Haryana was near-complete, with traders downing shutters in solidarity with the farmers, who used their tractors to block roads and highways. Only emergency vehicles were allowed to move. An army convoy was stopped for around half an hour in Jalandhar but was subsequently allowed to move by the protesting farmers. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi urged the Centre to repeal the three farm laws. “#I Stand With Farmers & appeal the Union Govt. to repeal the three anti-farmer laws. Our farmers have been struggling for their rights since more than a year & it is high time that their voice is heard. I request the farmers to raise their voice in a peaceful manner,” Channi tweeted. While few states could match Punjab, Haryana and Kerala, the bandh was observed on a smaller scale across the country. Karnataka, Bihar, Maharashtra, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Odisha saw farmers turn out in considerable numbers to protest the farm laws, some by picketing the roads and rail tracks and others by organising protest marches. Protests were also organised in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. According to the SKM, several non-farmer associations extended support to the farmers and joined the bandh. A few organisations used the platform to air their grievances too. The farmers’ movement has over the past 10 months sought to build broad coalitions across the spectrum. “The overall mood across the country was anger and frustration with BJP-RSS policies that the Modi government is enforcing, curbing basic freedoms and democracy, and putting most citizens on the path of survival struggle,” the SKM said. Most Opposition parties had extended unconditional support to the bandh call although they stayed in the background, respecting the will of the farmers to decide the course of the movement. Through the past 10 months, the farmers –- even while campaigning against the BJP in elections -– have been particular about ensuring that no political party uses their stage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
28-09-2021||India||Corporates entities can't be allowed preferential hearing: SC||Corporate entities cannot be allowed preferential hearing before the Supreme Court, a bench headed by the Chief Justice of India said on Monday, frowning on some big companies’ tendency to try and jump the queue and get their matters listed out of turn. The bench of CJI N.V. Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli gave vent to its ire during the mentioning hour in the morning when senior advocate C.U. Singh sought to mention the case of a corporate entity for an early hearing. Justice Ramana said: “Mr Singh, we are still streamlining the system. How can all these corporate people come and start mentioning their matters? There are pending criminal appeals and other cases, too. We have to give priority to other people, particularly the weaker sections.” Bail applications of hundreds of undertrials languishing in jails and other such matters are pending before the apex court, which had a backlog of 69,956 cases on September 4, 2021. The CJI’s observation comes against the backdrop of considerable difficulties being faced by litigants and many lawyers because of the pandemic-induced freeze on physical hearings. Several lawyers are peeved that the pandemic crisis has turned out to be a boon for some select law firms and senior advocates, including those who have relocated themselves to London. The lawyers feel that these law firms and senior lawyers have hijacked the virtual system of hearings and are opposing the resumption of physical hearing. Early this month, the CJI had introduced the hybrid system of hearing, under which advocates have the option of either appearing in person in the court after complying with the standard operating procedure drawn up by the apex court, or continuing to be in the virtual mode. So far, the hybrid system has had few takers, and much of the hearing continues to be held online. Some lawyers have said in private that the virtual system is being patronised by senior lawyers and big law firms as it works to their advantage. Virtual hearings make it possible for lawyers settled in cities like London or holidaying in Goa and exotic locations abroad to appear in quick succession in various courts on a single day and earn astronomical fees, they said. Some senior lawyers have installed nearly a dozen computers or laptops so that they can appear on the same day in different courts, such as the Supreme Court and big high courts, as well as tribunals handling corporate disputes, sources said. But most of the lawyers do not have such rich clientele, and their livelihood has been hit in the absence of physical hearings. “Many lawyers are now finding it difficult to make ends meet. Virtual hearings in courts continue to elude them. There is simply no work for them,” said senior corporate lawyer and former additional solicitor-general of India, Bishwajit Bhattacharyya. “In the interest of the vast majority of our sisters and brothers in the legal profession, it’s time the courts opened for 100 per cent physical hearings with strict Covid protocol.” At a meeting on Monday, the executive committee of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) termed the continued closure of the Supreme Court a violation of the fundamental rights of practising lawyers. SCBA president and senior advocate Vikas Singh told The Telegraph that barring one member, the committee resolved that physical hearings in the Supreme Court should resume immediately. Singh said: “The Supreme Court building is the work abode of the Supreme Court lawyers, and access to it is being denied, which amounts to a clear infringement to our fundamental rights. “The hybrid (system of) hearings has been a non-starter because, first, the virtual option is given to lawyers who find it convenient. Second, lawyers who prefer physical hearings find the SoP unjustified.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
28-09-2021||India||Centre's survey paints rosy picture of job creation and employment||The Centre on Monday released a sample survey’s findings on employment and compared them with data from an eight-year-old economic census, painting a rosy picture of job creation amid the reports of rising unemployment both before and after Covid struck. The Quarterly Employment Survey (QES) covering nine key sectors — conducted by the labour bureau, an arm of the labour ministry, between April and June this year — found 3.08 crore workers. It flagged this 29 per cent increase over the workforce of 2.37 crore in these sectors that the economic census of 2013 found. “The government has compared the QES data with the 2013 economic census to paint a rosy picture. It seems this is a political exercise ahead of Assembly elections in some states,” said labour economist K.R. Shyam Sundar, professor of human resource management, XLRI, Xavier School of Management. Another labour economist who didn’t wish to be identified said that as a sample survey, the QES could not be compared accurately with the economic census. “The census report is actual data. A sample report is an estimate,” he said. The survey covered the nine sectors of manufacturing, construction, trade, transport, education, health, accommodation and restaurants, IT/ BPO, and financial services. These nine, according to the 2013 economic census, accounted for 85 per cent of the total employment in establishments employing more than 10 workers. The QES found a decline in employment, compared with the 2013 economic census, in the trade sector (25 per cent), followed by accommodation and restaurants (13 per cent). Sectors that witnessed job growth were IT/BPO (152 per cent), health (77 per cent), education (39 per cent), manufacturing (22 per cent), transport (68 per cent) and construction (42 per cent). Sundar said that with the expansion of the economy, a simple annual growth rate in employment was quite likely. If a comparison was to be made with eight-year-old data, the government should have taken this growth into consideration. “When all the macroeconomic indicators are poor, this data of 29 per cent increase in employment does not appear convincing,” Sundar said. He said a proper comparison could be made only when the next QES data came in. A direct comparison with the immediate pre-Covid period is difficult because this is the first QES since the government stopped conducting the survey after December 2018, a labour economist who asked not to be named said. He said this was because the latest surveys had shown rising unemployment. The government has now resumed the QES after tweaking the methodology, he said. Several surveys in recent months have shown a job crisis. According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), a private research agency, nearly 59 lakh of the country’s then total 181 lakh white-collar jobs were lost in the four months between May and August 2020 in the aftermath of the national lockdown. The CMIE found an 11.9 per cent monthly unemployment rate in May this year – 14.73 per cent in urban areas and 10.63 per cent in rural areas — with over 1.5 crore jobs lost that month. The QES too found that nearly 27 per cent of establishments in the nine sectors had retrenched employees because of the Covid-induced economic crisis. However, it gave no figures of job losses. Instead, it said 81 per cent of the workers received full wages during the lockdown period between March 25 and June 30 last year — but calculated the figure without taking into account those who had lost their jobs during this period. It said 16 per cent had received reduced wages and around 3 per cent were denied any wages. The last two groups, government sources said, were mainly informal and casual workers. The QES report said manufacturing accounted for 41 per cent of employment followed by education (22 per cent), health (8 per cent) and IT/BPO (7 per cent). The overall participation of female workers stood at 29 per cent against 31 per cent reported by the 2013 economic census. Labour minister Bhupender Yadav released the report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
28-09-2021||India||Arrested antique dealer's links with Cong leader sparks controversy||The arrest of a self-styled antique dealer who claimed to possess artefacts such as the staff of Moses and two of the 30 silver coins for which Judas Iscariot betrayed Jesus has triggered a wider controversy over his purported links with a Congress leader and former police officers. Monson Mavunkal was arrested in Kochi on Sunday in a cheating case, lodged on the basis of a joint complaint that six of his alleged victims had sent to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan claiming they had been swindled out of Rs 10 crore. Since then, in separate media comments, some complainants have alleged paying Mavunkal at a time state Congress president K. Sudhakaran was in the house, or handing over cash on the premises of senior police officer (now retired) G. Surendran. Social media pictures have also emerged showing Mavunkal with retired police officer Loknath Behera and former chief secretary Jiji Thomson. Sudhakaran, Surendran and Thomson have denied any knowledge of Mavunkal’s business dealings. Mavunkal claimed to possess a piece of Jesus’s attire, the throne of Tipu Sultan, the title deed of the Mysore Palace and a walking stick used by Kerala social reformer Sree Narayana Guru, among other artefacts. All these are suspected to be fake. The six complainants said they had parted with their money after being told that Mavunkal had huge sums of foreign exchange withheld under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema) and therefore needed some cash. According to their complaint, Mavunkal had produced a purported document from an international bank to show his money was caught up in legal wrangles over Fema. The complainants say they paid him between June 2017 and November 2020. “Sudhakaran was at his place when I gave him (Mavunkal) Rs 25 lakh on November 22, 2018,” one of the complainants, Shameer MT, told reporters. Sudhakaran told a news conference in Kannur: “I knew Monson (Mavunkal) as a doctor whom I visited six or seven times to have a skin issue treated. But I have nothing to do with his business.” Asked why he would consult a quack, he shot back: “There was nothing to show he was a fraud. There were plenty of luxury cars in his compound and I was told he had historic antiques.” A native of Cherthala in neighbouring Alappuzha district, Mavunkal had started off by manufacturing plastic chairs but soon began presenting himself as an antique dealer and “cosmetologist”. He allegedly used “doctor” before his name, and many took him to be a dermatologist. Yaqoob Purayil, another complainant, said he had handed over Rs 25 lakh to Mavunkal after “being taken to” the Thrissur residence of Surendran when he was a deputy inspector-general. “I was taken to the DIG’s place and then handed over Rs 25 lakh to him (Mavunkal). But I don’t know whether the DIG was involved,” he said. Surendran denied any knowledge of such financial dealings. “I first met him when I was Kochi police commissioner in 2019 at an awareness campaign against drugs. He said he had a collection of antiques. I have known him since then but have absolutely no connection with his financial dealings,” the retired officer said. Jiji Thomson said he and Mavunkal were patrons of the Pravasi Malayali Federation.  “That’s how I met him,” Thomson told a channel. Mavunkal’s  tall claims about his purported antique collection were widely reported in the local media but no one seems to have publicly questioned their authenticity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
28-09-2021||India||Cyclone Gulab goes easy on Odisha ||Odisha on Monday heaved a sigh of relief as the impact of Cyclone Gulab was minimal in the state. While no casualties have been reported from any part of the state so far, district collectors have been asked to submit the report on the damage caused to property and crops within five days. Sources said, the damage should be much less compared to past cyclones such as Fani. Gulab has now weakened into a deep depression. The Met department has warned of heavy rainfall in the next 24 hours in some of the districts of southern Odisha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
28-09-2021||India||SC pulls up Centre for abruptly changing NEET pattern||The Supreme Court on Monday pulled up the Centre for abruptly changing the pattern of the NEET Super Speciality Examination 2021, saying young doctors can’t be treated like “footballs” by “insensitive bureaucrats”. The bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and B.V. Nagarathna warned that the court would pass strictures if the authorities failed to justify their action or rectify their mistake. It posted the next hearing to October 4 to enable the government to explain its stance. The NEET-SS is held for admission to super-specialty DM and MCh courses, and the applicants have to be postgraduate doctors. “Don’t treat these young doctors as footballs in the game of power. We can’t put these doctors at the mercy of insensitive bureaucrats. You should put your own house in order. Just because somebody has the power, he can’t wield the power in any manner,” Justice Chandrachud told senior advocate Maninder Singh, who appeared for the National Board of Examination (NBE), and advocate Gaurav Sharma, who was representing the National Medical Council (NMC). Additional solicitor-general Aishwarya Bhati appeared for the Centre. “If you don’t issue instructions (to restore the original pattern), we will pass strictures if we are not satisfied with your reasons for the last-minute change,” Justice Chandrachud said. The court made the observation while dealing with a joint petition filed by 40-odd doctors challenging the abrupt changes made to the pattern of this year’s entrance examination. Under the original pattern, 60 per cent of the questions were from super-speciality subjects and 40 per cent from general medicine. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, representing the aggrieved doctors, said the notification was issued on July 23 for the exam, which was to be conducted on November 13-14. But suddenly the NBE issued a circular on August 31 at the behest of the NMC, seeking to change the pattern by ensuring all the questions were from general medicine, Divan said. The aggrieved doctors argued that changing the pattern after issuing the notification for the exam amounted to changing the rules after a game had started. Singh initially argued that the new pattern had been in vogue till 2018 and the authorities merely restored it. But an unimpressed court said the candidates had been preparing for several months and a sudden change in the pattern would affect their prospects. “These young doctors might be put at risk due to the last-minute changes,” Justice Nagarathna said. Singh and Sharma sought a week’s time to file their responses. The court later asked Bhati to facilitate a meeting of the authorities concerned and work out a solution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
28-09-2021||India||Those pampered by Congress high command are first to betray||When veteran leader and former chief minister of Goa Luizinho Faleiro quit the Congress on Monday, the dominant view in the party was that those pampered by the high command are the first to betray. Faleiro, appointed chairman of the Congress Election Coordination Committee in Goa barely a few days ago, had been an integral part of the high command structure for around 14 years. Considered close to party president Sonia Gandhi, he has looked after the Northeast as general secretary. He is a seven-term MLA and is now set to join Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamul Congress. A senior leader feeling slighted for long told The Telegraph: “We are rotting in the Congress for decades but only those quit who were rewarded by the leadership. Look at the list: Jyotiraditrya Scindia was given a ticket to contest soon after his father’s demise, made central minister twice and then general secretary when the party lost power. He was Rahul Gandhi’s best friend. He not only leaves but also pulls down the government in Madhya Pradesh.” This leader continued: “Jitin Prasada was given a ticket to fight as both MP and MLA, made central minister and then given charge of a state. He joins the BJP. “Sushmita Dev was made MP and then straightaway given charge of Mahila Congress. A couple of very prominent leaders are planning to quit. Alpesh Thakore was brought in with such fanfare and he embraced the BJP.” This feeling is widespread in the Congress, apart from the grudge that those who come from outside are being given undue importance. The names of Nana Patole, Navjot Singh Sidhu, Hardik Patel and Revanth Reddy are cited. The counter view is that the Congress is at its nadir and talented people joining the party must be offered attractive deals. Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani are to join on Tuesday and can both expect exceptional treatment. When Jitin Prasada was sworn in as a minister in the Yogi Adityanath government, former Union minister Manish Tewari tweeted: “Jitin Prasada: 2004-14 represented generational change in the Congress. UPA minister. Today a BJP mantri. A Jyotiraditya Scindia redux. What turned their hearts. Wish I could look inside their heads. Life never ceases to amaze. May he find fulfilment in his New Avtar. God Bless brother.” A young leader considered close to Rahul Gandhi said: “It is inexplicable how young leaders claiming to be ideologically committed join the BJP now when the country is in peril. That’s immorality.” Joining Trinamul is also being viewed as fraught with grave implications. One senior leader from Goa said: “Trinamul and AAP will not win seats in Goa but they will spoil the Congress’s chances. We can see a sinister project to damage the Congress. But what can be done when our leaders don’t see it? Majority of leaders requested Rahul Gandhi to remove Girish Chodankar as state unit chief but he didn’t listen. Faleiro left only because of Girish. When leaders don’t listen, you can only pray. We pray that the very obvious chance for a Congress victory in Goa is not frittered away.” Faleiro said: “I have been a Congressman for 40 years and I will continue to be a Congressman of the Congress family. This family has to come together if we have to fight Modi. Among all the four Congresses, it is Mamata who has given a tough fight to Narendra Modi and their juggernaut….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
28-09-2021||India||Hindi magazine calls Amazon 'East India Company 2.0'||Panchjanya, a Hindi magazine known to echo the views of the BJP’s parent outfit RSS, has termed retail giant Amazon “East India Company 2.0”, weeks after accusing Infosys of aligning with “anti-national” forces to destabilise the Indian economy. The cover story in the magazine’s latest edition accuses Amazon of indulging in corrupt practices to “kill Indian retailers” and gain “sole rights of the Indian market”. Its business model is akin to the erstwhile East India Company, the magazine says. The story also accuses Amazon of assaulting the Indian and Hindu ethos through Prime Videos. The attacks on corporates by a publication linked to the RSS, as well as by RSS-affiliated outfits, are coming at a time the Narendra Modi government has been accused by the Opposition of promoting select business houses. The Swadeshi Jagran Manch, an RSS-affiliated outfit, on Monday raised concerns about Indian start-ups being flipped away, said it was a threat to the country’s security and sought regulatory changes. “Most of the big-ticket start-ups have flipped away and are no longer Indian companies in essence,” Mahajan said, citing Flipkart. Started by two Indians, it is now registered in Singapore. “There is a need to overhaul the system, from policy, regulations, access to capital to push entities to register in India,” Mahajan added. Panchjanya editor Hitesh Shankar said in a video message on Twitter: “It is a factual story, which we have put out for the readers. How did over 40,000 shops close due to one company? How did one company, through so many shadow companies, promote select brands that have captured around 95 per cent of the market?” Amazon, which is locked in a court battle with Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries, on Monday in a statement denied the charges and said its business model had in fact helped small Indian sellers. “During the pandemic, three lakh new sellers joined us... of which 75,000 were local neighbourhood shops,” it said. The company said it had helped over 70,000 Indian businesses to sell “made in India” products globally. Panchjanya had earlier accused Infosys of aligning with “Naxals, Leftists and the tukde-tukde gang” to destabilise the Indian economy, after glitches in the income tax portal managed by the tech giant. Though the RSS and the government distanced themselves from the attack, it came after Union minister Piyush Goyal’s swipe at the Tatas in August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
