30-09-2021||India||Sidhu likely to stay as Punjab Congress chief, party to set up coordination panel   ||Navjot Singh Sidhu will continue as the Punjab Congress chief and a coordination panel is likely to be set up, which is expected to be consulted before any major decisions by the Punjab government in future, party sources said on Thursday. The decision was reached after a meeting at the Punjab Congress Bhavan between chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Sidhu, who had resigned from the post of the state party chief on Tuesday. The panel may comprise the CM, Navjot Singh Sidhu and a representative of the AICC. The All-India Congress Committee (AICC) is expected to make an announcement in this regard, the sources said. It is still unclear how differences over the appointment of the DGP and the AG will be dealt with. Sidhu on Wednesday had raised a question over the appointments of the DGP, state's advocate general and “tainted” leaders. Besides Channi and Sidhu, the meeting was attended by senior Congress leader and central observer Harish Chaudhary, minister Pargat Singh and Punjab Congress working president Kuljit Nagra, the sources said. Minister Raj Kumar Verka, MLAs Inderbir Singh Bolaria, Avtar Singh Junior and PPCC working president Pawan Goel were in another room, they said. There was no press briefing after the meeting between Sidhu and Channi. Channi left the venue around 6 pm while Sidhu came out about half an hour later.      No party leader spoke to the media after the meeting concluded. Earlier in the day, Sidhu reached Chandigarh from Patiala to meet Channi. The meeting came a day after Channi reached out to him and offered to resolve issues through talks.     Just before his meeting with Channi, Sidhu attacked the state's new DGP, alleging that he wrongly indicted two Sikh youths in a desecration case and gave a clean chit to the Badals. The desecration of a religious text allegedly took place in Punjab's Faridkot district in 2015, whose investigation was handed over by the then Parkash Singh Badal-led government to an SIT led by current DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota.      Sahota was given the additional charge of the state's DGP by the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government. The development in the Punjab Congress comes on a day when former chief minister Amarinder Singh was in Delhi and said he will quit the Congress, which he asserted was going downhill with senior leaders being ignored. But Amariner scotched speculation of his joining the BJP. Former state party chief Sunil Jakhar also said there should be an end to attempts to undermine the authority of the Punjab chief minister time and again. Jakhar said “aspersions” being cast on the selection of the state's advocate general and state police head were actually “questioning the integrity of the CM”. Jakhar was obliquely referring to Sidhu who had raised questions over the appointments of the director general of police and the state's advocate general. “Enough is enough. Put an end to attempts to undermine the authority of CM time and again. Aspersions being cast on the selection of AG & DGP is actually questioning the integrity/competence of CM and Home Minister to deliver results,” he said. “It's time to put the foot down and clear the air,” tweeted Jakhar who was the front runner for the post of the chief minister.      But the party later chose Charanjit Singh Channi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
30-09-2021||India||CWC will meet very soon, says Congress amid crisis||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) will meet “very soon”, the party said on Thursday, a day after senior leaders demanded the meeting amid multiple desertions and turmoil in the party. Chief spokesperson of the Congress Randeep Surjewala said the party president had indicated last week that a meeting of the CWC, the top decision-making body of the party, will be called very soon. “Before leaving for Shimla, Congress president Sonia Gandhi had already indicated that a CWC meeting will be called very soon. Accordingly, the CWC meeting will be held in the coming days,” Randeep Surjewala told PTI. On Wednesday, senior party leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Kapil Sibal, part of a group of 23 leaders (G-23) seeking organisational revamp, demanded that a meeting of the CWC be convened immediately to discuss internal party issues such as a spate of defections from the party and turmoil in many state units, including Punjab. Kapil Sibal had also raised questions on the decision-making process within the party in the absence of a regular president and demanded dialogue where all senior leaders would be heard. “In our party at the moment, there is no president. So we don't know who is taking these decisions. We know and yet we don't know... I believe one of my senior colleagues has written to the Congress president to immediately convene a CWC. So that at least some things that we can't speak about publicly, we can have a dialogue in the CWC as to why we are in this state,” he said. Azad has written to the Congress president demanding that a meeting of the CWC be immediately convened. The party should welcome suggestions and not suppress them, he said. While Azad and some other G-23 leaders are part of the CWC, Kapil Sibal is not. Hitting back at Sibal, Randeep Surjewala had said, "Every Congressman and woman must also seriously introspect whether by their words and actions they are attempting to weaken the Congress in the times of crisis." Kapil Sibal had said, “We are not ‘Jee Huzur 23’. We will continue to put forth our views and will continue to repeat our demands.” In an apparent attack on the party leadership, he said there is no monopoly in the power structure of any country or political party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
30-09-2021||India||Prashant Kishor approached me, says Goa ex-chief minister||Former chief minister of Goa Luizinho Faleiro, who quit the Congress and joined the Trinamul Congress this week, told NDTV on Thursday that it was political strategist Prashant Kishor and his group I-PAC who approached him to switch to Mamata Banerjee’s party. “Of course, he had approached me. Just a few days back,” he said when asked if Kishor had reached out to him to join the party that the strategist helped win an exceptionally difficult election against the BJP in Bengal in May. “He didn't tell me to join the TMC but he did an analysis. People in Goa are angry with BJP. Mining has stopped. The economy is in a meltdown. There are no jobs. Goa is looking for an alternative. Didi is the only force. Despite the pressure, they abused her, used government agencies. The country needs a leader like Didi,” he said. Speaking at a press conference earlier in the day, Faleiro had said, “Believe it or not I never met them (Mamata Banerjee and Abhishek Banerjee). They are great leaders. They are not great leaders of Trinamul but great national leaders. But I did not meet them. I met I-PAC, I met Prashant Kishor of I-PAC (Indian Political Action Committee). I met him. Just before I took the decision, we had the interaction.” “It was a very, very difficult decision for me to leave Congress party. But finally, in the interest of Goa and in the interest of the country, to defeat the BJP, this is the only way for me to go forward and even now I am looking forward to help from I-PAC members. They are not from Bengal but different parts of the country,” he said. Faleiro’s revelation raises questions of conflict of interest over Mr Kishor's political role. Until recently, he is believed to have been engaged in talks with the Congress to revive its fortunes ahead of the next Lok sabha elections, but if Mr Faleiro is to be believed, Kishor is also approaching Congress leaders to cross over to the Trinamul, with whom his group I-PAC, continues to work with. Spurred, in part, by these high-profile crossovers from the Congress to the Trinamul, the past few weeks has seen a sharp rise in rhetoric between the two parties, with Mamata Banerjee's nephew Abhishek Banerjee saying "The Congress has to leave its armchair politics and social media politics and hit the streets" and that it "does not work, does not hit the street and loves to remain in the comfort of their homes". A day after joining the Trinamul, Faleiro said the party plans to contest all 40 seats in the next year's Goa Assembly polls on its own, without forging any alliance. The former Goa chief minister also said Mamata Banerjee will visit the state once the ongoing 15-day “pitru paksh” period, which is considered inauspicious for launching new projects, gets over. Faleiro joined the Trinamul on Wednesday in Kolkata along with nine other leaders. He addressed the news conference in Panaji in the presence of senior Trinamul leaders, including Derek O'Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, Prasun Banerjee and Manoj Tiwary. “The party is scouting for fresh faces for the upcoming election in Goa... As far as the Trinamul is concerned, we would like to give 40 clean new faces," he said to a query on whether the party would consider those MLAs, who have defected from one party to another. When asked if the Trinamul plans to forge an alliance, he said, "We are going to go all alone." It is possible for the Trinamul to win the upcoming elections in Goa although the time left for the polls was very short, he added. The elections are due in February. Faleiro slammed the Congress saying that the party never wanted to form a government in Goa and therefore it did not stake a claim for it despite emerging as the single largest party after the 2017 elections. He said that I-PAC has been conducting a survey in Goa, the results of which would be available in the next 10-15 days, after which the detailed roadmap for elections in Goa would be prepared. He said the Trinamul would release a “charge sheet” against the BJP government in Goa, which would expose its “misdeeds”. In the last Assembly polls, the Congress had won the highest number of 17 seats, restricting the BJP to 13 seats. However, surprising the Congress, the BJP allied with regional parties and formed the government under the leadership of senior leader Manohar Parrikar. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has already thrown its hat in the ring ahead of the polls, with the party's national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announcing free power up to 300 units per month and 80 per cent jobs for locals if his party is voted to power during his recent visit to Panaji.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
30-09-2021||India||Inadvertent error: Govt clarifies on allegations of vaccine certificate issued to dead on PM's birthday||The government Thursday dismissed as "baseless" allegations that dead people were issued vaccination certificates on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday, and clarified that there was a case in Madhya Pradesh due to an "inadvertent error" by a vaccinator as the beneficiary had registered for the inoculation when he was alive.  On Modi's birthday on September 17, a record was created as over 2.5 crore vaccine doses were administered in the country.  Responding to a question that in some states, it seems dead people were given vaccine certificates while in some, there was pending data entry which added to the numbers, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan told a media briefing, "That was an instance in Madhya Pradesh and we found that the registration was done when the person was alive, and on the date when the person was supposed to come for vaccination unfortunately the person died."  "There was an inadvertent error by the vaccinator in pressing the button in front of that name, so that error happened which has subsequently been corrected," he added.  On allegations that pending data entry was made which added to the numbers on Modi's birthday, he said they are baseless.  "The allegation of delayed data entry was made in respect of Bihar, We got it checked, and we found it to be absolutely baseless. Bihar on an average inoculates 3-5 lakh people a day, but it would be something totally unrealistic to say that they are not given digital certificates, they will not receive SMS and that data would not uploaded," Bhushan said.  "We have asked the channels and media houses which had done this story. If they could share specific details of villages and names of people, and we are still waiting for those details...," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
30-09-2021||India||PLA transgressed LAC in Uttarakhand's Barahoti sector last month: Sources||Close to 100 soldiers of China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) transgressed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Barahoti sector in Uttarakhand last month, people familiar with the development said on Tuesday. The transgression took place on August 30, and the Chinese troops returned from the area after spending few hours, they said. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel are deployed in the area. The people cited above said as part of a tit-for-tat strategy, Indian troops carried out patrolling. There was no official comment on the Chinese transgression. The incident comes amid a continuing standoff between Indian and Chinese troops in a number of areas in eastern Ladakh though both sides completed disengagement in two sensitive locations. The people cited above said minor transgressions have been taking place in Barahoti because of differing perceptions about the LAC by both sides. However, what surprised the Indian officials was the number of PLA personnel who transgressed on August 30. The Chinese side has also significantly ramped up infrastructure development along the LAC in the sector. India has been maintaining a strict vigil along the nearly 3,500-km LAC following the eastern Ladakh standoff. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year in eastern Ladakh following a violent clash in the Pangong lake area. Both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in the Gogra area last month. In February, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in line with an agreement on disengagement. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
30-09-2021||India||Kannada TV actress Soujanya dies by suicide||A budding TV actress on Thursday allegedly died by suicide in her apartment at Doddabele near Kumbalgodu on the city outskirts, police said. Soujanya, 25, who had acted in a couple of serials and films like 'Chaukattu Fun' and 'Nanobbne Olleyavnu", hung herself from the ceiling fan in her room, they said. She has left behind a four-page suicide note expressing "sorry" for taking the extreme step. The woman wrote that the health issues were "killing" her and her mental state was not good. "I had promised I will never do such stupid thing in my life but I had no option. I was totally killed inside. Day by day I was going so low," the actress, who hailed from Kushalnagar in Kodagu district, said in the note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
30-09-2021||India||UP polls: Congress to release first list of candidates soon||Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday attended the meeting of the party's state election committee here and it was decided that the first list of candidates for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls will be released soon, a party leader said. On the fourth day of her state visit, Priyanka Gandhi met representatives of various communities, including Banjara, Rajbhar, and Nishad, and took note of the problems and issues being faced by them. Ahead of the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, the Congress general secretary is on a five-day visit to Lucknow to review and discuss the party's preparedness for the polls. Since her arrival, she has been holding a series of meetings at the party office and Kaul House -- her residence-cum-office in the state capital. During one of the meetings, she discussed the setting up of "war rooms" at district levels to receive feedback and take prompt decisions as part of the election strategy. The party's proposed pratigya yatra' was finalised after its route was discussed and the booth management strategy for the polls was chalked out as well, a leader said. This is Priyanka Gandhi's second visit to the state within a month. She had earlier arrived on September 13 and stayed for five days. The Congress party had fought the 2017 UP polls in alliance with the Samajwadi Party. The grand old party had managed to win just seven of the 114 contested seats with a vote share of 6.25 per cent. This time, the Congress has announced that it would fight the polls without aligning with any big political party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
30-09-2021||India||69% of adult population has got at least one dose of Covid vaccine, 25% both: Govt||Sixty-nine per cent of the country's adult population has received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine and 25 per cent has taken both doses, the government said on Thursday. It also said that increased population density raises chances of Covid-19 spread and it will be prudent to avoid non-essential travel and observe festivity at low key. The government said that 64.1 per cent doses of Covid-19 vaccine has been administered in vaccination centres in rural areas and 35 per cent in urban areas. A total of 67.4 lakh doses (approximately 0.88 pc) have been administered at vaccination centres not tagged as rural/urban, it said. It said that 59.66 per cent of the total Covid-19 cases last week were reported from Kerala and the state has over one lakh active cases. The government also stressed that the number of Covid-19 tests has not reduced and 15 to 16 lakh tests are being done every day in the country. Eighteen districts are reporting weekly Covid positivity rate between five to ten per cent and 30 districts are reporting over 10 per cent weekly positivity rate, it said. On the Zydus Cadila's Covid-19 vaccine, the government said that ZyCoV-D is a three-dose needle-free vaccine and it will be priced differently than jabs being used currently. Talks are being held with the manufacturer on its pricing, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
30-09-2021||India||Need at least one medical college for PG education in every district: Modi||The government is making efforts to ensure each district of the country has a medical college or an institution for post-graduate medical education, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. He also said the gap in medical education and delivery of health services is being reduced and that the government's focus is on preventive healthcare as well as promoting ayurveda and yoga. In six years, more than 170 medical colleges have been completed and work on over 100 new medical colleges is going on at a fast pace, Modi said at a virtual ceremony to mark the foundation stone laying of four medical colleges and inauguration of the Institute of Petrochemicals Technology in Rajasthan. "The Centre is making efforts that there should be one medical college or institution for PG (post-graduate) medical education in every district," he said. Talking about the erstwhile Medical Council of India (MCI), he said that questions used to be raised on its decisions and there were allegations on its transparency. These had an adverse impact on quality of medical education and delivery of health services, the prime minister said. He said after efforts and many challenges, the government was finally able to bring reform by forming the National Medical Commission in place of the MCI. The impact of the commission is now visible, Prime Minister Modi said. Modi said when he became chief minister of Gujarat 20 years ago, there were many challenges in the areas of medical infrastructure, medical education and treatment facilities, but he accepted the challenges and tried to change the situation with collective efforts. He said the shortcomings in the health sector, which he felt as a chief minister, are now being removed in the country. The Centre worked on a national approach and a new national policy to transform the health sector, Modi said. "Health is a state subject and I know what difficulties are there, because I was also a chief minister. We worked on that. The problem here was that the health system was divided and there was a lack connectivity and collective approach at the national level," he said. "There was also a gap in traditional and modern medicine systems, and the shortcomings in governance also needed to be removed. Therefore, we started working on a new national health policy," he said. The prime minister said that from Swachh Bharat Abhiyan to Ayushman Bharat and now, Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission, many such efforts are being made. Stressing on the need to spread the network of healthcare facilities across the country, he said be it AIIMS or medical colleges it is very important to spread their network rapidly to every nook and corner of the country. "Today we can say with satisfaction that India is moving from six AIIMS (All India Institute of Medical Sciences) to a strong network of more than 22 AIIMS," he said. In 2014, the total seats for under-graduate and post-graduate medical studies in the country was close to 82,000, which has now increased to 1.40 lakh, Modi said. "The success of the central government's free (COVID-19) vaccine campaign for all is a reflection of its efforts. Today, more than 88 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines have been administered in India," he said. The prime minister said that for many English has been a hindrance to get medical education. But the new education policy has paved way for education in Indian languages and those who did not get the chance to study in English-medium schools will also be able to become doctors and serve humanity, he said. Modi also said that every section of society should get opportunities and this is the main reason behind the OBC (Other Backward Class) and the EWS (Economically Weaker Section) reservations in medical colleges. Highlighting the significance of skilled manpower for the petrochemical sector, he said that a high level of skill will not only increase the strength of India but will also play a big role in realising the resolve of a self-reliant India. "Skilled manpower is the need of the day for one of the fastest growing petrochemical sector," he said. On Covid-19, Modi said that the biggest pandemic in 100 years has taught a lot to the health sector of the world and India has resolved to increase its capacity of self-reliance in this disaster. Prior to the address, Modi virtually laid the foundation stones of medical colleges of Banswara, Sirohi, Hanumangarh and Dausa and inaugurated the Central Institute of Petrochemicals Engineering and Technology's Institute of Petrochemicals Technology (IPT) in Sitapura, Jaipur by pressing a button on a remote. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla also addressed the function virtually while Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya was present in the function held at CIPET in Jaipur. Union ministers Gajendra Shekhawat, Bhupendra Yadav, Kailash Chaudhary, Arjun Meghwal, former chief minister Vasundhara Raje, Jaipur MP Ramcharan Bohra and others also attended the programme through video conference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
30-09-2021||India||Rujira Banerjee virtually appears before Delhi court in coal scam case||TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee's wife Rujira Banerjee on Thursday appeared before a Delhi court through video conferencing in relation to a complaint filed by the Enforcement Directorate for allegedly refusing to join the probe in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam in West Bengal. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma directed Rujira to appear before the court physically on October 12, while granting her exemption from the personal appearance for the day. In her plea seeking exemption from personal appearance, Rujira told the court that she was unable to travel with her child on short notice. The court had directed Rujira to appear before it on September 30. Her plea was opposed by ED's Special Public Prosecutor Nitesh Rana, who told the court that she had to appear before the court physically and seek bail since she was accused of evading summons. The judge granted the exemption for the day after noting that Rujira appeared through the video conferencing and her advocate Siddharth Aggarwal, who appeared physically, assured that she will appear before the court in person on the next day of the hearing. In its complaint, the ED alleged that she refused to appear before the agency here despite repeated summons issued to her. The couple had earlier approached the Delhi High Court seeking quashing of summons issued to them by the ED for questioning in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam in Bengal, saying they are residents of Kolkata and should not be compelled to join the probe in the national capital. The plea is currently pending before the high court, which is scheduled to further hear it on Friday. Abhishek Banerjee, nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, and his wife have challenged the September 10 summons and also sought to direct the ED not to summon them for their appearance in Delhi and thereby not compelling them to join the investigation in the instant case here. The 33-year-old MP represents the Diamond Harbour seat in Lok Sabha and is the national general secretary of the Trinamool Congress (TMC). The plea before the high court also said that a greater degree of protection is granted to a woman under Section 160 of the CrPC, which mandates that she shall not be required to attend any place other than where she resides. It claimed the repeated issuance of summons to Rujira Banerjee to appear before the ED was ex-facie illegal and mala fide and sought court's intervention before any coercive measures are resorted to by the agency. The ED lodged a case under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act on the basis of a November 2020 FIR registered by the CBI that alleged a multi-crore coal pilferage scam related to Eastern Coalfields Ltd mines in the state's Kunustoria and Kajora areas in and around Asansol. Local coal operative Anup Majhi alias Lala is alleged to be the prime suspect in the case. The ED had earlier claimed that Abhishek Banerjee was a beneficiary of funds obtained from this illegal trade. He has denied all charges. Abhishek Banerjee said ED has repeatedly summoned him and his wife for examination in person in Delhi without supplying a copy of the ECIR (Enforcement Case Information Report) and without specifying whether they are being summoned as witnesses or accused, nor indicating the scope of the investigation being carried out. He said their examination may take place in Calcutta where ED has a functional and fully equipped zonal office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
30-09-2021||India||Delhi to be free of air, water and noise pollution in 3 years: Gadkari||The government will make the national capital free of air, water and noise pollution in the next three years, Union minister Nitin Gadkari said on Thursday, observing that pollution is the biggest concern for the country. Addressing the annual session of industry body PHDCCI, the road transport minister said that his ministry has spent Rs 60,000 crore on road infrastructure development -- an effort that also helped in reducing air pollution in Delhi. "Air pollution, water pollution and noise pollution are major concerns for the country. We will make Delhi free of air, water and sound pollution in the next three years," he said. Gadkari said the road ministry is working on a proposal to shift all container depots and 1,700 godowns out of Delhi. "In the next 15 days, we will be discussing that proposal with Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Delhi Development Authority (DDA)," he said. Gadkari also said that the road ministry is also building logistics park of worth Rs 1 lakh crore. The minister said he has put forth his suggestion to Kejriwal to run only electric buses for the public transport purpose in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
30-09-2021||India||Sexually assaulted IAF officer says she was subjected to banned two-finger test||A 28-year old female Air Force officer at the Air Force Administrative College here who was sexually assaulted has levelled serious charges against the IAF authorities, including subjecting her to a banned finger test and also forcing her to withdraw the complaint against the accused Flight Lieutenant. The charges found place in the FIR registered by the police based on the complaint by the woman officer at the All Woman Police Station, after the IAF authorities including College Commandant failed to take action till September 20 on the incident which happened on September 10. The woman also alleged she was subjected to 'two-finger test' at the Air Force Hospital to ascertain rape, which was banned by the Supreme Court a few years ago. Police had arrested the accused Amitesh Harmukh on September 25 and he is in judicial custody. Both the rape victim and the accused, hailing from Chhattisgarh, were part of a training course and had attended a party in the officers' mess on the night of September 9. The woman officer in her complaint said the incident occurred in the wee hours of the next day when she was sleeping after taking medicine for her leg injury and was assaulted by the drunk officer, who had narrated the incident to two of her batchmates who recorded the conversation between the trio. She approached a wing commander on the incident and came to the room along with a woman wing commander, who 'advised' her to think about the future including the name and respect of the family, based on which she communicated to one of her friends that she was not going to lodge any complaint. However, as both the wing commanders again approached her and told her to either file the complaint or give in writing that the episode was consensual, she subsequently mustered courage and decided to file the complaint, amid the finger test in the evening in the hospital. The survivor further said she had handed over the mattress which had strains of semen to two women doctors, the FIR said. After cajoling by two senior officers, who informed that the test was negative, the commandant asked her to withdraw the case in writing saying if pursued, it will be flashed in the media and bring disrepute to the Air Force and herself, police said. However, she went to the city police commissioner's office on September 20 and from there the all-woman police station registered the case. When contacted, a senior IAF officer, on condition of anonymity, refused to comment on the issue as the matter was in court and sensitive. Meanwhile, the IAF had filed a petition in the court that local police has no right to arrest the officer and only the defence court is the jurisdiction where a court martial can be conducted and therefore hand over him the accused to the IAF.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
30-09-2021||India||Police involved in 'very serious offences' to face dismissal, warns Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said illegal activities by police personnel are not acceptable and warned that those found involved in "very serious offences" will be dismissed. The CM's statement has come amid criticism of his government over law and order following the death of a Kanpur businessman at a hotel in his home district Gorakhpur. Manish Gupta, 36, died on Monday night after he was allegedly beaten up by some policemen, prompting the authorities to register a murder case against them. At a meeting with senior officials, the CM said in the recent past, there have been complaints of some police personnel indulging in illegal activities, according to a statement. There should be no place for such people in the Police Department and action will be taken against them as per rules, Adityanath said, asking officials to identify such people and provide a list with proof. Police personnel found involved in "very serious offences" should be dismissed, he said, stressing that people with tainted image should not be given important postings. Meanwhile, Opposition parties demanded a probe into the incident by the CBI or a sitting judge of the High Court. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav rushed to Kanpur to meet the family of the victim and said justice is not possible till a High Court-monitored inquiry by a sitting judge is not ordered. BSP Supremo Mayawati in a tweet also demanded a CBI probe. On Wednesday, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had attacked the state government, saying it is "soft" on criminal and "brutal" with common people. Priyanka also talked to family members of the victim over the phone, expressing grief and assuring them of help in ensuring justice, party sources had said. Manish Gupta died when some policemen raided a Gorakhpur hotel on Monday night. Earlier, police had said he received a head injury after he fell on the ground as he was drunk. Later, the authorities suspended six policemen and booked them on the charge of murder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
30-09-2021||India||Utterly humiliated in Congress, will leave party, says Amarinder||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday scotched speculation of his joining BJP but said he will quit the Congress, which he asserted was going downhill with senior leaders being ignored. A day after meeting Home Minister Amit Shah which triggered speculation of his joining the BJP, Singh said he would leave the Congress as he had been "utterly humiliated" and was not trusted. "I will not join BJP (but) I will not stay in the Congress party," the 79-year-old leader said, adding that he was still thinking through his options in the interest of Punjab as security of the state was the predominant priority for him. Singh, who arrived in the national capital on Tuesday, also met National Security Advisor Ajit Doval on Thursday. He had resigned as chief minister on September 18 after accusing the Congress of humiliating him. "I will not be treated in this humiliating manner...I will not take such insults," he said, adding that his principles and beliefs do not allow him to stay in the Congress any longer. Terming the senior Congressmen as "thinkers", who were critical to the future of the party, the former chief minister said the younger leadership should be promoted to implement the plans, which the senior leaders are best equipped to formulate. Unfortunately, the seniors are being "completely sidelined" which is not good for the party, he said in a statement. Singh's Twitter bio, which read "Army Veteran | Former Chief Minister Punjab | Continuing to serve the State", has no mention of the Congress party. However, sources said he has not resigned from the Congress so far. After Singh's statement, a source said the former chief minister may float his own outfit ahead of elections in Punjab which are to be held early next year. Singh was also the president of the All India Jat Mahasabha in 2013 when he was removed as PCC chief .There is also speculation that he may get actively involved once again with this body to help resolve the farmers' issues. Slamming Navjot Singh Sidhu, Singh said he was a mere crowd-puller and did not know how to carry the team along. The former chief minister also condemned the attack on Kapil Sibal's house by Congress workers only because he had chosen to express views that were not palatable to the party leadership. Expressing the hope that Punjab would vote for the future of the state, he said his experience showed that the people of the state tend to vote for a single party/force, irrespective of the number of parties in the fray. Misgovernance in Punjab would give Pakistan an opportunity to create trouble in the state and in the country, he said, adding that his meeting with Doval this morning centred around this issue. Singh had raised security concerns with Shah too, along with the farmers' issue, during his meeting with him on Wednesday. Taking a dig at those who undermine the growing Pakistani threat in Punjab, he said that such people were playing into the hands of anti-India forces by being in a denial mode. "They (Pak-backed elements) are killing our soldiers every day, they are pushing weapons into the state through drones. How can we overlook these dangers," he said. Singh had earlier accused Sidhu of being close to Pakistan and its prime minister Imran Khan and had alleged that he was "dangerous" for the border state. Reiterating his opinion about Sidhu, Singh said he does not know how to carry his team along. He said he has worked with many PPCC chiefs and he has himself been one, and he has always resolved issues amicably, without indulging in theatrics like Sidhu. The former chief minister was opposed to Sidhu being appointed as PCC chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
30-09-2021||India||Mutual trust despite different ideology pillar of democracy, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said mutual trust despite different ideologies is the strength of democracy. Responding to Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's requests regarding a few projects for the development of the state during a virtual programme, Modi thanked the veteran Congress leader for having faith in him. "I was listening to the chief minister of Rajasthan. He has given a long list of projects. I thank the chief minister of Rajasthan that he has so much faith in me. His ideology, (political) party are different and my ideology, party are different but this friendship, trust and faith is a big strength of democracy," he said. Addressing the programme for the foundation laying of medical colleges in Banswara, Sirohi, Hanumangarh and Dausa districts and the inauguration of the Institute of Petrochemicals Technology in Jaipur, Gehlot requested the prime minister to approve a medical device park in Jodhpur and a bulk drug park in Kota. He also sought the Union government's support to revive drug-manufacturing company RDPL, which was a joint venture of the Centre and the state. Talking about the challenges in service delivery, Gehlot said due to distances, the service delivery cost, be it in the health or in the education sector, from district to district and village to village is high in Rajasthan as compared to other states. He also said 30 of the 33 districts in the state will have medical colleges by 2023. Fifteen medical colleges are already there and 15 more will be ready by 2023, the chief minister said. Gehlot urged the prime minister to take a decision regarding medical colleges in the remaining three districts of Rajsamand, Pratapgarh and Jalore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
30-09-2021||India||Delhi High Court takes suo motu cognisance of Rohini shooting incident||The Delhi High Court Thursday took suo motu cognizance of the Rohini Court shootout that left three dead and said there was a need for proper and effective deployment of a sufficient number of police personnel in courts. A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Delhi Police, Delhi government, and Central government as well as the Delhi High Court Bar Association and directed that suggestions in the form of an affidavit or a report be filed on the issue of maintaining security at courts. "We have taken suo motu cognizance of the incident which took place in Rohini court. This court wants valuable suggestions from respondents for security at all court complexes in Delhi," said the Chief Justice. The bench said that there was a need for a fool-proof entry system in courts, installation of metal detectors, under vehicle surveillance system, and proper training of police personnel. Jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi and his two assailants posing as lawyers were killed inside the Rohini courtroom on September 24 in a dramatic shootout that also saw the police fire bullets in retaliation, the officials had said. Video footage of the incident showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207. The two gunmen dressed as lawyers are suspected to be members of rival Tillu gang, an official had said, adding that over 30 shots were fired. On September 24, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana had expressed deep concern over the shootout inside the crowded Rohini courtroom and spoke to the Delhi High Court Chief Justice in this regard and advised him to talk to both police and the Bar to ensure that the functioning of the court is not affected. The matter would be heard next on October 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
30-09-2021||India||After meeting Amit Shah, Amarinder Singh meets NSA Ajit Doval||Congress leader Amarinder Singh on Thursday met NSA Ajit Doval, a meeting which comes a day after he met Home Minister Amit Shah amid speculation over his future move after resigning as Punjab chief minister. The former Punjab chief minister told ndtv.com that he cannot stay in Congress anymore. Singh met Doval at his residence here. The meeting between the two lasted for around 30 minutes. After the meeting, the National Security Advisor (NSA) left for the residence of Shah. Singh's meeting with Shah on Wednesday had added another dimension in politics in Punjab where no party is being seen as a clear favourite in the polls, expected to be held early next year. The politically significant meeting, which came days after Singh resigned as chief minister after accusing the Congress of humiliating him, raised speculation over his future plans ahead of the polls in Punjab with some political analysts viewing it as an indication that Singh may be seeking the support of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Sources close to Singh had said the former chief minister is learnt to have also discussed the internal security situation in Punjab with Shah. With the farmers' protests also seen to be affecting the BJP's prospects in western UP, the Modi government may intensify efforts to end the stir. Uttar Pradesh and Punjab are among the five states going to the assembly polls early next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
30-09-2021||India||India-China border incidents will continue until agreement is reached: Army||Border incidents between India and China will continue to occur till a boundary agreement is reached between the two countries, Army Chief General M M Naravane said on Thursday. Recent developments in Afghanistan "have definitely been the focus" of the Indian Army that continues to evaluate threat perceptions and formulate strategies accordingly, the Army chief added while addressing a gathering at the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Discussing China, he said, "... we have an outstanding border issue. We are again well prepared to meet any misadventure that may occur as we have demonstrated in the past." "Such kinds of incidents will continue to occur till such time that a long-term solution is reached, and that is to have a boundary agreement. And that should be the thrust of our efforts so that we have lasting peace along the northern (China) border," he stated during the annual session meeting of the industry body. Referring to Afghanistan, he said the Indian Army "or the armed forces for that matter continue to carry out periodic evaluation of threat perceptions". Based on those evaluations, the Indian Army formulates strategies and doctrines that are needed to meet future threats, he noted. "This is a continuous process that never stops,"" he added. Kabul fell to the Taliban on August 15. Expressing its concerns about the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, India had on September 20 had said the country's territory should not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing terrorist acts. As far as the terrorist threat is concerned, the Indian Army is ready to meet all challenges, Naravane said. "We have a very dynamic counterinsurgency and counterterrorist grid in Jammu and Kashmir. It is a dynamic grid and it is based on threat perception and the escalating levels of attempts by our western neighbour (Pakistan) to push in more and more terrorists," he said. "Based on ups and downs, we also recalibrate our levels of operations," he added. The current border standoff between the Indian and Chinese armies erupted in May last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake area. Both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. The row escalated after the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 last year. Twenty Indian Army personnel laid down their lives in the clashes that marked the most serious military conflicts between the two sides in decades. In February 2021, China officially acknowledged that five Chinese military officers and soldiers were killed in the clashes with the Indian Army though it is widely believed that the death toll was higher. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in Gogra area last month. In February, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in line with an agreement on disengagement. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC (Line of Actual Control) in the sensitive sector. In 2017, Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in a 73-day stand-off in Doklam tri-junction which even triggered fears of a war between the two nuclear-armed neighbours. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
30-09-2021||India||“gintaa”- India’s first complete patented social e-commerce||On 1st October 2021 a new start-up is all set to change the dynamics of the eCommerce business with young Soham Jaiswal’s vision. He is well on his way towards establishing a brand that aims higher than any of the online retailing brands in this part of the hemisphere.  Elaborating on his vision, Chairman & MD Laxman Jaiswal says, gintaa is based on the pristine Indian value of GIVE & TAKE, gintaa, the social eCommerce platform with B2B, B2C, C2B, C2Cselling, buying,auction,and exchange shall cover almost every conceivable aspect of e-Commerce and beyond.  gintaa is aimed at cashing in on the growing eCommerce business in India with a steady growth of 50-60% over the years.  According to CEO Soham, gintaa shall offer an in-built mechanism which shall have a unique rating system for its sellers, service providers, buyers as well as end users, thereby negating any possibility of fraudulent usage of the platform. gintaa is backed by a retinue of features such as a logistics partner in India Post thereby ensuring reach to the farthest corners of the land, insured deliveries thereby providing a guarantee of safety for its users, constant system upgradation to minimise possibilities of technical glitches, and a dedicated team providing a complete 24x7 SWOT (Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats) analysis thereby giving it a platinum edge.  gintaa shall provide solutions for gintaa makes a difference Four easy and secure ways to use gintaa: gintaa shall truly be a revolution in eCommerce and will change the way of selling goods and services online at www.gintaa.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
30-09-2021||India||Gulam Ashraf has Well-Earned the Title as ‘King of Kolkata Port’||Establishing a name for yourself is never easy. However, building empires while carrying forward the legacy left behind by your father is even more difficult. Gulam Ashraf, a successful entrepreneur, has achieved what many consider a path full of thorns. Managing Director Gulam Ashraf of Phonex Traders Private Ltd. states that the company aspires to be the top logistics provider of the country. There are about three thousand employees and ten sister companies under the supervision of Mr. Gulam. In addition to his logistics operations, Gulam handles all the imports and exports of the Bengal port. He is considered the ‘King of Kolkata Port’ by the locals and the businesspeople. Another astonishing fact is that he is the first from Kolkata Port to become the president of a national level club called ‘Mohammedan Sporting Club’. The company, so far, has expanded to Vizag, West Bengal, and few other states in the northeast. In addition, they have worked with companies from Bangladesh, Singapore, and some other nations. Despite his youth, he has made significant contributions to the performance of the company. He took over the business after his father's demise. He has done the enterprise justice leading it to success. Gulam has a strong sense of empathy for the needs of others and is well-aware of his environment. He stands out among other start-ups in the business industry as he not only guides them but funds them as well. He is bringing sustainability into people’s lives, especially the youth, by sorting out their unemployment crises and providing them jobs in the Port. Since his adolescence, the desire to help others has been ingrained in him. He recalls his father devoting only half of his wages to the house and the rest to helping others in need. To this day, he is carrying on his father's legacy. He helps the needy and downtrodden. For the development of society and its citizens, he operates the One Unity Social Welfare Association. He is dedicated to his principles and strives for success. Today, when many people help others for the sake of popularity and self-promotion, Gulam considers social action to be a duty. He aims to help the youth prosper and flourish. Maintaining a well-built reputation is challenging enough, and going above and beyond people's expectations is not for everyone. His outstanding services and competence have changed the entire ambiance and atmosphere for the youth and emerging start-ups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
30-09-2021||India||MAKAUT heralds a distinctive name as a hallmark academic and research institution in bengal||The Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology, West Bengal (MAKAUT, WB) heralds a distinctive name as a hallmark academic and research institution in West Bengal. During the past 20 years of its quintessential existence, it has truly poised itself as a premier flagship centre of higher learning. The university has made powerful forays into new emerging domains of engineering and technology, science and management, socio-cultural and heritage initiatives, eco-environmentalism, travel-tourism and corporate social responsibilities – which is truly a phenomenal leap ahead and a cut above the other technical universities of India and abroad. As a Technology University of the state, it provides affiliation to over 200 colleges spread across the State, that offers a wide plethora of UG/PG programmes in classical, neo-classical and contemporary branches of Engineering and Technology, Pharmacy, Architecture, Management, Applied Sciences, in conjunction with non-AICTE programmes of B.Sc., B.B.A. and B.C.A. courses in leading subject domains. The University has started various professional courses in some affiliated colleges since 2018 in line with the directives of A.I.C.T.E. and the U.G.C. The courses are in Information Technology, Computer Science, Bio-technology, Bio-informatics, Material Science & Technology, Forensic Science, Food Science & Technology, Pharmaceutical Science and Technology, Business Analytics, Digital Health, Geo informatics, Waste Management and Social Entrepreneurship, Travel and Tourism, Media Science, Virtual Reality/Augmented Reality, Robotics etc. With active patronage and support of the Department of Higher Education, Govt. of West Bengal, the University has constructed its sprawling new academic campus over an area close to 40 acres in Haringhata, Nadia - that garners the rarest distinction of ‘green, clean and environmentally smart campus’. Here from, all academic and administrative machinery are centrally managed and co-ordinated to effective implementation. The University is ambitiously expanding its in-house academic portfolios by launching a large number of new courses, with thrust on professional and vocational ones, setting up of new laboratories in advanced and emerging disciplines, constituting new Schools, Centres and Departments, embarking upon training and consultancy, initiating off-campus and satellite campus programmes, thereby pushing the student enrolment to maximum possible extent. MAKAUT strongly emphasizes adoption of digital technology and use of available digital/online resources by faculty members and students. Application of Learning Management Systems, Flipped Learning and Mobile Learning are the tools in classroom teaching. The University has prepared a repository of online courses culled from different online subject platforms for its affiliated colleges. The courses are assigned with credits and allowance of credit transfer for intending students. The University has adopted Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) ahead of other universities. The University delves to foster ‘academic niche′ on modern learner-centric pedagogy, digital initiatives and entrepreneurship development as path-breaking endeavours and essence of its epistemology. ‘Systems concept and thinking’ occupies the centre-stage here in understanding of dynamism, holism and perturbations of teaching-learning process. It will really be a tryst with destiny to embrace the mentorship of MAKAUT for young aspirant minds, and rich posterity, to the trail blazing path and footprints of glory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
30-09-2021||India||Highways can't be blocked perpetually, says SC on farmers protest||How can highways be blocked perpetually, the Supreme Court wondered on Thursday while referring to road blockades by farmers protesting at Delhi borders against the three farm laws passed last year, and said it is the executive's duty to implement the law laid down by the court. The top court allowed the Centre to file a formal application to make farmer unions party to the plea seeking opening of road blockade at Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border at UP Gate here. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh said, "The redressal of problems can be through judicial forum, agitation or through Parliamentary debates. But how can the highways be blocked and this is happening perpetually. Where does this end? The top court was hearing a plea of a NOIDA resident Monicca Agrawaal, who has sought removal of blockade saying that earlier it took 20 minutes to reach Delhi and now it is taking over two hours and people of the area are facing hardships due to protests at the UP Gate on Delhi border. At the outset, the bench asked Additional Solicitor General K M Nataraj what is the government doing in the matter. Nataraj said that they had convened a meeting with the protesting farmers and details have been mentioned in the affidavit. The bench said, We may lay down a law but how to implement the law is your business. The court cannot implement it. It is the executive who has to implement it . Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said that it is the duty of the executive to implement it. The bench said, When we lay down the law, you will say it is encroachment and we trespassed into the domain of the executive. This has ramifications but there are also grievances which need to be addressed. This cannot be a perpetual problem . Mehta said that when it is invited then it will not be encroached upon. He said that at the highest level a three-member committee was formed to address the grievances but the farmers' representatives who were invited refused to join in the discussions. Mehta said the court should allow the petitioner to make the farmers union party to the petition, so that later they don't say that they were not made parties in the matter. The bench told Mehta that it is he who will have to move an application for making farmers representative party as the petitioner, a private individual may not know who their leaders are. "If you feel that someone is to be made party, you will have to make a request. You move a formal application giving details about the steps taken to resolve their grievances and how the impleadment of representatives of farmers will help in the resolution of the dispute," the bench said, while listing the plea for hearing on October 4. Mehta said that they will file the application by Friday. On August 23, the top court had said that the Centre and Delhi's neighbouring states should find a solution to road blockades on the national capital's borders due to farmers' protest. It had told the Centre why the government can't find a solution to this problem as though farmers have the right to protest but at the designated places and due to the protests, inflow and outflow of traffic cannot be disrupted. The top court had said that this will have an impact on toll collection as well because vehicles will not be able to pass through due to the blockades. It had then ordered, Solution lies in the hands of the Union of India and the concerned state governments. They have to coordinate to find a solution that when a protest takes place, roads are not blocked and traffic is not disrupted to cause inconvenience to the common people . The Solicitor General had said that if the court is willing to pass some orders then two farmers unions can be made parties and he can give their names. The top court had said that tomorrow another two unions will come forward and say they represent the farmers and this will go on. On March 26, the top court had issued notice to Uttar Pradesh and Haryana on the plea. The Uttar Pradesh government has said in its affidavit that continuous efforts are being made to remove the blockade at the Delhi-UP border and there at present about 141 tents and 31 langars' around the area, and the protestors have installed a platform on the flyover from where the leaders give speeches, a media house has also been made below the flyover. Similarly, the Haryana government also told the top court that protesters staging 'dharna' at Singhu border have been camping on about 6 kilometres stretch of lanes of NH-44 since November 27, last year. The farmers are protesting against passage of three laws-Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020. Initially, the protests started from Punjab in November last year and later spread to Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and some other parts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
30-09-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu to meet Charanjit Channi at 3 pm today||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu said he will be meeting Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi for talks on Thursday. The move comes a day after Channi reached out to Sidhu and offered to resolve issues through talks. "Chief Minister has invited me for talks will reciprocate by reaching Punjab Bhawan, Chandigarh at 3:00 PM today, he is welcome for any discussions," Sidhu, who had on Tuesday resigned as the state Congress chief, said Sidhu on Wednesday had raised questions over the appointments of director general of police, state's advocate general and tainted leaders. The Punjab unit of the Congress is in turmoil after Amarinder Singh was removed as chief minister and its chief Sidhu resigned from his post ahead of the crucial assembly elections in the state early next year. Factionalism in Punjab Congress has come to the fore over recent appointments of the new cabinet and other top officials. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Channi had said, "I have spoken to Sidhu sahab over telephone today. The party is supreme and the government accepts the party's ideology and follows that. (I told him that) You come, sit and talk". "If you (Sidhu) feel there is anything wrong, you can point it out," he said. When asked what was Sidhu's response, Channi had said the leader told him that he would sit and talk, and would give him time for a meeting. Channi said his government will set up a team under a special prosecutor for fighting cases in courts. "We are setting up a team of a special prosecutor and 10 members, and it will handle our (state government) important cases," he said. "A special team will be appointed. Therefore, there should not be any doubt on me. Everything will be transparent," he further said. He said, "Whatever feedback we got from colleagues and others and whosoever could be appointed, we appointed. But the decisions will be taken according to the people of Punjab." "I have no objection or any ego in anything. I am very clear. If anything sends wrong message to people, I will not be rigid on it," he said in an apparent reference to recent appointments. The CM had said that he would never step back on issues for which he had been fighting, apparently referring to delivery of justice in the 2015 desecration cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
30-09-2021||India||Supreme Court collegium recommends 16 names for elevation as judges at 4 HCs||The Supreme Court collegium, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana, has recommended 16 names for elevation as judges of the high courts of Bombay, Gujarat, Orissa and Punjab and Haryana. In its meeting held on Wednesday, the collegium approved the proposal for elevation of 16 names -- six judicial officers and 10 advocates as judges of these four high courts. As per the statements uploaded on the apex court website on Thursday, the collegium has approved the proposal for elevation of four judicial officers -- A L Pansare, S C More, U S Joshi-Phalke and B P Deshpande -- as judges of the Bombay High Court. Similarly, the collegium has recommended names of advocates Aditya Kumar Mohapatra and Mruganka Sekhar Sahoo and judicial officers Radha Krishna Pattanaik and Sashikanta Mishra for their elevation as judges of the Orissa High Court. For the Gujarat High Court, the collegium has approved the proposal for elevation of seven advocates -- Mauna Manish Bhatt, Samir J Dave, Hemant M Prachchhak, Sandeep N Bhatt, Aniruddha Pradyumna Mayee, Niral Rashmikant Mehta and Nisha Mahendrabhai Thakore -- as judges there. The Supreme Court collegium in its meeting held on September 29, 2021 has approved the proposal for elevation of Sandeep Moudgil, advocate, as judge in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, said one of the statements. Besides the CJI, the three-member collegium which deals with the appointment in high courts includes Justices U U Lalit and A M Khanwilkar. The collegium has been taking steps by recommending names to fill up a large number of vacancies in higher judiciary in the country. After assuming charge as the CJI in April this year, Justice Ramana has recommended nearly 100 names for appointment to different high courts, besides filling up nine vacancies of judges in the Supreme Court in one go. The 25 high courts in the country have a combined sanctioned strength of 1,080 judges and on May 1, 2021, they were functioning with 420 judges only. In a historic decision on August 17, the collegium had recommended nine names, including three women, for elevation as judges of the Supreme Court. The names were cleared with significant pace by the Centre leading to the swearing-in ceremony on August 31 when the new judges were administered oath of office as apex court judges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
30-09-2021||India||Low pressure area in Gulf of Kutch likely to intensify, says IMD||The remnant of cyclone Gulab has turned into a depression, moved into the Gulf of Kutch and is likely to further intensify into a cyclonic storm in the Arabian Sea, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday. Due to this weather system, heavy rains were witnessed in Gujarat's Saurashtra region in the last 24 hours. The IMD has predicted heavy rains in the state's coastal districts over the next two days. "Yesterday's well-marked low pressure area over south Gujarat region and adjoining Gulf of Khambhat moved west-northwestwards and emerged into the Gulf of Kutch, concentrated into a depression and lay centred there at 5.30 am today," an IMD release said. "It is about 50 km east-northeast of Devbhoomi Dwarka (Gujarat), 90 km east-southeast of Naliya (in Kutch) and 340 km east-southeast of Karachi (Pakistan)," the release said. It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and intensify into a deep depression over northeast Arabian Sea off north Gujarat coast during the next 12 hours, the weather department said. "It is then very likely to move further west-northwestwards and intensify into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours. Thereafter, it is likely to continue to move west-northwestwards towards Pakistan-Makran coasts, moving away from the Indian coast," the IMD said. Heavy rainfall is expected for the next two days in the coastal districts of Jamnagar, Porbandar, Dwarka and Kutch, it said, and asked fishermen not to venture into the sea. Due to the present weather system, Junagadh, Amreli, Dwarka, Jamnagar and Rajkot districts received heavy rains in the last 24 hours, the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC) said. In the 24-hour period ending at 6 am on Thursday morning,Visavadar taluka in Junagadh district recorded 292 mm, Lilya in Amreli district received 141 mm downpour, while Khambhaliya and Kalyanpur in Devbhumi Dwarka distric got 140 mm and 135 mm rainfall, respectively, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
30-09-2021||India||India logs 23k Covid-19 cases, active caseload further declines||India recorded a single-day rise of 23,529 COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking its infection tally to 3,37,39,980, while the count of active cases dipped to 2,77,020, the lowest in 195 days, according to Union Health Ministry data. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,48,062 with 311 daily fatalities being recorded, according to the data updated at 8 am. The number of active cases has declined to 2,77,020, comprising 0.82 per cent of the total infections the lowest since March 2020, the ministry said. The national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.85 per cent, the highest since March 2020, it added. A decrease of 5,500 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 15,06,254 COVID-19 tests were conducted in the country on Wednesday, taking the total number of such examinations done so far to 56,89,56,439, the data showed. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.56 per cent. It has been below three per cent for 31 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.74 per cent. This figure has been below three per cent for 97 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,30,14,898, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative number of coronavirus vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide inoculation drive has exceeded 88.34 crore. India's COVID-19 infection tally had crossed 20 lakh on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. The country surpassed the grim milestone of two crore infections on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 311 new fatalities include 155 from Kerala, and 49 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,48,062 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,011 from Maharashtra, 37,780 from Karnataka, 35,550 from Tamil Nadu, 25,087 from Delhi, 24,965 from Kerala, 22,892 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,778 from Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," it said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
30-09-2021||India||Decision on Covaxin's emergency use deferred to October, says WHO||A decision on Bharat Biotech's submission seeking emergency use listing (EUL) for its Covaxin COVID-19 vaccine will be made in October, the World Health Organisation has said. The status of assessment for Covaxin is ongoing . Bharat Biotech had submitted EOI (Expression of Interest) on April 19 for its vaccine. The latest Status of COVID-19 vaccines within WHO EUL/PQ evaluation process' guidance document dated September 29 on the WHO website said that the decision date for Bharat Biotech's Covaxin is October 2021 . The WHO said it began rolling data of the vaccine on July 6. Rolling data allows the WHO to start its review right away, as information continues to come in, to accelerate the overall review process. According to the WHO, submissions to WHO for prequalification or listing under the emergency use procedure are confidential. If a product submitted for assessment is found to meet the criteria for listing, the WHO will publish the results widely. Duration of the emergency use listing process depends on the quality of the data submitted by the vaccine manufacturer and on those data meeting WHO criteria, according to the agency. Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and AstraZeneca and Oxford University's Covishield are the two widely used vaccines in India. Bharat Biotech recently said it submitted all data pertaining to Covaxin to the WHO for EUL and is awaiting feedback from the global health watchdog. "#COVAXIN clinical trial data was fully compiled & available in June 2021. "All Data submitted for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) Application to World Health Organization in early July. We have responded to any clarifications sought by #WHO and are awaiting further feedback," Bharat Biotech had tweeted earlier this month. "We are diligently working with the WHO to obtain EUL at the earliest," the company had said on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
30-09-2021||India||Centre renames Mid Day Meal Scheme as 'PM Poshan Scheme'||The Narendra Modi government on Wednesday decided to rename the school Mid Day Meal Scheme as “PM Poshan Scheme”, shocking public policy observers who suspected an attempt by the Prime Minister to claim credit for an old programme towards which his administration had adopted a miserly attitude. “Today, the CCEA (cabinet committee on economic affairs) cleared the PM POSHAN Scheme for providing one hot cooked meal in government and government-aided schools from 2021-22 to 2025-26,” said a release from the government’s publicity arm, the Press Information Bureau (PIB). “It’s mind-boggling to see the Prime Minister trying to take credit for a scheme he had undermined with massive budget cuts soon after he came to power in 2014,” economist Jean Dreze said. “To this day, the midday meal budget is much lower in real terms than it was seven years ago.” In 2014-15, Modi’s first year in power, the money released for the midday meal scheme was Rs 10,527 crore, down from the previous year’s Rs 10,927 crore. Over the next five years, the money released remained between Rs 9,096 crore and Rs 9,630 crore. In 2020-21, the government had to release Rs 12,883 crore with the pandemic-induced school closure forcing dry rations and money to be sent to families of all students covered under the scheme — unlike in the earlier years when not all students would have had the meal on all schooldays. The 2021-22 budget proposal for the scheme is Rs 11,500 crore. Nearly 11.8 crore students at 11.2 lakh schools now benefit from the scheme, which seeks to provide a nutritious meal to every child from Class I to VIII at government and government-aided schools on every day classes or exams are held. The expenses are split 60:40 between the Centre and the states. Ashok Rao, a social activist associated with the NGO Swami Sivananda Memorial Institute which supplies food to Anganwadi centres in Delhi, too questioned the name change. “This is a historic programme that was started by the Madras Municipal Corporation in 1925 for disadvantaged children who were not going to school. It was gradually expanded,” Rao said. Over the decades, several states individually adopted the scheme. In 1995, the P.V. Narasimha Rao government at the Centre adopted it nationally, naming it the National Programme of Nutritional Support to Primary Education and covering 2,400 of the country’s about 6,000 blocks. “In 2001, the Supreme Court directed all the state governments to provide the midday meal to every child and the MDM Scheme was started. The government should explain the purpose of the name change now,” Ashok Rao said. Wednesday’s media release said the scheme would be extended to children enrolled in the pre-primary sections or Bal Vatikas of government and government-aided primary schools. It did not say what the number of the additional beneficiaries would be. Preschool children are enrolled at Anganwadi centres and provided nutritional support under the Integrated Child Development Services. Some government primary schools in a few states have pre-primary classes, an education ministry official said, without giving figures. The PIB release said, without elaborating: “Special provision is made for providing supplementary nutrition items to children in aspirational districts and districts with high prevalence of anaemia.” An email sent to the education ministry seeking its comments on the concerns expressed by researchers and activists had evoked no reply till Wednesday night. Rao said that about 80 per cent of the schools cooked the midday meals at their kitchens before Covid struck, while centralised kitchens in towns and cities run by NGOs prepared and delivered the meal at about 20 per cent schools. He said the government needed to immediately stop the centralised kitchens, for preparation of the meals at the schools increased local involvement and awareness. “The purpose of the MDM Scheme is to provide nutritional support to the children and create awareness about the importance of nutrition. Its management should be given to local communities and not centralised kitchens,” Rao said. The Congress accuses the Modi government of renaming many of the UPA’s schemes with minor changes, from the Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account (now Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana) and the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (now Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation) to the Accelerated Irrigation Benefits Programme (now Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana) and the National Manufacturing Policy (Make In India).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
30-09-2021||India||NHRC official aghast to find Modi photo and slogan in emails||A senior National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) official was aghast on Wednesday to learn that the Centre’s e-governance facilitator was appending to the rights watchdog’s outgoing emails a picture of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his “sabka saath” slogan, a move he said could affect perceptions about the organisation’s independence. The development comes days after the same agency, the National Informatics Centre (NIC), had received a rap from the Supreme Court for a similar embellishment of the top court’s outgoing emails without its knowledge or permission. The NHRC official said the apex rights organisation had been clueless about the matter, till this correspondent drew attention to it on Wednesday evening, since only the receivers of the mails and not their writers could see the footer with Modi’s picture and the slogan. Apex court sources had earlier made a similar point. “Now that you have brought the matter to us, we will take it up with our chairperson, Justice Arun Mishra,” the NHRC official, who declined to be named, told The Telegraph. The NHRC official said: “We had no idea that our forum was being used for such purposes by the NIC (which operates under the ministry of electronics and information technology). Our website and digital networks are handled by the NIC as a facilitator.” A media release emailed by Jaimini Kumar Srivastava, NHRC deputy director (media and communications), that this newspaper had received on Wednesday evening carried the footer with Modi’s picture and the slogan “Sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas, sabka prayas (Together with all, development of all, trust of all and effort by all).” Even the moving band of graphics on top of the home page of the NHRC’s official website showed a photo of the Prime Minister, but with a different slogan, “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav”, which promotes the official celebrations for the 75th anniversary of Independence. The NHRC official underlined that the central and state governments were the biggest litigants before the rights watchdog, which took up thousands of cases relating to human rights violations by the government and its instrumentalities every year. “In such a situation, using the NHRC portals to pedal government policies or its political personalities is certainly not acceptable,” the official said. The Supreme Court registry had on September 23 evening been alerted by some people that its outgoing emails were being appended with Modi’s photo and the “sabka saath” slogan. On September 24 morning, after the matter came to the attention of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana, the NIC was told to remove the footer immediately and all its senior officials were pulled up, court sources had said. The NIC had obliged within an hour, they had added. An apex court source too had said that such a footer would damage perceptions of the court’s independence, particularly because the central government was the biggest litigant before the top court. The emailed media release this newspaper had received from the NHRC was about an advisory to the Centre and states towards fixing responsibility for the deaths of sanitary workers during hazardous tasks, and protecting the rights of manual scavengers and those engaged in hazardous cleaning jobs. The NIC was established in 1976 to provide technology-driven solutions to central and state governments in various fields. Its website says it “offers a wide range of services which includes multi-gigabit nationwide networks NICNET, NKN, National Data Centres, National Cloud, pan-India VC infrastructure, Command and Control Centre, multi-layered GIS-based platform, Domain Registration and Webcast. This plays a significant role in delivering citizen-centric e-services.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
30-09-2021||India||Cow milk during childhood can increase risk of type-1 diabetes||Research released on Wednesday suggests that drinking two or more glasses of cow milk daily during childhood can increase the risk of type-1 diabetes that is insulin-dependent and can strike the young. The findings presented online at the annual conference of the European Association for the Study of Diabetes bolster concerns that emerged 20 years ago that cow milk, although valued for its nutritional quality, may raise the risk of type-1 diabetes. The new study by researchers at the Karolinska Institute in Sweden, while validating earlier findings that breastfeeding can protect children from type-1 diabetes, has also found that cow’s milk significantly raises the risk. Children who drank at least two to three glasses a day were about 78 per cent likelier to develop type-1 diabetes than those who drank less than two glasses. The researchers have cautioned that their findings should be considered preliminary observations and would need to be validated through more research before any dietary recommendations can be made for the general population. “It is a bit tricky — we know that cow milk has nutritional value but we also see this association between the consumption of cow milk and type-1 diabetes,” Anna-Maria Lampousi, a research scholar in nutritional epidemiology at the Karolinska Institute who led the study, told The Telegraph over the phone. “A thorough risk-benefit analysis is required.” Lampousi also underlined that the mechanism that might explain the observed association remained unknown. The finding comes amid concerns that the incidence of type-1 diabetes is increasing worldwide. The researchers said the count of type-1 diabetes in young people was rising annually by an estimated 3.4 per cent in Europe and 1.9 per cent in the US. In type-1 diabetes, the immune system destroys insulin-producing cells in the pancreas. A 2015 review had estimated that type-1 diabetes was increasing in India too at about 3 to 5 per cent per year with three new cases per 100,000 children aged under 14 years. The risk factors for type-1 diabetes remain unknown. Currently, no one knows how to prevent such diabetes, according to a document on diabetes by the US Centres for Disease Control. In contrast, the risks for type-2 diabetes, or adult-onset diabetes, include excess weight, a sedentary lifestyle and poor diet. “Learning more about the causes is the key to preventing type-1 diabetes,” Lampousi said. She and her colleagues reviewed 152 earlier studies that had examined different dietary components, including food eaten by the mother during pregnancy and the food taken in infancy or childhood, and the risks of developing type-1 diabetes. Children breastfed for six to 12 months were 61 per cent less likely to develop type-1 diabetes. But high consumption of cow milk and products such as butter, cheese, yoghurt and ice cream appeared to increase the risk of type-1 diabetes. Researchers at the University of Helsinki, Finland, had in 2000 reported that early exposure to cow milk appeared to increase the risk in infants who already had a relative with type-1 diabetes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
30-09-2021||India||OUP to not print Indian edition of 'To Kill A Democracy'||Oxford University Press (OUP) has decided not to print the Indian edition of To Kill A Democracy: India’s Passage to Despotism, the book’s authors have said. “OUP has handed over the paperback rights to us and we hope to find an Indian publisher who will print and properly market our book here and make it widely available at an affordable price,” John Keane and Debasish Roy Chowdhury said in a joint statement to The Telegraph. The book and one of the authors, Roy Chowdhury, had been criticised in an article that appeared in the Organiser magazine that usually echoes the views of the Sangh. OUP India’s publicity manager Iti Khurana said: “We have come to an agreement with the authors recently that we will return the rights to publish this book in paperback in India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan, and Myanmar.” Khurana did not respond to the question from this newspaper why OUP had decided against publishing the book in India after having drawn up a detailed plan in April for its release here in the first week of July, a week after the global edition’s launch. There was no sign of the book till mid-September when the authors raised the alarm. Keane, co-author and Sydney University professor of political science, publicly questioned OUP about the delay on Twitter. Since last weekend, the book has been on offer on Amazon and Flipkart but the authors maintain that this is the global edition which is being imported. “Yesterday, after a suspiciously long delay, To Kill A Democracy appeared in India — stillborn,” Keane tweeted on Saturday. Earlier, while going public with the unexplained delay, he had wondered if OUP was intent on killing the book through censorship. On Tuesday, the authors said in their joint statement: “When we enquired with OUP about the progress of the Indian edition, after waiting for nearly three months for it following the global launch, we learnt that OUP India has decided not to print the book in India. The original agreement was to have a locally printed, low-price edition so that it could be read widely. Instead, OUP India chose to import a very limited number of hardcover copies of the book for sale in India. “That explains the long delays, the lack of publicity and the high price of Rs 995 instead of the originally agreed Rs 695. Since we do not believe that this is an appropriate mass-market price, we have taken back the rights for the paperback and translations. OUP has handed over the paperback rights to us and we hope to find an Indian publisher who will print and properly market our book here and make it widely available at an affordable price.” Last week, a spokesperson for OUP India had said the “sales team felt the content is provocative” and had, therefore, sent the book — already reviewed favourably by OUP Oxford — for a second review. The spokesperson had denied that the article in the Organiser had anything to do with OUP India sending the book for a second review, maintaining that it was standard policy. Till date, the authors have not been told why OUP decided against publishing the Indian edition. The delay in publication was initially attributed to the second wave of the pandemic in India and warehouse shifting. Neither were they given a satisfactory response on the need for a second review. The article in the Organiser was largely critical of Roy Chowdhury — a Hong Kong-based journalist — for his articles in Time magazine about the Modi government’s handling of the second wave of the pandemic. The article in the Organiser alleged that the book was written with a nefarious agenda although the OUP description of To Kill A Democracy states that “it rejects the belief that India was once a beacon of democracy but is now being ruined by the destructive forces of Modi-style populism. The book details the much deeper historical roots of the present-day assaults on civil liberties and democratic institutions.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
30-09-2021||India||Adityanath fan ‘beaten to death’ by Uttar Pradesh police||An “admirer” of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath who had gone to Gorakhpur to see the “development work” done by the leader died after being allegedly beaten up by police in his hotel room for taking too much time producing his identity proof. Manish Gupta, a 36-year-old Kanpur-based real estate developer and father of a boy aged 5, was allegedly hit on the head repeatedly with a rifle butt. A case of murder has been registered against six policemen. The six suspects are on the run, the police said. The incident took place late on Monday night but came to light after Manish’s wife arrived in Gorakhpur and began a dharna on Tuesday night, claiming her husband had been an Adityanath “admirer”. After Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra spoke to Meenakshi, Manish’s wife, over the phone and criticised the police for their “barbaric” behaviour, the six cops were booked for murder. The chief minister spoke to Meenakshi over the phone and announced a compensation of Rs 10 lakh for the family. The police had initially denied the allegations of assault and said Manish had been drunk and injured himself when he fell down during questioning. The police had entered the hotel room after receiving information that three “suspicious” people had been staying in a hotel room, booked under a false identity. Manish had checked into the Gorakhpur hotel on Monday morning with friends Harveer Singh of Mewat in Haryana and Pradeep Kumar of Gurgaon. All three are real estate dealers. Pradeep said: “We had checked into Hotel Krishna Palace on Monday and gone to see Ramgarh Tal, a huge pond that is a tourist attraction. We had planned to visit the Gorakhnath temple on Tuesday.” Harveer said: “We were sleeping in our room when some policemen barged in late on Monday night and demanded to see our identity cards. Pradeep and I showed them our IDs but Manish was taking some time finding his. The policemen began slapping and kicking him. “When Manish tried to call someone over the phone and begged with the police to spare him as he had come to Gorakhpur to see how it had developed, the policemen forcibly took him to Ramgarh Tal police station. They hit him on the head repeatedly with the butt of a rifle.” Harveer said he and Pradeep came to know after some time that Manish had been taken to the Baba Raghav Das Medical College Hospital. “When we arrived there, doctors said he had been brought dead,” Harveer said. According to records at Baba Raghav Das Medical College Hospital in Gorakhpur, Manish was brought there around 2.30am on Tuesday and declared dead on arrival. Adityanath is the mahant of the Gorakhnath temple in Gorakhpur and represented the constituency in the Lok Sabha for several terms. Pradeep said the cops were heavily drunk and had refused to listen to them. “They assaulted us even more when we asked if they thought we were terrorists,” he said. Akshay Mishra, an inspector who was among those who entered the hotel room, said they had gone there “during the course of an inquiry”. “When we entered the room, Manish was drunk and he fell on the floor. Later, he died,” Mishra claimed. Later, the police said Mishra and the five other cops booked for murder were absconding. The police said that on Monday night, the Ramgarh Tal police had come to know that three people had checked into the Gorakhpur hotel on the ID of one Chandan Saini of Mahadeva Bazar. The cops grew suspicious and entered the hotel room where Manish and his two friends were staying. Meenakshi, her five-year-old son Aviraj in her lap, told reporters on Wednesday morning: “Tell me what I should say to my son when he grows up and asks me how his father died. His father was an admirer of Adityanath and had come to Gorakhpur to witness the development done by the chief minister. But the state’s police killed him. I will tell everybody that you will not return alive if you go to Gorakhpur.” She added: “Manish had spoken to Aviraj over the phone on Monday night. He had thought he would see how the chief minister’s hometown has grown but he has returned dead.” Meenakshi said there were “several injury marks” on Manish’s body. “There is a crack on his skull…. I have heard that some policemen have been suspended. Why has the chief minister not ordered their arrest? Does he support them?” she said after returning to Kanpur. Later, Adityanath spoke to her. Manish’s farther Nand Kishore, a trader, said: “My family is finished. The government, police officers — whom should I hold responsible for the murder of my only son?” Congress leader Priyanka, who was in Lucknow, spoke to Meenakshi over the phone on Wednesday and promised support, including legal assistance. Priyanka alleged the Uttar Pradesh police were “soft” on criminals and “barbaric” with common people. An hour later, Vipin Tanda, Gorakhpur senior superintendent of police, announced that six policemen, including inspectors Mishra and Jagat Narayan Singh, had been suspended. Later, six cops were booked for murder. On Tuesday night, Tanda had said that Manish, Pradeep and Harveer had behaved “suspiciously” and denied assault.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
30-09-2021||India||G-23 accuse Rahul of not running the party in a democratic spirit ||The Congress dissidents, identified as G-23, on Wednesday appeared to accuse Rahul Gandhi of not running the party in a democratic spirit and trying to shut out those who differed with his views instead of allowing a conversation to strengthen unity. Kapil Sibal, who held a news conference, didn’t name Rahul or Sonia Gandhi. But he said: “In our party at the moment there is no president. So we don’t know who is taking these decisions. We know and yet we don’t know.” Sonia is the interim president. Asked if he was referring to Rahul, he said: “I am not. But we all know who is taking decisions.” He appeared to lay the entire blame on “them” for the Opposition’s weakness, for the exodus of “pampered” leaders and the absence of any attempt to harmonise differences. Sibal said a letter was sent by a Congress Working Committee member to call a meeting urgently to discuss all the issues. He pleaded for a conversation and a dialogue, quoting Mahatma Gandhi. “No monopolies should be created in power structures of a country, nor in the power structures of a party,” he said. Asked who they want to have a dialogue with, he said: “I don’t know.” The message was that there should be clarity on who is running the show. A large number of leaders have alleged that Rahul was taking all the decisions but not taking the responsibility of the organisation, telling appointment-seekers that he was not the party chief. Asked why they had timed this news conference now, to coincide with the developments in Punjab or the entry of youth leaders Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani, Sibal said there was no particular reason but that they had been waiting for long. Although Sibal declared that none of them would leave the party and said he would not comment on the Punjab developments, the timing of the news conference had been chosen to strike when the iron was hot. Former chief minister Amarinder Singh was in Delhi on Wednesday amid speculation that he would meet Amit Shah, which he did in the evening, and Navjot Singh Sidhu had quit as the state party chief. Although there is no threat yet to the state government, Sibal said chaos in the border state meant advantage to Pakistani troublemakers. One of the G-23 members told The Telegraph: “The Sidhu episode is probably the worst example of leadership failure in the history of the Congress and Rahul should now understand the importance of experience and collective decision-making.” The allegation of lack of internal democracy in the Congress came a day after Kanhaiya had described the Congress as the most democratic party. Many leaders, even those who welcomed the entry of young leaders, lamented that Rahul had not initiated any process of reconciliation with the disgruntled senior leaders. They also concede that the leadership crisis had lingered far too long and Rahul should have legitimised his authority long ago. Sources close to Rahul say a reconciliation was not possible because the dissidents were determined not to accept the transformation in the party which may end their eminence. The grapevine is abuzz with ambitious political plans of Sharad Pawar and Mamata Banerjee and some leaders have already started talking about the futility of Opposition unity. Sibal’s comments angered some in the party, with workers holding a demonstration against him. Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivas tweeted: “The party’s president and leadership is the same that always reached you to Parliament. In the party’s good times, you were made a minister. In the Opposition, you were sent to the Rajya Sabha. In good times and bad, they always gave you responsibilities. And now when it is time for struggle, then....”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
30-09-2021||India||Congress asks Punjab leaders to talk to Navjot Singh Sidhu||The Congress high command has asked its Punjab leaders to talk to Navjot Singh Sidhu instead of sending a high-level firefighting team to persuade him to withdraw his resignation, sending out a clear signal that it was for the mercurial leader to amend his mistake. Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, some senior Punjab ministers and MLAs talked to Sidhu through the day without any concrete outcome. One leader explained the situation: “It is a closed chapter. If not for Sidhu, for the Congress.” He said the Congress would stand to lose by retaining Sidhu as state unit chief after this ugly drama. Even the chief minister didn’t appear unduly rattled. Sidhu didn’t show any sign of relenting, issuing a video saying: “I am ready to make any sacrifice but will stick to principles.” Local leaders sympathetic to him also concede he was overdoing the moral posturing and denting his own popularity by creating such a crisis for the party just before the election. Sidhu said in the video: “My fight is based on pro-people issues, truth and justice and I never had any personal agenda. I never hankered after posts and my fight is for the welfare of Punjab.” He also defended his resignation, saying he would neither misguide the party high command nor allow anyone to do so. He targeted the Channi government over the appointment of the advocate-general and re-inducting ministers facing allegations. Those very officers and the system that was responsible for all the misery in Punjab were back, he said. “Where have our promises gone? But I will continue to fight against the wrong,” he added. Sources said his rigidity is isolating him among the state leaders while Rahul Gandhi is already upset with his irresponsible act. Sources said Channi was ready to come to an accommodation with Sidhu but all the leaders were now worried about his next outburst, probably the selection of candidates, if he fails to have his way. “What will happen if he resigns again, closer to the election?” one leader from Punjab said, asking the high command to take a tough decision without any delay. While Channi will not mind if Sidhu is removed from the top post, he will also push deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa for the post of state unit chief because the presence of a strong leader in the government will always keep him on leash. Sources said the appointment of a new state chief could not be delayed beyond a point but the Amarinder Singh angle had given a new twist to the complex situation. While central leaders are surprised by Amarinder’s meeting with home minister Amit Shah, local leaders were expecting such a development. One leader said: “Amarinder has an entirely different image in Delhi. His joining the BJP or floating a new party will have little impact in Punjab. But the BJP will exploit his fauji image in the rest of the country to malign the Gandhi family,” another leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
30-09-2021||India||Amarinder meets Amit Shah in Delhi, calls it personal visit||Amarinder Singh called on Amit Shah on Wednesday evening as the political motives of the two appear to have converged, with both seeking to damage the Congress. Amarinder, 79, who found himself cornered in the Congress and had to quit as chief minister earlier this month, drove to the Union home minister’s Krishna Menon Road residence around 6pm. He left after nearly 45 minutes, exiting from a second gate to avoid the media. On Tuesday, as he left for Delhi from Chandigarh, he had denied speculation that he would be meeting top BJP leaders in the capital. Amarinder had said he was on a personal visit. On Wednesday, he tweeted: “Met Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi. Discussed prolonged farmers agitation against farm laws and urged him to resolve crisis urgently with repeal of the laws and guarantee MSP, besides supporting Punjab in crop diversification.” It will not be a surprise if Amarinder joins the BJP. After he quit as chief minister, the seething army veteran has said he had been “humiliated” and that his political options were open. Although he has not yet quit the Congress, he threatened to field a strong candidate against party colleague Navjot Singh Sidhu, making it clear he intends to hurt the party’s electoral prospects. For the BJP, sources said, the former chief minister who is seen as unpopular in Punjab may not be a big catch but he could serve their interest of damaging the Congress, the Gandhi family in particular. “It’s a convergence of Captain sahab and our political interests,” one BJP leader said while the meeting at Shah’s residence was on. The BJP on Wednesday accused Rahul Gandhi of hurling Punjab into instability. “Whatever is happening in Punjab is due to a colossal failure of Rahul Gandhi,” BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said, stressing that instability in the border state of Punjab was a matter of concern for the country. Amarinder and some critics of the party high command in the Congress too have been flagging the national security angle, a pet political tool of the BJP, and underlining that Punjab borders Pakistan. BJP-ruled Gujarat too is a border state that has had its chief minister changed suddenly. This month, heroin said to be worth Rs 21,000 crore was seized from Mundra port in Gujarat in the biggest such haul in the country. The biggest hurdle in the path of Amarinder embracing the BJP appeared to be the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three farm laws brought by the Narendra Modi government. “If Captain joins the BJP, he will face the anger of Sikh farmers who have been leading the farm protests,” a Punjab MP said. BJP insiders indicated that Shah was trying to explore a solution to the farmers’ agitation to give Amarinder some political heft and then use him in the upcoming Punjab polls. The BJP has been traditionally weak in Punjab and has been looking for a credible Sikh leader. The farmers’ protest has also got tied to Sikh pride and Amarinder will need to negotiate the issue if he plans to join the BJP and remain politically relevant in Punjab. There was also speculation about Amarinder exploring the possibility of floating his own party and splitting the Congress to pull down the government in Punjab with the help of the BJP. This project too serves the purpose of harming the Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
30-09-2021||India||Kerala varsity drops books written by Hindutva ideologues||Kannur University in Kerala on Wednesday dropped five controversial books written by Hindutva ideologues from the post-graduation syllabus and agreed to instead introduce critical analyses of the works of the likes of M.S. Golwalkar and V.D. Savarkar. The state university, which had faced criticism for the course material of this section of the MA in governance and politics course introduced last year, has also decided to make the syllabus more inclusive. The varsity has accepted the recommendations of a two-member committee that reviewed a part of the syllabus and suggested that the five books by Hindutva ideologues Savarkar, Golwalkar, Deendayal Upadhyaya and Balraj Madhok be excluded. The segment, to be studied in the third semester, will now have four new topics to include Dravidian, socialist and Islamic perspectives in the course. The new topics are Muslims and Nationalism: Two Opposite Visions (Maulana Azad and Mohammed Ali Jinnah), Dravidian Nationalism (Periyar), Socialist Perspectives on Nationalism (E.M.S. Namboodiripad and Ram Manohar Lohia), and Hindutva and Hindu Rashtra by V.D. Savarkar and M.S. Golwalkar. The last topic will have books on the lives and works of Savarkar and Golwalkar. The university had appointed the committee, having as members academics Dr J. Prabash and Dr K.S. Pavithran, earlier this month to review the Hindu Nationalism segment of the third semester syllabus of the MA in governance and politics course after massive protests by students and academics who alleged saffronisation of the course content. The varsity’s board of studies had earlier approved the committee’s report in its entirety before it was considered by the academic council. The academic council has also approved a change in the title of Unit II of the third semester syllabus from “Rashtra or Nation in Indian Political Thought” to “Nation and Nationalism in Modern Political Thought — A Critique”. The syllabus for the third semester had originally included Hindutva: Who is a Hindu? by Savarkar, We or Our Nationhood Defined and Bunch of Thoughts by Golwalkar, Integral Humanism by Upadhyaya and Indianisation? What, Why and How by Madhok. All five books have now been removed from the syllabus. The books that have been retained are Nationalism by Rabindranath Tagore, Nationalism is Religion by Sri Aurobindo, Is Hatred Essential for Nationalism? by Mahatma Gandhi, Nationalism and Internationalism and What is Culture by Jawaharlal Nehru and Who Constitutes a Nation by B.R. Ambedkar. A university syndicate member who declined to be named told The Telegraph that the idea of the original syllabus was to provide students an opportunity to read up on different ideologies. “How would students know what Hindutva is without reading up on its ideologues and their works? That’s why we had cleared the original list of books,” said the member who belongs to a Left party. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had clarified that the Left Democratic Front government did not want to glorify the “regressive ideas” of those who had no role in the freedom struggle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
30-09-2021||India||Unvaccinated teachers will not be allowed to attend school||The Delhi government on Wednesday said unvaccinated teachers and non-teaching staff of state-run schools will not be allowed to attend school from October 15 and they will be considered as being on leave. The directorate of education has directed education officers and school principals to ensure that all teachers and school staff are vaccinated by October 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
30-09-2021||India||Pipili Assembly by-election to test Naveen’s popularity||Odisha chief minister and ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) president Naveen Patnaik’s popularity will be on test once again when the by-election for the Pipili Assembly constituency takes place on Thursday. The bypoll will be followed by elections to the panchayat and municipal corporations early next year. The by-election in Pipili will be the last election for an Assembly seat in the state before the general elections in 2024. The bypoll in Pipili has been necessitated following the death of BJD veteran and former minister Pradeep Maharathy in October 2020. It is being held after being postponed twice, once on account of the death of Congress candidate Ajit Managaraj and again for the Covid-induced lockdown. As many as 10 candidates are in the fray for the bypoll. The main fight will be between the BJD, which has fielded Maharathy’s son Rudra Pratap as its candidate, and the BJP, which has fielded Ashrit Pattanayak, a Congress dissident. The Congress has brought in a new face Bishwokeshan Harichandan Mohapatra into the battlefield. Prominent BJP leaders, including Union minister Dharemendra Pradhan, Bhubaneswar MP Aparajita Sarangi, former Union minister Pratap Sarangi and BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra had campaigned for the party candidate Ashrit. The Assembly seat is part of the Puri Lok Sabha constituency from where Patra had contested and lost last time. However, Naveen did not campaign for the BJD candidate this time and allowed his party leaders to canvass for Rudra Pratap by adhering to Covid guidelines. “The chief minister’s popularity is soaring day by day. No one can match him. His work for the development of women through Mission Shakti, and the welfare schemes for the poor, particularly the Biju Swasthya Kalyan card, will help the party win not only this by-election but the coming elections for panchayat and municipalities as well,” BJD general secretary Bijay Nayak told The Telegraph. The Pipili Assembly constituency, around 25km from Bhubaneswar, has been the fortress of the BJD since its inception in 1997. No Congress candidate has won the election since 1995. In the 2019 general election, BJD candidate Maharathy had won by securing 88,518 votes. Ashrit, the BJP candidate, had bagged 72,731 votes to finish second. The Congress could manage to secure 9,830 votes out of 1,74,875 polled. However, the BJP seems confident of making history this time. “People have been fed up with both the BJD and Congress. Earlier the constituency had witnessed a serious fight between the BJD and Congress for years together. But later their leader joined hands with the BJD. People won’t tolerate this kind of attitude,” state BJP general secretary Golak Mohapatra told this newspaper. He added: “The people have seen over the years that there has been no work done during the (BJD) regime. This time, they would give a chance to the BJP. The people have realised that the future of Odisha can be enriched with BJP’s work only. We will win the by-election by more than 20,000 votes.” Congress MLA Suresh Routray said: “Wait and watch. We will win the election. People are frustrated with the BJD and false promises of the BJP.” Around 2,29,998 voters of Pipili will decide the fate of the candidates on Thursday. Security has been beefed up to conduct a peaceful election with adequate deployment of police force. The counting will take place on October 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
