01-05-2021||Opinion||Tough choice: Exit polls in Bengal||Sir — Exit polls have predicted the results of the assembly elections in all the states that went to the polls, but West  Bengal has been the focal point of everyone’s curiosity (“6 exit polls give edge to TMC, 3 to BJP”, April 30). The ruling Trinamul Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party are locked in a close contest for West Bengal’s 294 seats, as the exit polls showed on Thursday. Six out of nine of the exit polls gave the party of the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, an upper hand in the fiercely fought election battle, while the rest predicted that the BJP had an advantage. The run-up to the eight-phase polls and the month-long voting exercise in the state were packed with thundering rallies, a high-pitched war of words and a series of controversies that catapulted Bengal to the centre stage of national politics. Development, polarization, caste politics, corruption, the immigrant crisis and a clash of cultures have dominated the political rhetoric. However, Bengal has traditionally voted overwhelmingly in favour of the party that ends up coming to power. Will it be the same this time? The exit polls suggest otherwise. These polls have often got it wrong in the past, with a section of analysts arguing that the mood of a handful of voters surveyed for the exercise cannot represent the true picture. The latter will emerge on the counting day. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore Sir — Exit polls are good for speculation, but they do not merit any serious attention. Their projections often confuse citizens. In Kerala, most channels covering the elections predicted that the Left Democratic Front, led by the Communist Party of India (Marxist), would win between 80 and 100 seats and that the Pinarayi Vijayan regime would continue in power. But that is unlikely to happen because people cannot be fooled by the handouts and food kits. The exit polls have generated confusing numbers. While some have given the upper hand to the LDF, others say that the United Democratic Front will win. Whoever comes to power will have a difficult time as Kerala is a cash-strapped state. K.A. Solaman,Alappuzha, Kerala New hope Sir — Owing to the burgeoning crisis surrounding the second wave of the pandemic, the news of the farmers’ protests against the three contentious farm laws has not been garnering enough attention. But it must be noted that farmers are eyeing a record wheat crop this year. This is heartening news; farmers are being ferried to and from villages to harvest this year’s crop. They are reportedly on track to gathering a 109 million tonnes of wheat. Apart from the anger it is facing for its monumental failure to curb the second wave, the government will now also have to deal with the consequences of having underestimated farmers and their organizational skills. Rashi Bansal,Calcutta PARTING SHOT Sir — It is laudable that Nepal has been able to complete the reconstruction of the historical monument of Dharahara. The ancient tower was completely damaged in an earthquake in 2015. A historic site recognized by Unesco, this beautiful example of Nepali architecture has been a tourist attraction for a long time now. Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, people around the world have been under a lot of pressure both physically and mentally. When it becomes safe to travel again, a boost to the tourism sector will infuse new energy into people. Beautiful architectural monuments such as the Dharahara tower have been the mirrors of ancient times and history. Closer home, I remember visiting historic places in areas like Kanyakumari, Trivandrum, Chennai, Bangalore and Mumbai in the mid to late 1990s as a student. Asia has been home to great cultures and the hub of beautiful tourist locations. It boasts seas, mountains, rivers and a myriad natural resources. Now that Nepal has taken steps to open the Dharahara monument, it has become clear that the beautiful Himalayan region has always been ready to emerge stronger amid the pandemic and nature’s fury. P. Senthil Saravana Durai,  Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
01-05-2021||Opinion||Olympics: A fifty-fifty rule||Citius, Altius, Fortius — faster, higher, stronger — the immortal words that constitute the motto of the Olympics, need not be viewed as a mere endorsement of sporting excellence. Altius and Fortius, it can be argued, are an embodiment of the compact shared by the participating athletes and nations to strive for a higher, stronger moral fibre. Interestingly, the Tokyo edition of the Olympics, the Games are expected to take place in spite of a global pandemic, faces a curious moral dilemma. And ‘Rule 50’ of the International Olympic Committee lies at the heart of the conundrum. Rule 50 prohibits athletes from indulging in any kind of racial, religious and — this, presumably is the bone of contention — political demonstration on the podium or any other Olympic venue. To be fair to the IOC, the decision to uphold Rule 50 was arrived at on the basis of a seemingly consultative process: the views on the matter of over 3,000 athletes were factored in by the IOC’s Athletes Commission. The findings of the survey are curious, given that there has been a surge in political demonstrations by athletes the world over. A team in the National Basketball Association refused to take the field in protest against the shooting of a black man in the United States of America; some teams playing the qualifiers of the football World Cup have expressed reservations about alleged human rights abuses in Qatar, the host of the tournament. Yet, in the IOC survey, as many as 70 per cent of the respondents stated that neither the field of play nor the ceremonial platform was an ideal site for demonstration; 67 per cent disavowed podium protests altogether. Politics sullies the purity of sports was their argument. This argument, the history of Olympics would reveal, has been rendered impotent on several occasions. Perhaps the most famous of these ‘transgressions’ was the ‘black power salute’ by two Afro-American athletes in the 1968 Olympics, the most unambiguous political statement that had been witnessed by the competition. There are also examples of the Games being used to augment sinister political projects. It is widely believed that the Berlin Olympics of 1936 was used by the Nazi regime to bolster the nauseating ideals subscribed to by Hitler and his henchmen. As for the debate on whether Rule 50 ought to be perceived as an infringement on the athletes’ right to expression, there are no easy answers. There is perhaps merit in the argument that there are alternative fora to the Olympic podium that can be more effective in amplifying a political message. An explosive press conference or, still better, a political tweet or a post by sportsmen can set the world on fire. But the principle that sports and politics ought to be kept apart to maintain the sanctity of the latter is ancient — as ancient as the Games.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
01-05-2021||Opinion||Critical situation: Reporting on India's Covid resurgence from the UK||How is India’s Covid nightmare — the images from the cremation grounds will haunt us for a long time — being reported in the UK? Journalists have relied on Indian consultants in the NHS and now their counterparts in India to tell us what’s been going on. Dr Zarir Udwadia from Mumbai told Mishal Husain on BBC Radio 4: “The situation is beyond crisis point... This virus has a country of 1.4 billion firmly in a stranglehold. And it’s really exposed our threadbare healthcare system and our failure of leadership, hasn’t it?... ward after ward full of patients struggling to breathe. I see younger patients afflicted... We’re in the mess we are just now because of complacency from the government.” From Calcutta, critical care specialist, Dr Saswati Sinha, was equally eloquent: “It’s an unprecedented scenario in... hospitals across the... country... Our critical care beds are completely occupied. We are completely feeling a sense of despair. And seeing the healthcare system totally crippled gives us a sense of desperation, a feeling of helplessness, not being able to help people who are reaching out to us.” And from Delhi, Dr Sumit Ray, medical superintendent, Holy Family Hospital, said bluntly: “We are running out of oxygen, the whole country is running out of oxygen... If oxygen runs out there is no leeway for many patients — they will die.” The Financial Times focused on another strand: “India reported more than 354,000 new infections on Monday alone, along with 2,800 deaths. Experts believe the true toll is being vastly undercounted...” “In the Jamnagar district in Gujarat, 100 people died of Covid-19 but only one Covid death was reported.” Justice at last Seema Misra, who worked as a subpostmaster in West Byfleet, Surrey, is a victim of what is being called ‘Britain’s biggest miscarriage of justice’ in recent decades. In 2010, when she was eight weeks pregnant, she was jailed for 15 months for stealing £74,609 from the Post Office’s takings. Seema, who collapsed in court, said: “I would definitely have killed myself if I hadn’t been pregnant.” Her taxi driver husband, Davinder, revealed: “I was beaten up and called a ‘f***ing P*ki’, coming to this country and stealing old people’s money.” The Post Office CEO at the time, Paula Vennells, and her senior team, deliberately suppressed evidence to further their “malicious prosecution”.  Now, it turns out Seema’s protestations of innocence were true. The shortfall was caused by a glitch in Horizon, a Japanese computer system by Fujitsu, which the Post Office had introduced. Last week, the Court of Appeal quashed the convictions of 39 former subpostmasters, including Seema. She thinks racism was partly to blame for her conviction at the hands of an all-white jury. “The court documents read, ‘The Queen vs Seema Misra.’ It played with people’s emotions. Why would people believe the Asian lady over the Queen?” she pointed out. Home is where the virus is not Indians in the UK, especially the first generation, think fondly of India as the “mother country”. The early arrivals even spoke of “returning” after a few years in England. For me, one comment stood out from an Indian who had managed to get back to Heathrow before the 4 am deadline on April 23 when India was put on the UK’s Covid “red list”. After landing at Heathrow, he expressed his joy: “I feel like kissing the ground.” The remark made me wonder. Are these Indians — especially the ones who could afford private jets — akin to rats fleeing a sinking ship or just ordinary folk mightily relieved to be coming “home”? Farewell, friend A few old timers may remember David Loshak, who was The Daily Telegraph’s correspondent in India from 1969-72 and anticipated the secession of East Pakistan in his book, Pakistan Crisis. By the time I joined the paper, David, a man of great charm, had switched to medical journalism. David died on April 5, aged 87. Tagore’s “Farewell My Friends”, recorded by one of his grandchildren, was played at the service. Although born Jewish and a professed “lifelong non-believer”, David arranged for his funeral to be held in St Peter and St Paul’s Church in Yattendon, Berkshire. This is where he chose to be buried so he could “lie in the same space where my beloved (wife) Maggi will be”. In a piece, “My funeral”, written in 2013, David explained why he did not wish to be cremated: “My parents were cremated. My first wife, Mollie, was cremated. Ashes were scattered, their locations neglected, unvisited or even forgotten. I have learnt, from coming here in past years to be with Maggi at her parents’ graves and at her brother Roy’s grave, that there is something which can be moving, even spiritual, in graveside contemplation. And then, there is this church, this beautiful little church. It too provides a balm that, I feel, no crematorium, no secular hall or room, however decked out with flowers, can match.” Footnote An inquiry conducted by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission shocked many last week by revealing that the 30,000 Indian soldiers who gave their lives for Britain in World War I were buried in unmarked mass graves in Mesopotamia — and their names were not recorded on stone memorials as invariably happened with their white compatriots. There was apparently “not enough fuel” to cremate Hindus and Sikhs. Once they were buried, they were conveniently relegated to the ranks of “missing”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
01-05-2021||Opinion||Lost vistas||On a day almost lost now in the mists of time, I started going to college. One of the memories of that first, disorienting day is my startled amusement at a two-syllable word meaning, approximately, ‘useless’, written on the back of a marble bust of a former principal. The bust was placed with its unfortunate back visible when one turned on the first-floor landing; its position left me wondering for the rest of my life about the acrobat with the perfect lettering. (I prefer that to the simpler explanation of the bust having been brought there from somewhere else.) I did not associate it with the years of violence, statue-breaking and tragedy that preceded our entry into college — maybe I should have — but it gave me a sense of history happening in spite of the cold whiteness of marble. That sense was somewhat more developed when, years later, I peeked over the walls of the garden in Flagstaff House in Barrackpore, where statues of colonial heroes had been removed from Calcutta at the time to make place in the city for the icons and leaders of independent India. Aesthetics and history are two different things of course, and monuments in which they resonate together, as in the statue of the Unknown Soldier in Calcutta, are still rare. They are likely to grow rarer. The greatest achievement in this sphere recently has been the building of the tallest statue in the world, the Statue of Unity, meant to outdo the Statue of Liberty in height and metaphorical power. But unity is represented by a historical person, Vallabhbhai Patel, chosen by the Bharatiya Janata Party-led regime to overcome in people’s minds, by the force of sheer size, the legacy of Jawaharlal Nehru. Patel, the first deputy prime minister and home minister of independent India, had ensured the integration of 562 princely states with the Union. The statue, close to the Sardar Sarovar Dam, is invested with a political agenda and the desire to make an indelible impression on history. Even Ozymandias did not manage that; archaeologists were still discovering gigantic parts of his head and ear sunk in the groundwater in a Cairo slum in 2017. Predictably, the Statue of Unity lacks the symbolic resonance of the Statue of Liberty, or even of the wistful Little Mermaid in Copenhagen, an unmoving yet vibrant witness to a present remembering the past. The unprecedented tragedy in human lives for which the Narendra Modi-led government cannot escape much of the responsibility seems just the right time to recall the monuments and edifices being built to ensure the regime’s immortal presence, its ideological victories — and votes. The estimated cost of the statue is Rs 2,989 crore, an initial amount of which was raised by the Gujarat government, with a later allocation in the Union budget and contributions from public sector enterprises under corporate social responsibility. This particular dream of the former Gujarat chief minister and present prime minister came to fruition in 2018, without adequate environmental checks and amid adivasi protests regarding land rights, water supply and livelihood. It may be a passing irony that the 553 bronze panels covering its surface were cast in a foundry in China — obviously, the prime minister’s patriotic projects are exempt from ‘Make in India’ demands — but there is more. Patel banned the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh after Mahatma Gandhi’s murder. But his permission was not needed for the symbolic appropriation of his iconic status. The BJP is strong enough to unravel history through its impressive structures. That is more crudely evident in the building of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. There is nothing illegal about it. Is it a twist of history that the Ayodhya land title case was resolved before the case against the destroyers of Babri Masjid could be? A legal right grew out of organized vandalism although the accused were all subsequently acquitted. And now, ignoring the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991 that forbids changing the status quo of any shrine after August 15, 1947 with the sole exception of the Babri Masjid, the sites of the Gyanvapi mosque adjacent to the Kashi Vishwanath temple in Varanasi and the Shahi Idgah mosque next to the Krishna Janmabhoomi temple in Mathura are being demanded by majoritarian groups. Edifices not of faith but of force are expected to change the course of history and culture together. That is why the display of political force finds priority over all else. The prime minister may be blind to the hellish sight of overflowing crematoriums and deaf to the agony of the people who elected him because all he can see is the blueprint of his beloved Central Vista and all he can hear is the music of construction in progress. Work on the new Parliament complex, the estimated cost of which is Rs 20,000 crore, cannot be stopped just because thousands are dying daily from a highly contagious viral infection. Hospitals are running out of beds, oxygen is frighteningly scarce, drugs like remdesivir seem to have vanished, and the Centre is yet to complete its project of 162 new oxygen plants at Rs 201 crore. Building the Central Vista is an ‘essential service’. So, 180 passes under this head have been issued to ferry workers to and fro from the spot, although the lockdown guidelines in Delhi stipulate that there can be no construction unless the workers live on-site. Some workers, employed by sub-contractors, are frightened but cannot leave because they claim they have not received their wages. Anxiety for families at home, fear for themselves should they fall sick and insecure finances do not matter to a government that must fulfil its dream. Prisons can be without bars. The unforgettable fable-maker who would have turned 100 tomorrow captured this in the scene of the diamond mine in his 1980 film, Hirak Rajar Deshe. The suffering, fear and grief the country is going through at the moment is not the way we would have ever wanted to celebrate his centenary. Yet we celebrate him, willy-nilly, because words and scenes and songs force themselves upon our memory. At the point when Udayan, the teacher in the pathshala of Hirak Rajar Deshe, is explaining to his pupils why a king who is his subjects’ enemy is the most dangerous of creatures, the education minister comes with his retinue to shut down the class for good. Hirak Raja hates learning: it makes people disobedient and questioning. All that the children must know, Udayan is forced to make his pupils repeat, is that the king is god. But the school will open again, he promises them. Fulfilling that promise requires the magic, delightful antics and, ultimately, the courage and canniness of Goopy and Bagha. So when Udayan and his pupils are captured and pushed into the brain-washing room, the king’s most treasured weapon of compliance, the magaj-dholai mantra has been quietly disabled. Goopy appears, singing the king and his courtiers into paralysed submission, telling the king how he has gone beyond all bounds in his misuse of power, starved the poor and brought great calamity to the land. Only then does Udayan come out, leading the young to the king’s gigantic new statue in the middle of a field, where the people join them to pull it down. The king does too. Looking at the tragedy around us, such magic seems rather far away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
