02-05-2021||Opinion||Fix the blame: Covid crisis||Sir — It is laudable that Indians are not holding back from helping their fellow citizens in these very dark times. But in hailing these people as heroes, we should not forget that they are doing the job that the government has failed to do. This is not to take anything away from the kindness of people, but a country is not supposed to run on the goodwill of its citizens. We elect representatives by spending thousands of rupees of public funds to do just this. No time is wrong to demand accountability from the government, especially when one has bungled up as badly as ours has with the pandemic. Rima Roy,
Calcutta Sir — Around the time when the Narendra Modi regime was meeting and trying to make up for its massive mismanagement of the Covid-19 crisis, the Supreme Court — the only hope for Indian democracy — asked the government whether it has considered Section 92 of the Patents Act, 1970, which enables compulsory licensing of patents in a public health emergency. This echoes the advice of the former prime minister, Manmohan Singh, who wrote to Modi, “I believe this is the time to invoke the compulsory licensing provisions in the law, so that a number of companies are able to produce the vaccines under a licence”. Given his hubris, Modi did not even acknowledge Singh. The health minister responded to the letter instead. This is the same person who claimed that the Vedas had theories superior to the theory of relativity. How can one expect a rational reply from this person? “History shall be kinder to you Dr Manmohan Singh ji if your offer of ‘constructive cooperation’ and valuable advice was followed by your [Congress] leaders as well in such extraordinary times,” the health minister tweeted. This government has only one trick up its sleeve — feed people lies and bombast. What happened to the claim of ‘Modi hai toh mumkin hai’? Why can the prime minister not make India’s betterment a possibility? Even though India is being ravaged by the second wave of the pandemic, Modi’s pride will not allow him to take the advice of a former prime minister. We will have to see how the government responds to the Supreme Court’s concerns, not just regarding Section 92 of the Patents Act, 1970 but also about its comments in the context of clamping down on those criticizing the government or asking for help on social media. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — Compulsory licensing can be the shot in the arm we desperately need to tackle this crisis. This is a weapon in the hands of the governments to supply its citizens with generic versions of patented drugs, either through domestic production or imports. Section 92 of the Patents Act, 1970 empowers the Central government to grant licences to applicants who are willing and can manufacture the said drugs. In simple words, if the patented drug costs thousands of rupees, we can make its generic version at a fraction. But does the Narendra Modi government have the wish or even the inclination to help people over lining the pockets of capitalists? Jayant Singh,Calcutta Sir — The prestigious American daily, The New York Times, recently decided to rename its ‘Op-Ed’ page and instead call contributions to the section “Guest Essays”. Articles were first called “Op-Eds” because they were printed on the opposite side of the editorial page. In the digital age, there is no geographical ‘Op-Ed’. It is a relic of an older age and an older print newspaper design. Not long after the NYT had added its Op-Ed page, many other foreign newspapers had followed suit. It will be interesting to see if any of them follow the NYT’s lead in renaming this page. The advantage of an Op-Ed section is that it provides the opportunity to educate and inform a large audience about important issues. Such articles are particularly useful to sway public opinion and dispel common misconceptions. It may be outdated, but many of us still look forward to this section. Ranganathan Sivakumar,
Chennai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
02-05-2021||Opinion||A doctor grieves||He is the world’s doctor, and for months he has tirelessly led the global response to the coronavirus pandemic while privately nursing a piercing anguish. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the director-general of the World Health Organization, has largely kept his pain secret, maintaining a stoic public front. But when I probed, he wept. Tedros is from Tigray, a part of Ethiopia that since November has endured crimes against humanity by Ethiopian and Eritrean soldiers. The US secretary of state, Antony Blinken, has properly described atrocities in western Tigray as ethnic cleansing, but the world has largely been indifferent. Tigrayan children are starving to death, men have been clubbed to death, and women and girls have been subjected to mass rape. Ethiopian Opposition parties claim that more than 50,000 people have been killed — that is not verifiable, and the toll is unknown — and the scale of torture, starvation, murder and destruction in the past few months may have been the worst in the world. “Hunger is weaponized, rape is weaponized, there is indiscriminate killing,” Tedros said. “The whole region is hungry.” “It’s so painful,” he added. “I don’t have words.” His cousin, a 68-year-old woman, was killed while trying to take shelter in a church, he said. Another relative, a 16-year-old high school student, was shot in the street. Internet and telephone links have been cut off, so Tedros can’t reach family members in Tigray to get more information about who has been tortured or murdered. My colleague, Declan Walsh, has reported on atrocities, such as a 26-year-old man being beaten to death with beer bottles and girls as young as eight being sexually assaulted. The United Nations humanitarian chief, Mark Lowcock, described a woman whose husband was killed, who lost her unborn baby and who then was gang-raped in front of her children. Even though Tedros is one of the world’s most recognized public servants, he may have become a refugee. He is now based at the WHO headquarters in Geneva, but he would probably not be safe if he tried to return to Tigray. Ethiopia’s military chief has denounced him as a criminal. I’ve known and admired Tedros for 15 years, but we have periodically tangled over his deference to dictators. I asked Tedros about that, but he didn’t want to discuss politics of any kind — including whether countries should pressure Ethiopia to stop the slaughter of Tigrayans. He seems deeply conflicted, torn between what he sees as a professional duty to his organization to be impartial and the horror of an ethnic cleansing of his own people. Presiding over these crimes against humanity in Tigray is Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed of Ethiopia, who came to power in 2018 and was initially hailed as a great reformer; he even won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2019. Abiy is a pro-Western figure over whom the United States of America has considerable influence — if it will only use it. The Tigray crisis is rooted in ethnic tensions and a power struggle. For almost three decades, people from Tigray dominated Ethiopia’s Central government; Tedros became Ethiopia’s highly regarded health minister in that period, then foreign minister. This Tigrayan-led government ruled effectively, greatly raising living standards, but it was also repressive, torturing critics, imprisoning journalists and stirring deep resentments among other Ethiopians. After taking power, Abiy reined in Tigrayans and dispatched troops in November to crush what he said was a mutiny in the region. That triggered a civil war with Tigray fighters, and Eritrea’s army entered to back up Ethiopia’s forces. There is also a risk of a wider war involving Sudan. All sides in the conflict have committed atrocities, but by far the most serious and credible allegations are against the Ethiopian and Eritrean armies and their allies. As WHO chief, Tedros has tried to get vaccines distributed more equitably around the world, while dealing with Donald Trump’s appalling decision to pull the US out of the WHO (overturned by President Joe Biden on his first day in office). In public, Tedros is focused on Covid-19 and has mostly kept quiet about atrocities in Tigray. “The public sees Tedros devoting every day to managing the pandemic, but privately he is also managing his pain about Tigray,” said Annie Sparrow, an assistant professor at Mount Sinai School of Medicine, who was an adviser to Tedros. Tedros was reluctant to give this interview, but when he did his torment was unmistakable. “We have Covid and are doing our best. On top of that, to have this pain,” he began, and then the stoic broke down. For more than a minute, he couldn’t speak and sobbed. I respect a man who loses it when contemplating war crimes. I wish more would. And I hope President Biden and other world leaders will hear that agony on behalf of so many in Tigray who are being starved, raped and murdered, and will use their influence to end this catastrophe. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
02-05-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Double lives||The world wide web has been left both shaken and stirred by the decision of MI5 to infiltrate the realm of Instagram. No one can miss the irony of an intelligence organization making its social media debut in the name of transparency. Is secrecy no longer cool for the secret agent? Britain’s domestic intelligence agency is known for its functions of spying and keeping secrets, performed — at least in the popular imagination — by suave, tuxedoed men drinking martinis. But rushing to follow MI5 on Instagram in the hopes of smouldering selfies of secret agents might not bear fruit. “Martini-drinking stereotypes” are exactly what the MI5 is trying to debunk, according to its director-general. The aim, apparently, is to paint a picture of inclusion, encouraging citizens irrespective of socio-economic background, ethnicity, sexuality, gender, disability, and so on to see themselves as possible recruits. This is significant in light of the fact that a 2018 parliamentary committee report strongly criticized the United Kingdom’s spy agencies for failing to assimilate the notion of modern Britain in their rank and file: women and ethnic minorities in senior positions were too few. The MI5, though, is not the only intelligence agency on Instagram, or social media for that matter. Be it the Central Intelligence Agency or the Mossad, social media is teeming with spies. However, those looking to be thrilled would be sorely disappointed. Tweets and posts on their social media sites include recruitment ads, the occasional puzzle, retweets from intelligence officials, and attempts at jokes. But all of this may not be as benign as it seems. An independent study conducted at the University of Colorado suggests that a lot of what intelligence agencies do on these platforms is patently ugly business. As such, appearing ‘cool’ or ‘funny’ — the CIA’s first tweet was “We can neither confirm nor deny that this is our first tweet” — is essentially a way of airbrushing troubling legacies. It only grows curiouser and curiouser from here. The security service’s embracing of Instagram comes days after it warned that social media was being used on “an industrial scale” by rogue States and organized crime to mine personal data and target people. In a world where lives are increasingly being bared online, intelligence gathering cannot remain indifferent to social media. What is worrying though is that they have at their disposal tools that can make snooping on these platforms equivalent to infringements on citizens’ privacy. In 2015, an intelligence and security committee report — it was almost immediately redacted — revealed that intelligence agencies in the UK were collecting not only targeted data on specific suspects but also information from the general public. Over the past decade, online open-source intelligence has become a significant source of actionable data. Social media has been used to identify suspects and key eyewitnesses to some of the most notable cases worldwide. This is likely to reaffirm the double life of social media and of secret services. On the one hand, they are being transformed into repositories of information that is public even as they, in turn, are mining public data secretly while the people remain glued to Instagram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
02-05-2021||Opinion||Vaccine Action Plan of another time when politics wasn't war||There was a time when politics in India was not a hateful war. While political parties had ups and downs in their personal relations, meaningful systemic engagements never got disrupted between the Centre and state governments. When, as the prime minister, Rajiv Gandhi undertook the Vaccine Action Programme in the country on a war footing, the Central team received better cooperation from Opposition-ruled states. Chief ministers like Jyoti Basu in West Bengal, RM Hegde in Karnataka, NT Rama Rao in Andhra Pradesh, and EK Nayanar in Kerala responded to the plan which did not have mass support with greater enthusiasm than Congress-ruled states. They helped in creating awareness among the people which was a gigantic task given the absence of communication tools. State instruments — Doordarshan and All India Radio — played a vital role along with local language media in states. The vaccination drive became a thundering success. Now, even with a communication explosion in the form of multiple television channels and social media, the Narendra Modi government could not deal with the initial vaccine hesitancy and inexplicably blamed the Opposition for this. While there was a massive outreach to the scientific community, civil society and political parties to ensure a consensual approach, the Modi government did little to reach out to other parties before unveiling the vaccination drive. It is strange that Modi could make the entire country clap and bang thalis on one call but had to blame others for vaccine hesitancy. The government has failed to understand that while it has its own role in democracy, the Opposition too has responsibility. Campaigning for the Opposition to vanish — a Congress-mukt Bharat — and expecting cooperation is absurd. The Congress still, with its decades-long experience in governance, gave constructive suggestions during the crisis, only to be rebuffed and ridiculed. The minister of state for external affairs, V Muraleedharan, is known for his strident criticism of the Left Democratic Front government in Kerala. Rarely a day goes by without the minister launching some attack or the other against the government or the chief minister, Pinarayi Vijayan. In one such allegation, Muraleedharan questioned the state government for the malfunctioning of the CoWIN application in the state. But perhaps Muraleedharan has forgotten that the application was developed by the Centre in Delhi and is run by the ministry of health and family welfare headed by his senior colleague, Harsh Vardhan. To make matters worse, an unusual silence pervaded the usual media channels that echoed Muraleedharan’s remarks after people across the country slammed the Centre since the CoWIN application went on the blink. What, one wonders, does Muraleedharan have to say about that? An interview of the senior Assam minister and Bharatiya Janata Party leader, Himanta Biswa Sarma, to a popular web portal in early April asserting there was no Covid-19 in Assam and, thereby, no need to wear masks, adding that the state would celebrate Bihu with usual fervour, stands out in sharp contrast to his media briefings and daily tweets on the overall situation and what he has been doing to stem the spread of the deadly coronavirus. When he gave the interview, Assam had around 617 active cases and 1,109 overall deaths. By April-end, active cases rose to 23,826 and the death toll to 1,307 on account of the deadly second wave sweeping the country. Altogether, 198 persons died within 26 days since his fateful interview. The worsening situation not only keeps reminding the aam janta about his premature claims about Covid-19 being a thing of the past but also about all the violations of safety protocols by politicians, cutting across party lines, during electioneering. The interview has also provided Sarma’s many detractors with a weapon to have a go at him. This is not good for a seasoned politician, seen by his supporters as the CM-in-waiting. Silence could be bliss sometimes for politicians such as Sarma, for any act of indiscretion is bound to haunt them at some point of time in their career, said a senior politician. The Karnataka CM, BS Yediyurappa, has the tough task of defending his government that has been teetering under pressure from both the Covid-19 spike and the under-performing ministers who have been a burden for long. But the latest headache for the Lingayat strongman came in the form of gross insensitivity by his food minister, Umesh Katti, who asked a farmer to ‘go and die’ for asking the government why the five-kilo free rice supplied through ration shops was reduced to just two kilos. Already beleaguered by high Covid numbers and sparse medical resources like beds, oxygen, medicines and vaccines, Yediyurappa immediately issued an apology and said it was not right for a minister to make such comments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
