03-05-2021||Opinion|| In other news: Assembly polls 2021||The psephologists must be relieved. The results of the assembly elections in four states and one Union territory seem to be consistent with the predictions made by the pundits in the exit polls. But this is not to suggest that every outcome has been unremarkable. In Kerala, the Left Democratic Front has stormed back to power, defying the decades-old ritual of governments formed by the Left and the Congress sharing alternate terms. The Bharatiya Janata Party has also become the first non-Congress party to win power in Assam for two consecutive terms. Bengal — the jewel in the crown of the electoral contests in the public eye — has also witnessed an unprecedented sweep by Mamata Banerjee and her Trinamul Congress. Tiny Puducherry has had a surprise in store too, with the National Democratic Alliance making a mark. Only Tamil Nadu, it can be argued, has yielded to the predictable. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam has knocked its traditional rival, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, off its perch. The DMK’s resounding victory had been expected. How far would India’s national political map be affected by these mandates? It is too early to draw conclusions in this respect. But there are undoubtedly some broad pointers. First, in spite of the acute suffering that India is undergoing at the moment, Narendra Modi and the BJP remain the nation’s primary political force. The BJP has regained Assam and left its imprint in Puducherry. The setback in Bengal notwithstanding, it is now the principal Opposition party in the state. The foremost loser has been the Congress, once again; it has ceded Kerala, failed to regain Assam, and performed woefully in Bengal. The Congress is now the rump of a party that it was once, and can hope to oppose the BJP only in solidarity with regional parties. This is where Ms Banerjee’s call for an alliance of Opposition parties at a national level against the BJP for the parliamentary elections in 2024 assumes significance. The other notable feature about these state elections has been the bipolar nature of the contests. In the four states at least, the lion’s share of the votes has been cornered by the two strongest contenders. The shrinking of alternative political choices cannot be a healthy sign for democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
03-05-2021||Opinion||Dignified end: Covid deaths in India||Sir — As the deadly second wave of the coronavirus that is currently devastating the country leaves a long trail of dead bodies, leading to depleting space and wood for burials or lighting pyres, traditional modes of laying the departed to rest need to be reconsidered. Last rites are not just sacred, they are also deeply sentimental issues for people of all religions and bring solace and closure to grieving families. Religious reasons are why few opt for the electric and gas crematoria, although these have been around for many years now in most big towns and cities of the country. Even at the onset of the pandemic, when experts recommended that bodies of the Covid-infected be cremated in electric or gas pyres, many picked traditional pyres. But given the desperate situation in the country now electric crematoria are working round the clock as people are flocking to this medically safe, clean, quick and eco-friendly mode of bidding adieu to their kin. Yet, the sudden increase in the number of people succumbing to the virus has led to an acute shortage of wood and space, and a rise in black-marketing. While some have been amenable to adopting the eco-friendly, electric or gas crematoria, the pandemic calls for a collective rethink. Leaders of all faiths must find ways of consecrating this practice. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — While news about human kindness amidst the pandemic abounds, there are also stories about grotesque travesties of humanity, with a black market not just for life-saving drugs and equipment but also things needed to put the dead to rest. People are having to pay through their noses and give up their life’s savings, after having lost their loved ones. This expense — coming probably after people have shelled out quite a bit of money for treatment — is an unbelievable strain on them. The governments in the states and at the Centre must consider immediate steps to take over the provision of material and space for cremation completely. That is the only way to put an end to profiteering since there seems to be nothing that can conquer human greed. People must also be convinced to use electric crematoria in order to avoid long waits and high costs. This is also safer for Covid-positive patients. Sumi Rajan,Mumbai Sir — It is shocking that people have no qualms about profiteering from the dead. While most people are being requested to opt for electric crematoria, this is easier said than done. Electric crematoria are breaking down all over the country or melting from being overworked. The number of such crematoria needs to be increased at once. Ria Roy,Calcutta  Every breath counts n Sir — At a time when the country is gasping for oxygen and people are dying from a lack of medical oxygen, I remember the hype in the national capital region and other parts of the country in the recent past surrounding oxygen bars. The rich and the idle went to these places for recreational use of oxygen. Now that the government has banned the use of medical oxygen for purposes other than medical, it must go a step further and regulate the use of medical products for recreational purposes in the future too. The pandemic has taught us how precious our medical resources are and these should not be treated lightly.Aditya Sharma,Noida Dated concept Sir — Six decades after upholding the constitutional validity of Section 124-A of the Indian Penal Code which penalizes sedition, the Supreme Court is going to revisit this British-era provision. This is heartening. ‘Sedition’ — defined as “conduct or speech inciting people to rebel against the authority of a state or monarch” — has no place in a democracy. In a system where the government is voted to power by the people, citizens have every right to campaign against the party at the helm of things if they are displeased with its actions. This is the very premise of a democracy. How, then, can ‘sedition’ be penalized? Moreover, the law needs to have a finger on the pulse of the times. Governments in India — especially the present dispensation — routinely use the law of sedition to clamp down on dissent and dissenters. In the last couple of years, Indian prisons have been filled with students, educators, social workers and others who dared to speak up against the wrongdoings of the government. Citizens, irrespective of age, gender, or health, are languishing in prisons without bail because they decided to stand up and demand accountability from the government that they elected to power. B.D. Mukherjee,Calcutta Sir — Over the decades, the State has almost unfailingly been invoking offences of ‘sedition’ or ‘corruption’ when seeking to discipline an adversary. That was the position in the past and it remains unchanged in the present. It is to the credit of the judiciary that most such foisted cases end in acquittals. But this does not change the actions of those wielding the levers of power. In India, the process is the punishment. The moment someone becomes an accused in a criminal proceeding, he or she gets entangled in the dilatory criminal judicial system of the country. Efforts have to be made by such a person to avoid police custody and custodial interrogation, get anticipatory bail to avoid arrest, get regular bail from the court, appear at all the hearings, and the list goes on. It is thus heartening that the Supreme Court is going to reconsider the constitutional validity of the provision of sedition. It is time this antiquated law was done away with. Chirantan Ghosh,New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
03-05-2021||Opinion||Hatred loses: Bengal rejects communal politics||West Bengal does not accept the politics of communal hatred. That is the single, focused message from an indisputable majority of its voters. The scale of the Trinamul Congress’s victory was not predicted by any exit poll, which means that the intensity of Bengal’s rejection of the Bharatiya Janata Party was never gauged. The deafening propaganda of the BJP and the spectacle of its biggest leaders and star campaigners, including the prime minister, the Union home minister and the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, holding repeated electoral rallies in different parts of the state may have blinded observers to indicators of the people’s attitude. The BJP has certainly increased its number of assembly seats from three, although it has not crossed 100. The other rival of the TMC, the Communist Party of India (Marxist), teamed up with the Congress and the Indian Secular Front, has given up space to the BJP, which has obviously drawn to itself the anti-incumbency vote together with the support it has built in the state. The TMC victory is all the more remarkable because the BJP had turned all its big guns on it, welcoming into its fold its leaders from Mukul Roy to Suvendu Adhikari, and ensuring through the Election Commission an eight-phase election in the middle of a pandemic. It did not even condemn the alleged gunning down of four voters by the Central Industrial Security Forces at Sitalkuchi. Against its muscle, money and use of State machinery, the TMC fought with Mamata Banerjee in the lead, campaigning from a wheelchair till the end. The battle in Nandigram, where she had pitted herself against her former aide without standing from a ‘safe’ seat, seemed symbolic of the drama that the elections had become in West Bengal. Together with the politics of hatred, the state has rejected cultural and social coercion and risen up against insults heaped on a woman leader by powerful male politicians. Now the BJP must decide if the seats it has gained are an adequate return for the attentions showered on it by Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. Will they be accountable for the devastating pandemic to which the long-drawn out elections contributed? Meanwhile, West Bengal has shown the country that it is possible to build ramparts against hatred.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
03-05-2021||Opinion||Workers' rights: The tide is finally turning in China||In a country where workers’ rights are non-existent except in some multinational corporations, a court has recognized an employee’s right to take leave to mourn his father. With the approval of his supervisor, the employee went to his hometown to visit his ailing father. However, on his way back to work, came news that his father had died. He went back immediately for the last rites. All this took eight days. It so turned out that the Shanghai-based company’s head had not signed the employee’s leave application, and the worker was fired for “skipping work without a valid reason”. He challenged his dismissal in a labour arbitration forum, and asked for compensation for the “illegal termination” of his contract. Ruling in his favour, the forum ordered a compensation of 75,269 yuan (it roughly amounts to Rs 8,62,000). The company went to court, but both the lower court and the appeals court upheld the ruling, saying it was “the employer’s duty to show compassion to their employees’ personal difficulties and misfortunes”. The firm’s chief executive officer was faulted for not signing the leave application on time. True values Netizens hailed the judgment for upholding both employee rights and Chinese values. One wrote: “Seeing a father off for the last time is part of the basic bond... and written into the bones of Chinese people for centuries. The refusal to grant leave not only challenges the law, but also public order and the customs of our society.” Another court struck down the dismissal of a computer engineer who defied company instructions to attend to clients’ calls during his Spring Festival holiday by leaving his laptop at home. The company, also Shanghai-based, also blamed him for taking 27 days’ leave at one go, turning up at an important meeting at noon instead of 9 am and consistently going for lunch at 11.30 am instead of 12.30 pm. The court ruled that employees had no obligation to work during a legal break, that the  27-day leave was okay, that he had a valid explanation for the delayed attendance at the meeting and that the early lunch did not warrant dismissal. The company was ordered to pay 1,94,000 yuan (Rs 10,74,000) as compensation. Netizens have also rallied around a cosmetologist dismissed for “not obeying management” when she refused to stay back for dance practice for the company’s annual party. The 36-year-old woman, whose supervisor reported her refusal to management on the company’s WeChat group, argued that advance notice and better planning were necessary for such orders. Not a slave In 2019, Jack Ma, the founder of the e-commerce giant, Alibaba, had praised China’s then emerging ‘996’ culture — working from 9 am to 9 pm, six days a week. While ordinary workers were anyway working ‘997’, ‘996’ had become a trend with employees in the information technology sector. Calling ‘996’ a “huge blessing”, Ma had asked: “If you don’t work 996 when young, when can you ever?” In a similar vein, a famous actress and businesswoman recently boasted on television that she routinely texted her employees till 3 am, expecting a reply by 7 am, because by then “four hours have passed!” She mocked an employee who had protested saying, “Boss! I’m still sleeping!’’ at 7 am. Deluged with criticism, she issued this ‘apology’: “I will correct my behaviour in the future.” In December, a 22-year-old e-commerce employee collapsed on her way home from work at 1.30 am, and died soon after. But as the above instances show, the tide seems to have turned. “I signed a contract to work at a company, not serve as a slave,” said one netizen. Mao would have approved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
03-05-2021||Opinion||Bengal’s daughter||Who dares wins. Beyond all the analysis and interpretation that will come to attend the quite astounding, and sobering, verdict of the people of Bengal, this is Mamata Banerjee’s finest hour. She has become today the consequence of who she has relentlessly been in the process of becoming since she had her skull split in a skirmish with the Left three decades ago: a fighter who won’t give up the fight. She had the most formidable and dubiously loaded war chest thrown at her, volley upon volley, dare upon bellowing dare; she took the blows with grit and with pugnacity and exhausted them. In the process of such mostly one-legged gallantry, she has scored a stellar breach in a raging myth of our politics — that Narendra Modi and Amit Shah form an invincibility we’d better reconcile to, that there is an inevitability to the hegemony of their ‘chakravarti’ project, that where they venture they will establish their suzerainty. Mamata has halted the ashwamedha in Bengal; she remains firmly in the saddle of her realm, battle-scarred and bleeding in Nandigram herself, but unshaken. It isn’t often a two-term incumbent is able to fight off such a robust charge on the fortress. The travesty remains it isn’t often the challenge is borne the way Mamata did in Bengal. Or, let it be said, the way freshman Tejashwi did in Bihar not so long ago. The way he hounded the combined might and resources of Modi-Shah and Nitish Kumar in Bihar, the way he nearly came to pip them, should have already proved to those ready to pay heed that the Modi-Shah mission plays — very often successfully — on the counterfeit currency of impregnability. This is not to remotely suggest at this stage that their term as big daddies of the field is anywhere near expiry; that would be infantile indulgence at the moment. They remain in active rampage; Narendra Modi, for all his garrulous fumbling and messing about, mindful and mindless, remains, in offence of good sense and to some stupefaction, the lead national act. What Mamata has demonstrated is that with enough intent and purpose, with cuffing the right buttons, the rampaging can be called out and shown its place. This is a moment not unlike the Mahagathbandhan’s 2015 victory in Bihar, later nullified by Nitish Kumar’s notorious pole-vault into Modi’s lap. The thwarting of the BJP’s power-grab on Bihar was widely seen at the time as a swivel event that would enable a credible rallying of the Opposition. The only swivel that resulted was Nitish Kumar’s treachery on the mandate. The counterblast from Bengal comes in the throes of a spiralled authoritarianism; it is marauding and it is untrammelled. Institutions have been beaten and twisted out of shape. The economy has been run aground. The citizenry’s recourse to correction has been throttled. A cold, tyrant heart presides over our proceedings, such that it is no longer possible to believe that there may even be something human that constitutes the government we re-elected to power in 2019. Drop a litmus into the swirl of statements that have emerged from our minders as we suffer our harshest crisis and see for yourself what you come up with. There aren’t enough hospital beds, not nearly enough oxygen, we are celebrating a ‘tika utsav’ but there is neither tika nor utsav anywhere the gaze goes. The fatigued fraternity of doctors and health workers has been stretched beyond measure. It requires urgent aid. We have made one man’s vanity called the Central Vista an essential service; not a paisa allotted to this monumental callousness must be moved elsewhere, the earthmovers must roll, the heart of Delhi must be ripped and rolled to fashion the master’s flawed fantasy at a time when Delhi is queuing up to see off its dead. Such is the moment we are in, such are the suffocations from which Mamata’s victory has allowed us a momentary lease of breathing. She has run a fine race, but the race isn’t done yet. More than once in our recent past the baton of challenge has been picked, more than once has it been dropped. Most tellingly by the Congress, which, again to some stupefaction, remains the chief national Opposition. It is time it moults out of calcified derelictions, begins to act its part, begins to re-learn lessons from Bengal and, equally, from its defeats in Kerala and Assam. That lesson, bluntly put, is this: forsake your entitlements and your excuses, shun your reckless abandoning of the field, descend into the trench, fight the fight. Ahead of that, give yourselves a leader who would replace the non-functioning dyarchy at the top of the party. Midway through the campaign for Bengal, Mamata had sent out a letter, a desperate plea really, to major non-BJP formations to close ranks and save the nation from being contorted crudely out of shape. She recognized, and rightly so, the immense power the Bharatiya Janata Party, especially the Modi-Shah duo, has come to wield, how destructive that could be to the nation, and why there was need to close ranks and stop the slide. The appeal received scant notice; some merely thought it an indication from Mamata that she was losing the battle, clutching at straws as she sensed a drowning mid-stream. There are lessons for Mamata to learn, for sure, and corrections to effect. The smart politician that she is, it is not possible she is unaware of widespread disaffection with actors of the Trinamul Congress in Bengal. It cannot be that she is unaware that credible reason exists, even among her votaries, for grouse and grievance: corruption at the grass roots, the culture of syndicates and commission/extortion that has become pervasive, the charge of nepotism and of appeasement. Those cannot be brushed aside or buried, not even under the overwhelming downpour of celebratory confetti. Those will need attending. But looking beyond Bengal, now that the battle is done and summarily dusted, it is perhaps time to revisit the letter and examine its contents for what they really were — a cry from the flanks to prevent the edifice from collapsing. Mamata has held that flank, wholesomely and indomitably; it is time the rest came up with the wares. The dare of winning a bout so often and lackadaisically given up as lost is on the table; it requires picking up. sankarshan.thakur@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
