04-05-2021||Opinion||Jabless: Covid vaccine shortage||Tiding over a pandemic requires detailed preparation at multiple levels on the part of the State. Yet, cohesive planning on the part of the Narendra Modi government has been conspicuous by its absence as India continues to battle the coronavirus. The scarcity of medical oxygen, hospital beds and other critical health services bear testimony to monumental bungling. But there is more to the government’s lapses. The vaccination drive is moving at a snail’s pace. The Centre’s vaccine policy is riddled with holes, as is evident from the terse observations made by the Supreme Court. Among other red flags raised by the apex court is the Centre’s inexplicable unwillingness to exercise its powers under Section 92 of the Patents Act. Such a provision empowers the Central government to grant compulsory licences which, in turn, would enable several manufacturers to make Covid-19 vaccines, thus breaking the present duopoly. The other observations raised by the court are equally pertinent. They bring to light the government’s myopia regarding the accessibility of marginalized segments to private healthcare and vaccines, the anomalies in vaccine pricing, the Centre’s particularly shocking refusal to vaccinate all citizens free of cost, the absence of a framework to vaccinate those working in crematoriums and the challenge of registering those who would find it difficult to enrol on the CoWIN app. The unprecedented surge in demand led to the app faltering for those who were privileged enough to access it. Several recipients awaiting their second dose have been inconvenienced too. The principal worry is with the shortage of vaccines. Several states — Maharashtra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Punjab are among them — expressed their inability to start vaccinating citizens between the age group of 18-45 years on account of low stocks. This is a matter of shame for a nation that is supposed to be the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer. New Delhi must look at augmenting imports to widen its vaccine basket so that citizens can have greater choice. Bulk orders would also give the government enhanced leverage to check profiteering. Another requirement for this grim moment is the creation of a national contingency plan that can examine and fix the existing breaches. This is imperative because India cannot be complacent about another wave of infections. Mr Modi’s regime must swallow its pride and frame guidelines in collaboration with those who have the wisdom to guide his insensitive, indifferent government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
04-05-2021||Opinion||One of a kind: Remembering Soli Sorabjee||Sir — Soli Sorabjee, the legal luminary who passed away last week, fought for the rights of the poor and the downtrodden throughout his life (“Soli Sorabjee no more”, May 1). Sorabjee led India’s fight in the International Court of Justice when Pakistan sought compensation from India for the shooting down of the former’s naval patrol aircraft in 1999 soon after the end of the Kargil war. The ICJ ruled in favour of India. Sorabjee also worked for the Citizen’s Justice Committee which represented victims of the anti-Sikh riots in 1984. He appeared in many important cases including the Kesavananda Bharati case on the basic structure of the Constitution. He had also called for the Supreme Court to drop the sentencing of the senior advocate, Prashant Bhushan, in a contempt of court case over his tweets regarding the judiciary. Sorabjee got the Padma Vibhushan in 2003 for his contributions towards the defence of the freedom of expression and the protection of human rights. He will be remembered for his work as the attorney-general of India and his dedication to justice. S.S. Paul, Nadia Sir — The demise of the notable lawyer and the former attorney-general, Soli Sorabjee, as a result of Covid-19 is a great loss to the nation. He was a champion of free speech and civil liberties. He fought cases for the victims of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots pro bono. Later in 1984, when the Bhopal gas tragedy shook the country, Sorabjee was approached to represent Union Carbide. He rebuffed the offer and replied that he would prefer to advise the victims. Sorabjee’s contribution to law and justice in India is truly unparalleled. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly  Grim situation Sir — With the second wave of the coronavirus hitting the country, traders are, once again, bearing the brunt of the lull in economic activities. As a result of partial lockdowns, the sale of mangoes has gone down substantially with some being forced to sell the fruit at a fraction of the usual price. This will, undoubtedly, aggravate the economic distress of farmers and traders in the upcoming months.Ananya Chakraborty,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
04-05-2021||Opinion||Third chance for TMC to reinvent their politics||There are many ways of looking at the Trinamul Congress’s resounding victory in Bengal. One way of examining the landslide in favour of Mamata Banerjee would be to acknowledge her personal popularity across segments of the population. Another perspective — this is being discussed extensively — is Bengal’s unambiguous message to the Bharatiya Janata Party that the poison of division will be met with spirited resistance. There are even murmurs that this electoral verdict could spur a mobilization of India’s Opposition parties at the national level with Ms Banerjee leading the charge. What is not being discussed though is that a third term for Ms Banerjee has gifted her with a unique opportunity of course correction for her party. In 2006, when the Left Front won more seats than the TMC has done on this occasion, there was an opportunity for Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) to reinvent their politics. The comrades failed to do so, and this failure was instrumental in their defeat in 2011. The TMC and its politics are far from perfect. Ms Banerjee would do well to learn from history and use this massive public mandate to erase the creases from her party’s fold. The areas of improvement are obvious. Allegations of corruption and nepotism have plagued this regime. Many of these tainted leaders have now found shelter in the BJP. The TMC must use this chance to blood a cleaner, younger leadership. The temptation to settle scores with the BJP notwithstanding, Ms Banerjee must desist from any kind of violent confrontation or intimidation. She must bear in mind that the BJP managed to get a toehold in the state on account of the TMC’s willingness to embrace the culture of political intimidation: the panchayat polls of 2018 are a case in point. Inclusive, non-discriminatory politics could help the TMC wean away a chunk of the BJP’s new-found support base. ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’, something that the prime minister pledged but failed to deliver, should be Ms Banerjee’s goal too. In the course of the next five years, Ms Banerjee must also harness a second rung of leadership that should be collective in nature. The political longevity of parties with solitary, charismatic leaders is not known to be long. As for Ms Banerjee’s national ambitions, they can wait for now. Developing Bengal as a model state for pluralism and prosperity would automatically enhance Ms Banerjee’s pan-India credibility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
04-05-2021||Opinion||Other women: India's migrant workers||In India, women form the vast majority of migrants — 80 per cent of the total internal migrants as per NSSO and 70.7 per cent of internal migrants as per Census 2001. It has been estimated that 90 per cent of these migrant women work in the informal sector — in agriculture and allied activities, construction, transport, mining, domestic work, manufacturing, small and medium enterprises — as contractual labour. Women migrant workers face many challenges. They remain invisible and discriminated against in the workforce, receive less pay than their male counterparts, and are deprived of social welfare schemes and entitlements. According to a Unesco-Unicef report, Social Inclusion of Internal Migrants in India, 2013, maternal and child health indicators of migrant women remain poor and many of them are vulnerable to sexual abuse, exploitation and other forms of violence. The report points out that existing policies of the Indian State have failed in securing legal or social protection for this vulnerable group. The female-intensive work in the unorganized sector remains unregulated by labour laws. According to Human Rights Watch, the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 has not proved beneficial in dealing with sexual harassment complaints in the informal sector. The Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulations of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1996 has been ineffective partly because of the lack of awareness and partly due to breaks in the work contract. India ratified the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women in 1993. India is also party to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. Despite these international legal obligations, we still lag behind in providing a safe working environment for women migrant workers. The Covid-19 pandemic has further accentuated the misery of these women. According to UN Women, Covid-19 has unevenly impacted women and girls in health, economy, social protection and gender-based violence. A telephone survey of migrant labourers conducted by Jan Sahas found that around 92 per cent had lost their work and 42 per cent were impacted negatively with no food or supplies. Another qualitative study conducted in Delhi and Gurugram in Haryana revealed that the pandemic led to the loss of livelihood and increased debt, adversely impacting migrant women’s nutrition and well-being. We are far from attaining the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 5. The indicators related to this goal are critical to building gender-sensitive policies. It requires assessing migration-related challenges and determining how to empower women and girls through migration. The migrant labour policy draft by the Niti Aayog is a welcome step towards recognizing migrants’ contribution to the economy and supporting them in their endeavours. The draft policy proposes several radical ideas like adopting a rights-based framework and putting in place an additional layer of institutions to create a more suitable policy environment for migrants. Let’s see how far the proposed migrant labour policy addresses gender differences in employment. Since India has not ratified the International Labour Organization Convention on Decent Work for Domestic Workers and the Domestic Workers Bill 2017 has not become law, it would be easy for women migrants to remain excluded. A gender perspective on internal migration is imperative because women have significantly different migration motivations, patterns, options and obstacles than men. It also becomes crucial to pay attention to women migrant workers in the light of the ongoing pandemic, which is bound to aggravate the existing gender inequalities and vulnerabilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
04-05-2021||Opinion||Covid-19: A case for transparent aid||“If you cannot measure it, you cannot improve it.” — Lord Kelvin I saw three posts on social media and the internet recently. Folks at the London Business School seem to have raised a financial corpus and arranged for medical equipment; they tagged on Twitter Indian government functionaries for arranging transportation and distribution of the same back in India. I also noted that going by active and recovery ratio on covid19india.org, Gujarat, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh continue to be in deep trouble with West Bengal catching up and Maharashtra slowly stabilizing in the second wave of the pandemic. In addition, I saw the cricketer, Jaydev Unadkat, donating 10 per cent of his salary, saying his family would get the money to appropriate sources. There is financial and non-financial aid being raised locally and internationally for India. But they bring forth key issues concerning the distribution of aid on exigency and demand across India’s districts. One wonders if anyone is transparently maintaining a dashboard of aid flowing into India through GiveIndia, ACT grants, Ketto or Milaap as well as of the funds from large corporations like Google, Microsoft or PayPal. A second issue of concern happens to be of trust. Already, there is rising concern that money raised through the PM-Cares fund has not been utilized or is being held back for non-pandemic purposes. Can one be sure that the money flowing in is being effectively utilized? A third issue pertains to distribution with the help of evaluation and a scientific mindset. For example, with oxygen cylinders and concentrators on their way from around the world, how is demand being modelled for the same at the household-district-time level across India? Is this being done on an ad hoc basis to stabilize the situation for districts most impacted? Government data sources are a particularly pernicious problem in this area, but some progress can be made by examining the issue retrospectively and predictively. Demand for any good is a function of the utility the good generates, which, in itself, is a function of price and non-price characteristics of the good. In this particular case, assuming zero pricing for oxygen, demand would probably be guided by the unit of observation at which it is getting formed, presumably at every household-district-time level where time in itself can be daily, weekly, monthly or quarterly. While data may not exist on past demand for oxygen based on clinical literature input on demand for oxygen given mild, moderate or severe Covid conditions, one can estimate for a household of four, how much would be the demand for oxygen if one falls sick in these three broad ranges of severity. This can be done using data, if required from outside India, using suitable assumptions. Next, one would have to also worry about the prevalence of the disease. With sketchy and not always dynamically updated estimates on beds per average primary healthcare centre in every district available from the ministry of health, one can plug in a time varying measure of capacity utilization ranges given district-time-level R0 and, hence, the demand of oxygen if every bed is utilized going forward for all the primary healthcare centres (accounting for recoveries within 14 to 21 days). Of course one would also have to factor in here historical healthcare infrastructure by district-time, perhaps starting with doctors per capita that would have an implication for patients if they need to be hospitalized. The test positive or active/recovery ratio should give dynamic intuition on the anticipated burden of the disease in the next 12 months. Allocating oxygen based on a framework as above — factoring in potential disease burden, health infrastructure, epidemiological ratios overlaid with standards of oxygen required for an average admitted patient from clinical literature — should then be the way forward in designing optimal algorithms for aid allocation. This should be done not just for oxygen but more generally for other non-pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical interventions like PPE kits, therapeutics and perhaps vaccines as well. The issue is not just done with allocation though. Is that allocation effective in improving recovery ratio? Kerala has created oxygen war rooms and data here on their dashboards could be a good example to follow. Allocation algorithms should also consider trade-offs given resource constraints. For example, between oxygen cylinders and concentrators, prior literature on medical devices and health economics suggests that the latter may be more effective. Allocation algorithms need to also show agility to pivot if one district situation worsens (or becomes better) compared to a spatially proximate district going forward. Given that India’s recovery path from the pandemic and its mutant variants impacts the world, donors should be pushing for transparent science to make their interventions more effective.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
04-05-2021||Opinion||Modi’s Waterloo||Any phrase when overused becomes stale and loses its meaning. ‘A historic victory’ is one of them. If every election victory is described as ‘historic’, as is often done in congratulatory messages, history begins to look ordinary, robbing us of our ability to discern events that can effect extraordinary changes. As a matter of fact, history records and remembers very few events in its annals and consigns the rest to oblivion. Mamata Banerjee handing a humiliating defeat to the prime minister, Narendra Modi, and the Union home minister, Amit Shah, in the just-concluded West Bengal assembly elections will be recalled as historic for many reasons. For starters, Modi and Shah, who have created an aura of invincibility around themselves with the help of a section of the media that have allowed themselves to be enslaved, now look beatable in 2024. West Bengal has opened up real possibilities for making Modi a two-term prime minister. Events in the coming two-three years may hasten his departure even earlier. This is because his government will surely be crippled by its gross mismanagement of the second wave of the Covid crisis, which has inflicted deaths and distress on an unprecedented scale. The resultant economic crisis, whose heat is already being felt by common Indians in the form of steep price rise and widespread joblessness, will begin to take its toll on Modi’s popularity and, hence, on his vaunted capacity to win elections for his party. And once a leader begins to lose that principal touchstone of leadership in a democracy — the promise of keeping his party in power — the party itself, along with the rest of the sangh parivar, will start to look for alternatives. At the very least, the Bharatiya Janata Party will begin to look fragile. To know that this process has already started, one only has to look at Subramanian Swamy’s leadership-questioning tweets. His is not a lone voice. He is an influential figure in the Hindutva establishment. There is a second way Banerjee’s victory will be seen as historic. Her national profile and popularity have risen overnight because of the sheer scale of her party’s third successive win — 213 seats in an assembly of 294, improving upon its own tally of 209 in 2016. So stupendous is this achievement that even her own unexpected loss by a slender margin to Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram will hardly dent her stature either in West Bengal or in the rest of the country. She is being rightly hailed as the ‘Bengal tigress’ who has single-handedly vanquished the mighty army of Modi and Shah allegedly supported by the pliant institutions of the Indian State — the Election Commission, Enforcement Directorate, Central Bureau of Investigation and the Income Tax department. The fact that an injured and wheelchair-bound woman, facing repeated taunts from her rivals, could achieve this feat will further add to her charisma beyond Bengal’s borders. Therefore, the non-BJP Opposition parties in India, divided and depressed until now and also suffering from the lack of a commonly acceptable leader around whom to coalesce, are likely to view Banerjee with a lot of hope. In 1996, the Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s “historic blunder” had prevented a tall Bengali leader, Jyoti Basu, from becoming India’s prime minister. Twenty-five years later, the first hints of a new possibility have emerged. Could Banerjee become the first Bengali to lead the nation from New Delhi? Suddenly, this question no longer looks far-fetched. The historic import of her party’s victory lies also in the rude jolt it has delivered to the BJP’s toxic politics of communal polarization. As a non-Bengali who spent nearly two months witnessing the election scene in the state, I met many non-party Bengali intellectuals and activists who dreaded the prospect of the BJP coming to power and tearing apart the secular fabric of Bengali society with its Hindu supremacist ideology. I was wonderstruck by their spirited ‘No Vote To BJP’ campaign, which brought out the best of Bengal’s unifying socio-cultural traditions. Every morning, I read with disbelief the gritty coverage of the election scene in this newspaper because there is, sadly, no other media organization in India that punctures the hubris of Modi and Shah quite the way it is done in these pages. I have no doubt that at the root of this journalistic courage is a deep concern that Bengal’s distinctive heritage, which has been enriched by giants like Rabindranath Tagore, Nazrul Islam, Swami Vivekananda and Netaji Subhas Bose, to name only a few, must not be allowed to be destroyed by the BJP’s alien Hindutva invasion. In this lies the wider national significance of Banerjee’s victory. By defeating the BJP decisively, the voters of this state have not only saved Bengal but they have also raised the hope of saving India. For it is obvious that with no great success to show on the development and governance fronts, Modi, Shah and the third Hindutva mascot, Yogi Adityanath, will increasingly resort to the hate-filled politics of Hindu-Muslim division to win elections. India has already paid a heavy price by allowing such politics to gain ascendancy. The consequences of it gaining more electoral successes in the future will be calamitous for our society, our Constitution and the Indian Republic. After all, the BJP and the sangh parivar have not hidden their ultimate goal of transforming India into a Hindu rashtra. Bengal has shown what the rest of India should do to foil this plan. A politician’s true character is often revealed in how he/she conducts an election campaign. Both Modi and Shah failed this test miserably. The prime minister’s ‘Didi o Didi’ and ‘scooty’ jibes at Banerjee were cringe-worthy. Shah lampooned himself by boasting that the BJP would win 200+ seats and that the afternoon of May 2 would witness the chief minister going to Raj Bhavan to tender her resignation. The BJP’s tally could not even touch three digits, even though it had made the election a Modi versus Mamata battle. The arrogance and insensitivity of the top BJP leaders were further amplified by the party’s state functionaries. When four poor Muslim voters fell to the bullets of the Central security forces at Sitalkuchi, one former BJP chief in West Bengal said more should have been killed and the incumbent party president warned ‘naughty boys’ of ‘many Sitalkuchis’. Neither of them was publicly reprimanded by the prime minister or other top leaders of the BJP and the sangh parivar. The callousness of Modi and Shah was also on display in their flagrant violation of their own government’s Covid-related safety guidelines. Indications of a second wave of the pandemic were available in February itself. Yet, the Election Commission was persuaded to hold eight phases of polling in the state. Furthermore, they came to address numerous rallies across Bengal, disregarding the fact that such events could become ‘superspreaders’ of the coronavirus. Banerjee also conducted an extensive campaign. But it must be said in her defence that she had strongly urged the Election Commission to conduct a shorter election. Modi also violated another canon of ethical electioneering. He became the first Indian prime minister to (indirectly) campaign for his party from foreign soil. He did so when, during his official visit to Bangladesh in March, he visited the shrine of Guru Harichand Thakur in Orakandi, with the aim of influencing the votes of the Matua community in West Bengal. Modi’s image has taken a severe beating because of two convergent failures: his failure to handle the Covid crisis and his humbling defeat to bring his party to power in West Bengal. Never have the global media pilloried him as much in the past seven years as they have done in the past seven weeks. This is certainly debilitating for someone who wants to be seen as a great global leader. This is also deeply demotivating for his bhakts, who see in him a prime minister who could, like Russia’s Vladimir Putin, remain in command for a long time to come and lead India’s transition to a constitutionally proclaimed ‘Hindu Nation’. Besides the deadly virus, one brave and simple woman with the common touch has frustrated this game plan. May India conquer the virus. May Bengal conquer the throne in Delhi. The writer was an aide to India's former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
