05-05-2021||Opinion||Bengal: How it was won||The mandate given by the people to Mamata Banerjee and the Trinamul Congress in West Bengal is certainly a rejection of the politics of communal hatred. But the nuances within the endorsement suggest how the new government must work to fulfil the people’s hopes and strengthen the anti-polarization thrust. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s gains in the state show that polarization is far from absent. That the BJP is now the only Opposition in the assembly means that the new government cannot relax its vigilance regarding the culture of hatred. The percentage of votes polled by the TMC shows it did not win on the strength of minority votes alone; large sections of the majority community supported it. Rejection of polarization, belief in a secular society, dislike of a party that flaunted its resources and declared how it would change Bengal in everything from citizenship status to marriage and food, all added up to the resistance. A powerful contribution to it was the ‘No vote to BJP’ campaign. Creative and vibrant, it was a movement largely of the young without political banners. This is a source of positive energy for the future, while its message is a salutary reminder that politicians are accountable. Another remarkable factor was the women’s vote. Women rose against the insults to the chief minister, for these insulted all of them. In their choice of party, they asserted the dignity of the women of Bengal. Welfare schemes, such as Swasthya Sathi that identifies women as family representatives, or Kanyashree, have given women a sense of independence and security. Bicycles in rural and semi-urban areas came as a boon to many who ride them to college and school, or use them for work after classes. Settlers from other states who, Ms Banerjee had clarified, were not the ‘outsiders’ she blamed for disrupting peace at election time, voted for the TMC too. In the last three phases of voting, the TMC’s winning streak was consolidated by the Centre’s failure to control the second wave of the pandemic. Ironically, Ms Banerjee’s request to the Election Commission to combine the phases because of the raging virus was ignored. The BJP’s loss is heartening for the TMC; an analysis of the factors that led to its victory shows the way it must now go.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
05-05-2021||Opinion||Glorious victory: Bengal defeats BJP||Sir — The fact that Mamata Banerjee’s party, the Trinamul Congress, has won the Bengal elections for the third successive term speaks volumes about the political strength that Banerjee has mustered in her two terms as chief minister (“Third chance”, May 3). Even with eight phases of polls, Banerjee has ensured a win for her party, campaigning with an injured leg against all the stalwarts in the Opposition. This is indeed a massive victory. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party won 18 of the 42 seats in Bengal. This time, by orchestrating defections from the TMC at the last moment, the BJP had become over-confident. Although it cannot be denied that the saffron party has now made inroads into Bengal, the final mandate of the people is clear. The same can be said of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s win in Tamil Nadu. The anti-incumbency factor played a role both in this state and in Puducherry, while in Bengal, Kerala and Assam the ruling dispensations had an edge over the Opposition. It must also be noted that the coronavirus has wreaked havoc in the five regions where the recent elections were held. The newly elected governments of the respective states and Union territory should take steps to curb the pandemic immediately, besides inoculating all of the electorate. The Election Commission should be lauded for holding the polls in a free and fair manner. But in the future, it should try to conduct the elections over a shorter duration of time. Prolonging elections leads to a cumbersome exercise and a waste of money from the public exchequer. This time, it has also contributed to the spread of the virus. Sravana Ramachandran,Chennai Sir — The result of the assembly polls proves that the people of West Bengal really love Mamata Banerjee, the TMC supremo. A number of heavyweight candidates of her own party betrayed her, but Banerjee did not lose courage. With the help of the remaining leaders, she fought against them as well as against BJP leaders, including Union ministers, who tried their best to unseat her. They campaigned across districts and made great promises at rallies. But to no avail. The people of Bengal have shown that Bengal truly wants its own daughter back. Shyamal Thakur,Ramnagar, East Burdwan Sir — Mamata Banerjee and her party must be congratulated for the stellar performance at the Bengal polls. But the role of the voters of Bengal is more laudable. The citizens have, by voting in large numbers for the TMC, prevented the BJP, with its tall talk and money power, from capturing Bengal. Now the TMC must live up to the expectations of the people of Bengal, and work for the common good.Chaitali Panda,Howrah Poor decision Sir — The editorial, “Flawed design” (April 30), has rightly criticized the government for its decision to carry on with the Central Vista project, declaring it an ‘essential service’ to circumvent the restrictions imposed in the national capital, which is reeling under the devastating impact of the pandemic. The idea of the construction of the Central Vista to accommodate the Parliament building and the prime minister’s residence, among other edifices, at a massive cost, when the existing structures are in good health, was faulty ab initio. If the buildings needed repair, that could have been arranged. The argument that the Vista will augment larger sitting capacity for parliamentarians sounds thin: many seats in both houses of Parliament, while they are in session, often remain empty. India is a poor country. In large cities, including Calcutta, many people live on pavements. A number of Indians do not have roofs over their heads. In such a scenario, spending large sums of public money to satisfy the whims of politicians amounts to cardinal sin. Sanjit Ghatak,South 24 Parganas Sir — It is a shame that while people are dying in thousands every day, the ruling dispensation in India continues to prioritize investing money in a lavish construction project instead of allocating money to save lives. Is the vanity of the government more important than the lives of the citizens of the country? Rajdeep Purohit,Delhi  Step up Sir — While it is true that people must stay at home as much as possible and avoid crowded places at all costs in order to break the chain of coronavirus transmission, the plight of people who work for wages, anxious about feeding their families, must also be understood. The need of the hour is for state governments to form groups to distribute food and medicines among the needy, so that they do not have to risk their lives for the want of money. In places across the country, civic volunteers have already undertaken this task. But it is the government that must step up and address this problem. Rupsa Sengupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
05-05-2021||Opinion||Different fate: Left in Kerala and Bengal||Politics can prove to be a great leveller. The contrasting political fates of the Left in Kerala and Bengal bear evidence of this hypothesis. In Kerala, the Left Democratic Front created history by returning to power; this is the only time that a ruling regime has been voted back to power in the state after 1977. Meanwhile, in Bengal, the Left — it failed to win a single seat — is now history. The Left’s feat in the southern state can be attributed to a medley of factors. Pinarayi Vijayan’s leadership is among these. Under his able hands, Kerala endured several natural calamities. Mr Vijayan’s firm yet humane presence during the ongoing Covid-19 rampage assured the state that this was a government that is intent on serving the people. The provision of food and enhanced pension — the simplest of gestures — won hearts, as did the LDF government’s wise investments in education, public work projects and healthcare. Crucially, the LDF was able to win over the support of the state’s minorities: there was a significant shift of the Muslim and Christian vote away from the Congress to the Left. The reasons are not far to seek. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s naked polarizing campaign forced anxious Muslims to view the Left as a defender of pluralism. Mr Vijayan’s unambiguous rejection of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act helped. The  Christian community, unnerved by the rising presence of the Indian Union Muslim League within the United Democratic Front, flocked towards the Left. The LDF’s principal strengths — efficient leadership, public service, astute strategizing, to name a few — were absent in their comrades in Bengal. In Bengal, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) made a blunder by failing to identify its principal adversary. The Left’s attempt to equate the Trinamul Congress with a divisive BJP was comprehensively rejected by the people of Bengal. There were other blunders. The alliance’s decision to rope in the Indian Secular Front in the hope of splitting the Muslim vote proved to be counterproductive. What the Left called a strategic need was largely perceived as pandering to an anti-secular ethic alien to the communist ethos. Many of the Left’s young candidates conducted energetic campaigns but the absence of a party organization and fresher, prudent minds in decision-making bodies cemented their fate. The Left’s resurrection in Bengal looks improbable unless the fuddy-duddies shed their foggy political lens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
05-05-2021||Opinion||Revisiting the Dandi march||The celebration of the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence commenced on March 12 with the nation observing the 91st anniversary of the Dandi march. The immediate objective of that historic march by M.K. Gandhi on March 12, 1930 was to break the salt law imposed by the British that prohibited Indians from making salt from sea water. The march started from Sabarmati ashram and witnessed massive public participation. After covering almost 200 miles, it culminated on April 6, 1930, when Gandhi broke the salt law by picking up a fistful of salt in Dandi. The magnitude of the event shook the very foundations of the British empire. While launching the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence on the 91st anniversary of the Dandi march, Prime Minister Narendra Modi claimed that the march “... gave the message of atma-nirbharta (self-reliance) and atma-vishwas (self-confidence)”. This statement hardly addressed the deeper dimensions of the Dandi march. The Dandi march represented the idea of sustainability. Three weeks after he broke the salt law, Gandhi wrote, “... this struggle is for freeing the world from the monstrous tyranny of material greed...” Global warming and climate change are outcomes of the “monstrous tyranny of material greed”. At the core of Gandhi’s articulation remains the essence of sustainability. On March 30, 1930, while walking to Dandi, Gandhi noted the acute shortage of water in the province and stated that if anybody could give him money he would have wells dug for providing drinking water. Again, on April 3, 1930, he told his colleagues about the paucity of water in Dandi and cautioned them to use it as if it were milk. That warning sounds particularly relevant for the 21st century, described as the one of the most water-stressed epochs in the history of humanity. Even though Gandhi was 60 years old during the Dandi march, he walked much faster than his fellow marchers. He noticed that many of them got tired after walking, suffered from fever due to fatigue and developed blisters on their feet. Deeply distressed, Gandhi, in his speech of April 3, explained their plight by saying that they were part of a generation that was delicate and pampered. He appealed to combine national work with physical exercise and described walking as the prince of exercises. He disapproved of the use of motorized transport for covering small distances and said, “Do not resort to motor-cars on the slightest pretext. The rule is, do not ride if you can walk.” Gandhi’s remark has lessons for modern India, which has become the diabetes capital of the world as well as the hub of several other lifestyle diseases. The Dandi march, in a way, was a march for the health of our nation. The event also stood for inclusion. During the march, when Gandhi was asked whether the future legislature would accommodate Muslims in its fold, he replied that he should get a seat only after Muslims, Christians and Parsis got adequate representation. Such a vision counters the dangerous majoritarianism that is now part of the national narrative, polarizing people and making politics exclusive. The Dandi march represented the right to dissent and a culture of protest against an unjust law. It upheld Hindu-Muslim unity and pluralism as opposed to homogeneity and exclusion based on religious majority. Above all, it stood for sustainability and wholesome living that are defining modern public policy and sustainable development goals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
05-05-2021||Opinion||Wonder woman||The passion and conviction were all too visible in Mamata Banerjee’s first words to the media after the magnificent win registered by her party in West Bengal. She would be going to a Constitution bench, she said, because “we have faced the horrors of Election Commission and if we tolerate whatever they have done in Bengal, then in India there will be no democracy.” She invited other political parties to join her petition to the Supreme Court and said that Bengal has saved India today. So are we getting ahead of ourselves by asking if Mamata Banerjee can save India tomorrow in a national coalition against the Bharatiya Janata Party? She does, after all, have the temperament for a protracted fight and has just triumphed in the most epic of battles, with not just politics but also institutions ranged against her. Other regional leaders won too, such as the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s M.K. Stalin in Tamil Nadu and Pinarayi Vijayan in Kerala, as much a regional satrap as a Left worker. But none had the entire might of the BJP and Central agencies ranged against them. It is, therefore, the Bengal mandate that has really shattered the illusion of invincibility around the Narendra Modi regime two years into his second term as prime minister. The future suddenly looks ripe with possibilities. The Bengal victory is all the more substantive as it was not just against an irrational burst of BJP energy in the last two months of campaigning. The national party was playing the long game in Bengal and had framed policies with the state elections in mind. The Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which was passed by Parliament in December 2019, was always targeted at Bengal that is believed to have the largest population of Hindus tracing their roots to Bangladesh (the Act fast-tracks their citizenship while blocking that of Muslims). The CAA would lead to nationwide trauma: protests and, eventually, riots in Delhi in February 2020. The Matua community, the largest group of Hindu migrants from Bangladesh, have indeed supported the national party in these polls although ironically, after creating so much bad blood, the Centre is yet to frame the rules of the CAA that are required to make it operational — a display of the cynicism with which Hindutva agendas are given a dry run. The West Bengal chief minister has often asked the Opposition to unite, but the question remains whether she would be willing to step out of her turf and wage a national battle. The last chief minister to do so was Narendra Modi, who had also won three terms in Gujarat. The difference was that he had a national party as a vehicle for his ambitions. Mamata Banerjee does not and were this idea to ever have wings, she would have to work with both the Congress and the regional forces. The apparent reluctance of the Gandhis to hold office could be a factor that does not make this an impossible idea. There has already been editorial commentary about the power of regional satraps and the question has been asked if disparate forces could take on an entrenched national player. It can happen, but only if the Congress is on board because in spite of the defeats in these polls, the party still has bases across the country. Because of its failure to win Kerala and Assam, there is likely to be some implosions in the Congress but if the past is an indicator of the future, then after the hurly-burly is done, the Gandhis will still be at the helm of affairs. The good news is that although Rahul Gandhi has shown none of the street-fighting grit that makes Mamata Banerjee so exceptional at this moment in contemporary history, he has taken wise and far-sighted positions on the coronavirus epidemic that currently rages through the land. At a time of acute oxygen shortages in the national capital, Priyanka Gandhi has been personally overseeing a youth Congress team delivering oxygen cylinders to homes, hospitals and even embassy compounds, small gestures that do show that the heart is in the right place. But hardheaded political acumen would require the Congress to recast state strategies and not contest against traditional regional players as it did in Bengal, eventually getting out for duck. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, also oversaw its Bengal strategy and often speaks of Mamata Banerjee with disrespectful phraseology. Should the Congress be serious in its intent to take on Narendra Modi in 2024, it would have to dispense with certain fixtures in its state units and look at the larger picture. The next round of state polls will take place in early 2022, first in Punjab, where the BJP no longer remains a serious contender after the split with the Shiromani Akali Dal over the farm laws, and then in Uttar Pradesh, hit by Covid-19 spreading into the hinterland but also missing a strong Opposition. Mamata Banerjee has been part of two coalitions in the past, the National Democratic Alliance of Atal Bihari Vajpayee when she was not in power in Bengal and the United Progressive Alliance, eventually leaving UPA II led by Manmohan Singh in 2012 over foreign direct investment in the retail sector. Unlike the Bahujan Samaj Party chief, Mayawati, or the late J. Jayalalithaa, both former women chief ministers, the Bengal leader is not unapproachable. She has excellent relations with Sonia Gandhi and with state leaders across the country. Of importance would also be her equation with Sharad Pawar, the Nationalist Congress Party supremo, who is considered a smart practitioner of statecraft and is credited with being behind the design of the regime that now rules Maharashtra. Both Mamata Banerjee and Pawar are former Congress members who would go on to create significant regional parties. The UPA is currently almost defunct as a forum and Sonia Gandhi is the chairman; the game would indeed be afoot again were the national party and regional players to reach out and make the Bengal chief minister chairperson of the UPA. Mamata Banerjee takes risks. There is something beautifully human about her defeat in Nandigram. She left a safe seat for a tougher one when she was, in fact, the TMC face for every seat in Bengal. She was injured both physically and metaphorically in Nandigram, but as does happen in protracted battles, the hero gets wounded, copes with the pain and keeps charging till the enemy is vanquished. The eventual defeat from Nandigram only makes her human and, therefore, more relatable in the age of carefully manufactured leadership. At a time when many state leaders even from opposing parties are careful about what they say about Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, it’s a breath of fresh air to see Mamata Banerjee speak her mind fearlessly and honestly from her point of view. Under the homely exterior of a spontaneous leader in a simple cotton sari is an individual with nerves of steel. That’s what is needed to fight the cult of the Indian prime minister, propped up by big money, manpower and a pliable national media. There is some distance between 2021 and 2024, when the next general election takes place; can the Opposition start devising a strategy? There are chinks in the BJP’s armour and the national chemistry is changing. Mamata Banerjee has shown India that no victory is impossible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
