06-05-2021||Opinion||Free flow: SC upholds transparency in communication of information||Transparency in the communication of information has been upheld by the Supreme Court in two recent hearings. The context of both cases was the second surge of Covid-19 infections and the common issue was the media’s right to communicate information freely. Reportedly describing the second surge of Covid-19 infections as a national crisis, the Supreme Court said that grievances expressed by citizens on social media platforms cannot be treated as wrong information. Action taken against people asking for help with oxygen, medicines or hospital beds was the ‘worst way’ to deal with a crisis, which the Supreme Court would consider contempt of court. This strong message was for all states and chiefs of police at a time when suppression of Covid-related data is believed to be contributing to the countrywide tragedy. The Supreme Court also emphasized that citizens’ voices should be heard. This is pertinent not only in relation to uncovering how acute the crisis is, but it also assails the culture of suppression that ignores democratic and humanitarian rights. The Uttar Pradesh administration, for example, is trying to silence such online messages with the National Security Act. In another hearing, the Supreme Court made clear that it would restrain neither high court judges from making comments besides passing orders nor the media from reporting the ‘dialogue’ that takes place within courts. It was not enough just to report the order. This was said in response to the Election Commission’s plea against the comments of the Madras High Court last month and the media’s reporting of them. The high court had held the EC responsible for the unmanageable spread of the virus through election rallies and had also said that its officials could be booked for murder. The Supreme Court said in effect that judges were free to ask uncomfortable questions, while ‘dialogue’ with lawyers was an integral part of the adjudication process. Equally important was the reporting of these details, particularly with regard to matters of public interest. People had a right to know about the approach of the courts and that there was genuine application of mind to the issue. But transparency is also dependent on responsible media. The Supreme Court called the media the watchdog of democracy. Falling short of this status would make the media’s role meaningless.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
06-05-2021||Opinion||Stop the hate: Kangana permanently suspended from Twitter||Sir — The permanent suspension of Kangana Ranaut from Twitter following a controversial tweet that violated the site’s policy on hateful conduct must be lauded. The polarizing actress demanded that president’s rule be imposed in Bengal in the aftermath of the assembly elections in the state. She further implied that the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee — she took oath for her third consecutive term yesterday — be “tamed” by the prime minister. Hate speech must be immediately halted, no matter where it comes from. It is hoped that Twitter will continue to be prompt in stopping all such incendiary words on the microblogging site in future. Anamika Saha,Calcutta About time Sir — No matter how big a cricket fan, everyone would agree that it was a wise decision to suspend the remaining matches of the Indian Premier League as the second wave of coronavirus rages through the country (“Safe-IPL bubble bursts, BCCI eyes Sept restart”, May 5). It was quite evident that the Board of Control for Cricket in India allowed the 2021 season to commence primarily because of financial gains. It was a relief to know that finally after 29 league matches it has decided to suspend the tournament. However, the BCCI’s claim that it decided to halt the matches because it does not want to “compromise on the safety of the players, support staff and the other participants involved in organising the IPL” comes a little too late. Was there any reason to hold the IPL in India at a time when the number of infections were steadily rising in the country? The BCCI’s response that it did not think of holding the matches in the United Arab Emirates because it thought that the Covid-19 curve had flattened in India is a testament to its short-sightedness. Ultimately, the bio-secure bubble within which the IPL was operating was breached with several players testing positive. It is true that for many people the tournament was a much-needed source of entertainment. Nevertheless, the BCCI should have had the foresight to predict a spread of infection amongst the staff and players and desisted from holding the tournament this year. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — The impact of Covid-19 on the sporting world has been immense since the outbreak of the pandemic. As soon as it seemed that the world was slowly getting back on its feet, the second wave of the coronavirus hit India with a vengeance. With a range of players like Varun Chakaravarthy, Sandeep Warrier and Amit Mishra testing positive, the BCCI was left with no choice but to suspend IPL 2021. In spite of strictly imposing Covid-19 protocols and holding the matches within a bio-secure bubble, the virus affected multiple people proving that even such measures are no longer adequate. Since then, several players and officials have pulled out of the tournament citing safety issues. It is of utmost importance that all activities are halted for the next few months or at least till the time all individuals involved could be fully vaccinated. This is the only way that they can stay safe. Yashi Bairagi, Ujjain Sir — The decision of the BCCI to suspend this year’s IPL indefinitely is absolutely correct. While some cricket fans may be unhappy with the turn of events, people should understand that the safety of the players and personnel involved with the tournament must be prioritized above all else. It is hoped that once the Covid-19 situation in the country has improved, the BCCI will be able to hold the remaining matches of IPL 2021. Sourish Misra,Calcutta For shame Sir — The death of 24 people within a day is indicative of the appalling situation of the healthcare system in Karnataka (“Oxygen runs out, 24 dead”, May 4). Right from the beginning, the state’s fight against Covid-19 has faced many issues with the chief minister, B.S. Yediyurappa, failing to rein in his warring ministers during a health crisis. Furthermore, his inability, along with that of the ministers concerned, to evolve a strategy to counter the second wave of Covid-19 indicates a lack of strong leadership. Surprisingly, authorities have continued to insist that the deaths in Chamrajnagar were not linked to the non-availability of oxygen but rather the deceased had comorbidities. The government has repeatedly assured that there is no scarcity of medical oxygen in the state but the ground realities are completely different. Many deaths are being reported across Karnataka that have been attributed to the shortage of oxygen. There is an acute crisis of oxygen cylinders and concentrators. Last October, six Pressure Swing Adsorption oxygen plants were sanctioned to Karnataka but none of them is operational yet. Be it ICU beds, Covid Care Centres, vital medicines or vaccines, Karnataka is struggling. It is time the government accepts its failures and works to urgently remedy the situation. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
06-05-2021||Opinion||Mischief begins: Post-poll violence in Bengal||Violence is antithetical to the spirit of democracy. Yet, even a cursory examination of Bengal’s political history would show that bloodshed has, unfortunately, been integral to its political culture. The killings that the state has witnessed after the declaration of the results of the assembly elections, therefore, are indicative of a worrying continuum. Several deaths have been reported from all over the state, with supporters of the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Trinamul Congress as well as those of the Sanjukta Morcha losing lives. The provocative comments made by several BJP leaders as well as by voices in the right-wing’s echo-chamber in the course of the campaign may have been one of the sparks that lit this fire. The chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, has responded by appealing for peace. She has to do more than that. The administration must act firmly and without bias, nipping the toxic contagion in the bud. Ms Banerjee cannot be complacent about the mischief. The BJP, having been comprehensively rejected by the people, is a past master when it comes to fishing in troubled waters. The party — this is only to be expected — is giving a communal twist to the transgressions by depicting minorities as the aggressors. The BJP’s national president has egregiously compared the prevailing situation with that of the Partition. Such prejudiced views are being complemented by the dissemination of patently false reports through social media. Several claims, such as the one amplified by a BJP MP and an MLA — of a karyakarta being gang-raped in Nanoor — have been disproved. It would not be erroneous to speculate that the BJP has the following goals. First, keeping the communal pot on the boil in Bengal could reap a better electoral harvest in the future. Second, the poisoned rhetoric, obediently subscribed to by large sections of the media and, allegedly other influential offices, would keep Ms Banerjee’s government on the defensive. Finally, the myth of ‘Bengal burning’ could prove to be a useful diversion to deflect public attention from the monumental lapses committed by the Narendra Modi government in its management of the Covid crisis. Ms Banerjee should ensure that peace prevails. Bengal, the chief minister must not forget, has voted in favour of peace and pluralism. It is now her turn to honour the people’s pledge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
06-05-2021||Opinion||Another historic blunder: Left and Cong misread Bengal polls||West Bengal has delivered a decisive verdict against the Bharatiya Janata Party. This was an extraordinary election where the battle had become all about the BJP trying to conquer Bengal and an angry and alarmed Bengal trying to stop the BJP by all means. The BJP did not anticipate the depth of the opposition and the steely resolve of the people. The unprecedented gains made by the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections had put the state on alert. The Trinamul Congress did show the political sharpness and agility to draw its lessons and take corrective measures, but the BJP with its power, resources and well-oiled election machine threatened to virtually romp home to victory by engineering large-scale defections and lulling floating voters into submission. This is where the progressive and inclusive legacy of West Bengal stepped in and erected a wall of resistance that the BJP could not breach. Despite suffering defections, the TMC vote share went up by five per cent since 2019. The Left Front and the Congress should have seen the extraordinary significance of the battle for Bengal. Failure to sense it can only be called a big error of subjective and wishful reading of the situation. And if they sensed it and yet chose to ignore the warning signals, it is yet another historic blunder. Be that as it may, large sections of Bengal’s activists and intelligentsia — from radical student and youth organizations to cultural activists running little magazines, digital media, theatre groups, film societies and musical teams, activists working in the domain of public health, education, environment, science and rationalism and the broad spectrum of rights activists working among various marginalized groups — ran an energetic campaign sensitizing the people about the danger and managed to avert the disaster of a BJP victory. As a communist party we are glad to have played our role in energizing this resistance. The fundamental flaw of the CPI(M)’s West Bengal analysis was to treat it as just another state election delinked from the overwhelming national context, that too frozen in time, more linked to 2011 and 2016 than dealing with the current reality of 2021. It forgot that the election was being held in the shadow of a pandemic and against the backdrop of powerful movements against the fascist offensive of Modi 2.0 — the discriminatory Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the disastrous farm laws, the cruel lockdown and systematic sale of national assets. That it was not about settling scores with the TMC over Singur and Nandigram and for the 2011 defeat, it was about addressing the pressing present reality of West Bengal and India from a left point of view. In the changed balance of forces, the LF-Congress-ISF combine could never be seen as an alternative government. West Bengal needed the Left as an Opposition alive to the challenges of the day. While the whole world saw the BJP and the TMC as two adversaries, the CPI(M) harped on the presumed equivalence and unity of the two. Hence the absurd formulation that to defeat the BJP one had to first defeat the TMC, or the concoction of a fictitious entity called ‘Bijemool’ by lumping the BJP and the TMC. If at all it addressed the BJP, it addressed it as another version of the TMC, as a party of former TMC turncoats. The CPI(M) thought it was enough to blame the TMC for ‘inviting’ the BJP to West Bengal, forgetting the strong ideological and organizational roots of Hindutva in West Bengal and ignoring the challenge of facing the BJP today. Imagine the kind of impact a Brigade rally could have had with leaders of the farmers movement, the movement against NRC and CAA, students’ movements, reflecting the Left’s resolve and readiness to stop the BJP in West Bengal. With its one-sided and short-sighted approach, the CPI(M)-Congress coalition had earlier ceded ground to the BJP; this time around the alliance ceded ground to the TMC in the BJP-TMC polarization. The West Bengal assembly will now have the BJP straddling the entire Opposition space. The Congress in West Bengal stands metamorphosed as the TMC; it is the Left that will go missing in the assembly. The Left will have to rebuild and re-energize itself in the state through its dedication to the people and as a spirited organ of people’s movement. Democratic forces and Opposition parties across India have got a ‘Bengal breather’, and this moment must be used to inject a greater sense of purpose, urgency and unity among the entire Opposition spectrum. The Bengal brake should inspire the farmers, workers, youth and women to intensify their ongoing struggles and invigorate the Opposition for the coming electoral battles — UP in 2022 and India in 2024. Dipankar Bhattacharya is general-secretary of the CPIML||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
06-05-2021||Opinion||Different response||India is reeling under one of the most serious public health challenges in the post-Independence era. The immediate crisis has a strong internal dimension and this fact cannot be overemphasized. One need not be a public health expert to realize that allowing mass religious gatherings, the lack of the leadership’s deference to science and expertise, poor public communication strategy regarding public health, the lack of preparation and a multi-stage electoral cycle are some of the visible factors that proved to be fatal. However, going beyond the immediate crisis, the ability of India and the rest of the world to prevent further losses and limp back to normality is also inextricably related to the prevailing international realities and structures that govern distribution of limited public health resources, particularly the vaccines. During the first half of 2020, the pandemic demonstrated that even normative guidance and resolve on the question of meeting the challenge of Covid-19 were a matter of contention among global powers. In the midst of the rising death toll globally owing to Covid-19 last year, the United Nations security council impasse over a draft resolution on the pandemic was indicative of a wider institutional breakdown of the most important global body, which is becoming hostage to the rivalry between the United States of America and the People’s Republic of China. For several months, the US and China bickered over a draft resolution on the pandemic. In the absence of an international regime that could facilitate equitable access to public health resources globally, as had been repeatedly pointed out by public health researchers, vaccine nationalism is slowing down the efforts to return to normality. In fact, it could further exacerbate the human condition, as is borne out by the recent Indian experience, with possibly more virulent mutants. Oxfam had warned in September 2020 that “just 13 percent of the world’s population have already cornered more than half (51 percent) of the promised doses of leading Covid-19 vaccine candidates”. The Global Health Innovation Center in the North Carolina-based Duke University has noted in its updated data that “[h]igh-income countries currently hold a confirmed 4.6 billion doses, while low-middle income nations hold 670 million”. In April 2020, the World Trade Organization, made up of 164 member states, had warned that a lack of transparency about restrictions and failure to cooperate internationally could undermine efforts to slow the spread of Covid-19. Last year, the US, reeling under the pandemic, made a request to China to revise new export quality control rules for protective equipment after complaints were made that their rules were holding up supplies. Eighty countries had reportedly banned or limited the export of face masks, protective gear, gloves and other goods to mitigate shortages. With a population scale and financial muscle, the reality is that even the US faced a severe shortage of masks or personal protective equipment kits in March-April 2020, which led to an increase in the Covid-19 caseload among the medical staff. The rest of the richer cohorts are relatively smaller in size and more vulnerable. Covid-19 demonstrated that mere access to financial resources does not ensure availability of required medical equipment during a surge. It is unlikely that one country could start manufacturing all kinds of medical goods, such as masks, or anything a bit advanced, such as ventilators. Also, at times, it becomes difficult to anticipate which medical goods’ demand will outstrip supply on a given occasion. A case in point is that during April 2020 and February 2021, India had exported 12 metric tonnes of medical oxygen. In the context of the fight against Covid-19, the old debate on intellectual property between the richer nations and developing countries is back. The developing countries are demanding temporary relaxations on intellectual property, patents and other such provisions laid out under the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, also known as the TRIPS Agreement of the WTO, which came into effect on January 1, 1995. As expected, there is an opposition to the proposal from the European Union, the US, Japan and Canada on the grounds that innovation depends on respect for intellectual property. Patent-protected medicines are expensive as pharmaceutical companies price their products by factoring in research and development costs. A generic product drives down the price dramatically as had been seen with the much-cited example of antiretroviral drugs for HIV/AIDS. Brazilian and Indian companies started producing cheap drugs for HIV/AIDS and thus also supported the efforts of several AIDS-hit populations of African countries along the way. In the same way, India’s present crisis has put in jeopardy the vaccination programmes in low-income countries. India, the largest vaccine manufacturing hub, has exported 66.3 million vaccine doses to 95 countries under three categories — grant, commercial and Covax, a global initiative aimed at ensuring equitable access to vaccines. Now it has stopped the exports. There may be a need for alternative institutional arrangements. Richard N. Haass and Charles A. Kupchan, in an article, “The New Concert of Powers”, in Foreign Affairs on March 23, argued for a new concert comprising China, the EU, India, Japan, Russia and the US, as the existing multilateral institutions are too formalistic and bureaucratic to respond to the urgent challenges. Though the purpose of this suggested concert, whose “members would collectively represent roughly 70 percent of both global GDP and global military spending”, is broader in scope, the authors argue that “the COVID-19 pandemic exposed the WHO’s inadequacies, and the concert would be the right place to fashion a consensus on reform”. An early end to the fight against Covid-19 is predicated on ensuring greater global equity in terms of expeditious access to public health resources. The present international arrangements to forge consensus and advance solutions are proving to be inadequate to respond to the foremost existential challenge of this century.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
