07-05-2021||Opinion||Game over: IPL 2021 suspended||Politicians alone do not suffer from myopia: it appears that the members of the Board of Control for Cricket in India share their affliction. The cricket board’s short-sightedness has been evident in the timing and the organization of the now-suspended 2021 edition of the Indian Premier League. Sport and politics mix well in India. Is that why the BCCI’s bunglings mirror the Centre’s mismanagement of the Covid-19 crisis in the country? The postponement of the IPL on account of several players testing positive is indicative of serious lapses on the part of the apex cricketing body in the management of a tournament that attracts players from all over the world. The decision to host the competition across a large country that would involve considerable travelling was erroneous. Two players and the coach of one team were reported to have contracted the virus while travelling through an airport terminus. The bio-secure bubble was not secure enough either; the BCCI should have selected a firm with expertise in keeping bio-bubbles safe instead of relying on less efficient resources. It must be asked why Restrata, the professional company responsible for tracking devices and offering bio-secure solutions that managed the IPL last year in the United Arab Emirates, was not employed to do the same in 2021. This year, hospital vendors and testing laboratories were given the task of ensuring bio-security even though the board is known to have deep pockets. Questions have also been raised over testing and quarantine protocols for essential workers outside the bubble, including groundsmen, net bowlers and drivers, most of whom kept changing across cities. The failure to keep the IPL safe from the virus is all the more embarrassing for the BCCI because sport tournaments have been conducted smoothly in other corners of the world. There is also the case of the BCCI’s sensibilities. The decision to host an extravaganza — a non-essential service — at a time of unprecedented death and suffering speaks of lopsided priorities. Morality has been sacrificed at the altar of commerce. Another question cannot be avoided altogether: was there an attempt to use the IPL as a smokescreen by the powers that be to deflect attention from their own failure to save the nation from disease and death?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
07-05-2021||Opinion||Bitter loss: Babul Supriyo questions people's mandate||Sir — It pains one to learn that the Bharatiya Janata Party candidate from Tollygunge, Babul Supriyo, questioned the mandate of the voters of Bengal after the Trinamul Congress’s landslide victory. He even went on to call Mamata Banerjee a ‘cruel lady’. It was the voters of Bengal who elected him to the 16th and 17th Lok Sabhas and, in 2019, rewarded his party with 18 Lok Sabha seats. It seems that it is an inherent trait of BJP leaders to blame everyone except themselves for any kind of failure. Be it the Central government’s flawed policies with regard to controlling the second wave of the pandemic or the poll results of Bengal, they always refrain from taking responsibility. It is not the voters of Bengal but the overconfidence of the party — it relied on the strategy of communal polarization instead of emphasizing the core issues that Bengal faces, such as the lack of industry, unequal pay for para-teachers, or unemployment — that led to their loss at the hustings. Perhaps the BJP ignored such problems because its governments — at the Centre or in states — do not have a very impressive scorecard on such parameters either. One hopes the BJP leadership will learn from its mistakes and conduct proper scrutiny within the party. Nilutpal Maitra,  Howrah Sir — At the core of the idea of democracy lies the will of the people. As such, disrespecting the people’s verdict by calling it a ‘mistake’ is a rather disappointing move, especially coming from a Union minister like Babul Supriyo. Supriyo should have taken a leaf out of the books of his seniors in the party — even the prime minister congratulated Mamata Banerjee on her win — and accepted defeat with grace. His reaction was immature Tanushree Ghoshal,Calcutta  New risk Sir — Scientists have recently found out that certain disposable face masks release toxic chemicals when submerged in water. This is a matter of grave concern. It has become a common practice among many Indians to wash and re-use their masks. This could lead to a new health hazard. Further, improper disposal of used masks in or near water bodies could result in large-scale contamination. Aditi Goswami,New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
07-05-2021||Opinion||Out of work: Rising unemployment||The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy has published unemployment figures for April 2021. As expected, with the second wave of Covid-19 hitting the economy, unemployment has risen by 73.5 lakh. From January 2021 to April 2021, the increase in unemployment is to the extent of 99 lakh. The unemployment rate is around 8 per cent and is supposed to be the highest in four months. The job losses have been spread across regular and casual workers as well as the self-employed. Similarly, the segments where unemployment has hit the hardest include informal sectors like household helps and office supply chains to more formal sectors like hospitality, retail, travel and tourism. It may be recalled that last year business units had disengaged a large number of workers. With this round of retrenchment, most manufacturing units are now supposed to be at the bare minimum level of employment. Any further cut would affect operations and revenues. In other words, further shrinkage of demand or another round of supply chain disruptions may force these units to close down in large numbers. It is also clear that the recovery from the first wave’s effects is still not complete. New jobs are not being created. Hence, this round of job losses may be indicative of a widespread collapse of productive activity in the economy. The unemployment situation appears grim, to say the least. New jobs are going to be very scarce even when the economy begins to recover at a faster clip. The cost to the economy will be very high in terms of production foregone by the wastage of an important productive resource. The social and political costs of having an army of unproductive and unemployable people can be steep in terms of rising crime and violence. The government’s advisers and policymakers are obsessed with the gross domestic product’s growth rate as the sure-fire indicator of recovery. However, in India, there has been recovery in terms of growth, but hardly any recovery in terms of new employment. Any strategy that focuses on recovery must consider unemployment as a separate and more important problem. There is an unhealthy silence on the Central government’s part regarding urgent measures to heal the economy. Narendra Modi should understand that rising unemployment can turn out to be a bigger disaster than the toll taken by the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
07-05-2021||Opinion||Common crime against Algeria||The announcement by the French president, Emmanuel Macron, that all classified documents pertaining to the occupation of Algeria and its war of independence would be made public meets a long-standing demand by Algiers. Understandably, the announcement has taken many people in France by surprise. The prejudices harboured systemically by the French against Arab migrants — and Algerians in particular — cannot be easily missed. With a presidential election imminent, Macron is trying to cosy up to the Muslim minority. Yet, Macron has to appear friendly to the Muslims without being seen as too close to them since the Islamophobic National Front is gaining in popularity. It has been argued that a better relationship between France and its citizens of Algerian origin will not be possible without a truthful and reconciliatory dialogue over the atrocities committed by the French in the north African nation. Paris has been steadfast in its refusal to acknowledge guilt, let alone apologize for its crimes in its colonies. No French president has thought it necessary to say mea culpa to the Algerians. If Macron is seen to be doing the right thing now, he is doing so out of expediency. In French intellectual circles, opinion on the subject of taking responsibility for the savageries associated with the colonial regime remains sharply divided. In an earlier age, the most compelling voice demanding an end to French rule belonged to that of Jean-Paul Sartre, while Albert Camus took recourse to silence, which was interpreted by his critics as giving consent to Paris’s reign by terror. The debate, symbolized by the contrasting attitude of the two great literary figures in post-war France, has gained fresh currency following Macron’s announcement. Even as one cannot but admire Sartre’s adherence to Republican principles, or his virulent opposition to the violence and injustice inherent in colonialism, one is disappointed by his use of the word, ‘dignified’, to explain the ‘silence’ behind which Camus chose to hide himself. It was necessary then, and even more necessary now in a cowardly and apolitical world, to remember that neutrality — silence — in the face of evil strengthens the oppressor. Camus erred; but so did Sartre when he let his guard down. Camus was not the only renowned figure to have let down the Algerians in their liberation struggle. Nearer home, Jawaharlal Nehru shied away from speaking up against French betrayals and brutalities. As the anti-apartheid South African writer and activist, Ronald Segal, pointed out in his The Crisis of India: “Although... there was widespread support in India, even amongst opposition parties..., for the struggle of the Algerian people against France, the Indian government refused to recognize the Provisional Government of the Algerian Republic, in the face of repeated pleas by Algerian representatives that such an act would significantly increase the pressure on France for a settlement... ” In the classic case of running with the hare and hunting with the hound, “when Algeria at last achieved its independence, Nehru duly congratulated the leaders of the new nation, but was careful to congratulate President de Gaulle of France as well for ‘his resolve to grant independence to Algeria’.” Significantly, even as India refused to stand by the beleaguered Algerians, China went out of its way to give an interest-free loan of 10 million dollars, part of the amount in weapons which the Chinese trained the Algerians to use. In 1962, India turned to Algeria and other African nations for moral support during the armed conflict with China. None of these countries was willing to come to its aid. They had not forgotten Nehru’s unfriendly attitude towards the Algerians in their struggle against the French. Unfortunately, Nehru’s espousal of non-alignment had made him blind to the necessity of distinguishing between right and wrong.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
07-05-2021||Opinion||Citizenship: Apply the human touch||It is ironical that neither the Centre, which passed the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, nor the political outfits that are opposed to it have addressed the following fundamental question: what would happen to the Stateless people found ineligible to be Indian citizens if the National Register of Citizens were to be implemented nationwide? Article 1 of the UNHCR Convention (1954) defines a Stateless person as one “who is not considered as a national by any state under the operation of its law”. The experience of Assam reveals that it takes about a decade from the stage of identification of an illegal migrant to his deportation through a process of litigation that involves the foreigners’ tribunals, courts and, finally, diplomatic channels. Assam could not deport more than a few thousand illegal migrants to Bangladesh in over two-and-a-half decades. The deportation of lakhs is, therefore, practically impossible. What would be the stand of the Centre on illegal migrants who cannot be deported? Is it feasible to keep them in detention centres for the rest of their lives? The UNHCR Convention (1954) recognizes the right to engage in wage-earning employment (Article 17), the right to education (Article 22), the right to have identity papers (Article 27) and some other human rights when it comes to Stateless people. If CAA (2019) is taken to its logical conclusion by granting citizenship to non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan, Afghanistan who had migrated to India before the cut-off date of December 31, 2014, it may reduce the number of stateless people by a few millions. However, before implementing the NRC at the national level, the Centre needs to spell out the exact process of preparing the register so as not to harass any genuine Indian citizen. Simultaneously, the government must clarify the rights of those born in India yet identified as non-citizens as per the provisions of the earlier amendments of the Citizenship Act in 1986 and in 2003. Those who are opposed to the CAA did not spiritedly oppose the earlier draconian amendments of the Citizenship Act. The first amendment in 1986 stated that any person born in India after July 1, 1987 is not an Indian citizen if both parents are illegal immigrants. The amendment of 2003 further restricted the concept of citizenship by birth when it stated that any person born in India after the commencement of that amendment was not an Indian citizen if either of the parents was an illegal immigrant. The CAA (2003) mandated the government to create an NRC. The two amendments violated the spirit of Article 1 of the UNHCR Convention (1961), which seeks to grant nationality to all Stateless children born in the Contracting State automatically or upon application, subject to the conditions as may be prescribed by national law. CAA (2019) may not take away the citizenship from any genuine Indian but a nationwide NRC is going to officially identify a large number of people as Stateless who were born in India after July 1, 1987 but whose parents are not covered by CAA (2019). Although CAA (2019) talks of illegal migrants from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, its implications in terms of the numbers is overwhelming. There is no official estimate of such migrants; neither has there been any serious attempt to identify them. The figure appears to be anywhere between 12 to 16 million if changes in the composition of populations in Assam, West Bengal and Bangladesh over the last 50 years are taken into consideration. Had the Centre stopped at CAA (2019), it would not have generated so much apprehension. But the declaration that the government would take CAA (2019) to its logical conclusion by identifying illegal immigrants through the NRC and force them to return to Bangladesh has created apprehension among genuine Indian citizens. Parallels are being drawn with the harassment of ‘D’ (Doubtful) voters in Assam since 1997. Stateless people have no legal right for voting anywhere in the world. But should India not provide them the rights to receive subsidized rations, education, healthcare services and a means of livelihood? Should we not provide them with an identity document? Should we not acknowledge their right to register for marriages and access courts? As a tolerant democracy, is it not our first duty to spell out the rights and responsibilities of the Stateless people before talking about an NRC for the whole nation? Instead of taking the issue of Stateless people to the streets, our political system should address it through a process of consultation and consensus. That will indicate the maturity of our democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
07-05-2021||Opinion||A steep price||The Narendra Modi government’s ineptitude (or call it complicity with monopolists’ extortions) knows no limits. In the midst of a terrible pandemic when there is a shortage of vaccines, there are three obvious things any government must do: first, distribute the vaccine free among the people, which is but a recognition of everyone’s right to life; second, introduce monopoly purchase of the vaccine by the government, no matter what the criteria and through which channels it chooses to ration it out among the people; third, fix the purchase price at a fair mark-up over unit prime cost. The vaccination regime in India began with these features (although private hospitals distributing government-procured vaccines charged Rs 250 per dose, which was questionable but not large enough to cause disquiet). Most inexplicably, however, the government ‘liberalized’ vaccine sale from May 1. The Central government would now buy only half the vaccine output and provide it free to those above 45. State governments and private hospitals would buy the other half and distribute it to those aged between 18 and 45. The prices paid by the three sets of buyers are different. For Covishield, prices would be Rs 150 for the Central government (even though this is not yet settled), Rs 300 for state governments (originally Rs 400 but lowered later) and Rs 600 for private hospitals. Covaxin prices would be Rs 150, Rs 400 (reduced from Rs 600 originally) and Rs 1,200, respectively. Many state governments have announced that they would provide the vaccines for free but given the parlous state of their finances, they may not be able to do so. Several people would be forced to access private hospitals and pay hefty amounts to get vaccinated. India would be an exception among countries, almost all of which are now providing free vaccines to their people. Even if the state governments find the resources to provide free vaccines, this would entail a wholly unwarranted transfer from state exchequers to a duopoly of vaccine-producing firms for the prices they are charging are scandalous. At the current exchange rate, what the Serum Institute of India, manufacturing Covishield, is charging state governments (Rs 300) translates to $4.00 per dose; its price to private hospitals (Rs 600) comes to $8 per dose. But AstraZeneca, whose product is Covishield, is charging $2.18 per dose to the European Union and $4 to the United States of America; the Indian prices are thus higher than the prices for the EU and the US. It may be thought that since the Central government pays less, the higher prices to state governments and private hospitals are meant to cross-subsidize sales to the Centre. But the SII also wants to charge Rs 300 per dose to the Central government (Rs 150 is what it was charging earlier and the Centre has unilaterally stated that the same price will continue); so, cross-subsidization cannot explain the higher prices for state governments and private hospitals. Besides, the weighted average price, even assuming that the Central government buys at Rs 150 per dose, with the sale proportions being 1/2:1/4:1/4, respectively, to the Centre, the states and private hospitals, comes to Rs 300 or $4.00; this still exceeds the price charged to the EU, and equals the US price (despite manufacturing costs being much lower in India). The higher price in India is not required to earn surpluses for expanding the firm’s capacity. For such expansion, the Central government has separately given SII Rs 3,000 crore. Besides, the SII can raise resources through the usual channels. The higher price for Covishield, therefore, is totally unjustified. Over-charging is even greater for Covaxin manufactured by Bharat Biotech. BB is charging the Central government Rs 150, state governments Rs 400 (Rs 600 originally but later reduced) and private hospitals Rs 1,200. Its excuses for charging even more than the SII are ridiculously feeble. It claims to have spent Rs 350 crore on clinical trials, which it wishes to recoup. But significant amounts of public funds have gone into the development of Covaxin (R. Ramakumar, Scroll.in, April 26). Besides, even if BB’s claim is accepted, the additional charge compared to Covishield, which it is levying on state governments and private hospitals, Rs 100 and Rs 600, respectively, assuming the same ratio of sales as above, and total sales of three crore doses per month from May onwards that it envisages (in fact sales are supposed to increase), would recoup this amount in just 20 days, after which higher prices on this score cannot be justified even by BB’s own logic. Likewise, BB argues that Covaxin prices have to be higher than Covishield as the latter got a grant of $300 million from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. But the weighted average price for Covaxin, again assuming the same ratio of sales, is Rs 475 per dose, which is Rs 175 more than for Covishield. On a sale of three crore per month, even ignoring increases in sales that must occur, this amount can be recouped in just over four months; what is the justification for higher prices after that? The argument that resources are needed for expanding capacity is, once again, untenable, since the Central government has just given Rs 1,500 crore for BB’s growth. It is obvious, therefore, that the two firms are blatantly engaged in profiteering during a pandemic. This is ironically confirmed by the very reductions in prices they have announced. Such profiteering is unacceptable. It is especially odious when public money goes to finance their growth, and has gone into developing the product of one of them. But profiteering has become possible because the Central government has ‘liberalized’ vaccine sale. ‘Liberalization’, amazingly, has not entailed any consultation among the manufacturers and state governments and private hospitals, or any scrutiny of their costs of production, or any agreement on the pricing formula based on such costs. For agricultural products, there is a Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices that fixes the minimum support prices and the procurement prices by looking at costs of production; but for a critical commodity like the Covid vaccine, even this minimal procedure has not been followed. The companies have simply told state governments and private hospitals, ‘This is our price, take it or leave it’, knowing perfectly well that their clients cannot afford to ‘leave it’. And, strangely, the Central government, concerned about the price it has to pay, has left state governments and private hospitals completely at the mercy of these firms. The motive for ‘liberalization’ is mysterious. In almost all other countries at present, vaccine producers do not sell to private hospitals, which was the case in India before ‘liberalization’. The earlier policy, of the Central government bulk-buying from the two firms at a pre-fixed price and then distributing the vaccines, should have continued. Why it was discontinued defies reason when this measure has encouraged profiteering. Short of taking over the firms, either permanently or for the duration of the pandemic (as Spain did to private hospitals earlier), a Central government that cares for the people has two options which it must follow simultaneously: one, use ‘compulsory licensing’ to start new production facilities that break the stranglehold of the duopoly and expand capacity more rapidly; two, compulsorily buy the entire output at Rs 150 per dose and then distribute through various channels as before. And in all cases, it must arrange that vaccination is free for the people. But does the Modi government care?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
