08-05-2021||Opinion||In the name of the cow||Courts have a habit of playing spoiler. The Punjab and Haryana High Court has reportedly directed the government of Haryana to explain what power or authority cow vigilantes have to raid citizens’ homes. The high court granted bail to a petitioner from Mewat with regard to a first information report based on a complaint by a gau rakshak group. This group had forcibly entered the petitioner’s house and discovered tethered cattle as well as, allegedly, instruments of slaughter. The FIR was recorded although there was no demonstrable killing of cows or sale of beef, which are forbidden by Haryana’s law against cow slaughter. The high court emphasized that raiding a home was illegal; private citizens cannot take the law into their own hands. By granting bail to the petitioner, the Punjab and Haryana High Court established the hollowness of the complaint. This was important in the context of seven years of cow-related violence against members of minority communities and Dalits. Besides, it asked the government for an explanation of the vigilantes’ powers. By implication, it suggested that the government is accountable for the nurturing of this form of violence. That suggestion points to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s intoxication with the cow. It is not enough for the party to consolidate its supporters’ votes around adoration for this gentle animal; the cow must be placed at the centre of India’s culture as a beacon for the Hindu rashtra that the BJP and its kin are certain will soon dawn. The flip side of adoration is organized violence: over 40 people have been killed by cow vigilantes since 2014 and many more injured. The intoxication, however, has spread from adoration on the one hand and violence on the other to science, medicine and academia. India may have acquired a unique place in the world by planning a nationwide examination on the incomparable virtues of the indigenous cow with prizes at the end. This assessment of nation-love and cow-love apart, research on the medicinal effects of the cow’s effluents is encouraged: it seems that the cow’s urine may cure cancer and dried cow dung may protect homes from radiation, among other miraculous benefits. The public remains ignorant of how much of its money these projects use, even at a time when the whole country is racked by the insufficiency of medical support amid the raging second surge of the Covid-19 infection. The BJP’s attitude is flamboyantly represented by the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, who ordered help desks for cow protection to be set up in all districts: these are 700 in number. While 353 people died in the 24 hours ending Thursday last, cow shelters were given thermal scanners and oximeters allegedly so that the cows remained safe. Nothing is surprising in a state that gave 130 cow shelters nearly Rs 40 crore in 2020-21. The high court’s response gains weight against this terrifying reversal of priorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
08-05-2021||Opinion||Bare minimum: Oxygen deficiency in Delhi||Sir — It was heartbreaking to see the Delhi chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, thank the prime minister, Narendra Modi, after the national capital received 730 metric tonnes of oxygen on May 5, saying that it was the first time that Delhi received over 700 metric tonnes of the life-saving gas. Modi should be taken to task, not thanked. It is the Centre’s job to save citizens’ lives; chief ministers should not have to thank a negligent Central government for doing the bare minimum that it was elected to do. The oxygen should have reached Delhi long ago; it was clearly withheld all this while. Rasika Kohli,Delhi Help out Sir — The governor of the Reserve Bank of India, Shaktikanta Das, announced a slew of measures aimed at lessening the financial stress on the economy (“New credit lines to fight crisis”, May 6). The announcements come at a time of acute economic uncertainty, amid a wave of infections that is yet to peak, and are designed to boost the flow of funds to the healthcare sector, and ease the pain of small businesses and individuals — parts of the economy that are most at risk. By doing so, the governor has sent a clear signal — all possible policy support will be extended to the economy as the fallout of the second Covid-19 wave intensifies. The central bank has provided an on-tap liquidity window, allowing banks to borrow Rs 50,000 crore at the repo rate of 4 per cent for lending to the healthcare sector. This lending will encompass vaccine manufacturers, suppliers of medical devices, oxygen and ventilators, and hospitals, among others. By allowing these loans to be classified as priority sector lending, the RBI is incentivizing the ramping up of support by the banks to the sector during these troubled times. Credit to small businesses and retail borrowers is also being incentivized. Given that during this period of stress, cash flows of businesses are likely to come under pressure, the RBI has also announced a resolution framework for small businesses, MSMEs and individuals as well as the second tranche of its government securities acquisition programme of Rs 35,000 crore which is part of its stated commitment of Rs 1 lakh crore. For state governments, which are likely to face a mismatch between their revenues and spending in the near term, the central bank has eased their overdraft limits, allowing them greater access to funds to fulfil their expenditure priorities. Considering the ferocity of the second wave and its uncertain economic fallout, it is reasonable to expect that more steps will be taken by the RBI. The Centre, too, has announced some steps. However, considering the gravity of the situation, and given that large parts of the economy were yet to recover to pre-pandemic levels even before the second wave, far greater support is needed from all levels of government. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — Last year, during the first wave of Covid-19, the government was quick to take action along with the RBI. This time, the Centre has adopted a laid-back attitude towards the financial woes of small, medium and individual businesses. The RBI has come up with a myriad measures to ameliorate the situation. Even though there is no nationwide lockdown now, the situation on the ground is the same for businesses save for some large media houses and technological and e-commerce businesses. The loan restructuring would help the poor who are unable to pay off their equal monthly instalments owing to the non-activity of businesses and the curbs imposed by state governments. Yashi Bairagi,Ujjain||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
08-05-2021||Opinion||Glory and shame||Watching television on election day is unnerving for senior citizens, because of the cacophony of shrieking voices and the maniacal jumping around on screen of all sorts of numbers and images. Therefore, for some years now, I have preferred to use Twitter to update myself on counting day. It is quieter, less offensive to the eye, and — so long as one is not ‘live-tweeting’ oneself — calmer for the nerves as well. So, on Sunday, May 2, when votes for polls held in four major states and one tiny Union territory were being counted, it was mostly via Twitter that I chose to follow the news. When I went to the site on Sunday morning, the first tweet that caught my eye was not about votes or leads or candidates or parties, but about the body that had — supposedly — impartially and constitutionally supervised these polls. This was the handiwork of the writer, Sidin Vadukut, whose tweets are notable both for their lack of rancour and their sardonic wit. Here, Vadukut had posted a news item reading: “BREAKING NEWS: Election Commission goes to Supreme Court against ‘should be booked for murder’ comments of Madras High Court”, with this comment of his own: “Supreme Court should hear this case in 35 phases spread over 15 years.” The reference, of course, was to the bizarre decision of the Election Commission to conduct the polls in West Bengal over eight phases, extending over a month-long period, with the first phase held on March 27 and the last on April 29. The decision was made stranger still by the contrast with the state of Tamil Nadu, which was also due to elect a new assembly, but where the EC had mandated that all voters would vote on a single day, April 6. Google tells me that, area-wise, West Bengal is smaller than Tamil Nadu, roughly 79,000 against 1,30,000 square kilometres in extent. However, West Bengal has more people, with roughly 100 million residents as against about 79 million in Tamil Nadu. And it also has a more turbulent political history, with greater violence between rival parties than in Tamil Nadu. This last characteristic might have mandated a two- or three-phase election perhaps, but eight phases was carrying it too far. What made the EC decide on such an agonizingly extended exercise in the case of West Bengal? We shall never know for certain. The Narendra Modi government has effectively gutted the Right to Information Act, and the decision must have been taken on the basis of oral conversations anyway. However, what we do know for sure was that having eight phases allowed the Bharatiya Janata Party’s star campaigner, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to make many more trips and address many more rallies in the state than if the polls had been conducted in two or three phases. It was also well known that the BJP was desperate to come to power in West Bengal. Since 2014, Amit Shah had made countless visits to West Bengal, touring all parts of the state, holding rally after rally. In his outreach he determinedly addressed the anxieties of both the elite as well as the subaltern. Thus he praised Tagore (while getting the place of the poet’s birth wrong), and praised Vidyasagar (while, allegedly, his own partymen were vandalizing a statue of the reformer). He had himself photographed having lunch in a Dalit home, and bowing in respect to what he thought was a statue of the tribal icon, Birsa Munda (although it turned out to be someone else altogether). After becoming home minister in 2019, Shah dovetailed the Union government’s policies towards his party winning West Bengal, most notoriously via the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which was aimed explicitly at providing assurances to Hindu refugees from what was once East Pakistan and what is now Bangladesh. Meanwhile, his boss, Narendra Modi, also made many trips to West Bengal, not all — or perhaps not even a significant proportion — connected with his prime ministerial duties. Like Shah, Modi was desperate to win this assembly election for this party. He even campaigned for it during an official visit to Bangladesh, in violation of precedent and protocol. And we can safely assume that his growing a longer beard was not conducted in emulation of the Dravidian reformer, Periyar, or of the Malayali reformer, Sri Narayana Guru, although both men disliked shaving as much as Gurudev, and although both Kerala and Tamil Nadu were going to the polls at the same time as West Bengal. Whether the EC’s mega multi-phase election for West Bengal was influenced by the desires of the BJP one shall never know for certain. Back on March 16, when the schedule was announced, The Indian Express rather delicately observed that “the ruling TMC is likely to receive a setback due to this prolonged election schedule”. The Trinamul Congress’s own poll strategist, Prashant Kishor, has been more blunt. “I have never seen a more partial Election Commission”, he remarks. Calling the poll panel an “extension” of the BJP, he says that “from allowing use of religion to scheduling poll and bending rules, EC did everything to help the BJP”. The EC’s response to Kishor’s strictures is awaited. However, with a pandemic on, there can be no doubt that the decision to conduct such a prolonged campaign and to allow so many mass rallies was seriously ill-conceived. That the later stages of the polls were not clubbed together even when the pandemic spiked must count as an act of criminal negligence. As the cases and deaths mount in West Bengal, the role of the EC in acting as the virus’s principal accomplice in the state has become starkly evident. Since the results came in last Sunday evening, much ink has been spent on the lessons for the individuals and parties concerned. Will the victory of the TMC in West Bengal stoke Mamata Banerjee’s prime ministerial ambitions? Is the victory of the Left Front in Kerala a reward for good governance? Having failed at winning West Bengal, despite all the effort and money it threw into the campaign, will the BJP be adequately consoled with retaining power in Assam? Shall the Congress’s reverses in Assam and Kerala, and its total wipe-out in West Bengal, at last make the Gandhis make way for a more effective leader? As these questions are discussed, this column asks another, and arguably even more important, question — has the credibility of the Election Commission of India ever been lower than at present? As I discuss in my book, India after Gandhi, our country had the great good fortune of having an outstanding individual as its first election commissioner. This was Sukumar Sen, who organized the first and second general elections, comprehensively putting systems in place for voting to be conducted in a free and fair fashion, and with utter impartiality towards all parties and candidates in the fray. It was “largely due to Sukumar Sen,” wrote Shankar’s Weekly in February 1957, that “the most impressive gift we have given to Asia in the first decade of our freedom is the system of elections that has been perfected in this country”. Between Sukumar Sen and Sunil Arora, who organized the recent elections in West Bengal, there have been twenty-one other chief election commissioners. Of these, some have been competent, some undistinguished, and some outstanding. In the last category were T. Swaminathan, who successfully oversaw the 1977 elections held when the Emergency was still on; T.N. Seshan, who cleaned up the system after it had been clogged up by corruption and booth-capturing; and, in more recent memory, N. Gopalaswami, J.M. Lyngdoh, and S.Y. Quraishi. Till the advent of T.N. Seshan, there was only one election commissioner; however, in the 1990s the EC was made a three-member body, in part because the Congress government then in power wanted to keep Seshan in check. Even so, the Constitution insulates the Election Commission from political interference. To what extent the EC maintains this autonomy and resists pressure from the political establishment depends very much on the individual in charge. Sen, Swaminathan, Seshan, Gopalaswami, Lyngdoh and Quraishi kept the Commission absolutely independent and totally focused on the job at hand. Notably, none of them accepted a cushy post-retirement job from the government. Their rectitude was in striking contrast to the conduct of M.S. Gill, who accepted a Rajya Sabha seat and even became a minister in a Congress-led government after demitting office as CEC. In the past, some CECs may have occasionally bowed a bit to ministerial or prime ministerial pressure. But never to such an extent as has occurred since 2014. Well before the West Bengal elections, this complicity was manifest in the last general elections, when the EC allowed falsehoods and communal poison to be spread by ruling party candidates across India, even permitting the prime minister to shamelessly seek votes under the guise of a ‘pilgrimage’ to Kedarnath. That the Election Commission tacitly endorsed the scandalous electoral bonds scheme is another indicator of its partisanship. There are three years to go until the next general elections. As we discuss what is on Mamata Banerjee’s mind, whether the Congress can renew itself and if Narendra Modi will win a third term as prime minister, let us not forget the institutional questions that lie beyond parties and politicians. For the future of Indian democracy may now critically depend on when, whether, and to what extent the Election Commission of India can recover its once-high reputation for independence and competence. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
08-05-2021||Opinion||Celebrate outdoors: Cinco de Mayo||The celebration of the Mexican holiday, Cinco de Mayo, once again took place in the United States of America in the middle of the pandemic. Cinco de Mayo commemorates the Mexican army’s 1862 victory over France, although it is not considered a Mexican federal holiday. In fact, most Americans mistakenly believe it to be Mexico’s Independence Day (which is actually on September 16). Cinco de Mayo is known for both how misunderstood it is and for being marked by free-flowing tequila, beer, margaritas and tacos. It is not uncommon for people to purchase piñatas, Mexican flag paraphernalia, sombreros and costumes bordering on cultural appropriation. If it sounds like another American reason to drink and party, it is. The holiday was pushed into the limelight in the late 1980s by none other than beer companies like Anheuser-Busch and Miller Brewing Company to boost alcohol sales. In addition to the marketing tactic, this time period saw a rise in the Hispanic population in the US. Some cities, such as Portland and San Diego, do go beyond the Tex-Mex food and drinking and host performances and events with historic and cultural significance. They have even done naturalization ceremonies for Mexicans on this day. There is light at the end of the tunnel for many Americans as far as the pandemic is concerned. So bars and restaurants offered special deals. San Diego hosted its traditional outdoor Cinco de Mayo festival this year, after making it virtual last year. Save the planet April 22 marked the annual celebration of Earth Day. It is an occasion to bring awareness and call for action to help the environment and one that has garnered a lot of attention in today’s political climate in a post-Donald Trump presidency era. The last Earth Day also took place in the midst of the pandemic. In the time between, the country has seen the effects of the California and Colorado wildfires, drought, hurricanes in the South and misinformation around the existence and validity of climate change itself. The theme of Earth Day 2021 was ‘Restore Our Earth’, which takes on more meaning since the pandemic, just like climate change, is a force that has a negative impact on everyone in the world no matter who you are or where you live. This year, the official Earth Day organization hosted a virtual summit featuring climate activists such as Greta Thunberg and Alexandria Villaseñor. The global summit also held talks and seminars educating people on climate control, pollution and environmental justice. The first Earth Day was held in 1970, during which 20 million US residents banded together calling for greater environmental protection. Many brands and stores are also giving special deals to encourage people to go green. The technological retail giant, Best Buy, gave a four-day special discount on their sustainable technology such as garden kits and smart thermostats. The only one If you believe that every outdoor event idea has been thought of, then think again. Last month in Lincoln, Nebraska, hundreds of people called ‘Josh’ gathered together for a fun-filled pool noodle fight outside. It all started a year ago when a 22-year-old college student named Josh Swain living in Arizona messaged others also named Josh on social media challenging them to a duel for the fun of it to see who won the ‘right’ to be the ‘true Josh’. He started a Facebook group message with as many people as he could find with his first and last name. He followed up with a post on Reddit, admitting he meant it as a joke. But then the internet caught on — as it does — and it snowballed into something much bigger. In his message he said, “[W]e fight, whoever wins gets to keep the name, everyone else has to change their name, you have a year to prepare, good luck”. The victor of that competition was a four-year-old boy, also known as “Little Josh”, who was crowned with a Burger King crown. The original Josh who organized the event told AP News how surprised he was about the way it turned out and got hyped up. “I did not expect people to be as adamant about this as they are right now,” he said. While there is no official name for the competition, many people have called it the ‘Josh Fight’ or ‘Josh versus Josh’ or even ‘Josh Battle Royale’. A live stream of the event was viewed by people from as far away as Norway and Sweden. They could tune in to see the hundreds of Joshes fight it out, some even in fun costumes. Footnote The Madame Tussauds wax museum in New York is supposed to be unveiling a wax statue of none other than Vice President Kamala Harris. This would be the first time the museum has commemorated a vice-president. It is supposed to be unveiled later this year with the wax figure of Joe Biden in an Oval Office scene where both will be wearing replicas of their outfits at the 46th presidential inauguration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
