09-05-2021||Opinion||Listen, I do not have a dream||Perhaps I would have one. But conditions apply to dreaming. The first and the most essential of those is that you should be able to afford yourself some shuteye. Sleep. Same thing. You shut your eye. Shuteye. Sleep. But who am I kidding, you know it doesn’t happen like that. If shuteye equalled sleep who would not have gone shuteye by now. I mean, what a way to bypass this time that does not like time pass. Time passes, it is always passing, but this time does not pass. Shuteye would have been an effective way of passing this time. We could have told time, hey, you do not want to pass, do you, but so what, now watch, we are going to pass you. Shuteye. Sleep. Sleep till this time has been passed. But we know it does not happen that way. Far too many things do not happen the way some folks want them to happen and this is one of them. Shuteye is not equal to sleep. Ah, that was tiring, just to get that explanation out of the way. Anyhow. Anyhow? Anyhow what? Where were we? Oh, haan. On sleep, and dreaming. Or whatever that is. I do not dream. I do not have a dream. I had something just now, but I am not sure it was a dream. I was in sleep. Or perhaps in shuteye. It is difficult to tell one thing from another these days. Like are we atmanirbhar or are we merely nirbhar? We are atmanirbhar, so why are we having all these huge planes with all this tonnage of aid and assistance drop on us? We have always had oxygen, you know. That is how this planet of ours called Dharti became a living planet. And now there are people running helter and running skelter and screaming where is the oxygen, where is the oxygen, please give us oxygen because we will die without oxygen. What sort of behaviour is this? Do they not know we have plenty of oxygen? More than plenty? You can’t never tell these days, what one thing means in one place and what the same thing means in another. We have enough oxygen, now go out there and get it into your noses somehow and survive for all I care. That is how I remember it last said: Go! Get your oxygen! There was always oxygen! And I came to, wheezing and breathless. Had I had a dream? But I do. I have a dream. Who would dare dream? Dreaming is barred, we all know, because dreaming denotes shuteye and shuteye has been proclaimed an anti-national activity because if we have a shuteye what will happen to those who are dying for us? If we have a shuteye how will we measure up to the one who never stops working, never takes a day’s leave, never takes a moment’s rest? We cannot dream because we cannot have shuteye, we have to keep our eyes open. We do not have dreams. So what was it that was happening? The noise, all that noise. The clamour and the clapping. The guttural refrain, the announcements, those loud announcements. We are coming, be prepared, we are coming and we shall change things in a way that things will never remain the same again. What things? What changes? What will never remain of what is? What was happening? I can hear the noise and the echo of it, a noise that came, then left, and came back again. The same noise: I am coming, people, ooooooo, people, I am coming. People, ooooooo, people. What was it? Was not a dream. I do not have a dream. Dreaming is not allowed because we have declared the land of the forever awake and the forever alert. Perhaps I shut an eye, perhaps I had a shuteye. But I did not sleep, we cannot sleep, it is not possible to, I swear I did not sleep. And I did not dream because I never slept. It was not a dream, it could have been something else, but I don’t yet have a word for it. What should be like a dream Ice, or cold, or vanishing cream But there often drops a hurdle And you know it tends to curdle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
09-05-2021||Opinion||Rajpath||The stretch of road (and the stuff on either side of it) that starts at Rashtrapati Bhavan and ends at the National Stadium is not the Central Vista. It’s just Rajpath and if you’re looking for a shorthand way of referring to it, try ‘India Gate’. Unless you’re an urban historian or an annoyingly knowing person, ‘the Central Vista’ means nothing. Nobody you or I know has ever said to the family, “let’s drive off and have an ice-cream on the Central Vista”. On the other hand, “let’s go to India Gate for an ice-cream” has been the cue for a stock outing for generations of Dilliwallahs. “Chalo, let’s go to India Gate and go boating.” Boating? Flat-bottomed tubs with oars plied smoothly in a foot-and-a-half of water in a long, shallow channel on one side of Rajpath. You could rent them in half-hour slots which was long enough to feel energetically outdoorsy for a rupee at a time. Four annas afterwards would buy you an orange bar at the Caryhom or Kwality ice-cream cart. Twelve annas fetched a Chocobar. Old people ordered vanilla ‘cups’ and jabbed at them genteelly with flat wooden spoons that looked like tiny oars. If you lived nearby and had a cycle, there was an amazing straight run from the top of Raisina Hill all the way down to the National Stadium. Just after Baker’s secretariat buildings, Rajpath dipped sharply down to Vijay Chowk and if you approached the slope pedalling fast then freewheeled down it, it felt like the downswing of a Ferris wheel, the breathless high of leaving your stomach behind. This was Delhi in the 1960s, so you could do this safely early in the morning before the office rush or what passed for an office rush in that sedate Ambassador-Fiat time. The lawns of the hexagon around India Gate were tended but useful. They swarmed with kids playing cricket on the weekend. One section was fenced off for children to play in. Not ordinary play like football or cricket but a special kind of recreation that involved outdoor apparatus — uncommon then — like twisty slides and whirling platforms and jungle gyms. There was a slide with a hump in the middle which was unique and sort of dangerous. The gate to Children’s Park was made up of two metal doors decorated with two large cartoon rabbits (or hares) facing each other in profile and a sign outside that said adults were only allowed if they were accompanied by children. We were too young to be cynical about this sort of cuteness, so we genuinely thought it was a special place where the natural order of things was turned upside-down. Sarkari New Delhi was a small place then and most of it was no more than a 20-minute cycle ride from India Gate. My brother and I ended up cycling on Rajpath a lot because it was on the way to useful places. Mostly we turned right on to Rafi Marg because it led to the All India Fine Arts & Crafts Society building, or AIFACS. We had no interest in arts or crafts but the British Council Library was located there. We loved the frigidness of its air-conditioning and its electrically cooled water dispenser. Sometimes my brother and I (riding pillion) would turn right and keep going past the AIFACS building, then turn left on to Parliament Street till we reached the General Post Office. We did this to queue up and buy freshly issued First Day Covers which we collected because others did. You almost never turned left off Rajpath unless you wanted to voluntarily visit the National Museum, which no one in his right mind did. Outside the building there was a discouragingly ugly sculpture of an Ancient Indian Woman standing with her hand on her knee and a pot balanced on her hip and inside, the premises smelt of phenyl and lavatories. For all the grandness of this imperial vista, no one was impressed. George V stood under his canopy looking absurd on account of his vandalized nose till he was extracted and exiled to Coronation Park. The gravitas of the War Memorial was lost on us because we didn’t know it was called that. We thought it was some sort of republican portal. In less than 20 years after decolonization, the republic had erased the colonial provenance of the arch and everything around it by assimilating it to Bharat, that was India. If we thought about the ‘central vista’ at all, it seemed to us like a permanent set, purpose-built for hosting the Republic Day parade. During the jamun season, the parkland on either side of Rajpath felt like an orchard. Even as rows and rows of jamun trees dropped their fruit on the grass, you couldn’t just reach down and eat them because the produce had been pre-sold to contractors and their watchmen guarded their harvest with menaces to keep loafers like us away. The lovely thing about India Gate was that it was useful, accessible and given over to free (or cheap) public recreation. Given the near-uniform awfulness of Delhi’s post-independence public architecture, it was a good thing that the open spaces on either side of Rajpath remained unbuilt. The newish building that houses the ministry of external affairs is a cautionary tale. It tries to blend in by aping Lutyens’ neo-classical idiom but its pustule dome and its brown-tinted glazing make it look like a shady encroacher. The prime minister’s plans for Rajpath and India Gate are on another scale. When he’s finished with it, we’ll have two Parliaments for the price of one. One of his predecessors, Muhammad bin Tughlaq, ruined Delhi trying to transfer the capital to Daulatabad. His next brainwave was reforming the Delhi Sultanate’s currency; that didn’t go well either. In his homage to Tughlaq, Narendra Modi cunningly reversed this catastrophic sequence; he started with the currency. Having purged the economy with his killer cure, demonetization, he has now, in a bold and original move, decided to wreck the capital without transferring it. By building a new Parliament in front of the old one, and building offices on either side of Rajpath, he plans to photo-bomb our collective memories. Planting babus and buildings where people used to gather and play, making Rajpath and India Gate unrecognizable, is his road map to immortality. To thwart him we should remember India Gate as it was and set it down. Here, as always, Kundera is our guide: “The struggle of man against power is the struggle of memory against forgetting.” mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
09-05-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Secrets and keys||The fabled knight, myths, legends and ballads say, rode laced in shining armour. The knights of yore have since ridden their way to sunset. The modern knight in a data-driven world is at the beck and call of the keyboard or the mobile phone. His armour has changed as well. For the protection of data — be it personal information or that related to commerce — is only possible with the help of the password. World Password Day, which falls in May, is an occasion to remind the global collective glued to their phones, desktops, laptops, tablets — the technological wonders that modernity towed in along with it — of the importance of the role of the password in securing this gold mine of information. The popular perception is that the password — a string of characters that are necessary to let a user gain access to computing or digital systems — is, like tech gadgets, the gift of modernity. But this, as is often the case with what constitutes the popular, is not quite true. Passwords have been around for a while and in a myriad forms. The secret to the longevity of the passwords has to — this is hardly surprising — do with the culture of secrecy itself. Secret societies were in vogue in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. Many of these clandestine organizations were incubators of democracy. They came up in response to the prevailing orthodox milieu and their members were encouraged to engage in frank and fearless discussions on critical matters of the day. But a taste of this forbidden — delicious — freedom was predicated on the ability to furnish the right password on the part of their patrons. But passwords were not merely sentinels of a shared privacy. They can be looked at as ciphers to understand things about the world and its residents. Research, for instance, has shown that the majority of people use some kind of private information — names, year of birth and so on — while creating passwords. This herd response comes with risks. Data security analysts — today’s high priests — insist that such a choice weakens password protection. Apparently, data suggest that 10,000 of the most commonly used passwords can help unlock 98 per cent of all global accounts. The centrality of information has led to the discourse on passwords being limited to issues of data protection and data theft. This is unfortunate. The password — that mysterious scroll of digits and alphabets — whispers other secrets. For instance, the password poses a formidable challenge to mnemonic toolkits. Multiple accounts require multiple passwords, each of which needs to be distinct. The sheer volume of these secrecy codes necessary for modern living is enough to challenge even the sharpest of minds. At a more fundamental level, passwords and their veneration embody the cat-and-mouse game between keepers and finders of secrets. The outcome of this ancient game integral to human culture is decided by the sanctity or the violation of the password.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
09-05-2021||Opinion||Critical imbalance||Sir — Not even the lives of people in the midst of a pandemic can make the government at the Centre behave in a manner that is secular and scientific. A five-step sample meal plan for those recovering from Covid-19 released by the government has no place for any kind of animal protein, even though doctors are stressing the need for including these in the diet. Why must the government be reminded time and again that it has been voted to power by a nation where the majority is non-vegetarian? The least it could do is come up with alternative meal plans for all sections. Rima Roy, Calcutta Sir — The victory of the Trinamul Congress is undoubtedly decisive. But the euphoria around it belies the polarization that the state has witnessed for the first time in recent history. Under the garb of victory against communal forces lie the dynamics of polarization and counter polarization of voters along religious and other lines. This truth cannot be wished away. This is just one of the things that Dipankar Bhattacharya, the general secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) Liberation, glosses over in his article, “Another historic blunder” (May 6), when he blames the Left Front for equating the TMC and the Bharatiya Janata Party. The CPI(M-L), too, fielded 12 candidates independently across Bengal including in Phansidewa and Maynaguri. The results were no different from the one faced by the Left Front, which Bhattacharya finds faults with. Further, a look at the results in Malda and Murshidabad bears out how the ‘competitive communalism’ of the TMC and the BJP was the reason the Congress and the Left were wiped out from the region. Bhattacharya’s strategic view also stands challenged if one looks at the outcome of the Kerala polls. Led by Pinarayi Vijayan, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) fought and won against both the BJP and the Congress. How would Bhattacharya explain this victory? The CPI(M-L) general secretary is well within his rights to advocate his view — it is evident that this view is shared by a section of the urban liberal voters in Bengal. But even he cannot deny that the corruption in the TMC and its propensity to play to caste and community sentiments are factors that paved the way for the inroads that the BJP has made in Bengal. The seat share of the BJP reflects resentment against the ruling TMC. To deny this would be to ignore reality. Partha Pratim Biswas,Calcutta  Sir — In his article, Dipankar Bhattacharya has categorically blamed Left parties, especially the CPI(M), for putting the TMC and the BJP in the same bracket and appealing to people to defeat both. According to him, the Left avoided spelling out in exact terms any alternative tactical model, which he thinks should have been adopted to keep the BJP at bay in the just concluded state election. Further, although he did not explicitly speak of an all-inclusive ‘mohajot’ of democratic forces, including the TMC, the tone of his article makes it clear to the reader that this is what Bhattacharya is prescribing. One is tempted to raise a humble query: why did his party then  contest in as many as 12 seats instead of supporting the TMC in this crucial battle against the fascist BJP? Amitava Banerjee,Calcutta Sir — Dipankar Bhattacharya criticizes CPI(M) for its failure to read the situational significance of the Bengal polls. There may be some logic in his diagnosis, but the results of the said elections were decided by three primary factors: Prashant Kishor’s strategy, the ‘NoVoteToBJP’ campaign and the fear of the National Register of Citizens. The TMC has won the elections, but that does not mean it is free of corruption. Bhattacharya cleverly remains silent in this area. Ashoke Basu,Baruipur, South 24 Parganas Sir — Dipankar Bhattacharya has hit the nail on the head with his analysis of the failure of the Left Front. Introspection is in order if the Left is to remain relevant in its former citadel. Kanti Bakshi,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
09-05-2021||Opinion||BJP caught between two chief ministers||Winning Assam decisively for the second straight term was seemingly easier for the Bharatiya Janata Party leadership than taking a call on the next chief minister. The delay of around six days since the results were declared on Sunday points to the dilemma of the leadership to choose between the two apparent contenders — the incumbent CM, Sarbananda Sonowal, and Himanta Biswa Sarma, the BJP’s main strategist and troubleshooter in the Northeast. On Saturday, the BJP leadership summoned both to Delhi to settle the issue across the table. Relieved, some party insiders said it was now a matter of time before the leadership — busy tackling post-poll violence in Bengal — lifted the suspense. But they also admitted that the “glaring” delay in naming the chief minister has not only exposed the intra-party power tussle but also left party leaders uneasy. Having worked so closely with both of them, most leaders do not want to be seen to be taking sides. This uneasiness became apparent when the state unit president, Ranjeet Kumar Dass, on Saturday morning not only uploaded pictures of him with Sonowal and Sarma but also praised the duo’s efforts towards the state’s overall development, emphasizing how Assam was proud to have them both soon after the duo left for Delhi. Irrespective of who wins the race for the top post, life will never be the same again for senior state leaders and workers, BJP insiders said, flagging Dass’s post. The crippling second wave of Covid-19 and the poll defeat in Bengal has led to the ruling dispensation coming under severe attack, mostly from rivals, on social media platforms. While the BJP, with its massive machinery, is trying to counter this, a member of the parivar (family) itself, the BJP parliamentarian, Subramanian Swamy, has opened another front of attack. Swamy, who has turned rebellious since last year, has intensified his attack on both the government and the BJP, assisted by his huge number of followers on Twitter. His followers have been calling backers of the prime minister, Narendra Modi, ‘andh-bhakts’ and ‘gandh-bhakts’. Swamy has now suggested that the senior minister, Nitin Gadkari, should be made in-charge of the war against Covid, leaving it unsaid that PM Modi has failed. However, the suggestion that seems to have angered the BJP the most is the one to turn the top six floors of the newly built BJP headquarters in Delhi into a Covid hospital. As the ruling side frets and fumes, Swamy remains unstoppable. “I give as good as I get,” he has been tweeting to justify his attack. The Trinamul Congress might have completely decimated the Congress in Bengal but Mamata Banerjee has won the hearts of Congress leaders with her extraordinary victory over the BJP in the assembly election. Most leaders are privately showering praise on Banerjee, some even describing her as the only leader who can demolish PM Narendra Modi’s citadel in the 2024 parliamentary elections. Some leaders went on record to praise the Bengal CM. While Kapil Sibal hailed her as a “courageous grassroots leader” and Manish Tewari called her “Jhansi Ki Rani”, Abhishek Singhvi said she was a tigress. Anand Sharma, one of the key architects of the rebel group in the party, went a step further tweeting, “Heartiest Congratulations to Mamata ji for taking charge as Bengal CM for the third time... Your heroic battle and historic win stopping the BJP juggernaut has given a ray of hope to all those who believe in an inclusive and democratic India[,] upholding the very spirit of Indian Constitution. My very best wishes for your success.” Among the Opposition CMs, Banerjee is one of the senior-most, having far greater experience than Uddhav Thackeray and MK Stalin with perhaps only Biju Janata Dal’s Naveen Patnaik being her senior. Many leaders in the Opposition camp, unhappy with Rahul Gandhi’s leadership, have started looking up to Banerjee to sew up a larger coalition and challenge Modi up front like she did in Bengal. Tamil Nadu’s new CM, MK Stalin, included a quote in his Twitter bio as soon as he was sworn in, hinting at a return to fervent sub-nationalism. His bio now says, “Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu/ President of the DMK/ Belongs to the Dravidian stock”. The last sentence is from the speech of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s founder, CN Annadurai, in Rajya Sabha before the Sino-Indian conflict in 1962. He had said, “I say that I belong to the Dravidian stock and that is only because I consider that the Dravidians have got something concrete, something distinct, something different to offer to the nation at large. Therefore it is that we want self-determination.” Making his CM debut at 68, Stalin was elected in a close contest in which his party focused on the Centre’s undue interference in the state through the BJP ally, All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. The DMK revived its unfiltered espousal of Dravidian ideals that shun communal politics, and assertion of linguistic autonomy. Interestingly, the DMK replaced its demand for a separate Dravida Nadu nation with that of autonomy of states in 1963. At a time when Opposition CMs like Arvind Kejriwal and Hemant Soren are bluntly calling out PM Narendra Modi for mismanaging the pandemic, Stalin is likely to join the chorus of greater autonomy for better administration. A Congress leader becoming the toast of the Left in Kerala is like Batman falling in love with the Joker. Two sides that never see eye to eye found common ground for celebration as the Youth Congress leader, Shafi Parambil, defeated ‘metro man’ E Sreedharan to deny the BJP any seat in the state. After leading almost the entire day of counting, Sreedharan slipped back as Shafi gained. Many Left backers shared photos of the victorious MLA who pinned down the 88-year-old technocrat and the last hope of the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
