10-05-2021||Opinion||Covid generation: Orphaned kids||While the devastation wrought by the pandemic in India has been unprecedented, young children have mercifully accounted for only a small percentage of Covid-19 infections. This, however, does not mean that the contagion did not inflict collateral damage on children. With the rapidly rising Covid-19 death toll, social media platforms have been flooded with posts sharing details about children who have allegedly lost either both parents or the only living parent to the disease. These posts plead for the bereft children to be adopted. The implications are troubling: while social media has proved to be useful for sharing information regarding oxygen and other medical services, the adoption appeals — they are not routed through the Central Adoption Resource Authority, India’s nodal adoption body — open up the online space to traffickers and predators. The Maharashtra government has stated that such adoption attempts are illegal and punishable under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 and the Cara’s regulations. The latter, enacted in 2017, made the screening process for adoption even more rigorous. This is just as well; children cannot be handed over to anyone looking to adopt without conducting adequate checks. In a healthcare system already collapsing under the weight of Covid-19 cases on account of political ineptitude and inadequate infrastructure, the added menace of children being trafficked under the guise of adoption poses a serious problem. Hospitals around the country have reportedly been told to take declarations from sick parents to confirm whom their children should go to in case of their deaths. But this process, too, is open to misuse. A crisis of this scale will require a coordinated effort among law enforcement agencies, non-profit organizations and bona fide monitoring agencies to patrol online spaces and track down suspicious appeals, locate vulnerable children and place them under legal care. Genuine cases of children orphaned on account of Covid must be heeded. To this end, care centres in Telangana for the children of Covid-19 patients have proved to be a boon. Similar facilities, where the children’s right to food, education and shelter are protected, must be identified or set up in other states. Adoption agencies must be drafted into this process. Implementing such measures, however, would require detailed planning. Will an administration that has made its inability to efficiently handle the second wave of infections apparent pay attention to this?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
10-05-2021||Opinion||Gear up: SC sets up national task force on oxygen||Sir — It is heartening to read that a 12-member national task force has been set up by the Supreme Court to assess the availability and distribution of medical oxygen on scientific, rational and equitable basis across the country as the Central government has clearly failed to do it (“SC sets up oxygen task force”, May 9). The task force will also suggest measures to ensure the availability of medicines needed to treat Covid-19. While the Centre agreed to this arrangement as well as to the idea of an audit, the Delhi government had opposed it. The rationale behind constituting a task force at the national level is to facilitate public health response to the pandemic based on scientific and specialized domain knowledge. The apex court expects that leading experts in the country will associate with the task force as members and resource persons. This would facilitate a meeting of minds and the formulation of scientific strategies to deal with this unprecedented human crisis. In its hearings, the Supreme Court has exposed the Centre, which failed to consider factors like ambulances, lower-level Covid care facilities and patients in home quarantine. The apex court also asked if the Centre was preparing for a possible third Covid wave, which could further worsen the acute shortfall in oxygen, medicines and hospital beds. India is battling a devastating wave of coronavirus cases with over four lakh new cases being reported in a day. The number of active cases in the country is now over 37 lakh — nearly four times the previous high from September last year. The Supreme Court has rightly pulled up the Centre for its inefficiency and incompetence. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — That the Supreme Court had to establish a task force of doctors and bureaucrats to formulate a methodology for the scientific allocation of oxygen is shameful for the Centre. For the citizens of the country, however, this is a welcome step. The plight of the common people of India has been insufferable. The inefficiency of the ruling dispensation at the Centre is only aggravating their woes. Patients are dying everyday gasping for oxygen, or on account of the lack of hospital beds. Only a rap on the knuckles from the apex court can make the Centre work. Anjana De,Howrah Gone missing Sir — It is shocking that the national library of Spain took four years to report the theft of Galileo Galilei’s Sidereus Nuncius, the first published systematic study of celestial bodies using a telescope. Several other works of his are also missing. The delay in reporting only makes it harder for the authorities to trace the documents. International help must be sought at once to retrieve these.Ruchira Sharma,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
10-05-2021||Opinion||Cap on reservations ||Quotas remain a source of debate and restlessness. Some states continue to push against the 50 per cent cap on reservations barring exceptional circumstances decided upon in 1992, arguing that the cap is arbitrary while emphasizing the exceptional circumstances of the socially and economically backward group requiring reservations. Neither of these arguments proved effective when the Supreme Court quashed Maharashtra’s 2018 law allowing reservations for Marathas in educational institutions and employment. The five judges on the bench were reportedly unanimous in declaring that the Indra Sawhney case concluding in the 50 per cent cap need not be revisited, for the cap was now constitutionally recognized. Also, the court found no exceptional circumstances even after looking into the state backward class commission’s report, and felt, rather, that the Marathas were a forward group in the mainstream of national life. This judgment could prompt state governments to pause before demanding quotas for target groups with the underlined desire to consolidate votes for specific political parties. It is also a warning against unthinking promises for reservations given during election campaigns. But the judgment brought out another contentious issue. The 102nd amendment to the Constitution in 2018 gave the National Commission for Backward Classes constitutional status and the president the power to notify socially and educationally backward classes. States argue that this curtails their power to identify SEBCs. Although the attorney-general said that this was not the law’s intention and states could provide reservations in state government institutions for the SEBCs they identify while the Centre’s list applied to Central government institutions, the Supreme Court held that the president was the ultimate arbiter of the list. The national commission’s report on SEBCs would be shared with the states which could decide on policy and proportion of quotas. This was reportedly the interpretation of three of the five judges on the bench; they upheld the spirit of ‘cooperative federalism’ through the system delineated. Since there are other states asking for quotas for other SEBCs, Haryana for the Jats for example, the majority opinion held that the national commission would now publish fresh lists for the states and the Centre which the president would then publish. The federal cooperation the court has defined possibly lies in this exchange between the states’ demands and the Centre’s ongoing review.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
10-05-2021||Opinion||Sea of trouble: Tourism and molluscs||I do not know who was more shocked, the hermit crab or me, when I picked up an auger shell (for the uninitiated, these are conical and spiral in shape) on the beach only to have a disgruntled set of claws pop out of it. Gathering shells is a favourite pastime for beachgoers of all ages. But whimsical tourists are unaware of the environmental repercussions that ensue. Shells perform a diverse range of functions: they stabilize beaches and anchor seagrass and algae, provide homes for creatures such as hermit crabs, and hiding places for small fish. Shorebirds use shells to build nests and when they break down, they provide nutrients for the organisms living in the sand and for others that build their own shells. In a study conducted over three decades in the Llarga beach in Spain, scientists found that the abundance of seashells decreased by 60 per cent with a corresponding increase in tourism in the area by 300 per cent. Misguided tourists like me are not the only ones to blame; grooming the sand with heavy machinery — common at ‘private’ tourist beaches across the world — to make for a more comfortable beach-going experience can destroy shells, as can the use of recreational vehicles on the sand. Of course, there is also the blue whale in the room: harvesting shells for souvenirs and decorative items is an industry that is killing protected species and decimating marine ecosystems across the globe. Shell fishermen often use a technique similar to bottom trawling, which involves dragging a large net along the sea floor, crushing the living habitat and organisms in its path. Only a few species — notably the queen conch, which can grow to a foot in length, the chambered nautilus, the giant clam, and some species of snails — are protected under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, a body that regulates global wildlife trade. Additionally, each country has its own set of protected species — only 24 of 3,400 species of marine molluscs are protected under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 in India. Unsurprisingly, between 2009 and 2019, around 97,000 kilogrammes of illegal seashell was seized just in India. To make matters worse, the illegal trade has shifted from shops openly displaying shell curios to the internet, making it harder to monitor and control. The bigger problem is ignorance. Identifying mollusc species is one of the toughest challenges in policing the international trade. During the customs process, importers simply list their goods as “shells” and few inspectors can identify protected species. A World Wide Fund for Nature study showed that a majority of first-level enforcement officers are unable to correctly identify almost a third of seashell species seized, leading to wrongful seizures, faulty reports, and low conviction rates in illegal trade. This is what prompted WWF-India and TRAFFIC, an NGO, to develop new tools to help authorities identify marine mollusc species and prevent their trafficking in March this year. While significant research has been done on the impacts of human trade activity on live shellfish, rigorous studies estimating the scale of dead shell removal by tourism-related activities are few. Some countries do recognize this threat — the Bahamas have a limit on the quantity of shells tourists can export without special permits. But circling back to the benighted tourist, can he tell the difference between the iridescent turban shell turbinidae and the more commonly found cockle? A limit on the amount of shells that can be taken out of a country does nothing about what kind of shells are being carted away — taking cowrie shells or flat shells is less harmful than taking complex, swirly ones. But how does one educate the blinkered beach bum? Perhaps tourism could best the shell-greedy monster it has created. Seashell museums are huge crowd-pullers in Southeast Asian countries like Thailand. These are a promising avenue to enlighten tourists about various species of shells and control the seashell trade by having souvenir shops. In India, a seashell museum in Mahabalipuram not only has an impressive collection of more than 40,000 seashells, but it also displays trinkets made out of them; another one in Mysore features sculptures made of seashell and conch, defeating the purpose of educating tourists against these.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
10-05-2021||Opinion||The road ahead for Mamata||Mamata Banerjee’s landslide victory has helped her emerge as Bengal’s own Joan of Arc, but one who survived rather than went down fighting. Now is the time for her to seriously introspect and settle on a road ahead for her Trinamul Congress and for West Bengal. Many have pointed to her failures in developing a strong, ideology-driven party organization. Others have highlighted her inability to draw big-ticket investments to re-industrialize Bengal. There is no doubt that Banerjee needs to develop a more streamlined party organization equipped with IT and research cells (like the Awami League’s CRI). She also needs to play down the Singur-Nandigram legacy to reach out to big capital — domestic and overseas — to boost manufacturing and the service sector. Banerjee’s success in developing social sector schemes has paid her rich electoral dividends but she has to get industrial and service sector investments to strengthen Bengal’s economy. Cutting down public debt is a huge challenge; investments augmenting the state’s revenues would help. But the biggest task for Banerjee would be to focus closely on developing an acceptable brand of Bengali regionalism that emphasizes ‘Banglar Trinamul’ (after the party theme song) rather than ‘All India Trinamul Congress’. Banerjee’s national ambitions should be tempered by reality: her real future lies in turning Bengal into a model state. India will accept Banerjee only after it accepts Bengal as a model — like in Narendra Modi’s case. Bengal may not accept the Shiv Sena’s brand of regionalism but Banerjee can build on the Bengali’s strong sense of exceptionalism, albeit an inclusive one. Let the ‘Bahiragoto’ (outsider) barb end with the defeat of the Modi-Shah brigade in the Battle for Bengal. Bengali regionalism has to be based on its distinct linguistic-cultural tradition as well as the social modernization emerging out of its 19th century Renaissance. It has to include those who have made Bengal their home to trump the Bharatiya Janata Party’s divisive ideology that sought to pit Hindus against Muslims and Bengalis against others. That did pay the BJP some dividends in areas populated by Rajbongshis, Gorkhas, Hindi-speakers and other communities whose identification with the ‘Bengali mainstream’ is not as pronounced. Bengali regionalism actually does not need a ‘mainstream’ to replicate the concept of ‘Indian mainstream’ promoted by the BJP and the RSS. It can strongly stand on its distinct culture and language, its tradition of social modernization and liberal humanism propounded by Rabindranath Tagore’s “Ei Bharat er Mahamanaber Sagortire”. This Bengali regional plank should allow space for smaller groups like Rajbongshis, Santhals and others. Bengal has to look at the failure of Assamese regionalism because it abandoned Bishnu Rabha’s ‘Bor Asom’ and resorted to an exclusionary, upper-caste identity epitomized by an AASU slogan during the 1979-85 anti-foreigner agitation — ‘Jodi no hua Asomiya, Asom eri ghusi joa’. Unsurprisingly, the Assam agitation and the 1985 accord were followed by violent bouts of Bodo, Karbi and Dimasa separatism, even as the BJP hijacked the AASU-AGP’s ‘infiltration’ plank. Prafulla Mahanta was more popular in Assam than Banerjee was in Bengal in the 1980-90s, but look where the two stand today. Mahanta paid the price for continuing the Asom Gana Parishad’s alliance with the BJP, to be relegated to near irrelevance today. Bengal gave India its unifying nationalism that followed its cultural renaissance and its distinct revolutionary action. It can now provide independent India an alternative vision to that of the BJP-RSS that relies on a nationalism that is narrow and divisive. Religion is hardly a good enough plank for a modern nation state. Bangladesh breaking away from Pakistan and, earlier, the Mountbatten-Jinnah’s model of religious vivisection (agreed to by the Congress leadership) are cases in point. Bengal’s inclusive regionalism could provide a model for regional forces elsewhere in India to create a national platform that would be an alternative to the BJP-RSS. This model should debunk localism — job quotas for locals, for instance — and seek the assimilation of Rajbongshis and Santhals. Greater political autonomy for the Gorkhas is a must. The Congress, which has been less than kind to great Bengali stalwarts like Chittaranjan Das and Subhas Chandra Bose, can shed its Gandhi-Nehru baggage and consider taking back Banerjee as its national president followed by a merger with the Trinamul Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
10-05-2021||Opinion||A fine balance||Agriculture and education are two unique and enduring achievements of human beings. The former nourishes our bodies, the latter our minds; these are two essential aspects of human existence. While agriculture enabled humans to settle down in one place and start living in communities, education unlocked their minds, opening them to new ideas and innovations. In recent times, the Indian Parliament has made significant changes to these two aspects by amending the farm laws and introducing the National Education Policy. I wish to take up agriculture in this discussion. The changes proposed to the farm laws seek to modernize agriculture by opening it up to the private sector. This can be compared to the opening up of the telecom sector to private players in the 1990s. Allowing private operators in telecom presented many more options for consumers who were no longer dependent solely on the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited in the public sector. More people could acquire phones and avail of better facilities. Before privatization, the waiting list for a telephone connection was four to five years. BSNL was hampered by outdated technology and was unable to provide connections or extend other facilities. However, acquiring new technology required huge investments. Of the two possibilities — one, investment by the government and, two, allowing the private sector to invest — the government opted for the latter. Accessing facilities like online bookings or payments using mobile phones has become the new normal. Even though mobile phones use high-end technology, they are designed to be very user-friendly, especially smartphones with touchscreens. This has considerably reduced the dependence of the user on literacy, thus making the technology less elitist. The growth in this sector has become a remarkable social phenomenon. India is part of the global connectivity now. Despite the digital divide, those who initially opposed the privatization of telecom are now its regular users and beneficiaries. Had the telecom sector not been liberalized by succumbing to the protesters, many would still have been waiting for a landline telephone connection. However, on closer scrutiny, we begin to see some structural differences between agriculture and telecom. In the telecom sector, the common people are the consumers whereas in agriculture, the farmers, an important section of the common people of India, are the producers and sellers. In the telecom sector, the private corporations are suppliers whereas in agriculture, they are the consumers. It is necessary to reflect  on whether this difference in the agent’s position as a consumer or a producer has different implications. The options before a consumer — the opportunity to select one product or service provider over another — are different from the options before the seller. For instance, while a consumer can easily switch networks or phones, the producer has to invest substantial resources, time and energy to present a product to the consumers. This involves conceptualizing an innovative product, designing it and testing it before the product can be delivered to consumers in the market. An effective marketing and sales plan also needs to be drawn up to deal with stiff competition from rivals. In this model, the producer must be armed with the requisite resources and planning to beat the competition and win over the consumer. The picture is reversed in the agriculture sector, where the farmers are producers and suppliers. At the outset, let me clarify that the question is not whether we need reforms or not. The question is whether the farmers in India have the resources, the technology, and the planning and strategizing capability to play the role of producer and supplier to corporate consumers. Here I am echoing a point raised by Y.V. Reddy, the former governor of the Reserve Bank of India, in a different context. When the then Indian government proposed to allow foreign banks in India Reddy disagreed, pointing out the variance between foreign and Indian banks. Similarly, we need to find out if large sections of our farmers are equipped with enough financial resources, access to modern technology, and the required infrastructure to harvest, process, store and transport their products. Traditionally, farmers have been able to manage their work in different ways. The proposed reform makes it necessary for the farmers to deal with the private sector more in line with corporate expectations. The agricultural sector in India needs significant reform. Despite the availability of advanced agricultural scientific knowledge and technology, agricultural scientists and farmers have not been able to implement these. Then there are the unscrupulous mandis that regularly exploit farmers. However, farmers need to first be prepared and equipped to deal with the new changes before any reforms are introduced. As part of this preparation, the states can start collecting primary data on agriculture across the country, an area that remains understudied. In this context, the suggestion made by J.C. Kumarappa soon after Independence is worth considering. He had suggested collecting village-wise data on what each village produces, how much it consumes, and how much surplus or deficiency there is. This will provide a clearer understanding of the current state of agriculture in India and enable the states to assess the farmers’ actual requirements and equip them accordingly. This would prepare farmers to deal with their corporate consumers by creating healthy competition and circumventing possible risks. This is a rare opportunity for the Indian State to promote the welfare of farmers and become a pioneering role model. This opportunity is related to a unique legacy. Swami Vivekananda and Sri Aurobindo formulated a model, which aspired to reframe the traditional along with the modern. It is this model that we need to turn to at this time. Agriculture in India largely remains within the traditional domain while corporates inhabit the modern arena. We need to devise ways of calibrating these two different domains by carefully studying modern institutions and traditional agriculture practices and formulate a unique solution suitable for modern India. This is somewhat like the film, Lagaan. A weaker team from an Indian village takes on a superior English one. While the English players were overconfident and complacent, the weaker team was busy strengthening its internal resources, identifying strengths, and planning strategies for the game ahead. This is a lesson we can learn from the film and strengthen our farmers before exposing them to the corporate sector. The State can play a unique and vital role in equipping farmers. A. Raghuramaraju teaches philosophy at the Indian Institute of Technology,Tirupati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
