11-05-2021||Opinion||Stay out: BJP 'outsiders' in Bengal||It is not pleasant to have to admit that the victorious rival was right. Not that the West Bengal Bharatiya Janata Party chief, Dilip Ghosh, acknowledged in so many words the aptness of Mamata Banerjee’s comments about ‘outsiders’ coming in to campaign for his party. But he apparently did tell BJP leaders from the Centre that the state unit would be able to manage matters in Bengal. That is, the leaders from the Centre were welcome to leave. The applause this evoked from the members of the state organization suggests that Mr Ghosh had given expression to their feelings. The BJP’s defeat in the state is being put down by BJP workers to the aggressive onslaught by party leaders of national stature whom Ms Banerjee accused repeatedly of not being in tune with the sensibilities and aspirations of the residents of Bengal. If that is seen as a cultural failure, equally important was the imposition of candidates who were, ironically, considered ‘outsiders’ by the BJP workers. They campaigned for unfamiliar contestants, only to be left, as many of them have complained, in the middle of post-poll violence with no support. Ms Banerjee’s label of ‘outsiders’ underlined the absence of regional rootedness; Mr Ghosh has indirectly pointed to that too. But this was only after the BJP’s defeat. Mr Ghosh’s annoyance is understandable, but it has to be asked if he would have spoken differently had the leaders from ‘outside’ refrained from coming quite so often. The BJP made clear that it was going to ‘take control’ of the state, whether by overrunning iconic sites such as the Coffee House, or by forcing people to say “Jai Shri Ram”, or by threatening to intervene in everything from love to citizenship. Did Mr Ghosh have a different message or does he think that ‘taking control’ or worshipping the cow or children taking up arms during Ram Navami would have seemed more acceptable to the people living in Bengal had he put them in his inimitable way? His comments about Ms Banerjee, especially regarding showing off her injured leg, were perfectly in tune with the national BJP culture of publicly insulting and deriding women. Disappointment seems to have brought out the leader in him, though: his followers in the state are pleased with his stand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
11-05-2021||Opinion||Proud moment: Nadal named Laureus World Sportsman of 2021||Sir — In a move that delighted tennis fans, Rafael Nadal was named the Laureus World Sportsman of the Year 2021. Nadal, who claimed this prestigious award after a decade, is one of the greatest tennis players of all time, having clinched 20 Grand Slam titles, equalling the record set by Roger Federer. Nadal has recently been plagued by injuries; one only hopes that he will be back soon in better form. Avirup Gupta,Siliguri Be strong Sir — The aftermaths of most elections in recent years have, unfortunately, been marred by political violence; the assembly polls in Bengal are no exception (“Mischief begins”, May 6). The Bharatiya Janata Party taking an aggressive route after the elections would not have been surprising — last year, the party’s state unit chief, Dilip Ghosh, had used the slogan, “Badla o hobe, badal o hobe”, as a war cry for the elections. In contrast, the incumbent chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, focused on the immediate concerns of the people ravaged by Covid-19 and urged them to reject the divisive antics of the BJP. Thus, reports indicating that both BJP and Trinamul Congress workers are guilty of post-poll violence are disheartening. Banerjee first came to power in Bengal at a time when the ordinary people were tired of the violence perpetrated by Left Front cadres, and she did keep Bengal violence-free for a while. Hence, the news of post-poll killings and clashes between the TMC and the BJP is twice as disturbing. This also goes against the spirit of free and fair elections. Banerjee must handle the situation with a firm hand and signal to the people that violence, irrespective of party affiliation, will not be tolerated. The chief minister must ensure good governance in her own state if she hopes to become the face of the Opposition at the national level. Her conduct will be crucial leading up to the Lok Sabha elections in 2024. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — The words and reactions of BJP leaders in the aftermath of the post-poll violence in West Bengal lay bare the heinous intentions of the party to communalize the situation in the state. Over the years, the BJP has sought the support of Hindus by depicting a particular minority community as aggressors. To that end, facts have often taken a back seat, as was witnessed in the case of Bengal. It is time for Mamata Banerjee — she has been given an unprecedented mandate by the people — to demonstrate her ability as a leader of the masses and fortify herself against the malicious attacks of the BJP. It is hoped that Banerjee, along with other regional leaders, will be able to lead the country in a new direction in the upcoming years. Jahar Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
11-05-2021||Opinion||Covid-19 vaccines: Poor planning||The Centre has asked the Supreme Court to trust it when it comes to ensuring an equitable distribution of Covid-19 vaccines. Unfortunately, India can no longer trust such assurances from Narendra Modi’s government. The Centre’s culpability in the second wave of Covid-19 turning lethal cannot be airbrushed — but that is not the only reason for the collective distrust. The lopsided nature of the government’s priorities has been exposed, once again, by the skewed nature of the Vaccine Maitri initiative, which was ended in March. There was nothing wrong in exporting vaccines to needy nations: New Delhi’s gesture had been appreciated and led to reciprocal gestures of kindness from the global fraternity when things turned dire in this country. But the fact that 6.6 crore doses — the volume, it has been reported, is enough to vaccinate all adults in Mumbai and Delhi — were dispatched to over 90 nations which, till recently, had a far lower caseload than that of India brings into question the wisdom and priorities of Mr Modi’s government. Parity between demand and supply is a must, especially during a crisis of this magnitude: why did India not create an adequate buffer of vaccines before reaching out a helping hand to other nations? Expediting the import of foreign vaccines would have helped plug this discrepancy by creating a secure inventory. But then Mr Modi’s government wants citizens and institutions to be trusting of its abilities. This discrepancy between the warmth of the Centre’s outreach to the world and its shocking coldness to the plight of its countrymen has had many manifestations in recent times. Perhaps the most telling has been the snail-like pace of India’s Covid-19 vaccination coverage. About three per cent of this populous country has been vaccinated; a little over 9 per cent has received at least one dose. India’s pace — Israel has vaccinated over 50 per cent of its people — has been woeful; this is shameful for a nation with a long and successful history of public vaccination programmes. The paucity in the availability of the drugs is slowing it down further, adding to the sufferings of the people. This only confirms the absence of cohesion in the Centre’s response to Covid-19 management strategies. The Centre must get its act together: there is a limit to trust and patience in a suffering people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
11-05-2021||Opinion||What’s in a name: Namesake candidates in polls||One of my friends, a voter of the Bidhannagar assembly constituency, was amazed when he discovered that both the Trinamul Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party candidates of the constituency had namesakes in the candidates’ list, both independent candidates. Candidates with the same or similar names from different parties or as independents contesting from the same constituency is not uncommon. This might create confusion among less discerning voters. Are these candidates really ‘independent’, in the true sense of the term, and their candidature mere coincidence? And, can they really influence an election? In 2004, the Congress candidate, Vylopally Mama Sudheeran, better known as V.M. Sudheeran — who went on to become the state president of the Congress in Kerala — was defeated by the CPI(M)-backed independent candidate, K.S. Manoj, by 1,009 votes in the Alappuzha Lok Sabha constituency. But the man who was instrumental in this was Virippukandathil Sreedharan Sudheeran who garnered 8,332 votes as an independent candidate. “I have been a Communist since my childhood. My friends inspired me to submit the nomination as a namesake and they pooled in the money for the deposit. But I never thought that I would garner that many votes,” V.S. Sudheeran said later. Interestingly, this happened in a state like Kerala with a high literacy rate. This is not an isolated event. The namesake menace haunted Kerala’s poll scene even this time. In the 2021 assembly elections, C.P. Cheriya Mohammed, the United Democratic Front candidate in Thiruvambady, had a namesake opponent, K.P. Cheriya Mohammed; and the Left Democratic Front candidate, Linto Joseph, too, had a namesake. This is actually a trend almost everywhere in the country. Even the high-profile Varanasi constituency saw Narendra Nath Dubey Adig of Jan Shakti Ekta Party and the candidate, Narendra Bahadur Singh, while in Vadodara, the independent candidate, Narendra Babulal Modi, had joined the fray against the Bharatiya Janata Party’s prime ministerial candidate, Narendra Modi, in 2014. In the same Lok Sabha elections, the luck of the Aam Aadmi Party candidate, Bhagwant Mann, from the Sangrur constituency of Punjab was tested when his namesake, Bhagwant Singh, released an advertisement in a Punjabi newspaper requesting people to vote for him on the ‘kite’ symbol: “Aap de Bhagwant wallon appeal (An appeal by your Bhagwant)”. His full name was not mentioned in the advertisement, which focused on voting against corruption, scams, unemployment and inflation — the issues Mann had raised during his campaign. The luck of Thol Thirumavalavan of the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi party was tested too. He turned out to be less lucky than Mann — he lost the Kattumannarkoil constituency of Tamil Nadu in the 2016 assembly elections by a mere 80 votes or so to All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s N. Murugumaran. The independent candidate of Thirumavalavan’s namesake, however, bagged 289 votes in the election. Sometimes the presence of namesake candidates might destabilize the equation for the mainstream political parties, although not in most of the cases. Some believe that fielding namesakes is a dirty trick in electoral politics. But, it’s an unsolved mystery whether the Opposition parties field such candidates against their primary rivals to cut votes, at least sometimes, or the namesakes themselves get tempted to fight the elections. The number of such namesakes in elections, however, seems to be way more than can be explained by mere probability. An election is a battle, and there’s no rule to prevent a candidate from contesting an election simply owing to the same or a similar-sounding name as that of a heavyweight candidate. Rather it illustrates how easy it is to hoodwink the electorate in the Indian system, even if it is intentional sometimes. Is this a weakness of our democracy? The political parties concerned possibly know it well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
11-05-2021||Opinion||Covid-19: On the edge of a precipice||Humanity stands poised at the intersection of one of the most serious disasters in world history. We have failed in our preparation for the anticipated second wave of Covid-19. Efforts to confront the devastating consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic remain blurred and half-hearted with little urgency, focus or coordination that the crisis deserves. We have failed to learn from the predicted peaks witnessed in England and the United States of America. Hegel was right when he said, “The only thing we can learn from history is that we learn nothing from history.” The policy followed by the Indian government of supplying the vaccine to poor nations in Africa and Latin America is undoubtedly laudable. A ‘people’s vaccine’ is, understandably, vital to confront the pandemic. Nobel laureates, scientists, and artists are joining hands with millions to demand Covid-19 vaccines and treatments should be accessible to all, not just the richest countries. In April, the International Week of Anti-Imperialist Struggle released the ‘International Manifesto for Life’, aimed at the Global North demanding ‘free vaccines for all people’. Medical apartheid has to end. However, a populous country like India must also give sufficient attention to the dire need of the masses. The world’s leading producer of vaccines has already exported a substantial number of vaccine doses but at the rate at which we are engaged in the vaccination project we are likely to take years to immunize our entire population. From vaccine diffidence, the people have moved to vaccine fervour. The consequences of depleted vaccine stocks or a bungled roll-out could be disastrous. Interestingly, the Swedish government gives health agencies extraordinary independence and, constitutionally, has little power to impose restrictions on their decisions. Sadly, we take no lessons from such examples. Therefore, it is vital to confront the disaster on a full-scale wartime footing. Mass-vaccination centres need to be created with active involvement of pharmacies and the manufacturing process consolidated. Public pressure on and the seriousness of the State apparatus in enforcing conscientious civil behaviour can be of considerable help. It is frustrating to notice the absence of organized and interconnected stratagem to address the public apathy towards safety norms. Executive directives to combat mass gatherings, making masks mandatory for festivals and social gatherings and renewed restrictions on interstate and international travel are some of the needs of the hour. The Centre could take a lesson or two from Joe Biden’s directives to the federal agencies to use the Defense Production Act to augment the nation’s supply of Covid essentials, thereby compelling the manufacturers to pitch in. We have already seen the impact of restrictions on free speech in China that allegedly led to the catastrophe. As argued by Slavoj Zizek, the eminent Slovenian philosopher, the world would have been spared the blitz of the pandemic had China not silenced Li Wenliang, the Chinese doctor who attempted to raise awareness about the coronavirus in Wuhan. A well-timed ban on flights from China would have halted the virus within its national boundaries. The Hong Kong journalist, Verna Yu, has corroborated this thesis by underscoring that ‘… disasters always occur when China thwarts the freedom of its citizens’. Zizek is of the opinion that the pandemic will not make us any more prudent. The very foundations of our civilization have been shaken, causing distress, bereavement and unprecedented economic mayhem. We are, at this juncture, faced with the choice of adapting a radical new lifestyle created out of the rubble of our past life. Merely finding an antidote for the virus will not do. Tweaking healthcare programmes would also offer momentary relief. The larger philosophical question must be addressed. Why were we caught on the wrong foot even though there were ample warnings of a catastrophe on the horizon?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
11-05-2021||Opinion||Familiar sights||Today, the day I write this, is the first anniversary of the death of the first friend I lost to Covid-19. He was one of the early ones to fall victim, an outlier, a man in his 60s with no comorbidities, most precautions recommended at that time followed, maybe a slip-up while visiting his local bajaar, maybe something else, maybe a mistake by the doctors still learning how to deal with this thing, maybe carelessness at the nursing home. Suddenly, unbelievably, he was gone. It felt like a horror story: there’s a rogue, man-eating tiger prowling in the jungle outside the village; if we don’t go there just now, especially at dusk or after dark, we should be fine; and then this man is taken in broad daylight while walking on a path in the middle of the village; who knew the jungle had changed shape and extended its boundaries, who knew the tiger was unpredictable about where and when it struck? We’ve taken our time trying to understand what is prowling amidst us, devouring us one by one and then in groups and then in droves. We are way past the first anniversaries of the most absurd exhortations ever given by a contemporary leader of a modern nation — Thaali bajao! Diya jalao! Many of us actually stood on our balconies and banged thaalis and vessels, many switched off the lights and lit candles or waved their mobile phone torches. At the same time, hundreds of thousands with no thaalis and no balconies, with no candles or battery lights to waste, trekked across the melting asphalt of the highways in the hottest season of the year, migrating from untenable situations to frighteningly uncertain ones. Across the last twelve months we’ve had laid out before us in detail the stupidities and criminal manipulations of those in power in the face of this crisis. That ledger will need to be opened and examined again and again; reckonings will need to be demanded; answers, responsibility, blame and consequences will need to be certified and settled. But when I walk out of my building and go on to the road, another question rears its head: leave aside the failed political leaders for a moment, what about us, ourselves? A year ago, around the time of the first lockdowns, when I used to walk out on the same stretch of road, I observed the following: only about 30 per cent of the people wore masks; of these, many wore them below the nose or took them down to speak and kept them hanging around their necks; almost nobody gave signs of having internalized the idea of physical distancing. Inside buildings and on the roads, the idea of regularly washing hands or sanitizing them was viewed as a humorous eccentricity. From other cities there were similar reports: the moment a lockdown was eased in Delhi, people crowded around shopping areas as if everything was back to normal; in Ahmedabad, people gathered for religious rituals with redoubled gusto; in Chennai, it was as if they were on a parallel planet, almost no masks and no lockdown. From the villages, especially in Bihar, even after the workers from distant cities reached home, the reports were of bemusement — what is this Covid thing? Answer: it’s obviously a city thing, doesn’t concern us so much. Back in the city, it felt as though for many people the pandemic was a horror movie playing in the adjacent theatre of the multiplex, nothing to do with the film they themselves were watching except that the sound sometimes leaked through the wall. People from the privileged classes, that is, the ones with access to the latest information, news and research results, the ones who supposedly had the education to process all this, utterly failed to convey critical points to the less fortunate people who worked for them. As long as some simulacrum of Covid-19 protocol was being followed in the flat or bungalow, no one cared to inform or educate or help the guards downstairs or the errand boys outside the gate or the stall-wallahs on the footpath. At one point I even heard a corporate-type babu stop someone from talking to a guard: “No need to tell them too much, might create unnecessary panic”. If most Indian leaders infantilize the public, it’s an attitude the wealthier strata replicate when dealing with people lower in the economic order. Or perhaps it is this criminal, feudal ‘bad parenting’ that the political leaders take from the wealthy and inflict upon the masses. On Calcutta streets, one of the things you see is working-class people or poorer individuals with the attitude that only the moneyed people can afford to protect themselves and that they themselves are in god’s hands. Taking a rare kaali-peeli taxi ride recently, a friend got talking to the cabbie after he asked the driver to pull his mask up over his nose. The cabbie’s first reaction was, “Don’t worry about me, Babu, whatever happens will happen”. My friend explained that he was concerned about both of them, and that his mask needed to be up for his safety as well. The driver mentioned god again, saying everything was in His hands. To which my friend replied, “Of course, but god also gives you responsibility. Otherwise, why don’t you cut your brake wires and steering connection and just press the accelerator?” The driver nodded in understanding. While he may have got it, some of the most powerful people in the country haven’t. One of the most important social failures over the last 14 months is that people with some knowledge and understanding of this unprecedented, mutating threat have been lax or have abdicated the responsibility of communicating what they know to people who do not have access to or the ability to sift through the barrage of often-contradictory information. This latter section isn’t only to be found among the lower economic strata; it’s there across all classes, among older people, the more superstitious, the head-in-sand ostriches, the stubborn, devil-may-care types. More than a year after the first lockdown, when I now walk my stretch of road, a few more people are wearing masks, a few more seem to be aware of the need to maintain distance, but passing the snack shop I see the jostling crowd again with the varied masking and non-masking. Near the fruit-stall there is that same cretin of a man from last year, tall, strapping, his fancy jogging clothes sodden with sweat, pumping post-run breath on to everyone while holding his mask in his hand. Despite the ongoing carnage in Delhi, Lucknow and the towns and villages of the Gangetic plain, there, in the cluster around the chayer dokaan, everything is as if we were in May 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
