12-05-2021||Opinion||Value added: EC panel counsel resigns||The Election Commission is one of the greatest institutions of independent India. Guaranteeing free and fair elections in a parliamentary democracy as huge and diverse as India is an inconceivably difficult task but, from the beginning, the EC developed an astonishing tradition of balance and neutrality. That things have changed, however, is indicated by the resignation of a panel counsel, Mohit D. Ram, who said that he found that his values were not in consonance with the institution’s current functioning. This is a rare voice from within, for voices expressing distress at the erosion of the EC’s dignity in recent times have so far been external. In any case, the assertion of values over a position in a prestigious institution obviously in the good books of the government is remarkable in these times. It is not as though the EC has always been imperturbably neutral, untouched by the faintest whiff of politicians’ wishes. But those were exceptions. The recent perception of the institution as biased towards the Bharatiya Janata Party is widespread and persistent; it was openly discussed during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections when the licence for religion-based propaganda the BJP enjoyed contrasted with the EC’s strictness towards other parties. The 2021 assembly elections have been indelibly marked with the EC’s determination to split polling into eight phases in West Bengal amid a pandemic with scarce attention to Covid-19 protocols in rallies and political processions. This facilitated two things: numerous visits by the prime minister, the home minister and other star BJP campaigners to various parts of Bengal and a terrifying increase in Covid-19 infections in a state that had brought the virus under control. The Calcutta High Court expressed serious dissatisfaction with the EC’s lack of accountability regarding the implementation of protective regulations during the period. Yet it was not Bengal’s situation but Tamil Nadu’s that prompted the Madras High Court to tell the EC that it was singularly responsible for the rise in infections, and its officials could be booked for murder. Mr Ram’s resignation gains in pointedness because it came just after the Supreme Court, petitioned by the EC, refused to ban the media from reporting judges’ remarks. The resignation is a comment on a different plane. Perhaps there is still time for the EC to retrieve its dignity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
12-05-2021||Opinion||Messy affair: Central Vista project||Sir — While appreciating Mukul Kesavan’s article, “Rajpath” (May 9), it struck me that the area also boasts of many defence colonies such as Princes’ Park, Sangli mess, Jodhpur mess and so on. Notable amongst these is an air force establishment called CV mess that I remember going to many times with my father when he attended official events. It is a beautiful, rambling one-storey white building, surrounded by lush, well-maintained gardens. Even back in the 1970s, there was talk that the government of the day had its eye on it. The day has finally come when the CV mess has fallen prey to the Central Vista mess. Anuradha Roy,Calcutta Pipe dreams Sir — Subir Bhaumik, in his article, “The road ahead for Mamata” (May 10), has listed a number of tasks for the West Bengal chief minister to accomplish if she wants to turn Bengal into a model state. Whether the Trinamul Congress is a strong, ideologically-driven party or not may invite fierce debate in the present situation, but one can hardly ignore the fact that West Bengal is now in a debt trap. Its public debt is close to Rs 5 lakh crore — more than twice the sum it had inherited from the Left Front government. Bengal is taking loans to pay off loans and interests. How will development take place in such a situation? Mamata Banerjee’s electoral success is connected to the various social schemes launched by her party. She had promised newer schemes before the elections as well. Minimizing public debt will be a stiff challenge for her. To overcome this difficulty she must pay attention to the area of non-developmental expenditure. Here the state is in dire need of following a prudent fiscal path. Another worrying thing for Banerjee is the existing nexus between criminals and the authorities — be it bureaucrats or ministers. It is a fact that some members of the TMC have been minting money through malpractices. The damage already runs deep. Yet Banerjee chooses to turn a blind eye to the matter. She should deal with corrupt political leaders firmly. She should bear in mind that without investments, Bengal’s dream of being a model state cannot be fulfilled. Ashoke Basu,Baruipur, South 24 Parganas Grotesque picture Sir — Visuals of bloated bodies of suspected Covid-19 victims floating in the Ganga and being washed ashore on its banks in Buxar and Ghazipur attest to the enormity of the Covid-19 calamity. The disposal of bodies by dumping them into a river means the denial of a decent cremation or burial, which is taken for granted in ordinary situations. It has invalidated the notion of dignity in death. The imagery of a pestilence of a primitive kind is evoked when partially burnt, bloated bodies are left to be eaten by carrion birds and stray dogs. Merely saying that dignity and pride run deep in our country means nothing. The exorbitant cost of cremation is said to be the reason behind those who cannot afford such rituals throwing the bodies of their close ones into the river. What we have here is a crisis that runs deep and in many directions. Hospitals are running out of medical oxygen; crematoriums are running out of firewood; cemeteries are running out of space. The fear of catching the virus from those who succumbed to it, too, is cited as a reason for giving the deceased a ‘water burial’ to ensure quick disposal. No effort is made to find out where the victims lost their lives. It can be nobody’s argument that the official death count has not left out abandoned and unidentified bodies. The bloated bodies floating in the Ganga cannot be looked at in isolation from the real-life situation of the country’s impoverished people. The government should identify and tackle the root causes and improve the quality of life of the general population. Blaming the victims — those who have no option but to immerse the bodies in the river — amidst a pandemic where people are already losing close ones does not help anyone’s cause. It does not bring about the radical changes in the political and social order that are needed to set things right. These must be introduced on a war footing once the second wave of Covid-19 has been dealt with. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — Be it the generation of excess medical waste or the throwing of dead bodies into the river by desperate relatives, no aspect of nature is being spared by the pandemic. But little attention is being paid to it — understandably, perhaps — given the massive loss of lives. This will only perpetuate a vicious cycle of more such dire events in the future. Zinnia Ghosh,Calcutta  Waste not Sir — China has introduced an anti-food wastage law, making it illegal to order more food than is necessary at restaurants and banning ‘mukbang’, a type of audiovisual broadcast where people share videos of binge-eating. While it is true that a law regulating how much people can eat is autocratic, food wastage is a serious problem. An estimated 1.3 billion tonnes of food is wasted globally each year: one-third of all food produced for human consumption, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization. This is horrifying, especially at a time when thousands are going hungry owing to the pandemic.Anamika Ghoshal,Serampore, Nadia||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
12-05-2021||Opinion||Content matters: Bangladesh congratulates Mamata||The congratulatory messages sent by the prime minister and the foreign minister of Bangladesh, Sheikh Hasina Wajed and A.K. Abdul Momen, respectively, to the chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee, on winning a third term has been described as unusual. The warm gesture may be uncommon: foreign heads of states, under ordinary circumstances, are averse to involving themselves in the outcomes of state elections in a neighbouring country. There is a line of thought that has attributed the outreach from Bangladesh to the personal chemistry between Ms Wajed and Ms Banerjee. But that may be a partial explanation for this unique gesture. Perhaps Mr Momen’s missive offers greater insights. Bangladesh’s foreign minister congratulated Ms Banerjee for upholding the elements that bind the two Bengals: religious harmony and collective brotherhood. The speculation of Dhaka sending a message to New Delhi in the light of Mr Momen’s letter may not be entirely idle. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party has never shied away from portraying citizens of Bangladesh in an objectionable manner. The Union home minister had, in the course of the BJP’s campaign in Bengal, said, albeit indirectly, that if the party were to be voted to power in the state, it would keep infiltrators from Bangladesh at bay. This persistent, pejorative rhetoric has, understandably, ruffled feathers in Dhaka. There is speculation that the letter was Dhaka’s way of reminding New Delhi — essentially the BJP dispensation — of the futility of the pursuit of polarization in a Bengal that has been steeped in the tradition of pluralism. Ironically, it is Ms Banerjee who can help Narendra Modi and the BJP mend fences with Dhaka now. If the BJP has foresight, it could use Ms Banerjee’s personal popularity in Bangladesh and among its political establishment to settle bilateral issues. The sharing of the Teesta’s water is among them. Both nations would benefit from consolidating their steady partnership given the emergence of a belligerent China. India’s border dispute with China remains unresolved; China has also cast its red eye on Dhaka, warning it not to join the Quad. This common anxiety could bring India and Bangladesh even closer. Ms Banerjee may well be the proverbial glue in this bilateral bonding — but only if Mr Modi, like India’s first prime minister did — recognizes the importance of setting aside political differences for the greater good of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
12-05-2021||Opinion||Myths about wealth creators||In political conversations, wealth creation is conflated with wealth accumulation, preservation and aggrandizement. They are not the same; all of the above are not virtues either. Most wealth accumulation is good for the accumulator but what good it does to society depends on its usage. All wealthy people are not wealth creators; nor is all wealth socially desirable. Wealth creation happens when the wealth works as a force multiplier in a positive manner in creating wealth for others. It is created by innovation, entrepreneurship and invention. If wealth is earned and invested in stocks and other insurances, it is, at best, a case of wealth being used as savings, which is the lifeline of investment. If ethics are not followed, workmen not treated fairly or well, the impact of wealth is suboptimal. Wealthy Indians are not very different from their wealthy brethren elsewhere, save for their easier access to bank loans and their reluctance to share their wealth, as is evident from their low contribution to charities. Most “Bollygarchs” — to borrow the term from the author and journalist, James Crabtree — created their wealth not by innovation, entrepreneurship or because of better risk-taking ability. Most wealthy people have the advantage of inheritance. Their wealth got leveraged because of monopolies created and supported by the government. The continuation of the licence-permit raj was at their behest too. Crony capitalism and rent-seeking behaviour were protected and promoted. From society’s point of view, the type of wealth created is important. When created by leveraging on cheap loans from government-owned banks and characterized by one-time settlement, the impact of such wealth creation is worth examination. But if wealth is earned for oneself and stacked away in family trusts and investments, what meaning does such wealth hold for society? When Mahatma Gandhi said business houses are trustees of wealth, he meant the wealth that will be churned for society’s benefit. He never thought that conspiratorial linkage would hollow out the system, with around 75 per cent of the wealth belonging to 10 per cent of people. Another myth says that the trickle-down effect would reach others in the bottom half to improve their position. But the trickle-down effect has turned out to be a sour dream. The ecosystem of business consists of increasing number of consumers ready to buy with better incomes. The wealthy find it worthwhile to produce and sell when there is increasing demand. A secondary effect of pursuing their objective is the creation of jobs and the payment of taxes. These collateral positives notwithstanding, eventually the balance sheet takes over. Since the stock market rewards better profitability, the wealthy prioritize the benefit of cost-cutting and reducing manpower to increase profitability. This is how big businesses increased their net worth during the pandemic, not by expanding sales or product innovation. There is nothing benign about this wealth creation; the system is complicit in it. The behavioural economist, Dan Ariely, had once run an interesting experiment. People thought income distribution in the United States of America from the bottom to the top quintile were 2.9 per cent, 6.4 per cent, 12 per cent, 20.2 per cent and 58.3 per cent. The actual figures were 0.1 per cent, 0.2 per cent, 3.9 per cent, 11.3 per cent and 84.4 per cent. People do not like such searing inequality even if they don’t believe that complete equality is possible. Once the dimensions of such inequality are understood, they would prove to be divisive and corrosive for society: high inequality is anti-growth and such societies are more prone to trust deficit and violence. Opposition to growth strategies crop up once the realization dawns on people that growth dividends are being scooped up by a miniscule group. Finally, when higher consumption does not materialize, they face the classic dilemma — whom are they going to produce for? Politicians may be happy collecting campaign contribution or higher taxes but the sources dry up for both in the end. Disenchantment follows despite governments holding up the chimera of redistribution. Instead of selling the pipe dream of redistribution or putting hope in an automatic trickle down effect, policies should create real wealth creators — innovators, technology pioneers, entrepreneurs and not oligarchic cabals. Satya Narayan Mohanty is former secretary, GOI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
12-05-2021||Opinion||Second tsunami||Much before India’s health infrastructure and economy could even begin to recover, the second wave of Covid-19 came like a tsunami, exposing a callous, unprepared government that put the lives of millions of citizens at risk. It was only in January this year that the prime minister had claimed that India was one of the world’s first nations to be victorious against Covid. The nation was showcased as the pharmacy of the world with its indigenous vaccine as well as having the world’s largest capacity for producing them. Within three quick months, India’s fragile healthcare system has now been fully stretched with an alarming shortage in beds, medical equipment, oxygen, medications, vaccines and even space for cremating the dead. In a surreal run of events, when all this was happening, the prime minister devoted his energy in addressing overcrowded election rallies in which Covid protocols were completely ignored. After the elections, he moved his attention to building a new Parliament complex with a project cost of Rs 200 billion, which was declared as an essential service at a time when the stench of death was reeking across New Delhi. Internationally, India has now been reduced to a basket case. My purpose is not to go into the details of this human tragedy, a large part of which was created by the government’s apathy and cruelty. There is another — equally tragic — calamity being played out. The economy of the nation is in a mess. Last year, India witnessed a technical recession when its GDP fell by 23.9 per cent and 7.5 per cent, respectively, in the first two quarters of FY21. The third quarter showed a small positive growth rate of 0.4 per cent. India’s GDP was estimated to shrink by 8 per cent in FY21. However, the temporary abatement of Covid and the arrogant announcements by the government led most analysts to believe that India would recover to a growth of anywhere between 10-12 per cent in FY22. That has become impossible now. Organizations like the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank have begun to scale down their projections for FY22, as have major brokerage houses. Aggregate growth rates are confusing numbers to most people. They hardly make any impact on a person who has lost his business or job or is faced with a sudden loss of income. According to the CMIE, from January 2021 to April 2021, 9.9 million people had lost their jobs, with April 2021 alone registering 7.3 million of the total. According to another study by the Pew Research Centre, 2020 witnessed a massive 32 million people slip from being in the middle class (in terms of income) to the lower income group. At the same time, the number of people living in India with an income of $2 or less per day increased by 75 million. This happened in a country where, according to another study done by Oxfam, the top 1 per cent of India’s rich held wealth that was four times of that held by the poorest 70 per cent, which amounts to approximately 950 million people. This has been referred to as the inequality virus. The manufacturing sector is shrinking and the services sector is just holding on. Agriculture has been the saviour as far as growth was concerned in FY21. This year, with the farmer’s agitation lingering on and a completely heartless government refusing to yield, the productivity of agriculture is likely to be adversely affected even if the monsoons are normal. Food inflation is already on the rise, having climbed to 4.9 per cent in March 2021, and overall consumer inflation is approximately at 5.5 per cent. This worry about inflation will keep the Reserve Bank of India from going for aggressive interest rate cuts to boost productive credit and output. The banking sector is also under stress. The various steps taken by the RBI last year, including the moratorium on loan repayment, have left many banks with a larger level of non-performing assets. These will weaken the balance sheets of banks and make them hesitant to lend to businesses that are already hit by the pandemic. On the employment front, business will be wary of hiring new people because there is no assurance of demand picking up in the foreseeable future and even if they were to employ more workers, they are not sure about how soon another round of disruption will come. There are some sectors where there is a seeming shortage of workers — paramedics, medical staff, nurses and doctors. However, adequate supply would require a few years for freshly qualified members to enter the labour force after acquiring proper education and training. It might be noted in this context that higher education is one sector where there has been quite a bit of disruption. Overall, a low and uncertain demand for output dampens the demand for credit and the derived demand for employment. Another casualty of the pandemic’s effects and the indifference of the government is the natural environment. The government has put environmental safety and sustainability on a low priority. A glaring instance is the construction of the Central Vista in New Delhi that has resulted in the felling of hundreds of trees. Little wonder then that an international ranking of countries for environmental performance puts India at 177 out of 180 countries listed. The government was ill-prepared not only for the second wave of Covid but also the second round of economic disruptions that would be caused by the second wave. In their policy stimulus for economic recovery, almost all nations boosted demand and ensured supply bottlenecks were eased. In India, the government took the opposite action: the supply side was given priority through enhanced credit flows to ease production and employment with little effort to boost demand. As a result, the recovery that was much touted as a V-shaped one is non-existent. The reality of what is happening in the economy is that there is a large pool of unemployed people emerging with no hope of new livelihood opportunities coming up. Even now, the government is curiously reticent about what it wishes to do to ensure that the economy does not slide into another technical recession. A humanitarian crisis of stunning proportion and the weakened economy crippled by inadequate attention and faulty policies have put an overwhelming majority of Indians in a bind: they have to fight for their lives without the assured aid of modern science and medicine, and even if they survive, they will be poor and unemployed. A few people will be safe and happy. Big corporates have everything to gain if they acquire the right businesses. There is a third wave that will arrive inevitably. Neither the economy nor the health infrastructure is in any state of preparedness. The government is singularly hesitant to act in a decisive manner. Economic recovery will be slow and patchy. India has lost a substantial part of the development it made during the past 20 years. India’s image in the international community of nations has touched rock bottom. India’s misery of death and deprivation has reached a level never experienced since Independence. While all this is happening, the prime minister of the nation is silent and invisible. One hears that in this moment of crisis a new residence is being built for him. This can only be described as abysmal stupidity at best and terrible cruelty at worst.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
