13-05-2021||Opinion||Suffering 2.0: Covid second wave lockdowns||Lockdowns, or even partial lockdowns, affect people’s mobility and, hence, their ability to work and earn. A recent study found a correlation between restricted mobility and loss of income. For instance, during last year’s lockdown in Delhi, there was a drop of 50 per cent in people’s mobility. The 50 per cent drop in mobility led to a 39 per cent fall in income. If incomes fall, people survive on their savings, by borrowing, or by receiving some economic support from the State. However, the very poor and the vulnerable hardly have any savings to draw upon. During the pandemic, direct support on the part of the Indian government has been very inadequate: just 2.2 per cent of the GDP compared to 12 per cent given by the Brazilian government. Hence, without savings or direct government support, the poor had to resort to borrowing for survival. The borrowing was estimated to range from Rs 12,000 to Rs 30,000, the bulk of which will remain unpaid. Income or job losses result mainly from the closures of micro, small and medium enterprises. Last year, it was estimated that one of three MSMEs that had closed down went out of business permanently. Between January 2021 and April 2021, nearly 99 lakh workers became unemployed in India. Many of these were agricultural workers who would be able to find employment again once the agricultural season commences. Out of these people, between March and April of the current year, 34 lakh salaried workers lost their jobs: 28.4 lakh in rural areas, and 5.6 lakh in urban areas. The salaried workers who lost jobs were mainly from the closed MSMEs. These MSMEs are unlikely to survive given the present economic devastation. In this situation, any realistic appraisal would point to the necessity of direct support from the State. This support was not provided last year. This year, the government’s apathy appears worse. There is serious paucity of government data on unemployment and the number of MSME units that have shut down. A large amount of credit was earmarked last year in the special package for MSMEs. There is, strangely, no official data on what happened to the credit flows and what, if any, were its impacts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
13-05-2021||Opinion||New hope: M.K. Stalin promises transparent governance||Sir — It is great to know that the new chief minister of Tamil Nadu, M.K. Stalin, has promised to provide clean, honest and transparent governance in the state, urging his cadres to resolve differences with political opponents and work with them for the betterment of the people. The new government has promised to prioritize development in the state which has been shaken to the core with the onslaught of Covid-19. At this crucial time, it does not help to dig up the failures of the previous government. The chief minister should focus on improving the healthcare amenities in Tamil Nadu so that families with Covid-19 patients can avail themselves of proper treatment. All political parties need to come together for the welfare of the common people. N. Mahadevan, Chennai Sir — The return of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam to power in Tamil Nadu after 10 years is a much-needed shift in the political contours of the state. However, a closer look at the tally indicates that the two Dravidian parties, the DMK and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, rule the roost, allowing little space for national players or even other regional parties to make forays among the electorate. Significantly, while the alliance with the Congress added substantial value to the DMK-led front, for the AIADMK, its alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party proved to be a liability. The DMK benefited from the anti-incumbency factor working against the AIADMK which had governed the state for a decade. Although the AIADMK government rolled out several welfare schemes over the years, and right before the elections even announced a 10.5 per cent quota for the Vanniyar community, these did not have much impact on the voters. M.K. Stalin, the incumbent chief minister, knows well that his party has been elected to power in the toughest of times. Tackling the second wave of coronavirus infections in the state should be its first priority. It remains to be seen how the DMK rises up to the challenge. Ranganathan Sivakumar, Chennai Sir — Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu have always seen iconic mass leaders lead the charge for the top post in the state. This year such stalwarts were missing in the arena. However, M.K. Stalin, who is far less ostentatious, is perhaps best suited for the new generation of voters who prioritize good governance. The DMK’s return to power could bring about significant changes in the state. On the other hand, although the AIADMK has lost the elections, it still continues to hold a substantial number of seats. It is hoped that the two parties will now work in tandem for the welfare of the people of Tamil Nadu. Anshita Rochwani,Ujjain Sir — It is time that national parties understood that politics in Tamil Nadu is a different cup of tea altogether. The Dravidian parties, the DMK and the AIADMK, have held power in the state for decades. M.K. Stalin’s ascendancy to power was not unexpected given the anti-incumbency sentiments brewing in the southern state. It is hoped that Stalin will be able to govern Tamil Nadu better than his predecessor. M.R. Jayanthi,Coimbatore Endless misery Sir — It was heart-wrenching to learn that 11 patients in the ICU ward of a government hospital in Tirupati died as a result of disruptions in oxygen supply. Such incidents have now become common. Oxygen disruption for a few minutes can be lethal for patients. It is shameful that the government can no longer ensure minimum access to healthcare. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Be cautious Sir — In a shocking incident, a 23-year-old woman in Italy was mistakenly given six doses of the Pfizer vaccine. Although she was kept under observation and was given fluids, and anti-inflammatory and fever medications as preventative measures, such mistakes are jarring. While it is understandable that healthcare professionals are overworked, this is not the first time such incidents have come to the fore. Earlier a woman in India was given twice the prescribed dosage by a distracted nurse. Missteps like these could have serious repercussions on a person’s health and even lead to death.Arindam Mukherjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
13-05-2021||Opinion||Hammer blow: CPM decimated in Bengal||Numbers tell tales. Bengal’s comrades would concede that the tale of this assembly election has been a rather sorry one for the Communist Party of India (Marxist). The CPI(M), once a formidable political force whose writ ran large for over three decades, could only muster a little over 28 lakh votes in the ‘Battle for Bengal’. Even this dismal harvest needs to be put in context: the Trinamul Congress, which unseated the Left Front and has since gone on to win power on three occasions, polled 35 lakh votes from a single district. The CPI(M)’s vote share was a minuscule 4.70 per cent, indicative of a massive haemorrhage that continues since 2006 when the party won 37.13 per cent of the votes. Admittedly, the Left has tried to arrest the slide. In 2016, it decided to bury its hatchet with the Congress — a traditional foe — in the hope that joining hands with a foe-turned-friend could corner the TMC. The results clearly indicated that the Left’s opportunism had been rejected by the people. On this occasion, it committed yet another tactical blunder. The CPI(M)’s acceptance of the Indian Secular Front as an ally substantially eroded the Left’s claim of being a secular and progressive force. Political denseness is not the only factor that can explain these strategic lapses. There is a graver problem at work. A deluded leadership had inexplicably harboured hopes of a turn in the Left’s electoral fortunes. The Left’s near-obsession with dislodging Mamata Banerjee rendered it blind to some of its own weaknesses: ideological stagnation, organizational limitations and an ageing, discredited leadership. Ms Banerjee’s success in capturing the Left’s rhetoric of welfare did not help matters either. Even political life is known to offer a second chance. However, the Left’s political resurgence in one of its former fiefs would be predicated upon several things. It must blood a new leadership: electoral tickets for young faces is not the only way of doing this. The party — it has the rich history of student movements to bank on — must make leaders out of them. The party organization needs to be replenished. Elections, the Left surely knows, cannot be won sitting in Alimuddin Street. There is also a need to create a new political agenda, one that resonates with the people — including young voters — to rediscover its political credibility. This ‘relearning’ is contingent upon the Left educating itself on the changing — hence complex — social realities in India. Finally, it should devote itself to public service in these hard and terrible times. That could be one way — the Youth Congress seems to have realized this — of earning public goodwill.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
13-05-2021||Opinion||Modi’s choices on Kashmir||Until the home minister, Amit Shah, read down Article 370 in Parliament on August 5, 2019, no one in India had expected New Delhi to change the constitutional status of Kashmir. In Kashmir itself, the people only apprehended the repealing of Article 35A that forbade outsiders from settling in the former state. But the Centre going the whole hog stunned them. A large section of people are yet to emerge from the shock as the uneasy peace that has prevailed since underlines. There’s some sense of resignation to the new state of affairs although people are far from reconciled to a post-Article 370 reality. That said, the scale of change that the Narendra Modi government has brought about in Kashmir is stupefying: not only were Article 370 and Article 35A scrapped, but Jammu and Kashmir was also downgraded and bifurcated into two Union territories — J&K and Ladakh. Ever since, the Centre has implemented legal and administrative changes that threaten to fundamentally alter the realities on the ground: domicile rights and the region’s land have been thrown open to outsiders. So far, over 32 lakh people have been given domicile certificates, an unknown number of them outsiders. At the same time, the government has altered the electoral map of J&K by creating District Development Councils, a third tier of grass-roots democracy, whose members are directly elected unlike in any other state in India. The Centre has set in motion the delimitation of J&K whereby Jammu is set to be given more legislative positions in the assembly. More seats for Jammu will potentially change the composition of the future assembly and create political parity between Kashmir and Jammu. However, the ongoing, far-reaching changes in Kashmir aren’t the only things that define the disruptive nature of the second term of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Following the withdrawal of Article 370, his government moved fast to enact the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and has talked of a pan-India extension of the National Register of Citizens. The CAA has made religion the basis of granting Indian citizenship by pledging to fast-track the citizenship of non-Muslim refugees from neighbouring countries. The government has also laid the foundation of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, taking the decades-long Ram Janmabhoomi movement to its logical conclusion. The controversial farm laws have been passed, triggering protests from peasants. New Delhi’s chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, who supported the Centre on the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganization Act, has himself been disempowered with most of the powers being vested in the lieutenant-governor. In the past seven decades, no other leader has so fundamentally changed India as Modi. True, Indira Gandhi, a powerful leader, liberated Bangladesh and imposed the Emergency. But she didn’t tinker with the Nehruvian ideological basis of India. P.V. Narasimha Rao roped in Manmohan Singh, then a retired bureaucrat, as finance minister to usher in the liberalization of the Indian economy, diluting the long-standing socialist moorings of the country. But Modi’s terms as prime minister have been marked by a departure that is the most radical. He has put India firmly on the road to Hindutva. He has also shown the will to decisively alter the status quo to harness India to his nationalistic vision. Now the question is this: would he choose to move away from what has, so far, been a single-minded pursuit of an ideological project by striving for peace in the region? He could very well do so. But this would involve engaging with Pakistan, whose bitter relations with India have been the single-most destabilizing factor in South Asia. And to this end, there’s no way out but to resolve the Kashmir problem. A resolution may well engender the disruption of the prevailing status quo, much like the repealing of Article 370. Would the prime minister go the distance? True, the changes he has ushered in so far have been ideological in nature. They have gone down well with his electorate. They were popular and have been paying rich electoral dividends. But Kashmir will be a different ball game. More so since taking a hard line on Pakistan and Kashmir has been central to Modi’s politics. Could the adoption of an unconventional approach on Kashmir that would involve a quid pro quo with Pakistan be risky for his image? Not necessarily. Modi has the charisma, political skills and the mandate to carry a peace plan with Pakistan through. He commands a near devotional following among a majority of the population, much like Sheikh Abdullah once did in Kashmir that made it possible for him to go against the logic of Partition to tie Kashmir’s destiny with India. This undiminished support had also made it possible for him to sign the 1975 accord with Indira Gandhi, paving the way for his return to the political mainstream after leading a struggle for self-determination for 23 years. Modi has two stark choices on Kashmir: one, realize that his ideological agenda cannot guarantee peace either in Kashmir or with Pakistan. Two, resolve the issue on mutually acceptable terms and kindle the possibility of peace in the region. There is already a framework agreement on Kashmir — the four-point formula — that can, once again, become a focus of negotiation for a settlement. Prime Minister Modi is uniquely placed to accomplish either of the two choices. One hopes he would make the right choice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
13-05-2021||Opinion||Lessons learnt||The outcome of the West Bengal assembly election led to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee beating off a sustained challenge from the Bharatiya Janata Party and securing a third term. The verdict in favour of the All India Trinamul Congress was conclusive, both in terms of seats and popular votes. At the same time, the scale of Mamata Banerjee’s victory took many by surprise. Although the dip in the turnout in the final three phases of the polls was widely expected to benefit the AITC, anecdotal wisdom believed the contest would be extremely close, with the winner securing between 150 and 160 seats in the 294-member assembly. Predictably, Mamata Banerjee’s emphatic victory came as either a pleasant or a rude surprise to the supporters of the two sides. Those elated by the scale of the victory promptly anointed her as the prime minister-in-waiting and simultaneously asserted that the BJP was completely out of sync with the political and cultural traditions of West Bengal. On their part, dispirited BJP supporters came to two broad conclusions. First, a section of them believed that the counting process on May 2 was marred by cheating. Second, the ire of supporters who believed that the state would witness its first BJP government was directed at those who were responsible for the selection of candidates. It was felt that the nomination of a disproportionate number of defectors from the AITC had diluted the appeal of the Sonar Bangla promise and blunted the anti-incumbency against the regime. In the normal course, any emphatic verdict would have led to hair-splitting analysis in all camps. However, the grim reality of the Covid-19 pandemic and the suspension of normal life has meant that public discourse has steered away from the election outcome. Additionally, the wave of violence against BJP activists that followed the counting of votes has meant that the leadership of the principal Opposition party is too preoccupied with trying to salvage its organization and protecting its people to devote attention to dissecting an election that ended up in disappointment. Yet, a clinical analysis of the 2021 outcome is crucial, not least because it provides a corrective to sweeping generalizations and self-serving conclusions. The analysis that follows is substantially based on the post-poll surveys by the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies-Lokniti, a reputed academic body that has tracked polls over time and whose findings consequently allow comparisons with past elections. While these data aren’t terribly relevant as a tool of prediction, they are invaluable in understanding the social matrix of politics and gauging voting behaviour. At a macro level, the support base of the two parties gives a clear indication as to why one side prevailed and the other failed to make the grade. If the population of Bengal is divided in terms of religious communities, the AITC has support among both the majority Hindus who account for roughly 70 per cent of the population and the Muslim minority that accounts for around 27 per cent. The BJP, on the other hand, has negligible Muslim support and its identity is that of a Hindu party. In other words, the ability of the BJP to make political headway is solely dependent on its ability to secure maximum Hindu support. In a first-past-the-post system, the BJP also hoped that the consolidation of Hindu votes would be complemented by a significant number of Muslims choosing between the AITC and the Third Front comprising the Left Front, the Congress and the Indian Secular Front of Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui. According to the Election Commission data, Bengal witnessed a spectacular two-party contest, with the AITC bagging 47.9 per cent and the BJP 38.1 per cent of the popular vote. The Left Front secured 5.67 per cent and the Congress 2.93. If the ISF votes are added to the kitty, the Mahajot polled less than 10 per cent and secured just one seat. The disaggregated results, as gleaned from the CSDS-Lokniti findings, suggest that the 9.8 per cent gap in votes between the AITC and the BJP was exclusively a function of the Muslim support for Mamata Banerjee. The AITC had secured 51 per cent Muslim support in 2016. This rose to 70 per cent in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and climbed to a dizzying 75 per cent in 2021. Add to this the suggestion (still not fully corroborated) that the turnout of Muslim voters exceeded that of the Hindus by at least three per cent. By contrast, the AITC support among Hindu voters was 43 per cent in 2016, 32 per cent in 2019 and 39 per cent in 2021. Mamata Banerjee has demonstrated that it is possible to win a resounding majority without the emphatic support of a state’s majority community. In 2019, the BJP had won 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats from the state by securing 57 per cent of the votes of Hindus. In 2021, it secured 50 per cent, which was a small decline from 2019. To win a majority, the BJP needed at least 60 per cent of all Hindu votes in the state. Although it won the support of a majority of Hindu voters, the religious demography of the state meant that it needed a Hindu consolidation that was almost equal in scale to the Muslim support for the AITC. A further disaggregation of the Hindu votes along caste lines indicates that, as in 2019, the strongest support for the BJP came from the other backward classes and Dalit communities. According to the CSDS-Lokniti findings, it secured 49 per cent support from OBCs, 59 per cent from Rajbanshis, 58 per cent from Namashudras (including Matuas), 52 per cent from other Dalit communities and 46 per cent from adivasis. The AITC trailed the BJP in support from all sections. However, Mamata Banerjee was successful in narrowing the gap among nearly all these subaltern Hindu communities, and particularly the adivasis. Even among upper castes, otherwise a source of BJP strength in other states, the BJP led the AITC by merely 46 per cent to 42 per cent. Mamata Banerjee’s ability to narrow the BJP lead among Hindu voters was particularly marked among the poorer sections. In 2019, the BJP led the AITC by a whopping 34 points, a gap that was reduced to just three per cent in 2021. Yet, it is important to note that the BJP had a lead among all the economic classes of Hindus. The CSDS-Lokniti findings are significant. They suggest that Mamata Banerjee was able to overcome the BJP challenge with a last-minute improvement in government services to the poor. This secured her enough incremental votes — particularly in areas where the Muslim population is relatively low — to edge past the BJP. She also took advantage of the BJP’s patchy organizational and social penetration by targeting the weakest links in its support base. However, it is ominous that increased support for the BJP is directly correlated to the numerical strength of the Muslim community in constituencies: the more the concentration of Muslims, the greater was the Hindu vote for the BJP. This prompts the unfortunate conclusion that the sectarian polarization in West Bengal is far more intense than appears on the surface. The post-poll violence is likely to embitter the mood further, not least because the underlying narrative centres on communal attacks. A dissection of the poll results doesn’t support the argument that the BJP’s fundamental political approach is flawed. It indicates that the party needs to deepen its local roots and focus on internalizing a narrative that incorporates regional particularities. For all the energy it demonstrated in the campaign, the BJP needs to acquire additional social depth in a state where political assumptions are being turned upside down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
