14-05-2021||Opinion||The southern stars: Stalin and Vijayan||The overwhelming response to Mamata Banerjee’s remarkable victory in Bengal seems to have overshadowed the triumphs of M.K. Stalin in Tamil Nadu and Pinarayi Vijayan in Kerala. However, the return of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam to power after a decade in Tamil Nadu and a consecutive second term for the Left in four decades in Kerala are likely to be more decisive for India in the next five years than Banerjee’s win in Bengal. This is because Stalin’s DMK and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) under Vijayan are ideologically more fortified than Banerjee’s Trinamul Congress in their fight against the divisive politics of the Bharatiya Janata Party. This is not to diminish Banerjee’s feat against the formidable duo of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. The point is that Banerjee has been a loner in all her battles — be it against patriarchy in the Bengal Congress, growing left fascism in the state under the CPI(M), and now against the BJP. She runs the TMC single-handedly. Very little is known about the organizational set-up of the party. Everything, reportedly, is decided by Banerjee. Banerjee has been able to rally people around her on her own terms so far. On each occasion, the people of Bengal had a reason to look up to her as a saviour. That may not be the case every time, especially in the coming five years. Therein lies the significance of Stalin and Vijayan. This is where their role in shaping the Opposition’s fight against the BJP comes in. Stalin had remained under the shadow of his father. But once he took charge, he proved to be a seasoned politician. He led his party commendably in the 2019 general elections. The United Progressive Alliance, led by the DMK, won 38 of the 39 seats. Stalin had come of age. People accepted him not as the son of ‘Kalaignar’ but as the president of the DMK, a Dravidian party that upholds the principles of social democracy and stands for social justice. At a time when the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam was dilly-dallying over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, Stalin was firm that the DMK would not implement the contentious law if the party voted to power. In this assembly election, the alliance of the DMK, Congress, VCK and the communist parties bagged 159 out of a total of 234 seats. Stalin has kept his party and the alliance together. This is no mean achievement in the light of the AIADMK playing a subservient role to the BJP. The DMK was also wise enough not to fall into the Hindutva trap laid out by the BJP. When the latter attempted to play the Murugan card by taking out a ‘Vel Yatra’, the DMK leadership remained unruffled. The CPI(M)’s performance under Pinarayi Vijayan in Kerala has been outstanding, especially since the Left Front was routed in the 2019 general elections. It has bagged 99 of the 140 seats, with the CPI(M) winning 67 seats. The BJP’s attempts to raise the Sabarimala issue were blunted and its lone account in the state assembly closed. Over the last five years, Vijayan has built up the image of a ‘doer’: but he has also earned the moniker, ‘Mundudutha Modi’ or ‘Modi in dhoti’. It is true that Vijayan has an autocratic way of functioning. But perhaps no other chief minister has tackled — effectively — two deluges and two epidemics in five years. Vijayan has led his party’s political battles too, the most important being the one against the CAA. The Kerala assembly was the first to pass a resolution against the Act. What struck a chord with the masses was his ability to bring the Congress around to share the podium with him when the Left held a day’s dharna in the state capital against the law. With this victory, Vijayan’s stature has risen within the party and the state. But the CPI(M) is wary of the mistakes it made under Jyoti Basu in Bengal where the communists are now without a single MLA. The party is set to replace all its ministers in Kerala, the only exception being the health minister, K.K. Shailaja, who has won accolades for the way she has handled the coronavirus pandemic. Unlike Stalin or Vijayan, Banerjee is unlikely to reach out to the Congress and the CPI(M) in her fight against the BJP. She will be busy guarding her citadel for the next five years, with the BJP-RSS doing everything to unsettle her. Ideology rather than populism is the need of the hour. The onus is on Stalin and Vijayan to propel a southern surge to combat the BJP’s Hindu nationalism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
14-05-2021||Opinion||New lesson: Teachers left vulnerable to Covid||The deaths being counted in the second surge of Covid-19 infections may not present the full picture. But in one segment of the population the figures could be close to reality — and these are staggering. Teachers in schools and universities have been left vulnerable to infection by the policies of Central and state governments. Head teachers of government-aided schools in West Bengal have said that the policy of distributing dry rations in place of midday meals to pupils is exposing them to the virus; a teacher has to go to school six days a month to make the food packets and be exposed further during distribution since many guardians do not wear masks. They have already lost 25 head teachers and many more assistant teachers in the process. The state education department needs to find an alternative method quickly. Fire-fighting is urgent and can be expected of the new government, but the system also indicates the policy all over India to engage schoolteachers in various tasks outside of schoolwork, such as election duty and census data collection. India is guilty of diminishing the dignity and importance of school teachers; Covid-19 has cruelly exposed the tragic outcome of this inversion of values. For example, it is claimed that around 700 teachers died while on panchayat poll duty in Uttar Pradesh. But even being forced to stay on campus or travel from homes outside the campus to take online classes from school or conduct admissions and discharge other professional duties have proved to be tragic for many teachers of the Kendriya and Navodaya Vidyalayas. The teachers’ request to postpone admissions has not yet been properly heard. If there is not total deafness, there is little more than hollow sounds to be had from the relevant authorities. In response to appeals from university teachers for help to set up Covid care facilities on their campuses, the University Grants Commission has sent superior-sounding advice about Covid protocols with no mention of financial and medical help. How are teachers to set up Covid management systems by themselves? But the UGC and the Union education ministry cannot afford to be touched by the death and illness of teachers and other staff on university campuses. The government is now the teacher, demonstrating how Bharat should become atmanirbhar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
14-05-2021||Opinion||Steady rise: Himanta Biswa Sarma becomes Assam CM||Sir — After a long period of suspense, Himanta Biswa Sarma, the former Congress leader who helped the Bharatiya Janata Party achieve great success in the Northeast, has taken over as chief minister of Assam (“No-mask fame Sarma fulfils CM dream”, May 10). The possibility of this happening, however, was evident ever since he filed his nomination for the polls. It was heartening to see Sarbananda Sonowal, whom Sarma has now replaced, support the latter’s rise to power. The BJP leadership must have plans for the former chief minister too. While Sarma has worked hard for the BJP and been rewarded for his efforts, it must be remembered that as health minister of the state, Sarma had not been the most responsible. In early April this year, when the second wave of the pandemic had already begun claiming lives, Sarma played down the need to wear face masks. He even said that the state would celebrate Bihu with the usual pomp. One hopes that Sarma will be more pragmatic in his new role — much depends on the words of the chief minister of a state. It is also disturbing that Sarma has brought up the National Register of Citizens once again — he has said that he would call for a re-verification of the list — while the entire country is reeling under the pandemic. Sarma should sort out his priorities. Saving lives should be the primary task of the government at the moment. Ujwal Gupta,Hooghly Sir — The BJP’s troubleshooter in the Northeast, Himanta Biswa Sarma, has been chosen for the prestigious post of chief minister of Assam. He is said to have left the Congress in 2015 for this opportunity — Sarma was at loggerheads with the then chief minister, Tarun Gogoi. Later, he joined the BJP. This propelled the saffron party to unprecedented success not only in Assam but in the entire northeastern region. Sarma is now the third former Congress leader to become chief minister for a BJP-ruled state in the Northeast. Unlike Sarma, his predecessor, Sarbananda Sonowal, was not a mass leader, and he had to pay a heavy price for it. Sonowal has previously been Union sports minister. It is likely that he will once again be moved to the Central ministry and perhaps be elected to the Rajya Sabha from Assam. Anushka Panwar,Ujjain Give peace a chance Sir — The decades-old Israel-Palestine conflict has flared up once again. The conflict, described as one of the worst humanitarian crises of modern times, has persisted in spite of repeated declarations by the United Nations that the Israeli occupation of Palestinian territory since 1967 is in violation of international law. Citizens from all corners of the world must urge their respective governments to take steps towards a peaceful resolution. Koushik Dam,North 24 Parganas||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
14-05-2021||Opinion||Rural alert: Covid-19 hits India's hinterland||India’s worst nightmare is coming true: Covid-19 is making its presence felt in the country’s rural areas. The Centre has stated that as many as 533 districts in the nation are reeling under the pandemic: the positivity rate reported from these areas is — this is worrying — over 10 per cent. The path ahead offers little respite: an Ecowrap report by the State Bank of India stated that the share of rural India in new cases had risen to 48.5 per cent in May: the corresponding figure in March was 36.8 per cent. One of the reasons why India managed to contain the first wave of the coronavirus last year is that the contagion had been largely prevented from reaching the hinterland. But this is no longer the case with Covid-19’s second onslaught. The consequences are frightening. Rural India accounts for approximately 65 per cent of India’s population. The limited range and quality of healthcare services, shortage of trained medical staff, formidable bottlenecks that are slowing down vaccination and testing and tracing mechanisms, public and institutional myopia, among other factors, may lead to a health and humanitarian crisis of unprecedented scale. The consequences will not be limited to the loss of lives: the economy — local and national — could suffer equally. Mandis are expected to experience disruptions in their supply chains, spiking food inflation in the process. A food crisis and the possibility of food import cannot be ruled out either. The outcome of the crisis depends on how the Centre goes about addressing three principal areas of concern. It must devote greater resources — monetary, medicinal, manpower — to rural India so that villages can receive the attention that they now need. In the long term, concrete measures must be taken to confront the disproportionate distribution of healthcare between urban and rural India. The over-reliance on private healthcare facilities along with the severe underfunding of public healthcare institutions need to be set right. Second, there must be a full-fledged mobilization of political cadre and allied units to assist people in need. The Centre, too, must be far more collaborative in its approach towards states and the Opposition and accept their inputs and criticisms to improve the quality of care dispensed to citizens. Finally — this is crucial — the Narendra Modi government must provide direct monetary benefits to those in distress in rural India as Covid-induced challenges are likely to impair jobs and income.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
14-05-2021||Opinion||Not death enough||Two weeks ago, we lost a beloved member of the family to Covid-19. She was Mangala Bag, my mother’s attendant. She had cared for my mother, who is very ill, and all of us, deeply. She was only 55. When she fell ill, we first tried to treat her at home. When that was not enough, we hospitalized her. Two days later, after what seemed to be an improvement, she suddenly passed away. I am overtaken by grief, rage and guilt. She was a part of almost every household activity, which she need not have been, and she and I would often share the gas oven, cooking together, and as some of us know, what rises from stirring the pots together is a kind of intimacy that makes every conversation, every conspiracy, possible. It is a woman thing. Double double, toil and trouble. But I am a plain cook; Mangala was a magician. She brought to my mother’s care the same exuberance and imagination with which she cooked. She would conjure up people for Ma, who lives between memory and stark forgetfulness and is always waiting for visitors, who, when they are real, do not turn up. Mangala turned Ma’s virtual visitors into flesh. It made Ma very happy. I am full of rage because Mangala’s Covid test could not be done earlier, the test results did not arrive earlier, the ambulance did not arrive earlier, the hospitalization did not happen earlier. I am relentlessly recreating the events that led to her death and scrutinizing every detail, and castigating myself as to what I could have done better. She did not get the care that she gave so generously and deserved for herself. I still do not know what happened in the two days she was admitted in the hospital. I could not get in touch with her ward and I only heard twice from the hospital — once when Mangala called to say that she was feeling better, but was very weak and could hardly eat, and the next day, when a man called to say she was dead. I have not felt comforted for a moment since, except by a few things. One is the dignity and calm with which Mangala’s family has accepted the news of her death. She had come to work for us from a village in Uluberia, Howrah. She was her family’s highest earner. I also felt our grief and terror recede a little when friends and other family members gathered around us. I was moved most when strangers, or almost-strangers, reached out to me. I feel that they are strangers no more. I also know that some close friends of mine are there around me, in silence. They just want to let me be. Then why is it that I feel so angry when some others get in touch with me? It is something in their tone — the tone that makes us pronounce the names of people who work for us in a certain way, as if in italics — or just what they say. I was getting anxious phone calls from a person who always makes anxious phone calls about nothing. When I finally took her call, and she learnt about Mangala’s death, she just said she was relieved that we did not have Covid-19. A close friend who called me two days after the death asked me what was wrong with my voice. Was I okay? I had to remind her that Mangala had died. Another close friend asked about Mangala’s husband. Why could not he come and work for us, he asked. It did not occur to the friend that Mangala’s husband may not want to work as a servant. He works for a residential school. The poor are interchangeable, even when they are husband and wife. The smell of death spreads, from social media, from our own circles. I am by now also used to people asking me who it was that died and just responding with an “oh” or “oh okay” to my reply. End of conversation. Mangala’s is not death enough. A curtain drops. This curtain, which divides the classes, seems even more final than death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
14-05-2021||Opinion||Two legacies||Legacies are strange beasts. Some can be completely forgotten until they are remembered. For instance, for a century no one recalled that the Spanish flu of 1918 killed more people in India than anywhere else; but now this fact is much deliberated as we are engulfed by another pandemic. Sometimes they are permanently influential — like the Bengal famine of 1942-43 represented the final erosion of whatever remained of the moral consensus that had sustained the British raj in India. Its legacy remains one of administrative incompetence combined with policy failures that created a vast human tragedy. The legacies of two very different warriors, whose anniversaries fall this month, are being refashioned in accordance with contemporary preoccupations. The 200th death anniversary of Napoleon Bonaparte fell on May 5. His domination of all the continental powers in Europe, till he was finally worsted in Waterloo in 1815 by a concert led by Britain, should make him a hero for the French at least. Yet his legacy appears most contested in France even as the French president, Emmanuel Macron, paid tribute by laying a wreath at Napoleon’s tomb in Paris. “If his splendour resists the erosion of time, it is because his life carries in each of us an intimate echo,” Macron said. The headline following Macron’s speech was an evocative phrase he used — “Napoleon is a part of us.” Also in May falls another important anniversary, not unrelated to Napoleon and equally controversial, but in India. On May 4, 1799, Tipu Sultan was killed while defending Srirangapatna against a British force. This defeat marked the beginning of a two-decade-long period in which the British overrode every power in peninsular and central India. Tipu Sultan had been a major adversary and his demonization in British accounts of the time and later was therefore of a correspondingly high order. A Napoleon-led expedition to Egypt earlier in the 1790s had an obvious eye on undermining the British in India and Tipu would have played a key role in this, given his position on the eastern coast. The British remained alive to any power in India linking up with the French till Napoleon’s final defeat. The danger of a possible alliance between Tipu and the French was by the late 1790s perhaps more imagined than real, but it was enough to ensure his removal. For the critics of the French president, Macron, the high-profile commemoration of the bicentenary of Napoleon’s death was simple politics — there is a presidential election next year. His invocation of the best-known Frenchman of the modern world was seen also as a way of undercutting opposition on Macron’s right which has long seen Napoleon as a military genius and a national hero. Past French presidents had pointedly disassociated themselves from earlier commemorations since Napoleon was also seen as a warmonger and territorial aggrandizer whose ambitions caused widespread death and destruction in Europe. Additionally, one feature in particular made this divisive legacy even more controversial. In 1802, Napoleon decreed the restoration of slavery in French territories in the Caribbean, reversing the abolition of slavery which the French Revolution had effected. This act made France the only country to abolish slavery and then restitute it. The supercharged debates about slavery and racism that have engulfed Europe and North America in recent years, especially the ‘Black Lives Matter’ hashtag, provide the context for this aspect of Napoleon’s legacy acquiring a larger-than-life character. For many, President Macron’s wading into this terrain reflected the ongoing debate in France about colonialism, racism and about how to address the aspirations of its Muslim population following the Prophet cartoons and blasphemy-related issues. If Napoleon’s legacy, even in France, is divided and generates controversy to this day, so does Tipu Sultan’s in India. Two polarities define that public debate. In one, Tipu’s defiance of the British and the fact that he was prepared to fight to the end and not accept humiliating terms, as many other ruling princes of the time did, are his defining legacy. In the other, it is his bigotry and treatment of non-Muslims that stand out. Here, the British provide much of the ammunition for the demonization and vilification by his contemporary adversaries. Both ends of the debate are influenced by current divides, although admittedly Tipu Sultan’s defiance and refusal to accept the humiliating terms the British offered for settlement have a much stronger evidential basis. But as memories of the conquest and domination of India by an outside power fade, it is our internal fissures, sometimes real but more often imagined, that surface. The portrayal of Tipu Sultan in contemporary British accounts, however, has other parallels. During the debate that followed the second Gulf War with the invasion of Iraq led by the United States of America, at least one reputed historian had drawn parallels between Saddam Hussein, Gamal Abdel Nasser in 1950s Egypt, the Mahdi in Sudan in the 1890s and Tipu in Mysore in the 1790s. If we use contemporary Foucauldian jargon, in each of these cases there was the moulding of discourse through power. Napoleon’s legacy and the contestations around it are of a different character, but here, too, there is more than a hint of France redefining itself both vis-à-vis Europe and its own citizens. To return to legacies, we do not know for certain whether Winston Churchill actually said, “History will be kind to me, for I intend to write it”. But he certainly thought so. George Orwell, however, certainly did write, “Who controls the past controls the future: who controls the present controls the past”. In what manner this pandemic will remain as a milestone in our history and memory, we cannot say. Will it be akin to the influenza a century ago — largely forgotten until forcibly recalled by a new and similar calamity? Or will it be like Partition, the legacy of which is so alive in many quarters that it becomes part of the present? It is too early to say what the legacy of the Covid-19 pandemic on our own collective consciousness will be, but that for many of us it is a formative moment is incontestable. Yet, how the future will recall this present remains to be seen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
