15-05-2021||Opinion||All play, no work for the Prime Minister||Work is worship. The admirers of Narendra Modi believe that the prime minister is working hard to save India from the second wave of a virus that has brought the nation to its knees. However, given the reality on the ground, their devotion has acquired a touch of the absurd. Several members of the Union cabinet as well as leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party recently shared a column attributed to the outfit’s media relations convener that assured India that Mr Modi, who, unlike his usual self, has been avoiding the limelight recently, has been hard at work. The evidence of the prime minister’s Calvinist spirit accompanied the piece, just in case Mr Modi’s critics — the legion of anti-nationals according to BJP lore — remain unconvinced. For instance, readers were reminded that Mr Modi’s government had promised to build several All India Institutes of Medical Sciences. It is curious that the BJP’s minders feel that there is a need to give proof of Mr Modi’s achievements. Perhaps that has something to do with the shadow that often falls between the prime minister’s utterances and his deeds. The AIIMS that Mr Modi promised, for instance, are yet to come up even though several years of his golden rule are already over. Mysteriously, all the hard work that Mr Modi is putting in seems to be bearing a bitter harvest. Mr Modi had declared that India had emerged victorious over the virus in January. Months later, the total caseload has now risen past 23 million while the death toll surged past the grim milestone of 2,50,000. The nation’s health infrastructure has been overwhelmed. There is shortage of oxygen and other medical supplies. The economy is expected to suffer as much as citizens. But the nation must rest assured. Mr Modi is at work. The consequences of the prime minister’s labours are showing. The international press — the Indian media are still looking for their lost spine — has been roasting Mr Modi for his ineptitude. There is concern that Brand Modi has taken a beating too. That perhaps explains the urgency to create a counter-narrative. Propaganda, after all, is necessary to burnish the prime minister’s Teflon-coated image. A desire to control the narrative that is to be disseminated among a suffering people has been common among totalitarian regimes. This hoax needs to be countered by a robust public engagement on the part of India’s Opposition. Some sort of a beginning seems to have been made with several Opposition parties sending a letter to Mr Modi, making specific demands for relief for Indians. This momentum has to be maintained and searching questions posed to the prime minister. A leaf can be taken from the book of the chief minister of Jharkhand, Hemant Soren, who remarked with refreshing candour that the prime minister, on a call with Mr Soren, only indulged in mann ki baat without listening in return. India, along with Mr Soren, is waiting for Mr Modi to do a bit of kaam ki baat instead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
15-05-2021||Opinion||Inviting danger: Cow dung baths||Sir — It is shocking that some people in Gujarat have been going to cow shelters once a week to cover their bodies in dung and urine in the hope of curing or warding off Covid-19, even though doctors have warned against the practice (“Doctors warn against Covid cow-dung bath”, May 12). Blind belief and superstition have led Indians into such depths. One wonders when it will dawn on people that cow dung is nothing but waste. Applying cow dung and urine can never boost immunity or protect anyone from the coronavirus. On the contrary, it can cause other infections, including mucormycosis or the black fungus infection, which may be fatal. The cow is a sacred symbol to Hindus, and its dung has been used for centuries to clean their homes under the assumption that it has therapeutic and antiseptic properties, a belief without scientific basis. Rationalists have gone hoarse trying to explain this to people, but to no avail. While images of men applying cow dung on their bodies have caused both shock and amusement, the main concern is that the pandemic has wreaked devastation on India, with more than 23 million cases and 2.5 lakh deaths reported so far. The actual numbers could be many times higher, with citizens across the country struggling to find hospital beds, oxygen or medicines, and many dying alone for the lack of treatment.Dyutiman Bhattacharya,Calcutta
Sir — Can citizens be blamed for believing that covering their bodies with cow dung will ‘boost immunity against Covid-19’ when, a few months ago, the University Grants Commission had asked universities in India to encourage students to take a ‘cow science’ exam, the study material for which included the medical ‘virtues’ of cow dung and urine? The incident involving cow dung ‘therapy’ occurred in Gujarat. During the campaigning process for the recently-concluded Bengal assembly elections, some Bharatiya Janata Party campaigners were heard making promises to usher in the ‘Gujarat model’ here. The people of this state should be thankful to Mamata Banerjee for not allowing that to happen. Had her party failed to win, the people of Bengal, too, would have had to undergo the ignominy of wading through bovine waste. Sanjit Ghatak,South 24 Parganas
Sir — Right from the beginning of the pandemic, social media has been rife with ‘medical suggestions’ for preventing or curing the disease; unfortunately, most of these remedies lack a scientific basis and have not been supported by doctors. One such recently-suggested remedial measure to counter Covid-19 has been the application of the dung and urine of cows on one’s body. The people who believe that this is the right approach to boosting immunity against Covid-19 are actually making themselves prone to many more diseases. Cow dung has black fungi which are harmful for human bodies; this is a scientifically-proven fact. At a time when the entire country is going through an unprecedented health crisis, dangerous ‘remedial’ methods like these, which are adopted by large numbers of people, complicate the problem further. This might also be instrumental in spreading the coronavirus further. Indians must shun unsubstantiated suggestions found on social media regarding the containment of the lethal virus and, instead, strictly follow the guidelines of the World Health Organization so that we may all remain safe from the disease. The Centre must warn people not to experiment with their health and lives. Iftekhar Ahmed,Calcutta Dark hour Sir — At a time when the pandemic has caused the country untold mental and physical suffering, it was even more crushing to be reminded that societal evils continue to thrive. A young woman in Madhya Pradesh was allegedly killed by her husband and in-laws for giving birth to four girls — the last was born barely months ago — and for dowry. News such as this causes us to lose hope at the best of times; during a pandemic, when we are struggling to stay afloat, the ongoing plight of women in the country — they have also been the worst hit by Covid-19, in terms of jobs and medical aid — makes us wonder whether gender equality will always remain a pipe-dream. Janaki Ganguly,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
15-05-2021||Opinion||New stage: Baroness Shriti Vadera becomes chairperson of the Royal Shakespeare Company||All the world’s a stage for Baroness Shriti Vadera, who has played many parts in her 58 years, the latest being the chairperson of the Royal Shakespeare Company, ‘the first woman and first person of colour’ to be appointed to the post. She was born into a Gujarati family in Uganda, did her schooling in India and England, read Philosophy, Politics and Economics at Oxford, went into the City, served as a minister under Gordon Brown and helped the then prime minister tackle the 2008 financial crisis, became chairperson of Santander, United Kingdom, the first woman to head a British bank, and is currently the chairperson of the insurance giant, Prudential plc. I have known the no-nonsense Shriti for quite a long time as one of the judges of the Financial Times/McKinsey Business Book of the Year Award (“of course, I read the books”). Shriti has always believed in diversity as it reduces the risk of “group think”, she told me once. The RSC, which has long been practising colour-blind casting by, say, having a black Romeo opposite a white Juliet, also promotes “equality, inclusion and diversity” and the notion that “Shakespeare is for everyone”. I once attended a workshop the RSC did in Stratford-upon-Avon in 2012 with three people from Calcutta — Anjana Saha, then deputy principal, Delhi Public School, Newtown, her pupil, Anmol Hoon, and Janardan Ghosh, a drama teacher from Apeejay School. Bright future When Usha Goswami wanted to apply to Oxford, the head of sixth form at her north London comprehensive school crushed the idea: “Now, Usha, why do you want to go to Oxford? I see you going to Manchester and getting a 2:2.” But Usha, who had got A grades in A levels in English, Economics and History, took a friend’s advice and wrote directly to three Oxford colleges. Two turned her down, but Peter Bryant, a don at St John’s College, Oxford, rang her: “Come along on Friday, I’ll give you an interview.” Usha, who wanted to read experimental psychology, recalls: “They decided to take a chance. I have Peter Bryant to thank for that.” Usha returned to Oxford to do her DPhil, with Bryant as her supervisor. Last week, Usha, now a fellow of St John’s College, Cambridge, and professor of cognitive developmental neuroscience in the department of psychology at Cambridge University, was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society, the world’s most prestigious gathering of scientists. I spoke afterwards to Usha, who was born in London to a Punjabi father, Roshan Lal Goswami, an electrical engineer who had worked for the Indian High Commission in London, and a German mother, Elisabeth Irene Zenner. Usha was made an FRS partly because of her cutting-edge work with dyslexic children. They have difficulty reading not because they are “stupid”, a common prejudice, but because of the way their brains interpret received sound. One day she hopes it may be possible to solve the problem by wearing a kind of hearing aid — “that would be the ultimate goal”.Britain’s nightmare India appears to be in flames, judging from the images from its cremation grounds published in British newspapers. In marked contrast, England, Scotland and Northern Ireland reported zero Covid deaths on Monday. But Britain has been through a nightmare too — the record in a country with a 67 million-strong population was reached on January 20, 2021, with 1,820 deaths and 38,905 people testing positive. Rachel Clarke, a palliative care doctor, had raged at the prime minister Boris Johnson: “Another 1820 UK Covid deaths. This figure makes me want to weep, scream... As if the deaths alone weren’t devastating, knowing many were avoidable crushes me. These are mass casualties caused by the failure of government. Heartbreaking.” On March 12, 2020, Boris had levelled with the British public: “Many more families are going to lose their loved ones before their time.” Five days later, Sir Patrick Vallance, the government’s chief scientific adviser, suggested keeping Covid deaths below 20,000 would be a “good outcome”. The number of deaths is now close to 1,28,000, one of the worst in the world. But British funerals are away from the cameras. Boris’s get-out-of-jail card was to pay up front for 367 million doses of various vaccines. Two-thirds of UK adults have been vaccinated with a first dose and over 16.7 million with a second. I have in my pocket a little button badge which, given what is happening in India, causes much anguish. It reads: “I’ve had my Covid vaccination.” In memoriam My late friend, David Twiston Davies, came to mind because of a 630-word obituary on Furdoon “Duck” Mehta in The Daily Telegraph. David was always on the lookout for “anecdotes”. Mehta, who was born into a Parsi family in Bombay in 1920 and died on his 101st birthday, “was believed to have been the only Indian officer to fly with a British Air Observation Post... Squadron in the Second World War”. Incidentally, today marks the 100th anniversary of the Royal British Legion which was set up “to fight the injustices faced by [soldiers] returning home after service”. Footnote Unlike Boris Johnson, the Labour leader, Sir Keir Starmer, has not made it a point to promote Indians. Following the Labour’s poor performance in local government polls, he conducted a reshuffle of his shadow cabinet. He sacked Valerie, sister of former MP, Keith Vaz, as shadow leader of the Commons. However, he has retained Lisa Nandy as shadow foreign secretary. Her father, Dipak Nandy, a self-styled Marxist academic from Calcutta — where else? — was once big in British race relations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
15-05-2021||Opinion||Taken to task||Friends in London warned against moving from a cooling frying pan to a raging fire. But we were tired of being kept dangling at Air India’s mercy. The national carrier resembles the national government: its duty to passengers begins and ends with taking their money. Disdainful of the public, Air India did not even bother to take telephone calls or answer emails. When I lived in Singapore and regularly visited my son at school in England, Air India’s local manager apologized that he could not guarantee a seat beyond Delhi on the Singapore-Delhi-London flight. Seats to London, he explained, were up for grabs for India’s high and mighty who ignored prior confirmed bookings. This cavalier attitude to those who provide the airline’s rice and curry is replicated in the government’s disregard of voters at a time of national pain and panic. But things are changing, thanks partly to the pressure of public interest litigation. The Supreme Court’s suo motu decision to examine how the pandemic is handled holds the promise of long overdue judicial superintendence although the petulant (but superficially deferential) tone of the Centre’s response warns this intervention is resented and may be resisted. Stranded in London for six months, I did not follow the election campaign in detail. But certain curious aspects were unmistakable. Clearly, no Election Commission would have prolonged public agony through eight-phase voting without political sanction. It stood to reason, too, that the sanctioning authorities expected Bengal’s suffering to swing the polls in their favour. Worse than Nero fiddling while Rome burned, this exploitation of death and disaster reached manic heights when the Rs 20,000 crore Central Vista extravaganza was reportedly cleared to go full steam ahead. Meanwhile, oxygen cylinders were drying up, patients gasped for breath on pavements because there were no hospital beds and India begged the world for help. Amid the controversy in England over the nearly $2,80,000 that Boris Johnson allegedly spent on refurbishing his Downing Street flat, I was astonished to learn that the prime minister of an impoverished Third World country had ordered priority construction of his palatial official residence in the Central Vista fantasy. This keeping up with the global Joneses (Donald Trump spent $1.75 million updating the White House) reminded me of the sprawling villa by Lake Geneva that belonged to Mobutu Sese Seko Kuku Ngbendu Wa Za Banga, bankrupt and starving Zaire’s ruler for 32 years. He died in exile in Morocco. The raging pandemic ended the Kumbh Mela but only after the Uttarakhand chief minister’s head had rolled. He had had the nerve to urge Hindutva warriors to be content with a mini-Kumbh. ‘All are welcome to the Maha Kumbh!’ boomed his successor. The sadhus were appeased but the coronavirus soared and many of them died. In Bengal, the faithful were squabbling over who should sit (cross-legged?) in Mamata Banerjee’s not-vacant chair — a pop star, a cricketer or an elite outsider who had put away single malt Scotch and rare beef steaks for the duration. Narendra Modi’s appearance was the first shock on my return after a nine-hour wait and Covid-19 tests in Bangalore. Televised election programmes might have been village tamashas with “Didi O Didi!” bellowed obscenely from the depths of flowing hair and beard. Some speculated that a Rabindranath Tagore lookalike was expected to impress voters. Others joked that being obsessed with Didi’s Muslim support, Modi sought to outdo mullahs and imams in fuzzy-wuzzyness. It was also suggested he was caught between two hirsute Hindu heroes, Vashishtha and Valmiki. Vashishtha’s ashram being near Guwahati, he must be thanked for Assam but larger-than-life Valmiki was Rama’s contemporary. I won’t pretend to have expected the Trinamul Congress’s spectacular achievement although I am very glad it won. However, Mamata Banerjee’s defeat in Nandigram indicates the victory was of the party rather than the leader, reversing the old Congress position when Indira Gandhi feared an unpopular party might drag her down. Having killed the Nano and Salim projects without innovating anything to satisfy young Bengalis whom the Left Front’s reforms left with ambition and ability but no means of fulfilling them, the chief minister needed a unifying platform. A fierce sense of being Bengali provided it. Hindu or Muslim, Bengal rejects outsiders, seeing their local henchmen as opportunists and time-servers. A judiciary that supervises the Centre is a welcome development. It should have happened at the end of March last year when a stampede of internal migrants — a staggering total of 139 million according to some — raised vital questions about health, employment, accommodation, transport and exploitation. The catastrophic second surge, aggravated by neglect, complacency and events like the Kumbh Mela and elections, has prompted the judiciary to hold governments to account. At last count, 11 high courts had pulled up state governments and the Centre. This might not have been essential if India had a forceful Opposition to balance Central power, and if constructive interventions (like letters to Narendra Modi from Manmohan Singh and Sonia Gandhi) were not treated with studied contempt. Sadly, this is the Bharatiya Janata Party’s style: P.V. Narasimha Rao and Inder Kumar Gujral lamented that even Atal Bihari Vajpayee — no yokel but a benign and civilized man — did not reciprocate the courtesy he had received from them. The government is even more dismissive of a media that often seem too anxious to live up to L.K. Advani’s famous taunt to take on Opposition functions like some American newspapers. The absence of a ready-made Western model gives India the unparalleled opportunity of forging its own checks and balances out of institutions we inherited and made our own. I recall the Duke of York’s throwaway remark at a Calcutta reception that the British left India a bureaucracy that Indians developed. That applies to many other institutions and attributes that we take for granted: not even the Central Vista’s grandeur will convince anyone that India’s parliamentary practices derive from 6th century BCE Vaishali and not Westminster. Or that some wizard of a Hindu plastic surgeon fixed Ganesha’s head, that Karna was a test tube baby, or that our ancient sages were experts at stem cell technology and artificial insemination. Ignorant absurdities encourage innocents to look to cow dung and urine to cure the coronavirus. No wonder doctors record a huge spurt in mucormycosis, the aggressive “black fungus”, among Covid-19 patients. Our courts are far from perfect. Not everybody has access to them. Not all judges are above self-interest. Nor are they all apolitical. Yet, on the whole, judicial oversight may be preferable to that of an upper House which can become an instrument of the majority group. Recent experience shows judges are no respecter of persons. They are tireless in their efforts. Many high courts are hearing Covid-19 petitions. Many are responsible for incisive and reassuring interventions and criticism of the executive. The Supreme Court, which directed the Centre to submit a national Covid-19 plan and has questioned the disparity in vaccine prices, has promised not to curb high courts. The judiciary wants to play a complementary role because it cannot be a silent spectator to what it calls a “national calamity”. The Centre has indicated its dislike of an independent judiciary’s interventionist functions. It has already shown its claws by not divulging some details the court had asked for. A face-off would defeat the very purpose of judicious superintendence. India’s governance needs consultation, not confrontation. A closed system in which the prime minister never dares face the media, Parliament does not come to grips with crucial national crises, bureaucrats recall Nipper, the terrier in old gramophone ads, and television anchors are caricatures of official spokesmen can never serve the public interest. Such aberrations reduce the government to another moribund Air India existing to service only a privileged circle of insiders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
