16-05-2021||Opinion||But all I want is a palace, don’t you?||I mean, is that even anything to say? That I want a palace? Is that such an unreasonable thing? Tell me! Do you not want one? Everybody wants one; it’s insane to even think everybody does not want one. Imagine. And if you are able to get one without sending a little finger probing into your pocket? At no cost to you? Would you, or would you not? Want it? A palace? Imagine the advantages, the absolutely immediate advantages. No concerns over fresh air. No concerns over ventilation. No concerns over distancing. To each his or her own flank and floors, and jharokhas and verandas, and terraces and landings, and rooms, several, not just one, each the size that would require the land revenue folks to come and measure, because we don’t usually have tapes that length at home, do we? But it won’t even come to that. I won’t come to requirements of ventilation and airing and social distancing. Palaces are by definition socially distanced. Imagine the benefits of seminally distanced place: a palace. Want one? Well I do; and I cannot for the life or death of me understand why there is such a kerfuffle about the truth that I do. You should too. Protect yourself and your near and dear ones, get a palace. You will thank me. Once you get one for yourself, you will not rage and rant about why I am getting one. I am a fakir, I am getting one. I will go away with a jhola one day, I know, but meantime I am getting one. There is a lot to be done before I reach out for the jhola, I am at it, you know I am. I do not sleep. I do not take leave. When you think I am gone from work, not seen to be working, I am working even then. My good colleagues would have told you I am at work; I don’t like blowing my trumpet all the time, I assign that job to others because I have more important things to do. The trumpet is mine, they blow it. We should learn to share things, so what if the trumpet belongs to me, I have no trouble handing it out to others from time to time. That is part of being a fakir, you forsake attachments to worldly things; and what are trumpets? If you want to come blow my trumpet, be my guest, in the palace, I shall be most pleased. Fakirs may not have uses for palaces, but you know palaces can do with fakirs in them. Fakirs are important, we venerate fakirs, if palaces have fakirs palaces will be better places. What you can also do with palaces, I have realised is that you can put guards and sentries around them and shut the gates. Restrict entry. And once you are able to do that, you know what, you can break the chain. Just put unwanted things on an entry-banned list, hand it to the security post at the gates and you’ve broken the chain. And you thought I was building this palace for vanity? Me? A fakir? I am setting examples. This one is also on how to break this killer chain. Get a palace. Isolate. Ventilate. Distance. Institute a guard at the gates and issue a list of what or who cannot come in, like a no-fly-zone. Imagine how demoralising and debilitating that is going to be for this thing that has, you know, got me a bad name. I mean it has also killed and disabled a lot of folks, and made millions ill and anxious, and brought the world to a halt and pulverised economies and that sort of thing but its chief villainy is just this: it gave me a bad name. A palace is the perfect solution. Get one, if you are smart enough, you’ll find people to pay for it. Me? I am just a fakir, fakirs get them for free anyhow. There was once a castle And it was high up in the air To get there was it such a hassle They said hey, we wouldn’t even dare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
16-05-2021||Opinion||Line crossed||Line crossed n Sir — There is little doubt that the visit of the West Bengal governor, Jagdeep Dhankhar, to areas hit by post-poll violence in Cooch Behar constitutes a grave transgression of the bounds of constitutional propriety (“Governor jibe on protocol”, May 15). A habitual critic of the Mamata Banerjee government, he has been given to ignoring the principle that constitutional heads should not air their differences with the elected regimes in public. As recently as December 2020, Banerjee had appealed to the president to recall the governor for political statements that she believed were being made by him at the behest of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Union government. One would have thought that a fresh election, in which Banerjee’s Trinamul Congress has won a resounding victory, would be a reminder, if one was needed at all, that the norms of representative government ought to be a natural restraint on Dhankhar’s gubernatorial propensity to speak out of turn and step out of line. There was a time when another West Bengal governor, Gopalkrishna Gandhi, came in for some criticism for setting aside the constraints of his constitutional office by expressing “cold horror” at the police firing that left 14 protesters dead in Nandigram in 2007. Some may believe that the gubernatorial office ought not to be an impediment to the incumbent yielding to the moral urge to condemn incidents of grave transgression. Yet, the larger principle that the governor should not offer public comment on situations best handled by the representative regime ought to hold good in all circumstances. In the case of Dhankhar, what worsens his persistent criticism of the TMC regime is the unfortunate congruency between his words and the interests of the BJP. His visit to Cooch Behar can be seen as an action louder even than his words in criticism of the elected regime. A visit by a governor to a scene of violence cannot be justified as a gesture of solidarity with victims. M. Channa Reddy, as the Tamil Nadu governor, had shocked the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam regime in 1993 by visiting the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh headquarters in Chennai after a bomb exploded there. It may be argued that the present situation in West Bengal is different from those in which other governors had shed the constraints of their position. Post-election violence is something that should not be witnessed at all in an electoral democracy. West Bengal is certainly out of step with the rest of the country in allowing post-poll celebrations to degenerate into triumphalism and attacks on the losing side. Yet, the onus is on Banerjee to restore law and order and end the violence, even if she believed that the extent of the violence was being exaggerated by the Opposition. Regardless of one’s view of a regime’s inaction, there should be no departure from the principle that any advice or warning the governor wants to give to the elected government ought to be conveyed in private. Khokan Das, Calcutta n Sir — It is unfortunate that in West Bengal the governor and the chief minister have been at loggerheads for a long time, even in the middle of a raging pandemic. Jagdeep Dhankhar’s visit to Assam in the aftermath of post-poll violence was avoidable. The Raj Bhavan needs to show restraint and not resort to actions which may give rise to the perception that Dhankhar is acting at the behest of the BJP high command. A cordial relationship between the governor and the elected regime is crucial for a peaceful political atmosphere. S.S. Paul, Nadia Sir — The head of Japan’s e-commerce giant, Rakuten, is correct to say that holding the Tokyo Olympics this summer while the coronavirus pandemic continues to rage across the world would be a “suicide mission”. While India is witnessing a deadly second wave of Covid-19, Japan, too, has been besieged by a rise in cases. The latter should learn from the mistake India made by allowing the Indian Premier League to be conducted for a while as the nation gasped for breath. A sporting tournament on the scale of the Olympics would be ill-advised when all resources should be directed towards containing the deadly disease. The Olympics should be postponed indefinitely.  Rachit Arora, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
16-05-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Different need||Bidding farewell to the dead through funeral rites was one of the earliest signs of civilization. Although funeral practices have changed with time, bereavement is still an event. People wish peace for the dead through rituals according to their cultural and religious beliefs; it is a way of coping with the unknown. Social bonds are confirmed in the period of mourning through sharing and support. It is understandable that a pandemic would disrupt these systems, especially when the disease causing it is infectious. India has seen the horrors of many epidemics — cholera, smallpox, plague, Spanish flu — which were often marked by the breakdown of funeral practices. But this is not the 19th century, neither is it the early 20th. There is something deeply shocking in the desperate need of the families of a huge number of victims of the virus to ensure a basic funeral. Queues at overflowing crematoriums and burial grounds and hundreds of constantly burning pyres are painful enough — pyres had to be built in a car park too — but what seems unbearable is that people are being forced to bury bodies in the shallow soil of river banks or let them float away, sometimes partially cremated and sometimes not at all. It is as though the roots of society are being torn apart, for the cultural and psychological damage caused by this unprecedented crisis is incalculable. Certain actions by the political leaders of this country could have reduced the enormity of the disaster, if not kept it fully under control. If helpless citizens are unable to accord their loved ones minimum dignity in death because, perhaps, no one is around to take the bodies for cremation, or they cannot afford the soaring prices of wood or the funeral — profiteers never rest — and have to throw bodies into the river, this has to be laid at the door of the administration. The National Human Rights Commission has, by implication, done just that in its list of instructions aimed at securing the dignity and rights of those dead. A legislation to establish these rights must be enacted, it has said among other things, while the administration must arrange for temporary crematoriums, stop the piling up of bodies during transport as well as mass burial and cremation, control price hikes of ambulances and hearses, and vaccinate crematorium and burial ground staff. The NHRC’s concern carries some impression of the magnitude of today’s humanitarian crisis. India is a grieving country. The political leadership at the Centre, however, still feels that its priority is propagating the image of a busy, strong, quietly working prime minister, while his party continues to sniff around for causes to disturb the new government in West Bengal, a state overrun with tragedy. The prime minister has spoken at last, saying he feels the people’s pain. Some in desperate need and sorrow may find that a little difficult to appreciate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
16-05-2021||Opinion||Why the Sidhu-Amarinder feud puts Congress in a spot ||With farmers livid with the Bharatiya Janata Party over the new, contentious farm laws, there was a presumption that the next assembly election in Punjab would be a cakewalk for the Congress. But there is a side show that got bigger and cast a shadow on Congress politics in the state. This is the running feud between the chief minister, Amarinder Singh, and the mercurial Navjot Singh Sidhu who resigned from the ministry and kept aloof. The fight is now full blown, with Sidhu taking a public stand against the CM in the sacrilege case and accusing him of shielding the Badal family. He said that most members of the legislative assembly know that the government is running according to the wishes of the Badals more than those of the Congress. The CM hit back, daring Sidhu to contest against him in Patiala if he wanted to forfeit his deposit. What is worrying for the Congress is that Sidhu has erased all evidence of him being a Congressman from his Twitter account even as he retains his photograph with Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on his profile. Sidhu is known for his closeness with the Gandhi family, but his open revolt against the Punjab CM has complicated the situation, compelling the high command to keep its distance from him. Sidhu has been trying to occupy the political space against the Badals by attacking them regularly and making the dignity of the Sikh religion his main plank by maintaining that seeking justice for the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib in 2015 was his sole objective. If the high command fails to bring about a truce, the Congress is in for trouble in Punjab, which is going to the polls in early 2022. The goodwill that the All India Congress Committee general secretary in charge of Assam, Jitendra Singh, earned with his deft handling of the faction-ridden state unit in the recently-concluded state assembly polls has been all but lost following his explanation for the party’s defeat at the recently-held Congress Working Committee meet. Singh, according to media reports, blamed the other five factions in the state unit and the new regional parties — the Raijor Dal and the Assam Jatiya Parishad, which ate into the Congress votes — for the loss. The reasons, party insiders say, held true till Singh and the Chhattisgarh chief minister, Bhupesh Baghel, set the well-oiled campaign rolling since January. Pre-poll talks with both parties were almost sealed till the Congress started acting ‘arrogantly’ after it got the Bodoland People’s Front on board. It would have augured well for Singh and the party had he said that it was a ‘collective failure’ instead of shifting the blame on to the state leaders who put up a united front. Singh’s explanation has further demoralized the state unit; a feeling of being let down is sweeping through the Assam Pradesh Congress Committee. Party insiders said Singh should have also conveyed to the CWC that most senior leaders were opposed to an overt tie-up with the All India United Democratic Front and had wanted a new PCC president even before Singh was appointed in-charge, and that apart from consulting senior leaders, he also religiously followed a few others, including a “young general secretary not in touch with ground realities”. Party insiders fear the state unit will go the Tripura and Nagaland way if remedial measures, such as urgently appointing an ‘acceptable, hardworking and fearless’ Congress Legislature Party leader and PCC presidents, are not initiated, more so because they are now up against Himanta Biswa Sarma, the new chief minister, whom the Congress let go of in 2015 without adequately weighing the pros and cons. Santosh Gangwar, the Union minister of state with independent charge for labour and employment, recently handed a letter to the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, pointing out the mismanagement of the Covid-19 situation in Bareilly, which the former represents in Parliament. His office in Bareilly leaked the letter to the media. A few days earlier, Kaushal Kishore, the BJP MP, declared before TV cameras that he had written to the CM that he would sit on a dharna if the oxygen requirements of Covid-19 patients were not fulfilled immediately. Brijesh Pathak, the UP law minister, wrote to senior health department officers that even he was not able to arrange for hospital beds. He personally leaked the letter to the media. Many BJP MLAs have written similar letters to Adityanath and circulated them in the media. Udai Veer Singh, the Samajwadi Party leader, summed up this trend as the ‘creation of a shield’ for future elections: “I am an MLC, depending on my party chief to win the council election. The BJP’s Lok Sabha and assembly members know that their government has failed but they are preparing ground for future elections. They are writing letters and making statements against their own party government on the direction of their own leaders. The ruling party leaders are not only telling their voters that they tried in vain to help the people out but also trying to eclipse the Opposition in the process.” On May 13, Delhi lowered its oxygen demand from 700 metric tonnes to 582 MT. The fight for the 700 MT allocation between Delhi and the Centre went up to the Supreme Court. On the day of the final hearing, Arvind Kejriwal publicly thanked Narendra Modi. An Aam Aadmi Party official removed journalists of a city paper from WhatsApp groups for press releases after one of them reported on the Delhi government’s multiple failures in planning for the oxygen crunch. Now, as vaccination for people below 45 years has reduced to a trickle, the deputy CM, Manish Sisodia, has revealed a letter from the manufacturer of Covaxin that it can’t supply more vaccines to the capital “as per the directives of concerned government officials” who, Sisodia says, are the Centre. The AAP has made oxygen and vaccines a political plank with two MLAs issuing daily bulletins on both.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
16-05-2021||Opinion||Pandemic futures||This coming Monday, people in England will be allowed into bars, pubs and restaurants. The federal government in the United States of America has issued new mask guidelines for the fully vaccinated, permitting them to go unmasked, even indoors, under most circumstances. Reading these headlines in Delhi is a bit like squinting at another planet. I wish these aliens well but there’s a part of me that wants to tell everyone I know in these countries to mask up and order in instead of eating out. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has issued a set of startlingly optimistic scenarios, one of which envisages deaths in the US in the low tens per week in September. Low tens. Official figures in India put the current deaths per day at around four thousand. Bhramar Mukherjee, professor of biostatistics and epidemiology at the University of Michigan, suggests that India’s Covid fatalities could be underreported by a factor of between two and five. For the sake of sanity, I am trying not to do the math. American optimism is predicated on a massive vaccine roll out. Joe Biden plans to vaccinate 70 per cent of America’s adult population with at least one dose by July 4. Similarly, Britain, after a disastrous second wave, has redeemed itself with the efficiency with which it ordered vaccines and administered them. Indians my age are used to thinking of Western countries as safer, healthier places but even so, public health experts haven’t exactly covered themselves in glory in the short history of this pandemic. Anthony Fauci, the chief medical adviser to both Donald Trump and Biden, underestimated the threat from Covid-19 in the early months of 2020, and, along with the World Health Organization, provided inconsistent and misleading advice about the need to wear masks. Epidemiologists have distinguished themselves by disagreeing violently with each other. Professor Sunetra Gupta and her anti-lockdown cohort authored the Great Barrington Declaration, which sounded like the end of a boring English innings but turned out to be a contrarian manifesto that absolutely everyone ignored. Meanwhile, epidemiologists widely dismissed as cranks when they forecast doom during India’s first wave have been seemingly vindicated by the horrors of the second. Which makes you wonder if the British and American decision to open up is the science speaking or a semi-ideological determination to get the economy firing again on the back of miracle vaccines. There is no question that transmission rates have plummeted with the vaccination of a critical mass of people, but given the relentless mutation of the virus into ‘variants of concern’ it’s hard not to wonder what might happen to this new sociability if one of these variants manages to evade the resistance induced by the vaccines. It wasn’t so long ago that the South African government returned its entire stock of AstraZeneca vaccines because it was ineffective against the South African variant. What happens if the vaccines administered in Britain don’t provide the protection needed against the so-called Indian variant, the B.1.617? There is something unhealthy, even presumptuous, about medically illiterate laypersons like me even knowing the alphanumeric names of mutated viruses, but given the rate at which this ‘highly transmissible’ strain is killing desis, this seems like a reasonable question. Experts who ought to know reassure us that the Pfizer, the Moderna and the Johnson & Johnson vaccines are effective against the B.1.617 but this is a judgment based on laboratory tests, not real life data. In vitro, merely, said a doctor friend of mine, worriedly. Not in vivo. Medical Latin is a formidable thing. We must all pray, though, that Fauci and Co. are right because if countries like the US and Britain can reduce the virus to endemic proportions via vaccines, there’s hope for countries like ours. Given the track record of the Indian State thus far, this is a distant prospect, but if the US and Britain carry it off, there will be, at least, a road map to recovery. That said, I can’t help thinking that Boris Johnson might do well to ignore Tory cavaliers going on about the liberties of free-born Englishmen and make haste slowly. To open completely as B.1.617 infections multiply feels like tempting fate. After his early missteps, the British prime minister took the virus seriously; his near-death experience with it probably helped. He and his medical counsellors held public briefings about the government’s pandemic policy virtually every other day. The Indian prime minister favours a remoter style. He appears once in a very long while and in the manner of Old Testament prophets, deals in commandments. Unlike Moses, who happened upon all ten at once, Narendra Modi spaced his strictures out. Thou shalt not deal in large denominations was his first big prohibition. Thou shalt not leave home after midnight came afterwards. For weeks now, since the end of the West Bengal assembly election campaign, the prime minister has kept his counsel. This is probably just as well because the last time he formally addressed his People, he appeared in full page newspaper advertisements ‘heartily’ exhorting them to gather at Haridwar for the Kumbh Mela, which became the single largest superspreader event in the global history of this pandemic. In the aftermath of the Kumbh Mela and the Bengal campaign, the Modi government has used proxies to make its case. V.K. Paul, described as a ‘top government adviser’, announced at a news conference that two billion doses of various vaccines would be available between August and the end of the year. It was not clear how the government planned to address the acute shortages in vaccine supply between now and August. The delay in vaccine availability wasn’t surprising because the government had only remembered to re-order 110 million Covishield vaccines from the Serum Institute as late as April 28. Still, on the glass half-full principle, better late than never. The government’s most credentialed defender was the noted cardiac surgeon and entrepreneur, Dr Devi Shetty. Radiating smiling authority, Dr Shetty assured us that criticisms of the government were misplaced because even the US government ‘presented’ with India’s Covid patients wouldn’t have been able to cope. These were, he said, “astronomical numbers” that no country had the infrastructure to manage. And just in case we had missed the medical absolution he was offering the government, he offered it again: “... if the whole country is falling sick there is no health care infrastructure in the world that can manage!” How silly we were to blame the government! Johnson’s pandemic press conferences had misled us into thinking that the basic task of any government was precisely to make sure that the whole country didn’t fall sick at once so that its healthcare infrastructure — the National Health Service in Britain’s case — wasn’t swamped. Johnson could have saved himself a lot of work by taking his cue from Dr Shetty, who deftly re-branded India’s hubris-powered, Kumbh-kick-started, election-aided meltdown into a natural calamity or act of god. Thanks to Dr Shetty, Indians who died straining for oxygen have the consolation of knowing that no mortal was to blame. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
