17-05-2021||Opinion||Danger ahead: Cyclone Tauktae ||Danger ahead Sir — Warnings have been issued with regard to Cyclone Tauktae, which is forming in the Arabian Sea and threatens several states in India such as Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Goa and Gujarat. The Centre and the state governments must ensure that coastal areas are evacuated and storm shelters are kept ready — the risks posed by the pandemic cannot be ignored either. All citizens, too, must stand as one in the face of this calamity. Arup Mondal, Howrah  Read the signs Sir — The article, “The southern stars” (May 14), written by Santosh Kumar, has rightly pointed out that the victory of the Left in Kerala for two terms in a row is more important than Mamata Banerjee’s win in Bengal. In spite of being beaten in the 2019 general elections — the Left won one seat while the Congress-led coalition swept the other 19 — the formidable managerial skills of Pinarayi Vijayan helped the Left achieve a landmark victory in Kerala in the recently concluded assembly polls. In the last five years, Kerala has faced floods, cyclones and epidemics. Vijayan delivered relief, rescue and welfare in these times of distress. As chief minister, his hard work and public relations skills have been commendable. In effect, the Congress was defeated by Vijayan’s political strategy and performance. Many had hoped that Rahul Gandhi, a parliamentarian from Kerala, would play a pivotal role in bringing the Congress to power but the people of Kerala dashed that hope. It must be noted that the voters also nipped the Sabarimala issue raised by the Bharatiya Janata Party in the bud. In this crucial hour, Vijayan will play a stellar role for the party, making Kerala a modern state. Jayanta Datta, Hooghly  Sir — In the article, “The southern stars”, Santosh Kumar has remarked that the return of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, under the leadership of M.K. Stalin, after a decade in Tamil Nadu and a consecutive second term for the Left in four decades in Kerala, under Pinarayi Vijayan, are likely to be more decisive for India in next five years than Mamata Banerjee’s win in Bengal since the DMK upholds the principles of social democracy and the Left has been ideology-driven. In contrast, the Trinamul Congress is devoid of ideology and dictated by Banerjee only. In the same breath, he admitted that Banerjee poses a formidable challenge to the Modi-Shah duo. Indeed, the TMC thrives on Banerjee’s popularity and charisma. But political violence surrounding every election has affected her image as a constitutional democrat. At a time when the mismanagement of the pandemic has exposed the BJP government at the Centre and states ruled by the party, the chance of winning future elections is almost bleak — the results of the Uttar Pradesh panchayat election are a sign. It is time to get rid of the BJP. Jahar Saha, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
17-05-2021||Opinion||In hope: Bengal in lockdown||It is always a challenge for an administration to ensure that normal life comes to a standstill to stall the spread of an infectious disease. The government of West Bengal may be facing even greater challenges in the lockdown from May 16 to 30 than it did last year, when a countrywide lockdown had been ordered by the Centre. The number of infections and deaths is far greater than last time, while there is a shortage of hospital beds, oxygen and essential medicines. Rural areas are affected because of the extended election exercise. Among all this, the problem of suspending public transport while allowing people to travel to vaccination centres by taxi or auto-rickshaw is a serious one; there is no guarantee that they will get this transport. This adds to the confusion about the availability of vaccines. The government has promised more centres, but the situation is far from easy. A lockdown cannot be popular, even though West Bengal has proceeded in two stages — the closing of malls, theatres, gyms and so on together with the shortened timings for markets having been announced on April 30. The state government has been criticized for the short notice for the second stage. Any lockdown is painful for workers in the unorganized sector: they have to work till the last day for their wages and then crowd on to transport to get home. Their safe travel and sustenance during the lockdown are responsibilities the government must take up. Although the administration has some answers to criticism about allowing sweet shops several hours and sari and jewellery shops three hours of operations, there are other, more difficult, issues it has to deal with. For example, the regular distribution of uncooked mid-day rations was one of the government’s positive steps during school closure last year. The lack of transport means only teachers living close to the school can do this, which becomes difficult if it has to continue; moreover, this year, with the virus having become more virulent, some head teachers have said that the system has caused them to lose many members of staff. While the government must find solutions for such problems, it is overwhelmingly important that people cooperate with the measures and strictly follow the Covid-19 protocols. That would be a great step forward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
17-05-2021||Opinion||Always ready for battle: Health workers||Save one life and you’re a hero; save a hundred lives and you’re a nurse, goes the saying. And it has taken a pandemic for the world to realize its worth. International Nurses Day last week saw an unprecedented outpouring of gratitude from not only recovered Covid-19 patients but also bereaved relatives of the victims. Those of us who have been hospitalized or have had family or friends admitted realize how helpless we feel and how dependent we are on the care and efficiency of the nursing staff. The birth anniversary of Florence Nightingale, the founder of modern nursing, on May 12 is dedicated to nurses every year. Actually, every single day ought to be earmarked for them. The reasons are stark. A friend admitted in a private hospital in Calcutta recounts how caringly a nurse tended to her and cajoled her to eat at a time when her body had capitulated to the coronavirus. When she got to know the young girl a little better, she learnt that the nurses practically avoid drinking water the whole day to avoid having to use the restroom or manoeuvre out of their PPE suits. The nurses, a vast majority of them women (although I did come across dedicated ‘brothers’ or male nurses at the Tata Medical Center), are battling odds to survive and serve. A senior nurse from Manipur said her family was impatiently waiting for her to return home, terrified that she would catch the virus here. “But how can I leave these patients who need us so much?” she asked. “I barely get to sleep. Most days we have to stay beyond our shift hours. When I return home, I am too tired to eat. When I wake up, it is time to return to the hospital,” she added. Visits to hospitals confirm that nurses like her from the northeastern states form the bulwark of hospital services in Calcutta, comprising nearly 40 per cent of the nurses at major private hospitals. The trend accentuated following the exodus of nearly 100 nurses from the city’s private hospitals since 2016. The trigger for the high attrition rate was the Bengal government’s drive to recruit over 6,000 nurses for hospitals in the districts with better pay and pension, apart from the incentive of being posted near their families. With only 1,400 seats across 24 nursing schools in the state, there is a perennial shortage of caregivers. Compare this with Tamil Nadu, which produces nearly 20,000 nurses each year through 421 nursing schools. Hundreds of nurses from Kerala work in hospitals abroad. With hospitals overflowing during the pandemic, our nurses and caregivers are playing a critical role round the clock. According to the World Health Organization, nine million more nurses are required by 2030 so that all countries can attain their sustainable development goal on health and well-being. When a former colleague tried to organize home-care for her ailing father last week, the biggest hurdle was finding a trained nurse. While the theme for this year’s Nurses Day was ‘Nurses: A Voice to Lead — A vision for future healthcare’, seeking to show how nursing will look in the future and how the profession will transform the next stage of healthcare, the need of the hour is to set up more training facilities for front-line health workers. Covid-19 has taken a major toll on the nurses. Some have succumbed to the virus in the line of duty; others are coping with mental health issues after battling the trauma of losing relatives and patients consistently over the past year. Yet this is a war they have not deflected from. Ask any of these bravehearts and they are battle-ready, 24x7. The pandemic has taught us not to take life for granted; it has also induced awareness about the truly indispensable: our nurses and healthcare workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
17-05-2021||Opinion||Closed off: Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act||The second surge of Covid-19 infections in India has laid bare the damage caused by the Narendra Modi government’s amendments to the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act in September, 2020. Made in the name of transparency, these were criticized then as harmfully restrictive; the International Commission of Jurists even requested the president of India not to pass them. For example, the amendments compel organizations with FCRA permission to receive foreign funds through a designated account in a State Bank of India branch in Delhi — something that numerous non-governmental organizations have still not been able to open — while banning larger recipient bodies from collaborating with NGOs which work in the field. This discouraged foreign donors that supported grassroots work in spheres such as education, health or gender sensitivity. Together with other provisions, the bewildering increase in red tape at every level, even for opening a bank account, narrowed the NGOs’ scope further. The government, meanwhile, encouraged donations to official funds, such as PM-Cares. Today, when India’s need is desperate because of the spike in infection, and when the Centre is unable to provide the succour needed, whether in oxygen and medicines or vaccines, non-profit organizations cannot access the millions in aid that overseas groups are only too willing to give. The government’s actions suggest a lack of logic, or a goal too esoteric for ordinary perceptions. The FCRA was stringent enough, for governments have always been wary of NGOs. Mr Modi’s government, however, seemed to begin from the premise that all NGOs were guilty of something or the other; foreign funding dropped 40 per cent from 2014 to 2017-18, and 13,000 NGOs lost their licences. Amnesty International had to close its offices in India. Yet in May 2020, the Niti Aayog requested 90,000 NGOs to help deliver services to the poor and frontline workers during the pandemic. If this were not illogical enough, in September 2020 the government amended the FCRA to narrow the routes of foreign funding. Yet accessing foreign aid is now urgent for non-profit groups. Requests are being made to the government by groups of NGOs and others, including the tech industry body, Nasscom, to suspend the FCRA provisions temporarily, at least for this financial year, till the needs of the Covid-19-ravaged country are met. A miracle may still happen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
17-05-2021||Opinion||A fatal hubris: Covid-19 second wave||“Oh, I have taken too little care of this!” — King Lear This quote is from Shakespeare’s King Lear. The megalomaniac king is plucked out of his palace and schooled on the heath, exposed to the ‘pitiless pelting’ of realities. He experiences life as his subjects do. Why did Lear fail to read the obvious? This question brings us face to face with the unfolding human tragedy in the second wave of the pandemic. Unlike King Lear, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is a hard-working, austere leader. Yet, the country is facing a health crisis it has never faced before. Millions are suffering. Worse, their suffering didn’t have to be so acute. Imagine the gates of hospitals being shut against citizens desperate for medical help even in the nation’s capital. Imagine patients lucky enough to be admitted to them dying, gasping for oxygen. Imagine citizens breaking down in full public view. Shakespeare assumes it as axiomatic that awareness of the realities is a function of love. We are ignorant because we are indifferent. We are indifferent because we are deficient in love. Leaders are of two kinds. The first type loves the people for their sake. We call them statesmen. The second type loves the people for one’s own sake. We call them politicians. The proof that a leader loves the people is that he identifies himself with them and anticipates their needs — as parents do. Distance, or aloofness, denotes a denial of love. When love declines, egoism takes over. Hitched to unlimited power, rulers tend to play god to their people. To play god, one has to disown one’s limitations. Assuming oneself to be limitless and self-sufficient like Lear incurs the risk of becoming increasingly unaware. Awareness of realities stings because it makes one aware of one’s limitations. Hubris is nothing but the presumption of being limitless, which is contrary to the logic of life and history. The attractiveness of an Opposition-mukt Bharat is that it dismantles all limitations. Allergy to limitations and resistance to awareness are two sides of the same coin. The essential thing that anyone who has even a faint intention to govern caringly should do is to enlarge, not shrink, his or her awareness. This awareness was the soul of Mahatma Gandhi’s idea of politics. For over a year, we have known that the devastating second wave was coming. While many nations were facing its fury, we chose to be smug and euphoric. This is not an exception. Rather, it is consonant with the fact that our national ethos has been re-oriented from welfare to euphoria. Good governance must be hitched to welfare, not euphoria. Euphoria need not be related to improvement in quality of life. Indeed, euphoria is induced in citizens to anaesthetize them to their plight. It is the political opium of the people. Compare the euphoria whipped up about the arrival in India of five Rafale jets with the current non-availability of the lowly oxygen. Think of the relative investment, and judge for yourself if welfare or euphoria is our craze. The politics of euphoria makes commitment to citizens’ welfare peripheral. So long as its spell lasts, failure in governance will have, if anything, only a negligible impact on electoral outcomes. Given how short-lived public memory is, and the alchemy of euphoria, politicians can afford to neglect people’s welfare and win elections by a military sleight of hand to the drum roll of propaganda. Euphoria is brewed at a distance. Citizens remain its passive consumers, eager to repose their faith in a charismatic leader, who is believed to have the answers to all their problems. Governance is what he does to the people, and not what he and the people together do for themselves. This tells upon the leader as well. He comes under the obligation to seem self-sufficient, which limits his freedom to draw on the full extent of available expertise and resources. If one is self-sufficient, why need or heed anyone else? Yet no nation can be a one-man show. It is, perforce, a collective enterprise. The wealth of a nation — culture, history, art, economics, and many things else besides — is the achievement of a people, not one man’s magic. Charismatic geniuses are germane to religion; but democratic societies are better served by statesmen. India had the advantage of seeing other nations battle the second wave. But we chose to be euphoric, and announced prematurely our facile and final victory over the scourge. The opium of euphoria, currently in short supply, is sure to be back in circulation when the present wave of death and devastation subsides, unmindful of the unspeakable agony our people suffered and the humongous toll it took on precious lives; except that the third wave stands and grins, not far behind the second.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
17-05-2021||Opinion||Wounded world||The human world as we know it is turning on its axis. The scale of human loss and suffering due to Covid-19 may well be the greatest public health challenge since the end of the Second World War. But beyond this, it also calls for a relook at the way the world order deals not only with the consequences of the pandemic but also its origins. A re-evaluation of the way nations cooperate to secure human lives and how we relate to nature is a must. Now comes a Great Leveller. And a potential challenge to all platforms and umbrellas. Technology is vital and we will beaver away, and in imaginative ways, to deal with the crisis. How do we think and work when desolation is at the doorstep? We need to marshal resources for a longer journey of hope and of sustaining thriving societies of humans across the planet. And how is this to be one that comes to terms with a world beyond borders? This is not a new idea, but the planet is divided into nearly 200 nation states, four times as many as those that existed at the start of the Great War of 1914-1918. The Covid-19 pandemic, much like the threat of climate change or the extermination of oceanic fauna, is a phenomenon that spans the globe. Just as migratory birds or insects can travel over continents or oceans, so too can the organisms that afflict humans so badly. It was so in the past with the plague bacillus that ravaged Europe and China in the mid-14th century. The so-called Spanish flu that wreaked havoc in India originated in the United States of America. But these were in medieval times or prior to the birth of the United Nations, when platforms of international cooperation did not exist the way they do today. The quest for peace after 1945 was about ending the scourge of war, nuclear or conventional. But peace needs to be understood with respect to Homo sapiens being one of many life forms. After all, our very physiology makes us home to many microorganisms that also inhabit the bodies of other mammals. In his insightful work, Sapiens, the historian, Yuval Noah Harari, shows how the most common microorganisms thrive in the company and bodies of domestic animals such as pigs and cows. Plagues, of course, are spread by the rat as the host. But this may also be true of animals not domestic or reliant on us, such as bats or pangolins. There are borders and boundaries, but are we transgressing them in ever new ways and how? How do we re-imagine our own place on earth not apart from other life forms but as part of a continuum? If pandemics in our own age leave a legacy, not just a scar, what should that legacy be? The dignity of humans is indivisible. As a species we are bound together as much by our vulnerabilities as our much-celebrated strengths. Writing on the elimination of smallpox in 1973-74 in India, Professor Paul Greenough drew attention to an irony of history. The same years that saw India put paid to smallpox witnessed the launch of an all-in effort to save the tiger in situ from extinction. Both efforts entailed state and Union governments working in tandem with international organizations, the World Health Organization in the former case and major conservation NGOs in the latter. But doing this needs a fresh bout of energy at the international level. A major power like the US has had remarkably positive results, as with the Ebola virus where it worked in tandem with West African governments. Ebola entered a human body when villagers ate a dead chimpanzee in the forest. Working closely with four major countries in the region, the Barack Obama administration and the WHO were able to contain the damage. The Joe Biden administration’s efforts to revisit the patent regime and also to consider many more vaccines for the rest of the world are a step in the right direction. If the pandemic is not controlled in Latin America, Africa, and Southeast and South Asia, it is unlikely that the rest of the human species will be able to escape its consequences. The Covid-19 crisis is only one of the challenges on a planet-wide scale. Divisions of borders or of entitlement offer little protection or at best a flimsy shell against global changes. The very connections of travel and trade, commerce and culture that criss-cross land, sea and sky help pathogens travel with and indeed within us. Quite similarly but more insidiously the burning of fossil fuels dug out from the earth’s crust is unleashing rapid changes in the atmosphere. Climate change or the wipe-out of species as in the overkilling of whales can all have larger consequences. The consequences of these epochal changes via human action, uneven as they are in pace and scope across the earth, have now been well documented. Bertrand Russell and Albert Einstein had once urged all to “remember your humanity and forget the rest”. This was in the famous Pugwash declaration. They wrote of a genie in the atom that could destroy civilization forever. We confront the reality of pandemics that will take an untold toll on human life and the fabric of all our cultures, reducing large parts of the earth’s ecosystem, its land and sea, to a lifeless moonscape. We now need big steps to heal the wounds technological progress has wrought on the fabric of life. Better science and wiser use of knowledge apart, a new humility may be the need of the hour. Mahesh Rangarajan teaches History and Environmental Studies at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
