18-05-2021||Opinion||On fire: Gaza under attack||Gaza is burning — once again. Over 100 Palestinian civilians — children are on the casualty list — have lost their lives as Israel pounded the restive strip of contested land with air strikes and artillery power. Deaths — far fewer in number — have also been reported from within Israel on account of rockets fired by Hamas. As has often been the case with the Israel-Palestinian conflict, this particular conflagration was brought about by a medley of factors, including unwarranted aggression. Anger has been rising in Palestine as Israel continues to push deeper into the occupied territories, evicting Palestinian residents in favour of Jewish settlers. Israel’s actions in the Sheikh Jarrah neighbourhood are a case in point of such enforced displacement. The provocation gave Hamas the perfect opportunity to reciprocate in the manner it knows best: heightening the rhetoric of animosity and carrying out attacks. The disproportionate response from Jerusalem — the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, has vowed to continue these devastating strikes — is likely to raise the toll of death and destruction. Unsurprisingly, the impact of the crisis would have wider ramifications. Developments in the Middle East had, in recent times, raised hopes of a churning towards peace in strife-torn West Asia. Israel reached out to several Muslim nation states, possibly with an eye on corralling Iran. Nonetheless, the overture had kindled the possibility of a realignment towards stability. That window of opportunity has been slammed shut and is unlikely to be opened again in a hurry. This is because neither Mr Netanyahu’s government nor Hamas is going to let this opportunity of reasserting itself as the protector of its own people pass. This hardening of stance is inimical to a resolution of the bloodshed. Globally, the crisis is likely to be a stern test for Joe Biden’s diplomatic skills. Finding a balance between the conflicting interests of Israel and Palestine has been difficult for all presidents of the United States of America: Mr Biden, who would be aware of the domestic implications of the raging fire, will not be an exception. India — quite correctly — has asked for an immediate de-escalation of the crisis during a meeting at the United Nations security council, but New Delhi would be aware of the tightrope walk ahead. India’s deepening bond with Jerusalem has always had the potential of introducing an element of uncertainty in its long and cherished ties with Islamic nations. The dilemmas notwithstanding, the global community must intervene to end the bloodshed immediately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
18-05-2021||Opinion||Too late: Mohan Bhagwat acknowledges govt complacency||Sir — It was surprising to see the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief, Mohan Bhagwat, acknowledge that it is the government’s complacency that has led to the devastating second wave of Covid-19 infections in India. However, the fact that he also reprimanded the ordinary people in the same breath has irked many. It is true that the common people had stopped adhering to Covid-19 protocols, but that was because the Centre had sent out the message that the country had emerged victorious in its fight against the virus. The government allowed the Kumbh Mela to take place in the midst of a pandemic. Moreover, Narendra Modi and Amit Shah addressed countless rallies during the assembly elections, encouraging people to gather in large numbers. Now that the infection has spread to the hinterland, the RSS is rebuking the Centre while holding the people just as accountable. It is not fair to equate the two. No matter who is responsible for this unprecedented spread of the virus, it is the common people who are suffering the most. Bhagwat’s address , urging the people to stay united, might have been welcome at some other time. But now it seems as if he is trying to downplay the brazen callousness of the government. The Centre must own up to its shortcomings. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee, Faridabad Sir — While it is good to see the RSS hold the Centre responsible for the spread of infections, it is now too late. Thousands of lives could have been saved had the Centre acted on time. Rachana Sharma,Gwalior New threat Sir — With the number of Covid-19 cases dipping, England has now lifted several more restrictions on outdoor socialization with the intent of restoring all activities from June 21. But with the spread of a newer variant, it seems unlikely that the situation will normalize anytime soon. Rashika Gupta,New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
18-05-2021||Opinion||Next step: CBI arrests three TMC members||Even schoolchildren are better losers than the Bharatiya Janata Party. But schoolchildren do not have the machinery of the State to wield as they will. Just a fortnight after the assembly election results in West Bengal gave a resounding victory to the Trinamul Congress Party, the Central Bureau of Investigation arrested three TMC members of the legislative assembly, two of whom are ministers in the new cabinet. The TMC leaders have been detained with reference to the purported Narada sting operation, which showed them, then state ministers, taking money. The Narada tapes were released before the 2016 assembly elections, in which the TMC won. Since the Calcutta High Court ordered an investigation into the sting in 2017, the timing of the CBI’s action is revealing. Its selectiveness too: Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari, former TMC leaders and now BJP office-holders, could be similarly charged but were not touched. Unable to stomach not just the defeat in Bengal but also its scale, which gave the impression of an ideological resistance by the majority of the state’s voters, the BJP’s instruction for selective arrests would prompt TMC protests that could help consolidate charges of lawlessness that the BJP is drumming up. It would be wise for protesters not to walk into this trap. Post-poll violence is not new in West Bengal, so that is the one thing the BJP needs to hold on to. A Union home ministry team came to inspect violence in the state four days after the results. The most active proponent of the people’s suffering caused by TMC’s ‘retributive’ violence is, however, the West Bengal governor, Jagdeep Dhankhar, who visited Nandigram and Assam to meet those allegedly fleeing from TMC terror, and expressed shock at the destruction of democracy. By keeping up this many-pronged assault on a state struggling to contain infections and deaths that spiked because of an eight-phase election in the first place, the BJP seems to expect benefits that eluded it electorally. Overturning a government elected with a huge mandate would be nice, but the history of Bengal, say, of 1968-69, may act as a warning. Perhaps it feels that stirring the cauldron of trouble will yield unforeseen benefits. Whatever else, cooperative federalism and Covid control do not seem to figure on the BJP’s agenda as far as Bengal is concerned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
18-05-2021||Opinion||Covid vaccination: A lot worse than it seems||Hundreds of people, young and old, queued up outside a vaccination centre in Osmanabad district in Maharashtra last week; only 350 of them got their first jabs. The situation on all fronts in many parts of rural and small-town India is grim and agonizing. People having to line up for everything has been emblematic of the Narendra Modi government’s seven years in power. Queuing up for vaccines, which are currently in short supply, is the latest example. While we have been humbled by the second deadly wave of Covid-19 and a botched-up vaccination drive, edible oil prices have skyrocketed to Rs 175-200/litre, crushing the poor man’s food budget. The forecast is that edible oil prices would be in that range for at least six months. Nearly 70 per cent of our domestic demand is met with imports. We did not anticipate global shortages. We do not encourage farmers to increase oilseed production by incentivizing such crops. An average family earning Rs 6,000 a month is therefore spending a whole lot more on edible oils when hardships are growing. What’s more, petrol prices touched Rs 100 a litre in many cities last week before rebounding by a couple of rupees, and domestic gas prices are spiralling. India currently resembles a ship that is caught in a storm sans the captain. The poor man is saddled with a double whammy: the economy is in a shambles and the pandemic is flaring up. Scientists and epidemiologists studying India say that the situation could be several times worse than the official data suggest. Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and many other states are reportedly fudging Covid-19 data. Sandesh, a Gujarati daily, has of late been carrying an average of eight pages of obituaries in its editions, an indication that the official Gujarat data on Covid-19 deaths are a sham. Divya Bhaskar reported on May 14 that Gujarat issued 1.23 lakh death certificates from March 1 to May 10 — around 65,000 more compared to the corresponding period last year. In rural and tribal India, conditions have worsened manifold. No one is counting either the case fatalities or the people who are Covid-positive because no one is testing people or keeping a log of deaths. The second wave has penetrated the countryside and small-town India with a vengeance. People are dying of both infections and the lack of timely treatment. In cities, as in the countryside, this turmoil will remain etched in people’s memories for a very long time, certainly in the minds of those who lost their near and dear ones or those who survived the crisis exacerbated by a heartless Centre. Many who survived the virus must now deal with exorbitant medical bills. A group of insurers had petitioned the Supreme Court saying private hospitals are inflating Covid-19 treatment expenses. As if all of this were not enough, the agrarian crisis in rain-fed areas has turned severe. While the monsoon is thankfully predicted to be normal, small farmers in many regions are staring at shortages of seed, fertilizers and labour ahead of the kharif sowings. One can only sympathize with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, awaiting the year 2022 to enter his new villa in central Delhi, for missing out on a chance to trumpet the completion of two years in office in his second term. How do you run a publicity campaign when shrouded bodies float over the Ganges in Bihar and the alleged land of Rama’s birth, Uttar Pradesh? How long do you fudge the data when corpses are queued up outside the shamshan and the kabristan for dignified last rites? When temples and tombs have fallen silent? 2020 was a nightmare. 2021 is turning apocalyptic. Modi’s sworn chanters are going to be of no use for the foreseeable future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
18-05-2021||Opinion||Covid: In the shadow of the grim reaper||A year was not enough to ease a nation into preparedness. Masks were lowered, campaigns rallied, and hands shaken. All the while a second wave of Covid-19 threatened to take the mammoth shape of a tsunami. The figures are staggering, except they only tell half the truth. The gross under-reporting of fatalities in ‘model’ states like Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh thinly veils the failures of our policy-makers. With pictures of melting incinerators and patients in body bags inundating the internet, even those incarcerated within houses are not completely insulated from the experience. Far from providing a false sense of comfort, the government’s attempt at mollification only exacerbates the dissonance between truth and its representation. Besides, promises of collective progress are much harder to swallow when one has to grapple with loss on the personal front. The scourge of unemployment is more real than projected economic growth, the dearth of medicine and oxygen more palpable than the benefits of vaccine diplomacy. Hence, a chest that carries the grief of bereavement will seldom inflate with nationalistic pride. Death is undoubtedly a corollary of life and one has to accept its onslaught in the wake of a pandemic. Appropriating the death toll as an apparatus to undermine real efforts made in the healthcare or research sector is hardly fair. Yet it is not so much death that is shaking (or not shaking) our conscience as it is the relentlessness of its machinery. One is hardly allowed time to recover from loss before being attacked physically, emotionally and psychologically. Those on the front line are the worst affected. A systematic review of the mental health of healthcare workers published in the Journal of Diabetes and Metabolic Disorders concluded that during the SARS-CoV-2 outbreak, healthcare workers have been facing aggravated psychological pressure and even mental illness. Overworked professionals are susceptible to suffering from care fatigue alongside contracting Covid. This exhaustion not only stems from the stress of dealing with large numbers of Covid patients but also from encountering death on a daily basis. In this context, one also thinks of workers who dispose of corpses at crematoriums and graveyards. Belonging to the so-called lower-caste Dom community, they are the last ones to handle Covid-inflicted bodies. The ghats of Varanasi, which see multiple cremations every day, were burning close to 150 bodies daily last month. People are having to wait for eight to nine hours before they can have their turn at cremation. The price for the same has also seen an unprecedented hike during this span. The numbers disclosed by the State do not tally with those from the burn yards, but locals suspect most of these bodies to be of Covid victims. Haridwar — the site of the now infamous Covid superspreader, the Kumbh Mela — is located on the banks of the same Ganges as Varanasi. The proverbial and literal dip into the death deluge is made ‘symbolic’ in more ways than one. The river has emerged as a site to unpack the converging interests and sorrows of several groups: the akharas, the Doms, the State and the bereaved. Although the frequency of death has increased, our ability to cope with it has not. The practice of death rites is unique to the diverse cultures present within India. In effect, grieving is designed for the benefit of the living as opposed to those who have passed on. Being able to see, touch, and perform rituals upon the dead are essential to the process. One can argue along conservative lines and accuse Covid protocols of defiling the body of the deceased. But even within the socio-medical paradigm there are ramifications to consider. The violence inflicted on the corpse fades into insignificance in comparison to the psychological assault on the bereaved who are deprived of the opportunity to come to terms with death. This causes a disjunction between the reality containing that void and their perception of the same. On an average day, our privilege not only determines how we live but also how we die, where we die, what happens to our bodies, how we are memorialized. A country rife with political turmoil is no stranger to empty graves of untraceable Kashmiri youth killed in encounters, or Dalit funerals being interrupted by upper-caste musclemen. Even though the crisis induced by the pandemic has not completely erased differences, humankind as a whole has been pushed towards the precipice. Needless to say, those at the margins are the first to fall off. A project undertaken by the American Public Media Research Labs called “The Color of Coronavirus” observed that black people have been disproportionately and negatively impacted by the coronavirus with higher rates of infection, hospitalization and death. Closer home, as the Anand Vihar bus terminal filled up once more with migrant labourers, traumatic recollections from the previous year haunted their path. Hardened by the certainty of death, for most undertaking the precarious journey, it is a catch-22 between death by hunger and death by the virus. Harsh Mander, the author of Locking Down the Poor, claims that Covid is a humanitarian crisis and, like the Bengal Famine, is man-made. The Central nature of task forces, siloization of expertise and the government’s ambition to meet targets by polishing numbers have contributed to the oiling of the death machine. At this point, with Covid wards spilling into general facilities, patients who would not have been compromised under ordinary circumstances are also being denied resources. While mainstream media reduce human lives to statistics, it is not difficult to perceive anecdotally or from our own lives that there is a lot more misery than we are taking cognisance of. Has the increased proximity to death inured us to grief or have we become apathetic in our privilege? In the light of the recent oxygen crisis, the cabinet minister, Piyush Goyal stated, “We need to use medical oxygen rationally and stop its wastage. Patients should be given the required amount of oxygen only”. Perhaps like the supply of oxygen, the government’s empathy and our ability to grieve are also running dry. A personal crisis deserves only so much tears. A greater share shall be reserved for bigger, more catastrophic tragedies. The persistent attacks on humanity have created an atmosphere of imminent doom. Death has hollowed us all, impelling us to ration our emotions. It seems we are living on borrowed time and we owe our debt to death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
18-05-2021||Opinion||Tougher round||If the first wave of the coronavirus ravaged the economy, what might the second round be like? As the virus rampages across the country, attention is riveted upon its economic effects. Assessments of the viral play-out have led to across-the-board revisions in growth forecasts the past fortnight. From an 11-12 per cent range expected before (some even higher), predictions for gross domestic product growth for 2021-22 have now been adjusted down to the 8-10 per cent region on average. The general belief is that the second wave of Covid-19 will not damage economic output as severely as it was affected last year. The uncertainty is very high as new infections erupt powerfully in newer and rural locations, although aggregate new cases have visibly slowed with signs of a flattening infection curve. It is difficult to predict the magnitude. But there are grounds to believe that the second wave will leave a lasting economic imprint. The shock to consumption could persist for many, many quarters. The qualitative differences between the second coronavirus wave and the initial one are significant and substantial. For one, the current wave is far more lethal; this is manifest in its transmissibility, higher case count and fatalities. Because of these attributes, the financial and physical toll the virus has taken upon the public is way higher. The emotional and human costs of this wave are far more disturbing: rich and poor alike have suffered, succumbing in droves from the lack of oxygen, its sudden stoppages when hospitalized, callous exploitation by sellers and the sheer absence of state checks and safeguards. Traumas extend beyond the loss of loved ones to crematory shortages, misdemeanours and indignities; dead bodies immersed in rivers or buried at their banks in escape are a painful reality. The scarring caused by the experience of not getting hospital beds and intensive care despite having resources, paying through the nose with meagre means, enduring callous black-marketing and the rejection of cashless insurance contracts and more has bred insecurity amongst the affected and unaffected alike. The fear, vulnerability, helplessness and caution are leading people to lock themselves up from fright rather than fiat, knowing that death is a distinct possibility, not just because the virus is deadlier but because health support is not guaranteed. More factors point to an enduring persistence of fear this time round. One, people now believe and expect that a third wave is a real threat. There is official warning of this possibility; leading medical professionals have also cautioned the same; and the fact that its incidence is likely to impact children is more frightening. Two, the fear is perpetuated by the shocking slippage in vaccination coverage and the apparent shortages of vaccines for adequate and fast protection from the virus. Even though the government now says that there will be enough vaccines from July and is confident about covering the adult majority, the gap gives ample latitude to the virus to multiply and mutate with unknown intensity. Three, the manner in and the pace at which infections are spreading unabated in rural, tribal and other remote areas preserve the fear of Covid-19 amongst society as a whole. This restricts mobility and social and economic engagement; there are feedback effects upon confidence and sentiments of consumers as well as producers that result in real economic effects including labour requirements. It is reasonable to expect further depression of consumer sentiments, increased savings to insure against further health shocks, with consequent cutbacks or postponement of consumption where there’s a choice, that is, discretionary spending; a larger portion of built-up demand in this instance is likely to be preserved for shock-proofing. There are three more reasons to indicate why consumer demand could remain lower for longer this time round. One, there is a second-round loss of incomes and employment in less than a year, similar and/or repeat damages to vulnerable businesses and firms, with further slippages into poverty and probably an accentuation of inequality (such as the K-shaped recoveries amongst households and firms observed in the previous round). Savings and earnings are more depleted as a result. An unknown fraction of people would also have been financially drained by health expenses; many might be more indebted too. Then, the newer locus of Covid-19 — rural, semi-urban areas — implies a higher economic incidence upon the lower-income population, whose marginal propensity to consume is larger. Finally, there is no demand offset or fiscal support from the government, which gave some sparse support last year. Not only is the spending appetite, which depends upon consumer sentiments, more diminished by the second wave, but the capacities to spend are also drained and lowered overall. The milder wave last year did not create a health havoc of such magnitude, its human and economic costs were lower, and it did not inflict severe emotional scars or form painful memories as there are now. Its moderate nature and impact emboldened people to shake off their fear, which encouraged spending. Therefore, the repressed consumer demand rebounded with surprising force in the third quarter or October-December 2020; this uplifted retail sales and production activities to push up GDP growth into positive territory (0.4 per cent) after two successive quarters of contraction (a respective -24.4 per cent and -7.3 percent in June and September 2020). Moreover, vaccine optimism built up towards the end of last year; many had been developed, inoculations had begun in some countries, and India was advantageously placed in this regard. All these bolstered consumer confidence, inspired hope that the country would vaccinate itself to safety, and recover steadily through this year. The augurs for a strong burst of pent-up demand upon reopening are significantly weakened in the second wave. It would be very surprising if consumer demand rebounds with similar robustness, currently expected from July. The demand build-up owing to closures will be there; people will also spend on festivities, weddings and similar activities in the festival season in the second half of the year. However, the level of consumer spending is more likely to get lower overall; its strength and duration are both doubtful; endurance is more probable. It is reasonable to expect that the ferocity of the second wave, the distress, destruction, insecurity and fear it has caused, the elevated uncertainty about when the wildfire will subside, and the darkened prospects of vaccine protection could cumulate to a lasting shock to consumption. This shock could persist beyond one or two quarters or several more ahead. Against the optimistic start of this year, the radical and negative turn in the outlook within one quarter is in itself a shock. It need not have been this way. Renu Kohli is a macroeconomist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
