19-05-2021||Opinion||Hemmed in: Religious gathering contributed to second wave||There can be no better proof of the tragedy an anti-scientific mindset can wreak than the scale of the pandemic in the country today. Recently, the World Health Organization put down the resurgence of Covid-19 infections in India to three factors: the emergence of a more transmissible variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, a number of extended political and religious gatherings and a relaxation or abandonment of Covid precautions. Although WHO said that the exact proportion of the contributions of each could not be determined, certain points stand out too distinctly to be ignored. While scientists the world over are still fighting to control the virus, it must be remembered that the more transmissible variant considered to be of global concern by WHO was detected in India in October 2020. There was plenty of time to strengthen the medical infrastructure and implement precautions; the country had already experienced widespread illness and death. The political leadership, which habitually ignores expert advice in every sphere, appears to have turned its back on the potential of the virus variant and gone ahead with its own agenda. That agenda included permission for the Kumbh Mela. According to government figures, around six million devotees visited Haridwar to take the holy dip in the Ganga for Mahakumbh in April alone, when the infection had accelerated sharply. Overcrowding and violations of Covid precautions led to its rapid and massive spread. Added to this were the panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh and assembly elections in four states and one Union territory, all of which meant rallies and processions which the most powerful political leaders conducted through the months of virus resurgence. Social distancing and masks seemed to have been forgotten. If the Indian establishment flaunts the notion that, as the prime minister declared, India has defeated the virus, the people are likely to believe it. All a scientific attitude needs is trust in expert guidance, and the humility to know that a majority government does not mean it is possessed of magic that will put down the virus with a spell or drive it away with conch shells. The analysis of factors by WHO demonstrates that India, with some of the best scientists in the world, is being forced back into a deadly morass of false beliefs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
19-05-2021||Opinion||Loud and clear: Pray for Myanmar||Sir — The fact that the Miss Universe contestant from Myanmar, Thuzar Wint Lwin, held up a sign saying “Pray for Myanmar” during the competition is encouraging. She denounced the violent suppression of protests against the military coup by the junta in her homeland. Competitions like Miss Universe enjoy high viewership globally, making them effective platforms to raise awareness about such crucial issues. Two other contestants also made socially relevant statements. One hopes their message inspires positive action on the ground. Madhumita Ghoshal,Calcutta Look deeper Sir — In the article, “Lessons learnt” (May 13), Swapan Dasgupta does his best to twist the tale of the waning ‘subaltern Hindutva’ votes for the Bharatiya Janata Party as indicated by the recently published survey by the Lokniti-Centre for the Study of Developing Societies. The data clearly show that compared to 2019, the BJP has lost its share of Hindu votes among both the so-called upper and lower castes. It is evident from the article that the BJP think-tank has got a clear message from Bengal that its brand of Hindutva will not work here. The BJP may now try to push through a Bengali Hindutva line, bringing icons like Chaitanya, Bankimchandra Chattopadhyay and Swami Vivekananda to the fore. That ideological challenge will be a litmus test for the Trinamul Congress. Working on people-oriented projects will not be enough to arrest this kind of propaganda, nor will it suffice to only think in terms of the binary of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and ‘Joy Bangla’ slogans. The BJP seems ready with a blueprint to allure the 60 per cent of Hindu votes required by it to take over Bengal. It is important that those who are trying to prevent this also have a strategy of their own, the lack of which might give an extra edge to the saffron party in the future. The people of Bengal must be careful because, for the BJP, the battle might be over but not the war. Dasgupta’s article points to just that. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — The article by Swapan Dasgupta omits several points. First, it must be noted that the BJP spread the false propaganda for months that it was to get more than 200 seats in Bengal when it did not even have enough grass-roots candidates. Second, Dasgupta fails to mention the role of women in the victory of the TMC. This is a fact highlighted by the Lokniti-CSDS survey. Third, the party’s blatant attempts at communal polarization in the countryside was responsible for its own failure. The survey points out that only 50 per cent of all Hindus and a small percentage of Muslims voted for the BJP. Finally, Dasgupta does not take into account that allegations of the party’s reported misuse of Central agencies and constitutional bodies, such as the Election Commission, did not go down well with a majority of the electorate. Until the BJP learns from these factors — among many others — and vows to correct itself, it might as well bid goodbye to Bengal. Arindam Basu,Calcutta Sir — The lesson learnt from Swapan Dasgupta’s analysis is that the BJP jumped into the Bengal elections with only polarization and the anti-incumbency factor as strategies. Basudeb Dutta,Nadia Play fair Sir — The captain of the Australian men’s cricket team, Tim Paine, has said that his team was distracted by India with ‘sideshows’ during the Border-Gavaskar Trophy that they lost 2-1. This is a bad excuse. After the Indian team led by Virat Kohli suffered a humiliating loss in the first Test at Adelaide and the skipper returned to India, Paine became overconfident of a whitewash. However, the stand-in captain, Ajinkye Rahane, and his team had other ideas. In Melbourne, India levelled the series and in Sydney, the youngsters led India to an honourable draw. But there was some uncertainty about the final Test at Brisbane — India allegedly refused to play it because of restrictions imposed by the Australian government, but Cricket Australia later clarified the issue. India’s debutants scripted a historic win, breaking Australia’s unbeaten streak at Brisbane. Now, in order to keep his captaincy, Paine is coming up with all kinds of excuses. N. Mahadevan,Chennai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
19-05-2021||Opinion||Wall of shame: Jailed for anti-Modi posters||There is no reason to believe that the poster boy of a ruling regime would be fond of posters. Especially those that plaster public places with critical remarks on incompetency. The first information reports that have been filed against various people, including daily wage earners, rickshaw drivers and two foot soldiers of the Aam Aadmi Party, do not come as a surprise. One of the consistent traits of the Narendra Modi government is its allergy to criticism. Journalists, civil society activists, political opponents and other citizens pay the price for speaking truth to the powers that be as a matter of routine. The government’s vengeance against reprobation can take a myriad forms. There is evidence to suggest that the Bharatiya Janata Party has weaponized the sedition law, using it indiscriminately to silence critics. India’s worsening performance on registers that measure the quality of democracy — the press freedom index is one example — is also indicative of the erosion in the edifice of civil liberties. Any dissenting opinion is seamlessly fused into the toxic rhetoric of anti-nationalism by a pliant media and their shadowy masters. What must also be noted in this case is that the FIRs, a public interest litigation has pointed out, go against the spirit of the wisdom of India’s highest court. In April, the Supreme Court had warned the authorities that contempt proceedings would be initiated if attempts were made to stifle expressions of grievance concerning the management of the pandemic on social media platforms. In this significant observation, the apex court underlined not only the need to uphold the sanctity of free speech but also — this is equally important — the need for an unrestrained flow of information to fight the pandemic. The court’s logic has acquired renewed importance in the light of the Centre and several states attempting to whitewash the grim picture of the losses suffered by the country: hospitals are allegedly being coerced not to report the extent of fatalities. On joining these worrying dots, it can be argued that India is witnessing an unprecedented assault on free speech and accountability by an elected government at a time when the public gaze is directed elsewhere. In a country where the prime minister is known to take every opportunity to remind his subjects that rights and duties need not be seen in isolation, it is possible that India will emerge from the pandemic with an enervated democratic apparatus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
19-05-2021||Opinion||Farmer suicides: Death notes from the field||Over 200,000 farmers have committed suicide in the past 25 years in India — the largest wave of recorded suicides in modern history. Human rights institutions, including the UN Human Rights Council, national and state human rights commissions, and Indian constitutional courts seeking to hold the government accountable for this crisis see these deaths emerging from structural problems. These problems include the lack of a proper irrigation infrastructure that causes crop failures, or inefficient crop marketing systems leading to the non-realization of optimum revenues. Based on this understanding, these institutions recommend measures such as debt-waivers, crop insurance, extension of subsidies, and the development of irrigation infrastructure as solutions. The government implements some of these measures, such as debt-waivers and insurance, while it is not as forthcoming on other measures, such as the improvement of irrigation infrastructure. Yet, one would reasonably expect that the crisis should have been marginally contained due to the few measures that end up getting employed. Instead, the number of suicides has only increased. In 2019, more than 10,200 farmers committed suicide in India. This failure in containing the crisis largely stems from a failure on the part of the government and the human rights institutions in understanding the cause of this crisis. Indebtedness or bankruptcy is the largest constituent factor (around 40 per cent) for farmers’ suicides. Of this 40 per cent, nearly 80 per cent availed their loans from institutional sources of credit, including banks and micro-finance institutions. Therefore, it is the relationship of these institutions with the farmers that needs to be examined. Financial institutions extend credit to farmers as personal loans and agricultural loans. A default on a loan is a civil offence. Therefore, lenders can only use civil enforcement mechanisms to recover their dues. Under Indian law, these mechanisms include the attachment of debtors’ property or obtaining civil arrest of the debtor. The former measure is not very effective due to the delays in the Indian judicial system. The latter measure is extremely effective as it presents a real threat to the dignity of borrowers, forcing them to repay. The Supreme Court, in Jolly George Verghese vs the Bank of Cochin, in furtherance of Article 11 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, has declared this latter measure to be illegal unless a person is maliciously defaulting. The court noted that the march of civilization has been a story of progressive subordination of property rights to personal freedom and, therefore, these arrests cannot be justified. However, financial institutions employ covert methods to circumvent this protection. In India, a dishonoured cheque leads to criminal liability under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881. As per the provision, if a debtor fails to discharge the dues within 15 days of receiving a notice from the creditor that a cheque has been dishonoured, the person can be imprisoned for a term extending up to two years. This provision was introduced to inculcate confidence in banking operations and extend credibility to negotiable instruments. But banks employ this provision to obtain arrests of the farmers defaulting on their loans. They mandate farmers to draw blank, post-dated cheques in their favour as a precondition to sanctioning loans. At the time of repayment, if the farmers are unable to clear their dues, banks apply these cheques. Inevitably, these cheques get dishonoured, upon which banks file a complaint under Section 138 of the 1881 Act. To coerce the recovery, banks file a complaint. In such cases, the magistrate has to issue a summons. Frequently, banks also argue for the issuing of arrest warrants along with the summons. A delivery of court summons or an arrest warrant in a rural community is seen as an assault on the dignity of the farmer. This assault on the reputation and self-esteem of farmers makes their plight unimaginable. Financial institutions also employ several extra-legal mechanisms to coerce payments from farmers. These include using recovery agents to harass farmers into paying their dues. Although the harassment of the borrower for loan recovery has been declared illegal, such incidents are regularly reported. In fact, this kind of harassment has been cited as a cause of suicide by several farmers in their death notes. A farmer’s default on a loan is triggered by events such as crop failure, family emergencies, or non-realization of adequate revenues from the sale of produce. These circumstances alone have the potential of threatening the community’s sustenance. When sanctions arising out of banks’ recovery practices are added to these causes, they push farmers over the edge. The national suicide rate due to bankruptcy is around 3 per cent, but it is close to 40 per cent in the case of farmers. It is the recovery practices employed by financial institutions that explain this anomaly. Farmers are one of the most disciplined borrowers in the country. Their default rate — at 8 per cent — is significantly lower than the industry default rate that stands at 21 per cent. Yet, financial institutions get away with violating their human rights. It is often argued that banks are forced to resort to such measures as the attachment of their property provided under the law is not effective. However, the ineffectiveness of the Indian judicial system to confiscate defaulters’ property cannot be used as an excuse by the banks to violate the farmers’ human rights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
19-05-2021||Opinion||Let the duel begin||With the victory of the Trinamul Congress in West Bengal, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in Tamil Nadu and the Left Democratic Front in Kerala, a familiar question has again cropped up: can an alliance of like-minded regional parties successfully topple the Bharatiya Janata Party in the 2024 general elections? This is not a new question — talk of a so-called ‘federal front’ has surfaced time and again between 2014 and 2019. Yet, previous efforts at forming such a collective against the BJP have never taken off. Commentators have been quick to explain this by taking recourse to a hackneyed trope in Indian election coverage — the smartness of the Indian voter in voting local for state elections and national for general elections. Irrespective of whether this is actually true, it is misleading — the voter has never really been presented with anything closely resembling a credible alternative alliance. The federal front has been squarely unable to transcend its image of a ragtag grouping of opportunistic outfits with as many prime ministerial aspirants as there are parties. This can only change in 2024 if state parties get their act together in two respects. Any alliance must have a coherent ideological foundation. So far, the federal front has simply been shorthand for a coalition to defeat the BJP by a combination of opportunism, slander and invective. Such overwhelmingly negative campaigns may have short-term gains if public disaffection with the government is sky-high, as was the case during the surprising post-Emergency victory of the Janata Party against Indira Gandhi. But neither did that victory bring stability nor did it truly serve its purpose of creating a sustainable alternative, leading to Indira Gandhi’s swift comeback. While, in the aftermath of the Narendra Modi government’s shambolic handling of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, public anger is palpable, elections are three years away. The public may well be more forgiving than angry when 2024 comes around. So far, the closest state parties have come to a constructive, forward-looking and aspirational ideological foundation is their proclaimed need to uphold the value of secularism. Unfortunately, secularism as the tie that binds non-BJP parties is poorly conceptualized and counterproductive as an electoral pitch. At its root, there is a deep conceptual confusion about what secularism means in India. This confusion is captured in any school civics textbook. It starts by saying that secularism in India is the separation of religion from the State. For a State that manages the country’s richest temples through government boards (think: Tirupati), pays local clubs for organizing religious festivals (think: the government of West Bengal spending Rs 185 crore to prop up para groups conducting Durga Pujas) and has as many religious holidays in a year as there are religions in the country, this understanding is plainly misplaced. Read the textbook further and it makes a subtle shift to say that the state should be impartial towards all religions. Now impartiality does not necessarily require separation of religion from the State but rather equal respect — the two are fundamentally different. Despite this, the reason for the elision of separation and impartiality is the fact that religion plays too critical a role in the lives of Indian citizens for the state to sidestep it entirely. The constant incantation of secularism in this context appears to wish away the place of religion in Indian life. There is need for a better concept that can grasp the importance of religion while requiring the State to be firmly impartial between religions. This is especially so since as a practical matter, secularism as a concept has been successfully mischaracterized by its opponents as shorthand for minority appeasement. The truth of such an allegation is a different matter. But secular parties have often been seen as targeting the votes of various religious and caste vote banks through a range of empowerment schemes. Such schemes are effective electoral devices for consolidating the minority vote, a strategy that has paid rich dividends for the TMC in 2021. To do this may have been politically prudent. But doing this, while at the same time making the claim of being secular, is vulnerable to political attack. Instead of secularism, like-minded parties need to reclaim the older and homegrown mantle of vividhata, roughly translated as diversity. As the basis for an alternative to majoritarian politics, vividhata is based on equal respect for all religions. Diversity necessarily entails equal respect being accorded to persons different from oneself, particularly those of different faiths. The State need not be separated from religion — it only needs to ensure that its reasons for action are not based on the faith of its citizens and that it treats all faiths equally and fairly. Equally, vividhata requires a celebration of the geographical diversity of India. This can only be achieved if states are vested with greater powers vis-à-vis the unitary Centre. There is a deep-rooted view that stems from the partition of India that greater power to states is a recipe for the disintegration of the Indian republic. This is why, with the announcement of the independent state of Pakistan, the Constituent Assembly was quick to discard the provincial autonomy guarantees of the Cabinet Mission Plan and adopt a heavily centralized governance structure. Today, on the eve of India’s 74th year of independence, the possible disintegration of the Union is a bogey to keep states subservient to the Centre. Vividhata challenges this so-called “federal” governance structure and advocates vesting greater governmental powers in states, closer to the people. This is not a radical idea — a mere glance at the United States of America, plausibly the most successful democratic experiment till date, will demonstrate that autonomous states with their own Constitutions, flags and mottos have only made the Union stronger. It is on the foundation of powerful states that a well-governed Union was built. As a practical matter, vividhata can only become a political reality if like-minded state parties come together to form a pre-poll alliance — the ‘Vividh Bharat Bandhan’. The VBB must start laying down its foundational principles, choose a consensus prime ministerial candidate, and sign up partners in each state in India, well in advance of the general elections. At the same time, it must resist the temptation to join hands with the Congress. As a national party, the Congress is an ideological misfit in this alliance of state parties. Besides, it has now become a convenient punching bag for popular diatribes of cronyism, corruption and dynastic rule. The VBB stands to gain little from its presence in the pre-poll alliance. Forming such an alliance with a pre-announced prime ministerial candidate will be a crucial recognition of the increasingly presidential nature of India’s general elections. Fractious and disparate multi-party, state-by-state contests will then be recast as a clearly defined national face-off, not only of leaders but also of two fundamentally different ideas of India as a nation-state and civilization. On one side will be the All India Radio with its One Nation One ___ (fill in the blank with a suitable noun) propaganda. On the other, will be Vividh Bharati with its rooted, diverse and accessible music. Let the duel begin. Arghya Sengupta is Research Director, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy. Views are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
