20-05-2021||Opinion||Needle blunted: India's vaccination programme ||India’s vaccination drive has been criticized on account of several deficiencies. The myopia of the Narendra Modi government has resulted in a shortage of vaccines, inconveniencing citizens. The pace of vaccination has left a lot to be desired. Even the distribution of these doses critical to India’s war against Covid-19 has revealed worrying anomalies, with the challenges being steeper in rural areas. Surprisingly, a rather important aspect of the vaccination programme has received scant attention. Registration on the CoWIN app for applicants in the age group of 18-44  has been made mandatory. In a country with markedly iniquitous access to digital services and infrastructure as well as pronounced digital illiteracy, this could further curtail the reach of vaccines. A public health initiative could then become unacceptably exclusionary. Existing data do nothing to dispel such doubts. India’s telecom regulator has stated that as of February this year, digital penetration in rural India was a little over 59 per cent; a bulk of the users, however, used basic phones lacking internet connectivity. There are other concerns. Last year, a National Family Health Survey had found that 60 per cent of women in 12 states and Union territories had never used the internet. The quality of services remains patchy, especially in India’s hinterland. These factors, along with a drop in purchasing power on account of deepening economic distress, are likely to impede vaccine registration among poor and socially disadvantageous groups. The many limitations in India’s vaccination endeavour thus reveal a fundamental problem: an increasing willingness on the part of the State to adopt a technocratic approach towards the resolution of crises. Technocracy, while efficient, is often plagued by a sterile imagination. This blunts the razor edge of policies that are drafted without considering the complex ground realities in India. Combining the advantages of technology with knowledge of local conditions and obstacles holds the key for public interventions. The vaccine roll-out is not an exception to this caveat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
20-05-2021||Opinion||Up in flames: Israel launches offensive on Palestine||Sir — It is unlikely that the ongoing Israel-Palestine conflict will end anytime soon (“On fire”, May 18). The skirmish, decades in the making, has taken thousands of lives over the years. The Israel-Palestine war began with the United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine which recommended the division of land between Arab and Jewish states at the end of the British mandate in the region. The proposal was rejected by Palestinians, leading to a civil war which continues to this day. The recent round of friction began earlier in May with Israeli forces attacking Palestinian civilians. Retaliatory attacks by Hamas have killed many in Israel as well. At least 10 senior Hamas militants have reportedly died so far. It must be noted that over the last few years the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, has lost credibility amongst the people. The fact that the conflict flared up at a time when there was a possibility of Netanyahu being ousted from power is certainly curious. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The Israel-Palestine conflict has escalated dangerously within days. Over 200 Palestinians, including children, have been killed since May 10. Israeli citizens have lost their lives as well. Both sides have refused to stand down from the fight in spite of international appeal. Resentment has been growing among the Palestinians as Israel continues to deepen its occupation in the region. Israel’s high-handedness in East Jerusalem and the eviction of Palestinian families from their homes in Sheikh Jarrah added to the anger, leading to clashes. This is a no-win situation in which the civilians are taken hostage. The international community, especially the United States of America — it has considerable diplomatic hold in the region — must step in to de-escalate the conflict in Gaza and avoid another full-scale war in the Middle East. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — It is obvious that the Gaza imbroglio is a consequence of Benjamin Netanyahu’s own shaky grip over his position as prime minister of Israel. A conflict with Palestine helps divert attention from the instability of the government. With the Covid-19 pandemic raging across the world, the timing could not have been worse. Most nations are too preoccupied dealing with a health crisis at home to meaningfully mediate the situation. Nevertheless, the UN, along with its signatories, must do all it can to resolve the problem as quickly as possible. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam Sir — The escalation of violence between Israel and Palestine is a cause for concern for the whole world, but it is particularly worrying for other nations in West Asia. The lack of political stability in the region is long-standing and no amount of effort at bringing about peace seems to be working. The provocation by Israel with a series of misadventures in East Jerusalem is quite evident. The violent retaliation of Hamas is equally disturbing. Unlike the former president of the US, Donald Trump, who was quick to formally recognize the contentious declaration of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, the current president, Joe Biden, must exercise caution. Although the world is engaged in fighting the coronavirus, no one can afford to be a mute spectator to this bloodshed. At the very least there should be an immediate ceasefire so that further discussions can take place between officials. D.V.G. Sankararao, Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Need for care Sir — As families struggle with multiple members infected with Covid-19, it has become increasingly difficult to care for pets. Many are looking for boarding facilities to keep their pets till they recover but are often turned away for fear of infection being spread through animals. In extreme circumstances, some families are giving them up for adoption. While several such animals have been rehomed in the last one year, many more have simply been abandoned on the streets. These are undoubtedly difficult times, but we must do all we can to ensure that animals are cared for. Anamika Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
20-05-2021||Opinion||Bottom rung: Axe on SC-ST scholarship||The Covid-19 pandemic has not only thrown the entrenched inequalities in Indian society into sharp relief but also exacerbated them further. What is shocking is that these iniquities can often be the result of woolly-headed policy. Consider the suggestion in a report by the government-run Institute of Economic Growth: it has questioned the relevance of a scholarship programme for school-going girls from the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. At a time when the Centre ought to be devising inclusive plans to widen the access of children from marginalized communities to education, the government seems to be doing the opposite. The Union budget slashed the fund allocation for the scheme from Rs 110 crore to Rs 1 crore. This, at a time when the pandemic has reduced educational opportunities for millions of the most vulnerable children, particularly those living in poor or rural areas. Their plight is in keeping with the flagrant discrimination they face even at the best of times. In 2018, Dalit students of a school in Himachal Pradesh were segregated and made to sit outside the home of the head of the school’s management committee to watch the telecast of the prime minister’s ‘Pariksha Pe Charcha’ speech. Indeed, Dalit children are often segregated even within class and forced to perform manual scavenging activities. Given that misogyny is closely entwined with caste hatred, it stands to reason that some of the worst sufferers of such blatant discrimination will be girls. It is estimated that about 75 per cent of them drop out of primary school in spite of laws that hold out affirmative action — reservations — for the Dalit community. This bolsters the high illiteracy rate among Dalit girls and their subsequent invisibility from public life even though the community represents around 17 per cent of the total population in India. Such prejudice is antithetical to the spirit of affirmative action that has been considered the hallmark of progress in India. It is thus alarming that the National Education Policy, which was rolled out in July last year in the middle of the pandemic, has allegedly failed to acknowledge the extent of the crisis in education on account of caste-based discrimination. Crucial, time-bound provisions for improving infrastructure in schools by 2022 that were detailed in the draft document — computers and internet connectivity in all schools, infrastructure and materials to support differently-abled students, safe drinking water, separate and functioning toilets with running water for girls and boys — are missing in the NEP. This is only to be expected from a policy that views education as a vocation and not a means for social empowerment. The increasing privatization of education in India — high costs and minimal stipends will put education even further out of the reach of Dalits and adivasi students — will only aggravate the problem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
20-05-2021||Opinion||Attention economy: Distraction by design||In June 2020, Patanjali Ayurved, an Indian packaged goods company, launched Coronil, an ayurvedic medication. It was marketed as a treatment for respiratory diseases, including Covid-19. Initially, it drew a lukewarm response but by July its hashtags were made to trend on social media platforms. By October, the purported herbal remedy recorded sales of Rs 250 crore. The readiness of the people to believe in a ‘cure’ for Covid-19 and then actually use it aptly illustrates the contours of the ‘attention economy’ created by modern technology. The hallmark of the internet age has not only been the rise of convenient and boundless information but also the scarcity of human attention. Our attention is now a valuable commodity, harvested by technology companies to keep us trapped in a spiral of infinite searching and scrolling. Several of these attention-capturing tricks have been borrowed from the gambling industry that harness our brain’s dopamine pathways and encourage instant reward-based behaviour. The technology companies, enabled by social media platforms, engage in subtle techniques of psychological manipulation, plunging us into a world structured to prioritize not the truth but whatever content is most compelling to us. The result is a proliferation of misinformation, fake news and techniques like bot-swarming whereby fake online accounts are created to give the impression that a large number of people support a given position. A study by Benjamin Strick, a digital investigator, suggests a substantial impact of automated bots in amplifying the hashtag, #AmitShahInBengal, on February 18, 2021 in the run-up to the West Bengal elections. The attention economy also promotes a culture of fear, an effective emotion to leverage, especially in an environment of limited and fractured attention. Nothing exemplifies this more than WhatsApp, which delivers an onslaught of misinformation directly to millions of Indians. The misinformation strategy on WhatsApp is effective because messages are forwarded and re-forwarded by friends and family who are otherwise considered as credible sources of information. A study by the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology looked into the pernicious use of WhatsApp in India for the spread of Islamophobia with topics such as “Love jihad”, “Kerala Riots” and “Islamisation of Bengal”. The study reviewed two million posts of 5,000 WhatsApp groups and found that fear speech spreads faster, keeps circulating for much longer than non-fear speech, and is amplified by the strategic use of emojis. Amplification of fear and false content is rampant on YouTube too. Take, for instance, the genre of Hindutva pop music, a cocktail of ‘DJ music,’ techno-beats and bhajans, which openly calls for religious war against Islam and Muslims. Recently, propaganda-spewing YouTube channels camouflaging as news channels had sprung up in the run-up to the West Bengal elections. These channels regularly peddle fabricated news and conduct dubious opinion polls to muddy the difference between facts and falsehoods, a distinction that few are equipped to make in the current media environment. This is further complicated by the erosion of trust in long-standing public institutions. Google search results or Facebook newsfeed of friends are deemed to be trustworthy sources of news today. What counts as a fact is merely a view that someone feels ought to be true, and technology has made it easier for these ‘facts’ to circulate expansively. Experts are certified by high Google search ranks or by the number of Twitter followers. What matters is a loud voice that disrupts the flow of the narrative rather than a substantial engagement with facts. The constant undermining of institutions distort and demean public debate, contributing to a hate-filled, divisive politics. History offers a reminder of what could be an outcome of such divisiveness. During the 1994 genocide in Rwanda, the vitriolic propaganda of the radio station, RTML, in inciting Rwandan Hutus to attack the Tutsi minority serves as a stark reminder about the dangers of misinformation and fake news. The brave new world of today’s information age, however, was born not in the Silicon Valley but around 1933 in Berlin. With the assistance of IBM’s Hollerith machine — an electro-mechanical punch card tabulator — the Nazis operated a surveillance State based on citizens’ demographic, financial and other information. This classification system found its concrete manifestation among the concentration camp prisoners who had a five-digit Hollerith number tattooed onto their forearms. The journalist, Edwin Black, in his study of IBM’s involvement in Nazi Germany, wondered why IBM got involved in the market of fascist death camps. It was “never about Nazism,” he argues, “... never about anti-Semitism. It was always about the money.” Today, when new technologies threaten to remake us into disposable commodities, we can only look back on what the Nazis could accomplish prior to the information age. The question, then, is not whether this economy is convenient or creepy but a more fundamental one about who we are and who we might become in a world that increasingly blurs the line between the physical and the digital. Moving forward, we need to recognize our complicity in delivering our own data to a handful of corporations that fuel this data-driven economic model. Until that happens, ascribing blame to corrupt politicians, the tech industry, or to the prevailing economic system will not accomplish much. The problem, as often is, starts with us.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
20-05-2021||Opinion||Counting on cynicism||The personal, we are told, is political, yet the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, the second wave of which is wreaking havoc across India at this moment, seems to have driven a perceptible wedge between the two. Since this column last appeared in the pages of this newspaper a month ago, roughly three dozen people I know quite well have contracted the coronavirus disease, and some half-a-dozen have succumbed to it. Among those who have died of Covid-19 are former teachers and colleagues, neighbours, friends of relatives, and relatives of friends. Every death has come as a shock, every new case has brought in its wake a dreadful foreboding of what might follow. Even as I type this out, several of the students in my department are battling the disease, a childhood friend is hospitalized with it, and a close friend and colleague is (thankfully, fingers crossed) on his way to gradual recovery. Add to this the tension about where near and dear ones might receive their second dose of the vaccine; the frantic search for oxygen for an aged relative a fortnight ago; the constant worry and despair about those we know and love; and the apprehension that each day will bring yet another piece of ill news. In every single instance the horror and dread have been at a deeply-felt, personal level. Every email one sends or receives either begins or ends with an expression of hope that the recipient is staying safe and keeping well, and every telephone conversation begins with an enquiry about each other’s health and that of their loved ones. My experience is by no means exceptional or unusual — I suspect anyone reading this has felt the same emotion any number of times, especially during these last few months. Yet, if one is able to pull back, as it were, and look at the larger picture, things appear different. The leaders of the party in power in New Delhi are seemingly more concerned with building the hideously expensive new Central Vista, fudging the numbers of those infected, dead or dying, and denying either that there is a shortage of oxygen in our hospitals and health centres or that unacceptable numbers are dying of the virus (even as corpses float down the Ganges). With the official figure of those who have contracted the disease having crossed 25 million (widely believed by experts to be a gross underestimate), and deaths exceeding 2,80,000 and counting, how is this possible? The usual answer finds the root cause of this disaster in a combination of misplaced confidence, distrust of expert opinion, lack of planning, inept governance, and plain callousness. But could it be that there is a method in this seeming madness? A calculation based on a cost-benefit analysis that has concluded that the misery and mortality wrought by the virus are worth it? That the long-term gains in terms of power and influence are considerably greater than the short-term losses in terms of lives and livelihoods? India has a little less than 1.4 billion inhabitants, and if we accept the official figure of roughly 25.5 million coronavirus cases as of date, that works out to less than two per cent of the population. Even if the count is multiplied 10 times, or even more, as some experts think it ought to be, the number of cases comes to about 20 to 30 per cent of the total population. Deaths are being undercounted too, but probably by not much more than a factor of two or three. Where mortalities are concerned, the official toll is barely over one per cent of all coronavirus cases, and if we take the higher figure for both infections and deaths (10 times the number of infections, three times the number of deaths), the number falls to one-third of one per cent, or 0.33 per cent. Now, one-third of one per cent of 1.4 billion is 4.66 million. The United States of America has had over 6,00,000 deaths so far in a population of 333 million, or a mortality rate of roughly 0.18 per cent, if one considers the population as a whole. If the same mortality rate were to be seen in India, the number of deaths would be 2.52 million, but, in actual fact, it will probably be smaller, not least because a virus tends to mutate to the point where it can thrive without killing off its host organism. This is likely to happen with the SARS-CoV-2 virus as well, so that eventually we will become accustomed to living with it, as it makes the shift from pandemic to endemic. Whichever way one looks at it, even if the absolute figures are horrifying, the percentage of the population which may eventually succumb to the coronavirus is actually quite small. This ongoing pandemic will infect tens, if not hundreds, of millions of Indians, and leave hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of us dead. It doesn’t matter what our individual fears and personal tragedies might be, when seen from a distance, as a collective, the percentage of Indians who will actually succumb to the virus is negligible. Or, in other words, once the dust settles, and the dead are disposed of, the number of people who will still be around to vote in the next general elections will not be very much less than those who voted in the last one. This, essentially, is the algorithm of cynicism, a barely-disguised contempt for the people, which seems to be driving those at the helm of power in our country. The fact that no other nation is asking its people to pay for the Covid-19 vaccine, or asking states to foot the bill for vaccine purchase (instead of doing so Centrally), or encouraging differential pricing by private vaccine manufacturers is just one instance of this calculated, number-based cynicism. Bodies will be burned, or buried, or thrown into rivers and streams, but the edifice of the now-under-construction Central Vista in our grandly-imagined capital city will remain. In the years to come, we, the atmanirbhar  people of India, will learn to live with the memory of the pandemic (which will fade, as memories do), a government that is indifferent, and often hostile, to our woes (which we will get used to, as humans do), a shining new multi-billion dollar capital city, and towering statues of noble Indians dotted across the landscape, in villages and towns (which we will grow to love and admire, as we do so much of the grand panoply of state). The original cynics of ancient Greece abjured all worldly possessions and sought to live on as little as possible; the present-day cynics who rule our destinies feast on delusions of eternal grandeur. Samantak Das is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
