21-05-2021||Opinion||Out of the blue: K.K. Shailaja axed from Kerala cabinet||Sir — The exclusion of K.K. Shailaja, popularly known as ‘Shailaja teacher’, from the incoming Left Democratic Front government in Kerala has come as a complete surprise (“Shailaja left out, Kerala seethes”, May 19). It has given reason to suspect that Pinarayi Vijayan, who holds sway over the Kerala state unit of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), did not relish the limelight Shailaja received for her handling of the Covid-19 crisis as the health minister of Kerala. Shailaja became the face of the model fight against the pandemic and won accolades internationally. She was profiled and interviewed by international media. Her image has been one of a kind — that of a caring woman. Shailaja’s performance as health minister boosted the LDF government’s image as a people-friendly and efficient dispensation. There is no doubt that Vijayan has grown in stature by leading the state from the front in its fight against Covid-19. The viewership for his daily press briefing, guiding the people through this difficult time, was high. One finds it hard to reconcile oneself with the idea that a leader such as Vijayan, who rose through the ranks to become chief minister and is now beginning his second consecutive term in office, putting his personal likes and dislikes above providing strong leadership in the management of the pandemic. It is significant that the central leadership of the CPI(M), including the general secretary, Sitaram Yechury, and the politburo member, Brinda Karat, conveyed its dissatisfaction with her exclusion from the cabinet, a move that is amenable to being read as the sidelining of a popular woman leader. The new crop of ministers appear to be endowed with public spirit and leadership qualities. The induction of new faces as ministers would have come in for greater appreciation if Vijayan had himself led by example and made way for a young leader to head the government. The centralization of power in the chief minister’s office has now become a legitimate fear. A highly centralized system of governance does not sit comfortably with India’s understanding of democracy. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The Pinarayi Vijayan government in Kerala is beginning its second term with a set of ministers, the majority of whom are new faces. But what really has stunned the supporters of the Left and even those from the Opposition, including right-wing parties, is the omission of K.K. Shailaja, the star of the previous government, from the ministerial list. The whole nation knows how Kerala encountered the first wave of the pandemic and brought the situation almost entirely under control before the second wave surged. The credit for this goes to Shailaja who, with her grit and the support of the health department, fought bravely against the pandemic. She was rightly lauded for her exemplary work as health minister during the first wave. People across party lines supported Shailaja in her efforts to control the pandemic. Her work received global attention, with other nations trying to emulate the ‘Kerala model’. The exclusion of Shailaja’s name from the new cabinet has no wonder attracted criticism from many within the party itself. But those at the helm of the CPI(M) seem to believe that the party is above the individuals that drive it. Not everyone agrees, and for good reason. Shailaja won the Mattannur constituency of her home district, Kannur, with a record margin. A new face dealing with the pandemic — apprehensions about this already abound — might find it difficult to handle the present crisis, and if things do not go the right way, the party’s decision is sure to be questioned and fingers may point at the chief minister himself. The coming days will surely resolve this question. M. Pradyu,Kannur Sir — The best woman CPI(M) leader in Kerala, K.K. Shailaja, is out of the ministry. Senior leaders of the party, including Sitaram Yechury and Brinda Karat, have expressed their displeasure with the matter. The decision to avoid Shailaja is allegedly based on the policy of taking on only new faces as ministers. So why must an old face — that of Pinarayi Vijayan — continue in the new cabinet? Does not the newly created policy apply to him? It is truly amusing to find a chief minister and his son-in-law together in the cabinet of a communist government. Mao Zedong had once said, “Communism is not love. Communism is a hammer which we use to crush the enemy.” When all are from the same family, this can be done easily.K.A. Solaman,Alappuzha, Kerala  Strike a balance Sir — The findings of the recent study by the World Health Organization and the International Labour Organization that reveals an alarming correlation between overworking and potentially fatal health hazards are not surprising. With the shift to the work-from-home system, work hours of employees have been prolonged beyond measure, leaving many struggling to maintain a work-life balance. The study warns that this could lead to stroke or death by heart disease. Companies need to institute policies at once to prevent such cases. A modicum of relaxation is essential to good health as well as better professional performance. Sourabh Pal,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
21-05-2021||Opinion||Storm watch: Cyclone season in India||India, as is the case with the world, is headed towards stormy weather. This is because climate change is turning oceans hotter, increasing the frequency of cyclones. Tauktae, categorized as an extremely severe cyclonic storm, has caused extensive losses to life and property in stretches of India’s western coast, especially in Gujarat. Meanwhile, on the eastern coast, coastal Bengal is still counting its losses one year after being lashed by Cyclone Amphan. Worse, Yaas, another cyclonic formation, has been spotted on the radar. Yet another natural calamity at the time of a pandemic is expected to further stretch a besieged administration. Neither Bengal nor India is a stranger to cyclones. What is discernible is the increase in their frequency in recent years. This is consistent with scientific predictions that have warned of a rise in cyclonic activity, including wind velocity and an intensification of tidal surges, around the world. Changing climate and the global inertia to arrest the rise in temperatures are the catalysts here. Significantly, the administrative response to extreme weather remains reactive. This means that at the level of policy, there is a disproportionate emphasis on the distribution of relief and on rebuilding rather than on minimizing the damage through prudent preparedness. Admittedly, there has been some improvement in the technology used to predict weather patterns as well as in the construction of storm shelters. What is missing, however, is the transformation of physical assets — buildings, transportation networks, even land and agricultural practices — into climate resilient edifices in vulnerable areas. There is also a need to raise efficient, dedicated, local civic cadre to undertake relief work. This force can complement the rehabilitation undertaken by the administration that may not be fleet-footed. Wisdom, unfortunately, remains on paper. In 2016, Calcutta had become the first Indian city to create a road map to move towards a climate-resilient, low carbon future. It would be interesting to see how much of the plan has made its way from bureaucratic files to reality. Some other aspects of climate-change-induced disasters remain unaddressed. Indian laws are mostly silent on the rights and rehabilitation of climate refugees even though it has been estimated that annually nearly 1.5 million people are displaced internally on account of extreme weather related events. This burgeoning constituency demands urgent attention from India’s executive and judicial fraternities since some of the major consequences of climate change — be they cyclones or floods — have begun to manifest themselves with an alarming frequency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
21-05-2021||Opinion||Human Bonds: Citizens helping with Covid||There is never a vacuum. The more the political dispensation at the Centre abdicates its responsibility of protecting and healing the people, the more groups and individuals spring up across the country, in cities, small towns, villages or just localities, to help the sick access scarce oxygen and medicines, find hospital beds, get them admitted or help with funerals. They are the people, nameless: students and the young, professionals from all spheres, or entrepreneurs, traders and manufacturers offering resources, quite often free — oxygen flow meters for example, or just oxygen at critical times. There are autorickshaw drivers taking patients to hospitals for free, or racing drivers now driving ambulances. From the large canteen feeding migrant labourers and others in need and professional kitchens ready with food either free or with a nominal charge to women cooking in their kitchens for Covid patients, helping hands come from everywhere. Celebrities and less-known citizens are donating money and, when possible, equipment. Many volunteers in the field are unvaccinated, putting others’ pain above their own fears. They are often informally organized, responding to calls of distress on social media and by word of mouth with quick networking to get whatever is needed. The face of religion is turning out to be quite unlike the political leadership’s expectations: numerous people from minority communities are helping even in funerals, irrespective of faith. Sikh langars feed thousands in every crisis, whether located at the farmers’ protest site or on wheels during lockdown. Now gurdwaras have extended their service to ‘oxygen langar sewa’ in cities such as Delhi and Calcutta, helping patients fight the virus by giving them oxygen at critical moments and, when necessary, finding hospital beds for them. The organizers of the oxygen langar in Calcutta are planning to open one in the Nakhoda Masjid through discussions with the mosque authorities. In the crisis, the hatred unleashed by the dominant political party has become inconsequential. Even the Delhi police, after questioning the president of the Indian Youth Congress and eight others regarding charges of hoarding and black-marketing essential resources, found no prima facie evidence against them and were compelled to report to the Delhi High Court that they were actually ‘helping’ people. A tragic devastation that was largely avoidable has also become the scene of an assertion of humanity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
21-05-2021||Opinion||Go digital: E-governance||One thing that many people adapted to during the pandemic is handling technological tools and platforms. In 2020, we suddenly realized that almost all the necessities of modern life — from grocery to education, payment of electricity bill to getting court judgments — can now be obtained on the platter of the puny mobile phone. While 2020 will be remembered for the scary experience of the global pandemic, it will also be remembered for accelerated adoption of information technology in daily civic life. In 2006, the Union government launched the National e-Governance Plan, with 27 mission mode projects, and later, in 2015, the ambitious Digital India programme. Today, many government initiatives like Passport Seva, DigiLocker, online public distribution system, unified payment interface and, more recently, Aarogya Setu have earned universal accolades. Most ministries in the Union government are now paperless and decision-making is much faster and more transparent. India has embraced digital payments in an unprecedented manner and, as per reports by the Reserve Bank of India, Indians now make more than 10 crore digital transactions every day — a five-fold jump from the 2016 level. But we cannot become complacent; rather now is the time to replicate the success of these benchmark initiatives in every field of governance. In India, where universalization and transparent delivery of public services is closely linked to cost of living and well-being, digital governance becomes even more important as it reduces transaction costs, speeds up service delivery and ensures entitlement in a transparent manner. Digital transformation is required not only for the citizen at the last mile, but for every sector of our political economy. It is one of the prerequisites for the penetration of industry. The way a complex and sensitive sector like banking has been revolutionized and democratized is an example of the potential of digital technology in public service delivery. Digital transformation will lead to equality of reach and democratization of knowledge, and will cut down layers in citizen-government interface. The Covid-19 pandemic has provided us with an opportunity that we should not miss. Now almost every village and city is reasonably connected with affordable private service providers and through government initiatives like BharatNet. With half of the population now owning smartphones, access is no longer an issue. Government initiatives like Common Service Centres now cover even the remotest of villages. During the pandemic, private players, particularly start-ups, have shown enormous interest in co-developing public service delivery platforms, with shiny success stories like the Aarogya Setu app. That is not to say that there are no challenges. India ranked 100th in the 2020 United Nations E-Government Development Index and a lot more needs to be done on parameters of process re-engineering, data privacy and making services more citizen-friendly. There is a reluctance on part of officials in adopting new platforms as they lack familiarization with digital files and platforms. Sometimes officials fear losing stranglehold over the established system; this also acts as a barrier. Lack of widespread digital literacy in hinterlands also poses a challenge. So, solutions have to be so simple and wherever possible in local languages so that even an Indian at the last mile can use them with confidence. New forms of online frauds have made a section of the population sceptical about using digital initiatives. Saving citizens from online frauds, particularly financial frauds, will be a litmus test which we must pass in order to create a positive environment regarding adoption of digital services. We should not let such challenges break the momentum that we gained during the pandemic. E-governance has a huge potential of bringing much-needed transparency and accountability in the public service delivery mechanisms and can help in uplifting citizen trust in public institutions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
21-05-2021||Opinion||Crisis reimagined||The Covid narrative has become bare and impoverished both as policy and story. It has become arid as a technical answer to a technical question. One needs to broaden it out so it has a sense of an ethic. A moment of horror needs a touch of posies to grasp it. A bit of language, a jab of meaning that opens up new possibilities. I am a newspaper addict. I begin the day with coffee and news, drinking both in. Of late, I find I cannot read the news. News has lost its sense of story, of ethics. News has become bland about horror and every report of a crisis feels like a government handout. A crisis of Covid has become a crisis of journalism, a failure of ethics and storytelling, the very loss of language that affects the ability to mourn. Death has become meaningless with this charade of governance and policy becomes the act of erasure. An old woman I know said that instead of talking numbers, the government should have conducted a simple ritual of mourning. In spouting statistics, it has lost the power of memory. Covid, sadly, is seen as a crisis of medicine when it is a crisis of culture. The sad thing is that we keep thinking that Covid needs a technical answer to a technical question when it embodies at least several layers of crisis. Let us begin with science. Remember, science in India is no longer a knowledge system. It’s an ideological system that supports the State. Worse, our scientists have lost their sense of philosophical roots. A scientist must know, especially in an ecological age, that nature is always in flux. Our scientists operate under idiotic assumptions that treat nature as a commodity, and they think that nature will fix things. An outdated science with little notion of risk, uncertainty or complexity underwrites our system of governance. Scientific ethics is treated marginally. Science literally has to return to truth-telling by admitting its mistakes candidly. The Covid myth might be badly behaved but the illiteracy of science as the policy system and an ethical act is starkly vivid. The second fact we have to confront is that truth is not a monopoly of science. Science in its own way requires a different language and ethics. With Covid, we have lost the sense of the epic and ethics. One sees a gross failure of journalism here. Reporting is at an all-time low and the crisis is read like some kind of circus. The failure of journalism adds to the human rights crisis we face today. The victim and patient have disappeared as people. They are only a demographic presence as body counts or are treated as failed consumers as they are turned away from hospitals. What is true of the patients is also true of the migrants in the informal economy. It represents the irony of citizenship in urban India today. It is interesting how certainty and uncertainty operate in today’s India. Certainty and continuity are what the regime demands for itself, while it is content to impose violence, uncertainty and vulnerability on the citizens. We are faced with a regime that speaks wellness and welfare but lacks even a modicum of care, either for the victim or for the caretaker. Ours is a regime for which welfare moves between Kafka and Alice and the suffering, whether that of the patient or the migrant, is met with indifference. There is a deeper failure of narrative and ethics. We equate truth with fact without realizing that fact is vulnerable and naked without the power of metaphor. Truth has to have a literary power and epic quality even in the everydayness. Newspapers and government reports have destroyed this rhythm of storytelling, of a society replete with folklore and parable. Earlier, epidemics had mythic power and invoked the sacred. Covid as a pandemic has no gods or rituals devoted to it. An arid secularism is too listless to challenge the demonology of Covid. This litmus test of language is accompanied by the inane illiteracy of our leaders who do not know the difference between a nursery rhyme and a policy document. Watching Narendra Modi on a TV screen is like watching the perpetrator as the philosopher king. It is Modi’s performance that has created one miracle of Covid. Modi did the impossible. He convinced his fans that he is far more incompetent than Rahul Gandhi, thereby creating a historical turn that hardly anyone was ready to accept. Democracy right now is the choice between two authoritarianisms. What is also intriguing is the absence of dissent in the Indian Administrative Service. A spate of resignations would have reversed the nature of the story. In fact, one is prompted to ask, would a B.C. Roy as chief minister or the presence of a Mother Teresa have represented things differently? When language has become clerical and sterile, fit for certification but not for storytelling, democracy becomes desperate to attain the power of prayer and narrative. When literature and science fail and politics remains inane theory, there is little a society can do. One confronts the breakdown of the society and a disappearance of the language of the social. We have lost an everyday sense of society and it shrinks to that of a brutality. The government has already destroyed the margins of a civil society. The only word for the social we have is a behaviouristic term: social distancing. It lacks a sense of norms, it lacks a cosmos. It is disaggregation by definition; the State pretends that this disaggregated state is society. Sadly, no respectable body of social science challenges Modi’s alleged contribution to sociology, his world of unaccountable power and consequent nihilism. In fact, the media have to pretend that cinema is a simulacrum of society where good families and loving couples go to a nirvana called the Maldives. The myth of the Maldives as a new paradise continues. It is a society aggregated from beaches and hotels where the only inmates are film stars. There is an obscenity in the way society is constructed in newspaper supplements. Upper-class, governmental babus pretend to be non-resident Indians in their own domain. A government practising social distancing with its citizens is the final irony. Governance has become the ritual to destroy the social. It is a pandemic where displacement, medical catastrophe and genocide become just another form of collective violence. Western narratives of horror have a central focus on monsters, but the new Indian horror story just empties out the content, the character, and the meaning of all before it. The increasing waves of emptiness that Covid creates at every level, from language to norm to governance to science, give it a major place in the annals of violence. The Indian horror story has emerged at the right moment of creation and as good Indians we see it as normal and are tempted to adapt to it. India has become surreal in a way that the West could never have been. Covid as an evil has become surreal both as art and science. The challenge is to find a new language and exemplary acts of ethics that confront the way it constructs the world. This is the real challenge for the idea of democracy. Shiv Visvanathan is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
