22-05-2021||Opinion||Crypto script||The noise around private cryptocurrencies just got shriller after two major developments. First, the Chinese authorities stopped their banks from providing services related to cryptocurrency transactions. Second, Elon Musk, the founder of Tesla, executed a neat about-turn, saying that he would not accept Bitcoins as payment for the fashionable electric cars he produces. The two announcements cratered the market for private cryptocurrencies that have witnessed scorching growth in value terms over the past year. The crypto universe, which has operated outside the pale of regulations since 2009 when Bitcoin was first launched, has whipsawed in response to central banks’ actions to control a runaway beast that threatens to upstage fiat currencies as well as to cavalier statements by maverick tycoons like Mr Musk. Investors have been attracted by the prospect of capital gains in crypto trades like moths to a flame — with many of them badly singed while clinging desperately to a mother lode in search of a valuation peak. The world of cryptocurrencies is poised to turn on its head as several central banks, including the Reserve Bank of India, pore over plans to launch their own digital fiat currencies. Some like China and the Bahamas have already introduced them in a small way. In January this year, the Bank of International Settlements said that 86 per cent of the 65 countries that had participated in a survey had indicated that they were exploring the drawback and benefits of launching a central bank digital currency. Many of them are flirting with the idea of offering the general public the option of holding their money in digital form. China has wider ambitions: it wants to see whether the digital yuan can thwart the dollarization of the world economy. Data show that more than 88 per cent of all international foreign exchange trades is carried out in US dollars against a mere 4 per cent in the Chinese yuan. Countries have been vacillating between a total ban on private cryptocurrency transactions within their jurisdictions — like China — and the concept of light regulation — like Europe — which has been driven by the desire to bar only those segments that facilitate money laundering, terrorist financing and tax evasion. India set up a committee headed by the former finance secretary, Subhash Chandra Garg, which recommended that all private cryptocurrencies ought to be banned and only the one issued by the State should be allowed to function. The Garg report was submitted in February 2019 but the government is yet to decide whether to go along with its recommendations. In the interim, the RBI issued a directive in 2018 that barred banks from facilitating transactions between crypto exchange and their customers. That directive was shot down by the Supreme Court last year. Since then, the central bank has resorted to the tactic of subtle suasion to stop these transactions till the Centre takes a final decision. The risk of a complete ban is that these transactions could continue in the deep recesses of the Dark Net where regulation will become even more difficult.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
22-05-2021||Opinion||Noble act: Jyotsna Bose, first Indian woman to donate body||Sir — Jyotsna Bose, the now-deceased 93-year-old trade union leader from Calcutta, reportedly became the ‘first woman’ in India whose body has been donated for medical research on the coronavirus’s effects on humans. It has long been considered an act of great humanity to donate one’s body for medical research, or one’s organs for helping other people who might need them. In present times, the importance of such an act has increased manifold, given that a disease like Covid-19 has taken the global medical community by surprise. Doctors are learning new things about it to this day. To aid them in their quest, even posthumously, is a noble act. Rohini Sen,Calcutta Not wise Sir — India has had a healthy tradition of having non-politicians as members of the Union council of ministers by virtue of their being experts in their fields — science, economics, engineering, education, law, diplomacy and public affairs. Some of the stalwarts are John Matthai, M.G.K. Menon, Raja Ramanna, K.L. Rao, V.K.R.V. Rao, Nurul Hasan, Triguna Sen, M.C. Chagla, Ashoke Kumar Sen, D.P. Dhar, Manmohan Singh and Y.K. Alagh. What was noteworthy about most of them was that even though they were nominated by the government of the day, they did not bend over backwards to please the political establishment. They had minds of their own. Some of them did become full-time party politicians later, but that is another story. In present times, what is surprising is that a career diplomat like S. Jaishankar — he is the Union external affairs minister — who was generally perceived to be a voice of reason, has emerged as one of the most vociferous mouthpieces of the ruling party. His recent utterances, whether on the criticism by dissenters of India’s handling of the pandemic or in his virtual interaction with ambassadors, have made it evident that he is toeing the party line with clear indifference to ground realities and logical reasoning. Earlier this week, Jaishankar declared that the Delhi chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, does not “speak for India” after Singapore’s foreign minister, Vivian Balakrishnan, objected to Kejriwal’s claim that a highly infectious variant of Covid-19 that threatens to affect children might come from Singapore. While one may disagree with Kejriwal on many subjects, Jaishankar’s belittling of a democratically elected Indian chief minister before a foreign country did our external affairs minister no credit. Instead, one would have expected a more diplomatic and nuanced clarification from him. Unfortunately, he has taken to party politics and sycophancy like a duck takes to water. Bhaskar Roy,New Delhi PARTING SHOT Sir — It is wonderful news for Indian cricket fans that the former ace batsman, Rahul Dravid, is going to be named the head coach of the Indian white-ball team for its Sri Lanka tour next July (“Dravid head coach for Lanka tour”, May 21). It will be a privilege for the team to be coached by a batting legend like Dravid. The squad will be playing one-day internationals and Twenty20 matches during the tour. One hopes that the team will not only play brilliantly but also clinch both those series under the guidance of Dravid. Sourish Misra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
22-05-2021||Opinion||Stay at Monica’s: 'The Friends Experience'||Many of those who dreamed about visiting the iconic Friends apartment — the one in which Monica lived with Rachel and then Chandler — are now able to turn their dream into a reality. “The Friends Experience” is a pop-up in the Flatiron District in New York City which has recreated the apartment and scenes from the popular show of the 1990s. Registration was available through www.booking.com for two overnight stays and costs only $19.94 per night. There are 18 rooms, each one representing a classic scene, prop or location from the show such as the wedding chapel where Ross and Rachel got married, Monica’s kitchen and Chandler’s famous bunny costume, among others. Life story The last place you would expect the life of a lobster to be spared would be a restaurant chain that specializes in lobster dishes. That, however, is exactly what happened at a Red Lobster location — it is a chain in the United States of America — in Manassas, Virginia. When their shipment of live lobsters came in, the staff noticed something odd in the crate — it was a lobster with an orange shell and black specks. The employees named it ‘Freckles’ and spared it from the pot of boiling water. They reached out to the Association of Zoos and Aquariums who then contacted the Virginia Living Museum. Thus Freckles went to the Virginia Living Museum. It turns out that Freckles is a calico lobster. The University of Maine’s Lobster Institute estimates that the odds of catching a calico lobster are one in 30 million — nearly 10,000 times less likely than being struck by lightning. The lobster went through a health evaluation and will be exhibited at the museum’s Chesapeake Bay Gallery. Last year, a Red Lobster location in Ohio donated a rare blue lobster — it had been named ‘Clawdia’ — to the Akron Zoo. In other animal news, Houston was rocked earlier this month when a Bengal tiger was seen roaming around a residential neighbourhood. An off-duty sheriff approached it after which the owner — a man on bond from a murder charge — took the tiger, got into his white SUV and escaped. After a short car chase, the man was caught but the tiger was nowhere to be found. Finally the tiger, named India, was found after a week and taken to safety. Scary prospect The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced that vaccinated Americans don’t have to wear masks anymore or engage in social distancing in most settings. The announcement was met with scepticism and confusion. Many remarked that one simply cannot tell by looking at someone if they are vaccinated or not. Essential workers in hospitals and nursing homes are not fans of the new rule, especially for the sake of the vulnerable population. Businesses are still enforcing their mask-wearing policies as are some states. Starbucks, Walmart and Costco announced that they will drop the mask rule in states that have done so. While 56 per cent of Americans above 18 have received at least one dose, there are still vaccination incentives that are going around. Rowan University in New Jersey is offering students who show proof of vaccination a $500 credit towards their student bill to help the state reach its 70 per cent vaccination goal. Ohio has put forth a million-dollar lottery for those who are fully vaccinated. To be eligible, you must be an Ohio resident, and must have had at least one shot of the vaccine. Winners will be chosen by random draw every Wednesday beginning May 26 and win $1 million each. Footnote Cows are returning to New York — fibreglass statues of cows that have been seen on display will now be part of a larger event called CowParade. It will bring together 75 artists from all over the world to create art representing cows. The artists include famous names and amateurs and are picked through an “Open Call to Artists”. Word is sent out through email, organizational outreach, newspapers or ads and sponsors select the final list of artists from the submissions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
22-05-2021||Opinion||Hack jobs||Earlier this month, the Ayush ministry offered detailed advice on how to build one’s immunity during the ‘Covid-19 Crisis’. To help ward off the dreaded disease, the ministry listed a series of specific recommendations, including, “Apply Sesame oil/Coconut oil/Cow Ghee... in both the nostrils in morning and evening”. However, if one didn’t like putting stuff in one’s nose, the ministry offered an alternative: “Take 1 table spoon sesame oil or coconut oil in the mouth. Do not drink, swish in the mouth for 2 to 3 minutes and spit it off followed by warm water rinse [sic]”. Other measures recommended by the ministry to stop oneself from getting Covid-19 include eating Chyavanprash, drinking herbal tea, doing steam inhalation and so on. The publicity material put out by the Ayush ministry stopped just short of explicitly saying that a deshbhakt would not get Covid-19 if he or she followed the procedures recommended by it. But the implication pretty much was — if you follow these traditional practices, you are much less likely to catch the virus. Leaders and propagandists of the ruling party have been far less coy in recommending altogether unproven cures for this most deadly of 21st-century diseases. In my own state, the senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader and former MP, Vijay Sankeshwar, recommended lime juice inhalation as an alternative to oxygen (which was scarce in North Karnataka). The Hindu reported that “Mr. Sankeshwar had in a recent press meet said that administering lime juice through nostrils increased oxygen levels by 80%. He had said that he had seen this home remedy work in 200 persons, including his relatives and colleagues”. Several followers of the politician, the report continued, had died as a result of following their leader’s advice. An even more influential BJP leader from Karnataka, the party general secretary, B.L. Santhosh, enthusiastically recommended steam inhalation to fight corona, posting pictures of policemen, huddled dangerously close together without masks, adopting this procedure following the advice of their political bosses. Meanwhile, in another BJP-ruled state, Madhya Pradesh, the culture minister, Usha Thakur, said the ancient fire ritual known as ‘havan’ was an effective way to combat the ongoing pandemic. The Telegraph reported the minister as saying, “We appeal to all to perform yagna and offer aahuti (oblation) and purify the environment because performing this sacred ritual to eliminate pandemics has been a tradition since ages”. The minister’s advice appears to have been taken seriously by the members of her ‘parivar’. A widely circulated video shows volunteers with black caps and khaki shorts explaining how to conduct these havans in each house, using neem leaves and firewood for the purpose. In another fantastical claim, the controversial MP from Bhopal, she who thinks Mahatma Gandhi’s murderer a true patriot, insisted that she has not contracted Covid so far only because she drinks cow urine every day. And in Gujarat, the state that has been ruled by the BJP for the longest time, it was reported that a group of sadhus are regularly lathering themselves with cow dung, convinced that this will prevent them from being infected with the virus. Among the slew of dodgy cures recommended by leaders of the ruling party is the drug, Coronil, launched last year by the Sarkari Sant, Ramdev, in the presence of two senior Union ministers, one of whom was concurrently serving as the minister of health and the minister of science and technology. When Coronil was first promoted by Ramdev, “it was with the false claim that this would be a COVID cure, with ‘100 per cent recovery guaranteed’ within seven days, local media reported”. The head of the ‘Patanjali Research Institute’, one Anurag Varshney, claimed that the miracle drug “had received the scientific validation it needed”. He further claimed that “[t]hose who got the medicine turned Covid positive to negative in seven days but among patients who received the placebo, only 60 per cent... turned Covid negative. So it [has] well-defined in-built efficacy”. Before I go any further, let me make it clear that I believe in medical pluralism myself. I do not believe that modern Western medicine has all the cures for all the ailments and diseases known to humankind. I know from intimate personal experience that non-modern systems such as ayurveda, yoga and homoeopathy can play a role in mitigating such ailments as chronic asthma, chronic backache and seasonal allergies, from which I have suffered at various points in my life. However, Covid-19 is a distinctively 21st-century virus, unknown to those who invented and developed the systems of ayurveda, yoga, unani, siddha and homoeopathy. Besides, it is just a year and a bit old. There is absolutely no evidence that the burning of neem leaves, or the drinking of cow urine, or the swallowing of a pill made of plants, or the plastering on one’s body of cow dung, or the ingesting of coconut oil or ghee into one’s nostrils can have any effect at all in warding off the disease or in effecting a quicker recovery if one contracts Covid-19. On the other hand, we do have enough evidence to show that two preventive measures do help enormously in warding off Covid-19. These are maintaining social distancing and having oneself vaccinated. And it is in these two respects that our proudly Hindu government has so dismally failed us, by allowing, indeed encouraging, larger and ever larger political and religious gatherings, and in not being proactive in boosting domestic vaccine production or in licensing new vaccines for use in India, despite having many months’ notice in which to do so. I come from a family of scientists. Almost the only words of abuse that I ever heard my scientist father and scientist grandfather utter were ‘mumbo-jumbo’ and ‘superstition’. My father and grandfather are now dead; but I wonder what the distinguished Indian scientists I know think of all the fakery and quackery promoted by ruling party politicians in the name of combating Covid-19. Truth be told, this fakery and quackery, this superstition and mumbo-jumbo, are not just the preserve of the odd Union minister or the odd state-level politician. It is shared widely by members of the sangh parivar, among them the prime minister himself. Consider what he did last March, when the pandemic first made itself visible; he asked us to bang pots and pans for exactly five minutes, beginning exactly at 5 pm. Or what he did the next month, when the gravity of the situation was becoming clearer; he asked us to light candles or shine torches for exactly nine minutes, beginning exactly at 9 pm. How this would help us ward off the virus then spreading across North America and Europe perhaps only the prime minister’s astrologer and/or numerologist knew. For the sangh parivar, faith and bigotry take precedence over reason and science. In acting as he does, Narendra Modi only reflects the narrow-mindedness of his own ideological upbringing. During his first prime ministerial campaign, he lavishly praised Ramdev for “the fire inside him and his determination”. He added, “I feel a closeness to his agenda”. That Ramdev has since emerged as the State’s most favoured sant is no accident. It is also entirely in character that the prime minister would consort actively with other shady, so-called godmen, or that he would appoint Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh hacks to important ministries such as education, health, and science and technology. The most spectacular demonstration of Hindutva irrationality was, of course, the holding of the Kumbh Mela, brought forward a year because the astrologers demanded it, held in full force in the middle of the pandemic because the RSS and the BJP wanted to make social and political capital out of it. As the virus spreads deep into the North Indian countryside, one can — indeed must — trace a direct connection between the massive support given to the mela by the Central government and by BJP state governments on the one hand, and the countless bodies being cremated or floating in the rivers or buried in the sand, on the other. From the prime minister downwards (and not excluding the sarsanghchalak of the RSS), there were many powerful and influential men who could have prevented this tragedy from taking place. They did not, because, for them, faith and bigotry take precedence over reason and science. In April 2019 — a little over two years ago — I wrote in these columns of the Modi government’s disdain for science, of how it had sought to politicize our best institutions of scientific research. “By so systematically undermining our finest institutions that produce knowledge and breed innovation,” I wrote then, “the Modi government has gravely undermined the nation’s social and economic future. Indians now living as well as Indians yet unborn will bear the costs of this savage, unrelenting, war on the intellect”.  At that time, Covid-19 was many months away from manifesting itself in the world. Now that it is here, and the Modi government continues its savage, unrelenting, war on the intellect, the gloomy future I outlined has become far gloomier still. In confronting this pandemic, India and Indians would have had a difficult time anyway. It has been made far more difficult and deadly by the disregard for reason and science exhibited by the Union government and the ruling party. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
