23-05-2021||Opinion||Spot the links||Sir — The internet is flooded with memes about a tropical cyclone coming ‘free’ with a lockdown. Yet, it eludes people that the ever-increasing frequency of tropical cyclones is indeed connected to the repeated lockdowns that are having to be imposed to stop the pandemic. Human depredations on nature are responsible for both the pandemic and the warming oceans which is leading to the cyclones. It is important that these links are explained to the masses. This is not just to amend individual actions but to ensure public pressure on the government, which can bring about real change. S. Bhattacharya, Calcutta Sir — One important aspect of the country’s fight against the coronavirus last year was the coordination among the Centre and the state governments. Rising above political differences, they evolved a synergy that helped tide over shortages in critical resources like testing kits, ventilators and personal protective equipment, facilitated the framing of contact tracing protocols, and promoted knowledge sharing. Differences of opinion, such as those over designating containment zones or methods of counting the Covid infected, were swiftly sorted out. Such cohesion has, unfortunately, been missing at critical moments in the past three months. The Centre and some Opposition-ruled states have not been on the same page over vaccine allocation; oxygen shortages have created discord and chief ministers have complained of not being heard at meetings with the prime minister, Narendra Modi. Just weeks ago, the Jharkhand chief minister, Hemant Soren, said that, in a telephone conversation, “the PM only spoke his mind”. Now the West Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, has described the meeting with Modi as a “one-way humiliation” (“‘One-way lecture’ makes Didi drown His Master’s Voice”, May 21). The Bharatiya Janata Party has accused Banerjee of “politicising the meeting”. Modi himself as well as several Union ministers have pointed out that cooperation among the Centre and the states is elementary to the fight against the virus. This calls for keeping the Trinamul Congress-BJP conflict in abeyance and paying heed to the objections expressed by the Bengal chief minister. Experts reckon that flattening the curve will be more exacting this year because the virus is constantly presenting new challenges — the black fungus disease, for example. During his meeting with state officials, the prime minister talked about the significance of robust data and solid analyses to combat the mutating pathogen. He urged district-level officers to collect information on the spread of the virus among children and youth. For such knowledge to become a potent weapon in the fight against the pandemic, it must inform conversations amongst states, and between the Centre and the states. For that to happen, both must reaffirm the spirit of cooperative federalism. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — Going digital may be good for the current generation, but for a growing section of elderly and the underprivileged, digital transactions cause substantial stress (“Go digital”, May 21). Mastering digital technology is not easy, especially for the elderly. They have limitations of sight, hearing and flexibility. As a senior citizen, I find technology tends to discriminate even against those who have a working knowledge of computers. Banks compel the elderly to use ATMs whose security and operations one needs to be vigilant about. How many senior citizens can download a computerized statement or own a printer, or can remember so many passwords? Persons with disabilities and the elderly are being left out of India’s digital drive. Policymakers should be more considerate and offer quick services to the elderly to solve their problems. They should not be made to run around because of the  digitization drive. One counter with a dedicated, sensitized and well-trained staff must be available to help senior citizens and the less digitally savvy population. H.N. Ramakrishna, Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
23-05-2021||Opinion||Identical horror||Akhilesh Yadav’s comments on Uttar Pradesh’s handling of the virus contain descriptions of the 1918-1919 ‘Spanish flu’ by the Chhayavad poet, Suryakant Tripathi ‘Nirala’, in his memoir. UP’s former chief minister has shown not just a familiarity with the great poet’s work but an internalization of it that has enabled him to understand the purgatory-like situation we are in and to use that literary allusion to great, explicatory effect. Quoting Nirala, he  has pulled our attention to the identicality of the 1918-1919 scene and the horror of countless corpses that have been seen floating on the Ganga along villages in our current torment. And of mass burials along the river’s banks. Those who have not read or cannot read Nirala’s memoir, Kulli Bhaat, in the Hindi original, have the chance to read its translation into English by Satti Khanna (A Life Misspent, HarperCollins). From the time the virus started last year, different columnists cited the original work and its translation so vivid and powerfully plugged into our agony. But now, with the Ganga becoming the carrier of the virus-dead and its banks their burial site, Nirala’s description acquires a new and macabre ring of reckoning. When just over 20, Nirala went from Bengal (where he was born — Mahishadal — and was living) to Rae Bareili where his wife was with her parents at that time. He says he saw on his way the Ganga swollen with dead bodies and on reaching his wife’s home learnt that she had died. Others in the family followed: a cousin who had been sent to help out, followed by the cousin’s wife and his daughter. “My family disappeared in the blink of an eye,” he writes. “In whichever direction I turned I saw darkness... ” And he writes about a shortage of wood in the villages to cremate their dead, whence the consigning of the bodies in the waters of the river or their burial on the river’s banks. His wife, Manohara, we learn, was adept in the khari boli, Hindi’s most prevalent form, and had played no small role in kindling his own literary spark. Her going diminished Nirala’s world incalculably, irreparably. And so, as we speak today of ‘countless bodies’ and ‘corpses’ in generic terms (more so when they belong to ‘rural India’), we must remember that there are Manoharas among them, and persons whose deaths have done something much deeper, sharper and longer-lasting than ‘disposing of the dead’. While the Niralas among the survivors will write about the agonizing experience afterwards, we must for now thank Akhilesh Yadav for connecting us to that inexpressibly tragic and incredibly pertinent experience of the poet. As the virus lurches into the villages from the stricken cities and towns and from totally and dangerously ill-advised mass congregations such as the Kumbh Mela, we need to hearken to all those who have been warning us about the exactions of neglect — by the authorities and by us, the people, through our callousness. Is it already too late? I do not know enough to say that it is, or that it is not. I do not know how many pilgrims to the Kumbh came from and went back to villages across the country but more significantly to  villages from which bodies have been let into the river. Those who attended the Markaz Masjid event at Nizamuddin in New Delhi in March 2020 were numerically insignificant compared to those at the Kumbh but reports speak of many attendees there testing positive. I do not know how many of the tenaciously agitating farmers near the national capital have been returning to their villages and coming back to the protest sites in relays. I know of course or can guess like anyone else that the majority of them have not been vaccinated. And I know too, like anyone else, that in West Bengal, the holding of mega rallies was a massive risk taken in the teeth of warnings and pleas for their cancellation. Experts say the spike should start to slacken by June or July. They have to be right. But I cannot wish away the doubt: if they are basing their prognoses on models that use the data of reported cases alone, would the data of unreported cases, if they were to come in, alter the picture? Or has some sophisticated extrapolation factored in the rural scene? Again, I can only pose the question, not attempt an answer to it. As a lay person, I am just not qualified to do so. But as one whose memory of Nirala’s observation has just been refreshed, this much I can say: rural India is as yet unmapped in the virus’s cartography. And only two interventions can help rural India, which is the bulk of India, meet the challenge. First, an intensive vaccination programme that covers at least 30 per cent (said to be the appropriate extent) of the rural population by the end of 2021. Second, an intensive awareness initiative that tells village India that wearing masks is not an option but a desideratum (using a simpler word, of course). The first needs vaccines and vaccinators — both in dire deficit. The second needs community leaders to spread the word, not government or Opposition leaders although they are welcome to join, if they can find the time. But where are the community leaders? Did anyone of note from among our godmen and godwomen, our sadhus and sadhvis, say a word about the risks of attending the Kumbh? Some might have; I missed them. So did the 10 million who attended. But who will ever know how many of them today rue the day they dipped into the Ganga virtually stuck to each other in these days of ‘social distancing’? Where are the community leaders, I have just asked. The answer is: everywhere. The problem is they have muted themselves. They need to un-mute. They need to shout out the message. If one of them says, ‘Chalo, Kumbh’, millions up and start. If one of them says, ‘Ruko, mat jao, desh ko bachao’, will they not listen? All faith traditions and communities in India — Hindu, Muslim, Christian, Jaina, Sikh — place trust in community leaders above other kind of leaders. Those community leaders must find their voices and raise them today to save India. Nirala said about 1918-1919 that whichever way he turned, he was in darkness. India, seventy and more years after swaraj, has to be different from the India which Lord Chelmsford ruled from Delhi or Sir Harcourt Butler from Lucknow. It cannot by plain default or mismanagement let the Ganga, if it has a mind of its own, say it is not.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
23-05-2021||Opinion||There was a time when a Prime Minister acted like a head of state||The difference between New India and the one of yore becomes obvious time and again. When the Narendra Modi government decided to throw the Delhi chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, under the bus after Singapore was upset with him identifying a Covid-19 variant with that country, it brought back memories of a very different era. There was a time not so long ago when another prime minister, Manmohan Singh, did not allow his politics to eclipse his duties as the head of government. When the then Gujarat CM, Narendra Modi, had his visa to the United States of America revoked in 2005 over his handling of the carnage in his state in 2002, the United Progressive Alliance government summoned the US ambassador in Delhi and registered India’s protest over such an action against a constitutionally elected CM. India asked for a review of the decision. Singh acted like the prime minister of India, not a partisan politician, even though some of his own party members favoured the visa ban. The PM may be facing brickbats for his handling of the second Covid-19 wave but one of his cabinet colleagues, the road transport minister, Nitin Gadkari, is reaping rich accolades. The Maharashtra CM, Uddhav Thackeray, has praised Gadkari for the help he has extended in battling Covid in the state. Gadkari, who hails from Maharashtra and represents the Nagpur Lok Sabha constituency, has gone out of the way to help out the state government. His “innovative ideas” in controlling the surge in Nagpur are being widely hailed. Had the praise been limited to the state level, it would have been tolerable for Delhi. But things appear to be going further. Indirectly, voices from here and there seem to be saying that had Gadkari been in-charge, the Covid situation would not have gone out of hand. Some Nagpur-based news portals have written that Gadkari should be made chief epidemic officer. Online comments that Gadkari would make a “better PM” have also been spotted. All this will test the tolerance of the present regime and may not augur well for Gadkari. Yogi Adityanath is making life easy for his successor. His daily claims of tracing, testing and treating Covid-19 cases across Uttar Pradesh fly in the face of reports even by government-friendly media which show that medical teams have not visited most of the villages in the heartland. There is hardly any village in Uttar Pradesh where people are not suffering from Covid-19 or dying in the absence of treatment. According to data collected from the different cremation grounds and the ghats of the Ganga in Kanpur district in the last month, over 8,000 people have either been cremated or buried in the sand along the riverbank. Adityanath’s officers put this number far lower. It is the same in Agra, Fatehpur, Rae Bareli, Ghazipur, Ballia and so on. The CM claims his government is doing a great job and the rate of recovery is 92.5 per cent. Adityanath is making it easy for his successor, if there is to be one, to bank on falsehoods. Politics refuses to take a back seat even during the pandemic. The Odisha CM, Naveen Patnaik, and the Union minister, Dharmendra Pradhan, the poster boy of the BJP in the state, appear to be engaged in a fierce battle to claim credit for Odisha not only meeting its own medical oxygen needs but also being able to supply it to other states. Soon after Patnaik shared news and pictures of Odisha supplying oxygen to needy states, Pradhan, who holds the petroleum and natural gas portfolio, started posting about medical oxygen being sent to other states from the SAIL-run Rourkela steel plant. He even hit back at the Patnaik government when it criticized the Centre for inadequate supply of vaccines. Training his guns on the state’s health secretary, Pradhan accused him of misleading the public. The Congress president, Sonia Gandhi, has taken care to protect the personal relations senior leaders had with the family in spite of political tensions created by the letter written by some of them, known as the group of 23, about the pathetic state of affairs in the party. Insiders reveal that Sonia was in touch with Ghulam Nabi Azad even after the controversial public meeting where Azad praised the PM, Narendra Modi. Even Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has maintained close ties with some of these leaders. Sonia also talked to Anand Sharma, another signatory to the controversial letter, when he was hospitalized owing to Covid. Even the G-23 leaders have the highest regard for Sonia: “Our concerns are political, not personal. We want the Congress to regain its glory. Some younger leaders failed to understand this and condemned us as traitors. That was unfortunate,” one of them said, ruling out the possibility of their exit from the Congress or joining any other party. But there is no denying the fact that some personal bitterness has cropped up about Rahul Gandhi’s style of functioning and these leaders shower praises on Sonia during informal conversations even as they don’t attack Rahul. It is for Rahul to heal these rifts. A Hindi paper recently printed snaps of Tejashwi Yadav, Kanhaiya Kumar and Chirag Paswan regarding their absence from Covid relief work. The image renewed attacks on Kumar for being a “celebrity”. Convalescing from Covid-19, Kumar chose to ignore the jibes and continue his Twitter silence. He used the time in isolation to coordinate the meagre resource of six oxygen cylinders in Delhi and 16 in Begusarai. Kumar now hopes to head back to Begusarai to help strengthen the services of the CPI-run hospital there and 10 voluntary ambulances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
23-05-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Still not lean enough||The more things change, the more they remain the same, or so goes the adage. But that was before Covid-19 brought the world to its knees. One of the most drastic changes has perhaps been for the Big Fat Indian wedding, which the virus has shrunk to size zero overnight. A typical Indian wedding, till recently, could last for days with multiple extravagant events. There were reasons for it too. In addition to endless singing and dancing, time and space had to be allotted to ritual turmeric baths, mehendi sessions, sit-down dinners — all of which would climax, after a slow, torturous grind, in the form of a grand traditional wedding ceremony. The guest list — families, friends and co-workers cannot be left out — ran for miles. Unbridled ostentatiousness, changing aspirations — the template of the celebrity wedding is no longer out of reach for ambitious middle class families — and greater economic heft kept fattening the Great Indian Wedding. Then, last year, the Great Indian Wedding was forced to shed weight. Pandemic-induced restrictions led to a cap on the number of wedding guests. The second wave of the virus is expected to turn the wedding industry even leaner. Over one crore people associated with the industry, directly or indirectly, are estimated to have lost their jobs owing to the pandemic. As the wedding industry clutches on to e-invitations and Zoom meets for survival, allied services and personnel, such as printing establishments and artisans who work in the ateliers of fashion designers, are enduring losses. In this context, what the virus has done is raise, quite inadvertently, questions on a people’s relationship with ethics and consumption. Could the pandemic then bring about a decisive transformation in contemporary culture’s endorsement of excess, ostentation and pomp? After all, in this age of the pandemic, Indian couples are increasingly resorting to organize smaller — more intimate — ceremonies. There is a bit of altruism thrown in too: a newly-married couple in Bengal donated the money meant for their wedding feast to feed the poor. But vanity, much like the virus, cannot be eradicated with ease. Reports show that those who are not able to have the destination wedding of their dreams are splurging on a designer trousseau instead; guests who can no longer make it to the wedding are being sent lavish gifts; and the menu, instead of being spartan, is getting even more elaborate. The pandemic has changed the way people live, but cultural traditions — weddings and their paraphernalia — appear to be far more resilient. This brings to the fore a worrying possibility. It seems that even disruptions and death of the scale that the world has witnessed in the course of the coronavirus have not been enough for sections of affluent Indians to turn empathetic to suffering. The Great Fat Indian Wedding that survives, albeit in a trimmer shape, may well be an embodiment of a shocking insularity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
23-05-2021||Opinion||Ah, just what I needed: A Stoolkit!||But there is a problem; it does not stick. But, but again, but then again, we live in hope. Someday it will stop to drop and just stay there. Stick. Can you see it? No? I am giving you the best view possible at this time and angle. I am bringing you up and close, or down and close to be precise. You may be able to see it, bend a little? No? It’s there, but it is probably sticking. It isn’t giving. Bend lower, just a bit, look under. Just try, it is there, I can feel it, but maybe you cannot see it. I did my best. It remains stuck. Like some abominable poster on a wall. You know those things they put your name on and do not even bother with your photograph. That’s not on. You put my name on a poster and you do not put my picture? What a shame, yaar? Nahin chalega. Poster is for posterity, and posterity is for me, so I should be there, naa! Poster without my picture is quite impostor type, yaar. Chalo chhodo, poster-shoster, daalo toaster mein, let it roast. That is not the issue. The issue is that this is not issuing, you know, that it is sticking and it is not giving. It is STICKING. Where’s the stoolkit? Stoolkit kahan hai? Shit happens. It has happened. Here. To me. Can you not see? No, of course you cannot, you said so, the angle is wrong. Or the angle is what, among many many things, I cannot get right. But only at the moment, only at the moment. Understand. Please. Conditions apply. You know, they always do. Conditions apply. I love you, kintu, parantu... There will be conditions in which I shan’t be able to. You know, love you. Conditions apply. Conditions apply more often than you apply conditioners. You get the drift. How I wish this would get the drift too, this thing that sticks and won’t give, this pasty poster sort of thing that has arrived with the purpose of getting stuck, as if that were its dharma and karma. How many folks do that in this day and age, sticking to dharma and karma? And if it is any help, let me put it on notarised stamp paper that the space it is sticking to is called neither dharma nor karma. I shall submit it in court, a signed affidavit to that effect. But the courts these days, naa, when you go there seeking justice, they too have begun to say, just stick it. And I can’t find my blooming stoolkit? Who took it? Let me see what I can do. Police report? Will it work? They stole my stoolkit? And look they are using my stoolkit. And my stoolkit in their hands is an illegitimate stoolkit? Will that work? Someone tell me, please, it is gnawing at me, this thing that is sticking to me like a poster! If need be I shall use a pin, many pins. The stoolkit used to have a pin. I will need many pins. I shall ransack the pincushion and let a cushion be a cushion and take all the pins away. And make this sticky thing give. It may be a little painful, with all those pins pressed in, you know, into all those parts, you know, pardon me for teasing the explicit, but you know. Achchha theek hai. We have had enough. Pins will be pins. And we will do what we do with pins, or what they are meant for. We will push the pins in. There is no other way now. Or we shall use the claws. You see the claws? Of course, you can. What else are we to do? We have posters, you see. Sticky ones. What are we to do with such posters? Stick them under the mattress? There was a time we could do that, yes, but now there are no mattresses. We took them all to the riverbed, or to the nearest floodplain. They needed mattresses, to rest. Or at least we thought they needed mattresses. What else would they lie on, those we sent away? Never mind. I once saw a wall It said “Stick no Bills” I had to motion its fall As an end to all ills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
