24-05-2021||Opinion||Helping hand: Good samaritans||Sir — People infected with Covid or even suspected patients are often treated as pariahs by friends, neighbours, and even family members. Frontline workers, too, have often found themselves shunned by the community members in spite of their yeoman service. At such a time, we have been fortunate enough to witness the selfless acts by kind samaritans as well (“At worst of times, the best in some of us”, May 23). Without caring about whether the person was Covid-infected or not, civilians rushed towards the collapsed Suvamoy Dey, rejuvenated him and sent him off to a hospital in an ambulance. Had people hesitated in coming to his aid, Dey’s family might have lost him. This reminded me of Tagore’s words, “Bishwasaathe joge jethay biharo, seikhane jog tomar saathe amaro”. Tagore’s humanitarian lines are so relevant in this current scenario when one’s survival depends upon the well-being of others. One hopes the people across the world plagued by divisiveness can draw a lesson from this civilizational crisis and try to cooperate with one another. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta Cause for concern Sir — Concerns over journalistic ethics have emerged once again, after Lord Dyson’s report exposed the BBC’s shortcomings and malpractices that Martin Bashir engaged in during the 1995 Panorama interview (“William, Harry slam BBC for Di interview”, May 22). Journalism, in spite of remarkable advancements, remains susceptible to such failures of ethics and storytelling. It is the responsibility of journalistic platforms to bring the truth to the people. Yet, it is necessary to acknowledge that all forms of media, at the end of the day, have a business aspect and thus it is not surprising for them to adopt ways that ensure profit. Against this backdrop, the need of the hour is to strike a balance between the responsible presentation of truth and profitability. Aadrit Banerjee,Calcutta Sir — While there can be no making excuses for the BBC’s or Martin Bashir’s conduct, it is also true that all that Princess Diana revealed in that interview would have come out one way or the other. Prince Harry’s revelations since stepping back from the royal family would seem to suggest that the toxic atmosphere that Diana had spoken about has remained unchanged. While the princes were right in castigating the media, the royal family must also introspect. Radhika Thanvi,Jaipur Steel trap Sir — Recently, The Big Bang Theory star, Mayim Bialik, created a stir on the internet by posting about steel utensils. Indians were quick to claim that these have been staples in Indian kitchens for long now. But with the advent of microwaves — metal cannot be used in it — steel utensils have been replaced by glass, or worse, melamine utensils in most urban Indian kitchens. Jayanta Mohapatra,Cuttack||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
24-05-2021||Opinion||Safe house: Live-in relationships||In the willingness of a democratic country’s institutions to course-correct lies the hope of upholding rights and equality. This was evident most recently in the ruling by a bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which said that live-in relationships in India are neither illegal nor an offence, even though they do not always meet with societal approval. The progressive stance taken by the learned judges gains further significance because two weeks ago two other benches of the same high court had refused protection to live-in couples on the grounds that such living arrangements are ‘morally and socially unacceptable’. The presence of contradictory rulings on the subject is unfortunate, not least because the ambiguity could serve to fuel regressive attitudes towards the rights of consenting adults to unions in a nation where the freedom of choice, even though it is guaranteed by the Constitution, cannot be assumed to be a given. The prevalence of honour killings in India bears testimony to this. While the National Crime Records Bureau left out data on honour killings in a report in 2019, it showed elsewhere that ‘love affairs’ constituted the third biggest trigger for murders between 2001 and 2017. Indeed, the deeming of live-in relationships as ‘immoral’ goes against the tenet of the right to life and liberty of consenting adults. Such a transgression can take on alarming proportions especially when matrimony has not been able to prevent the harassment of couples who have chosen to marry by breaking the shackles of caste and faith. In brazen breaches of privacy, interfaith couples in Madhya Pradesh and Kerala have been harassed by Hindu vigilante groups; inter-caste marriages have also led to murder. These perhaps explain the plea for judicial protection by the petitioners in the two earlier cases that was — shockingly — denied. The previous verdicts seem to be in contravention of a Supreme Court judgment that said that the “assertion of choice is an insegregable facet of liberty and dignity”. Again, in a landmark judgment in 2015, the Supreme Court had ruled that an unmarried couple living together would be presumed married, and the woman would be eligible to inherit property after her partner’s demise. The judiciary is the hallmark of progress and liberalism. Yet, as the earlier pronouncements of the Punjab and Haryana High Court demonstrate, there is also a need for law to adapt to evolving societal norms and actively strive towards ending discrimination. The upholding of equality and individual rights by the courts consistently would be a boon in a land noted for embedded discrimination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
24-05-2021||Opinion||Just one side: Mamata-Modi clash||An acute crisis is the worst time for conflicts between the Centre and the states. At the moment, however, the relationship between the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre and the chief minister of West Bengal is flaring into mutual accusations at frequent intervals. That is not for want of provocation. The prime minister met online the district magistrates of areas that showed high Covid-19 caseloads in different states to discuss, presumably, problems in the field and ways to tackle them. There was discomfort about this; government officers, even when at the forefront of the Covid-control battle, are answerable to the elected chief ministers of their states, who decide, with their cabinets, policy and strategy. Hence this could be perceived as a disruption of cooperative federalism, suggesting that the authority of chief ministers was being undermined or, at best, confusion was being created regarding the chain of command. It affected both propriety and practicality. Chief ministers were present at the meeting as well. The chief minister of Jharkhand said later that, although he had no ego hassle about attending a meeting with district magistrates, such meetings went against federal principles, and were meant to humiliate chief ministers who had nothing to contribute. Mamata Banerjee had raised the pitch of this criticism by expressing her sense of ‘insult’ at not being allowed to speak and at being treated, with the other chief ministers present, as a ‘puppet’. Although Mr Modi refrained from comment, other Bharatiya Janata Party leaders charged Ms Banerjee with trying to ‘derail’ the meeting and not allowing the district magistrate from North 24 Parganas to speak. But the nature of Ms Banerjee’s transgression from the BJP’s point of view was explained best by the West Bengal BJP chief, Dilip Ghosh, who said that the chief ministers were ‘guests’ at the meeting. Did that mean that the chief ministers were for show, and orders would come from Mr Modi alone? The comment suggests that federalism is the least of the BJP’s concerns; it only aims at a one-sided display of power. That would explain why Mr Modi’s meeting with district magistrates was telecast while Arvind Kejriwal, the Delhi chief minister, was reprimanded for telecasting his comment on his meeting with the prime minister. The logic of the thrust against federalism is hardly esoteric.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
24-05-2021||Opinion||Think again: Gaza conflict||“We didn’t want this conflict, but now that it’s started it has to end with a sustained period of quiet,” said Mark Regev, the spokesman for Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu. “That can only be achieved by Israel taking out Hamas — their military structure, their command and control.” Or, as the Israel Defense Forces would put it, by “mowing the grass”. That sounds a bit cold-blooded, but Hamas, the dominant Palestinian organization in Gaza, has an equally pragmatic view of its periodic wars with Israel. Both sides are in a conflict that neither can win conclusively, and so they engage in occasional bouts of attritional warfare. There are many smaller clashes in between — the border is never completely quiet — but the major ones that last more than a week and kill more than a hundred people are quite distinctive. The 2008 war killed almost 1,400 Palestinians, including 333 children; the 2014 one killed 2,104, more than half of whom were civilians. Israeli deaths were a tiny fraction of those numbers — 13 in 2008, 73 in 2014 — and the same pattern is being reproduced this time: over 182 Palestinians dead so far, and 10 Israelis. But the disparity is only due to the fact that a modern air force and heavy artillery are much more efficient than primitive, unguided rockets. Wars are always ‘the continuation of politics by other means’. For Hamas, that usually means upholding its reputation as the most effective Palestinian resistance movement — even though it knows it cannot actually win the war. For the IDF and the Israeli government, it is generally a matter of “mowing the grass”: repeatedly cutting back Hamas’s military capabilities before they get strong enough to do Israel any serious harm. Since the Gaza Strip is under permanent and almost complete blockade, that threat is very distant, and Israel usually leaves the choice of timing of the next war to Hamas. If an Israeli government needs a war for domestic political purposes, it can also provide the necessary provocation for it, and that may be what happened this time. “Netanyahu is exactly where he wants to be, in the middle of a major crisis where you don’t want to change the prime minister,” as a political analyst based in Jerusalem, Mitchell Barak, put it. Netanyahu was on the way out, but now the coalition talks to replace him have broken down and his most dangerous rival, Naftali Bennett, has crept back to his side. The war will go on until the grass is short enough in the Gaza Strip, and then peace will return for a while. But this is the last time round for this scenario, for technological reasons. Hamas’s current weapons — home-made, inaccurate rockets — mean that it can only target large areas like cities, so it reaps the blame for targeting civilians. Israel kills many more civilians in practice, but since it uses precision weapons it can plausibly claim that it tries to avoid killing innocent people. Coming soon, however, are next-generation armed drones that are cheap, highly accurate, and very hard to detect or intercept. We saw early versions of them at work in last year’s war in the Caucasus, where Azerbaijani drones decimated a conventional tanks-and-artillery Armenian army. When Hamas gets them, probably in only a few years’ time, it will face a choice. It can use them for more effective terror attacks, targeting civilian buses, schools and homes: lots of horror, huge Israeli reprisals, and no political gain. Or, if it’s smart, it can only go after Israeli military targets: tanks, airfields, barracks, fuel storage areas and the like. It gets the moral high ground, and gives Israel a problem that is not soluble by military means. What political deal might then ensue (if any) is very hard to imagine. However, Israel, after 30 years, when it could just avoid thinking about a future of peaceful coexistence with the Palestinians, will have to engage with the problem again. That would be a good start.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
24-05-2021||Opinion||Women of Bengal unite||The resounding victory of the Trinamul Congress in the assembly elections can be attributed to the overwhelming support of women voters across social and economic groups. Unlike many states, West Bengal has a unique history of women exercising their suffrage. The Left had mobilized women through different mass movements, giving a huge impetus to women’s participation in elections — in the early 1980s it touched almost 70 per cent. Given the high turnout of women voters, they had a pivotal role in electoral outcomes. Several post-poll surveys in the last decade show that there has been a steady increase in women supporters of the TMC since it assumed power in 2011. The ascendancy of Mamata Banerjee as the chief minister has kindled the aspiration of women in politics. Banerjee has also consistently created space for women lawmakers — in the current assembly about 15.5 per cent of the members from the TMC are women, a remarkable achievement compared to other parties in the assembly. Even amidst anti-incumbency sentiments, charges of corruption at the local level and high-pitched polarization, Banerjee emerged as the preferred chief minister in several rounds of pre-poll and post-poll surveys. Across social groups, women have largely rallied behind Banerjee; ethnographic studies indicate that Didi enjoyed more support among Muslim women compared to their male partners. Many commentators have highlighted that Banerjee’s welfare programmes contributed to the expansion of her support base among women. Welfare programmes like the Kanyashree Prakalpa, Sabooj Sathi, and various educational incentives for scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and minorities yielded huge dividends. Contrary to the national trend, the educational statistics indicate that girls in West Bengal have outnumbered boys in the secondary level, significantly reducing the gender gap in education. The Kanyashree Prakalpa, ensuring a yearly stipend of Rs 750 and Rs 25,000 upon the attainment of 18 years while remaining unmarried, has received international accolades. As a course-correction measure Kanyashree was repurposed as a universal programme, cutting across social groups and economic classes. This has had multiple implications; the sheer number of beneficiaries has increased manifold in the past few years, touching over 70 lakhs. Similarly, although the Sabooj Sathi — providing bicycles to secondary students — facilitated school enrolment, a study by the Pratichi Institute confirms that girls have benefited more than boys. Besides reducing the transport cost, Sabooj Sathi saves girls from everyday harassment in public transport, and ensures a sense of empowerment. A sizeable section of students from recognized madrasas also benefited from the project. The initial cohorts of these flagship programmes are now first-time voters; many of them may have voted for the TMC, showing their gratitude to Didi. In 2019, the TMC suffered a jolt as the Bharatiya Janata Party won 18 seats in the general elections and grievances against welfare schemes mounted. The TMC turned the crisis into an opportunity — a political programme, ‘Didi ke Bolo’, along with the public grievance redressal cell set up in 2019, under the aegis of the chief minister’s office, provided a platform to air these grievances. Over a short span of one and a half years, the cell appears to have dealt with more than 10 lakh grievances with an impressive record of 95 per cent resolution rate. It is encouraging to note that participation of women in airing their grievances is almost 45 per cent although most households are headed by men. A large proportion of women responded and reacted to a plethora of schemes specially designed for them, including the Rupashree Prakalpa and educational scholarships for specific social groups and widow pension schemes. Speedy redressal of grievances helped girls attain education and other core capabilities. The overwhelming participation of women in ‘Duare Sarkar’ — a direct outreach programme to ensure prompt grievance redressal and service delivered at the doorstep of beneficiaries — revealed the faith in the incumbent. The masterstroke was the extension of Swasthya Sathi — a health insurance of Rs 5 lakh, issued in the name of women heads of households, which touched lakhs of beneficiaries. On the contrary, the campaign of the BJP was replete with communal venom and considerable misogynistic statements, largely ruining its political ambition in West Bengal. The BJP strived to win this election based on religious polarization, completely overlooking the sound support base of the TMC among women. The voting pattern of women has tilted the results in favour of the TMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
24-05-2021||Opinion||Get the picture||The last two months have tested the media’s collective ability — and willingness — to galvanize action for both visible and invisible sections of the population. Last year’s Covid crisis led to a post-lockdown working class tragedy that unfolded over several months. That became a middle and upper-class tragedy with this year’s second wave. News pictures have enormous power to set the agenda. Last year’s unforgettable pictures came from migrants hitting the road with their families as soon as the lockdown was announced. India’s elite rediscovered migrant labour, and public opinion turned against the insensitivity of a government that forgot to factor in these workers when announcing an overnight lockdown. But this year, trains and buses did not stop amid the regional lockdowns and if migrants were taking them to go back to their villages it made them less visible. Pictures of homebound workers crowding bus and train stations are not quite as heart-wrenching as those of their walking on highways in ragged footwear with babies and baggage. When migrants hit the road, they were easy to find and follow. Now workers of all kinds have become invisible again. The focus is elsewhere. Through April and May, the unfolding oxygen and hospital bed crisis in a city with a concentration of journalists ensured that India’s second wave of Covid became an international horror story. Delhi is also where most foreign correspondents and diplomats are located so if coming down heavily on the Narendra Modi government was one consequence, galvanizing aid from across the world was another. Entire oxygen plants were flown across to Delhi as the international media went to town. One worrying consequence of this urban and class skewedness as the social sector is pointing out is that the media coverage is also skewing donor response, with more money being pledged for oxygen than for restoring access to food and livelihoods. This, they say, is impacting relief efforts on the ground even as Covid is making deep rural inroads, with the government reporting a positivity rate of over 10 per cent in 533 districts in the second week of May. As the Covid narrative shifts from the horror of suppressing death statistics in urban India to the challenge of uncovering the enormity of the pandemic in rural India, a livelihood disaster is also emerging alongside. The 2021 report on the State of Working India released by the Centre for Sustainable Employment at Azim Premji University talks of deepening poverty in the first year of Covid. It says incomes dropped sharply, and as many as 23 crore individuals slipped below the national minimum wage threshold of Rs 375 a day in terms of their earnings. After the lockdown, most people got back to work, but there was a large increase in informal employment. Salaried workers moved into self-employment and daily wage work. Agriculture and trade emerged as fallback sectors. Women and younger workers were disproportionately affected and many could not return to work even by the end of the year. Of the women surveyed, 47 per cent suffered permanent job loss during the lockdown, not returning to work even by the end of 2020. As family incomes diminished, some kinds of food went missing from rural diets and hunger raised its head, according to the panel which discussed the report online. There is now a category of ‘new poor’. Many households in India, which are not traditionally poor, are poor now. But is that as compelling for the media as a rolling disaster story? As the founder of the NGO, Goonj, observed dryly in The Indian Express, for millions dal chawal is the oxygen needed to survive this pandemic. But he found it difficult to convince corporate donors to tackle hunger in the hinterland. As for migrants who stayed back in the cities during the second wave, they faced hunger because the fear of a more virulent infection has prevented better-off benefactors from undertaking food distribution which they did last year. No food queues, no pictures, and more invisibility. What kind of action media exposure galvanizes also depends on how the State responds. The irony was that while foreign nations responded with assistance, the Indian State took to suppression. By the fourth week of April, Twitter was hastening to take down tweets critical of the Modi government’s handling of the second wave. A Twitter account called “Watch the State” shared curated stories from district hospitals and cremation grounds across states. Twitter temporarily restricted the account, twice in one week. Facebook temporarily blocked posts calling for the prime minister’s resignation and then said it was a mistake. By the end of April, The Washington Post editorial board was calling for the government of the United States of America to stand up for social media platforms being censored by the Indian government. “These companies should stand up for themselves, but the United States and its peers should stand up for them, too.” Today, there is a rural livelihood story and a rural Covid story, the former with greater long-term implications. Both had remained largely invisible until bodies washed up on the banks of the Ganga as another grim pointer and brought reporters rushing. But something is changing. While both health and labour correspondents are rare species in the media world, Covid’s rural spread has helped to mainstream issues such as health infrastructure so that television channels and newspapers alike are fanning out to districts in Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and elsewhere to report. Even as the UP government has threatened to use the National Security Act and the Gangster Act against anyone trying to spread fear and panic during the pandemic. Problems such as primary healthcare centres not having Covid testing facilities in many states or ill-equipped Asha workers being despatched to identify symptomatic persons without either protective gear or testing tools are emerging out of their earlier invisibility. But, ultimately, media agenda setting will only work if the exposure is sustained and governments respond positively. Both seem like a very tall order at this point. Sevanti Ninan is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
