25-05-2021||Opinion||Good sleuths: Citizens' fact-finding||There is no doubt about the fact that facts are under duress in modern times. Orchestrated falsities have been weaponized in the age of Post Truth by several regimes to serve their nefarious political agenda. For instance, the credibility of economic data churned out by the arms of the Indian government is usually taken with a generous pinch of salt, within and outside India. Vilification campaigns targeting minorities and amplified by a subservient  media form another example of the unprecedented scale of such distortions. During times when the good offices of the government can no longer be relied upon to profess an objective relationship with facts, public fact-finding commissions have been known to step in to plug the breach. In a democracy that has not always doffed its hat to transparency, it is heartening to note that India has had a long and valorous tradition of independent agencies collating facts during times of strife. Perhaps the most celebrated example of these fact-finding missions was the one that M.K. Gandhi undertook in Champaran. Citizens’ initiatives bloomed in independent India as well. Be it independent investigations into the riots in Bombay after the demolition of the Babri Masjid or, earlier, probes into the custodial deaths of Naxalite political prisoners during the Emergency, public fact-finding commissions have performed stellar roles in the cause of upholding truth. Attempts by the powers that be to discredit such initiatives have gathered pace in recent times. The present solicitor-general is of the opinion that citizens’ groups on fact-finding enterprises signify a ‘parallel judicial system’. This is a gratuitous — fallacious — argument. The principal objective of these collectives is to consolidate inquiries, albeit indirectly, by unearthing facts that may have gone unnoticed or been ignored — willfully — by investigating agencies. The fact-finding team is merely a facilitator, and not an adjudicator. The choice of considering the data should be left to the courts. This participatory approach by civil society is critical to sustain the culture of accountability in a faltering democracy. Any attempt to weaken this tradition of assessing events in a manner that is autonomous of State chicanery could spell disaster. That is because it will give the government of the day complete control on the public narrative. Truth, usually, is the first casualty of such a monopoly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
25-05-2021||Opinion||Great loss: Sunderlal Bahuguna passes away||Sir — The demise of the noted environmentalist and a key architect of the Chipko movement, Sunderlal Bahuguna, as a result of Covid-19 marks the end of an era of Gandhian activism in the subcontinent (“Covid claims protector of trees”, May 22). To rouse the consciousness of the people and the government about the dire consequences of deforestation and how harmonic living can ensure a healthier tomorrow, Bahuguna began long marches along the hilly regions, stretching over thousands of kilometres. He was remarkably skilled in helping join the dots between the local and the global communities. Bahuguna had long warned people about the high costs of the unchecked march for profit. The recent disasters in his beloved Himalayas, from the Kedarnath floods to the Chamoli tragedy, are a reminder that ignoring Bahuguna’s lessons and messages will only be to our own detriment. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — Sunderlal Bahuguna, who died of Covid-related complications, will always be remembered for being an important part of the iconic Chipko movement where he mobilized rural women to hug trees and stop them from being felled in the early seventies. The movement set off a new understanding about the value of forests in India. Bahuguna also championed the cause of organic farming, underlining the danger of pesticides and chemical farming. He emphasized the protection of sustainable livelihoods along with the protection of the environment. Bahuguna was also involved in several activities relating to the regeneration of degraded forests. His opinions on environmental issues were widely sought and he was honoured with several prestigious awards. His loss will be felt by generations to come. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — It was heartbreaking to read about the death of the renowned environmentalist, Sunderlal Bahuguna, who lost his battle against Covid-19 last week. The nonagenarian activist was admitted to the All India Institute Of Medical Sciences in Rishikesh after his oxygen levels started fluctuating. Bahuguna, a pioneer of the Chipko movement, was known as Vrikshamitra to the world and inspired many with his dedication to the preservation of the environment. He made the issues of water, forests and land his priority, and fought for people’s rights. He was awarded the Jamnalal Bajaj Award in 1986 and the Padma Vibhushan in 2009 for his significant contribution to the field of environmental protection. His passing is an irreparable loss to the country. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai  Safety for all Sir — It was a relief to learn that the Union health ministry has decided to revise an earlier policy to allow family members and dependents of employees to get inoculated at industrial and workplace Covid-19 vaccination centres. The earlier notification, which had kept family members out of the purview, was a matter of grave concern as many were worried that they might not be able to ensure the vaccination of their loved ones given the acute shortage of vaccines. It is hoped that the revised policy will help accelerate the vaccination drive in India. Ananya Sen,Calcutta Way forward Sir — In his article, “Let the duel begin” (May 19), Arghya Sengupta makes an interesting point by arguing that the broader spirit of diversity, and not just secularism, should be foregrounded in the fight against the divisive agenda of right-wing fundamentalism. However, going beyond the religious and geographical diversities highlighted in Sengupta’s article, I would argue that the concept of diversity should be expanded to also encompass diversities of economic status, age and, most importantly, gender. The inclusion of more women at decision-making levels will result in their taking positions that are independent of men, and eventually create an electorate that the exclusionist narrative of fundamentalists would not be able to counter. Furthermore, the ethos of diversity should be underpinned not by the principle of equality, but by that of equity. Equality tries to ensure the same resources and opportunities for everyone. But equity recognizes that each individual’s circumstances are different, and tries to allocate resources and opportunities accordingly. This may result in affirmative action in favour of certain sections of society, possibly to the discomfiture of others but it is fundamental that we approach progress in this manner. Jit Roy Chowdhury, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
25-05-2021||Opinion||Strange halo: Ramdev reprimanded||Soft spots are no bad thing, until politicians of the ruling regime display them selectively. Nothing can exemplify this better than the rather gentle rebuke administered by the Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan, to the television yoga teacher, Ramdev, who called allopathy a ‘stupid science’ that has killed more people than lack of oxygen and hospital beds. Mr Vardhan’s letter to him mentioned that his ‘extremely unfortunate’ remarks had hurt his countrymen, showed disrespect to corona warriors, demoralized healthcare workers and weakened the fight against the virus. But even this admonition, implying that Mr Ramdev was a towering influence on people’s self-esteem and opinions, came only after the Indian Medical Association and other doctors’ associations strongly criticized the government’s silence after Mr Ramdev’s remarks. They challenged Mr Vardhan, a surgeon himself, to either dissolve the modern medical facility or apply legal steps against Mr Ramdev, who, it is suspected, is just trying to increase the sale of Patanjali ayurvedic products. Mr Ramdev responded to the minister’s letter by ‘withdrawing’ his remarks, thus ‘putting to rest’ the controversy about ‘various medical practices’. How is it that this particular yoga teacher and seller of ayurvedic products — from among thousands — is given scope for such audacity? The answer is still blowing in the wind. The prime minister’s love for yoga and the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government’s ceaseless campaigning for ayurveda may account to some extent for the support that Mr Ramdev receives quite openly from the government. This is not the first time that the scientific community has expressed its outrage at Mr Ramdev’s claims. Yet Mr Vardhan shared the stage with him when he released a ‘research paper’ on the first ‘evidence-based’ medicine for Covid-19, endorsing a Patanjali product. Last year, he had launched Coronil, supposed to be a successful ayurvedic medicine for Covid-19, although the government later asked him not to advertise it as a cure. Trading on trust for commercial gain with false claims is not new. But what is mysterious is the government’s soft spot for a man who can scoff at Covid patients’ need for oxygen since it exists all around, while showing off breathing techniques. A television champion for yoga could be understandable, but does the BJP need a champion for the anti-scientific mindset too?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
25-05-2021||Opinion||The Tatmadaw’s political genes||Much has been said about the brutal military coup in Myanmar. But one question remains inadequately addressed. Why is Myanmar so prone to military coups? Indeed, it has been under military rule for most of the country’s postcolonial years since Independence in 1948. Beyond the popular explanation of power hungry military leaders, could it also have something to do with the false sense of the military being the guardian of the political establishment, an inherited DNA from the military’s roots as freedom-fighting activists? Can an army with such a history be purely professional fighters driven by the motto, “Theirs not to reason why, Theirs but to do and die”? A hypothetical scenario should illustrate this point. If, in 1947, it was the Indian National Army that liberated India, would the Indian army with the INA’s genes in it have been the same? The war diary of Field Marshal Viscount William Slim, Defeat Into Victory, which became an important book on the history of the Second World War in the Burma theatre, has some interesting clues buried deep inside its 540 pages, describing how he twice met General Aung San, father of Aung San Suu Kyi and leader of Myanmar’s freedom struggle as well as founder of a militiamen army that first called itself Burma Defence Army and, later, the Burma National Army, to negotiate terms for the latter switching sides to the British after some years of fighting alongside the Japanese and the INA. This was in May 1945 after Slim managed to turn the tables against what had seemed like an unstoppable push towards India by the Japanese, and the Japanese were then the losing side. Whether this was opportunism or whether Aung San developed irreconcilable differences with the Japanese is another question. Slim took the step after much discussion on the British side, with many being of the opinion that this would be pointless militarily and that the group’s Burmese nationalism would be a headache for the British after the war. The  Supreme Allied Commander in the Pacific theatre, Lord Mountbatten, however, favoured Slim’s proposal. Therefore, the meeting. Slim met Aung San at the British headquarters at Meiktila. In the first meeting on May 15, Slim said he was impressed with Aung San’s commitment, honesty and intelligence, but also realized how broken the BNA was at the time. He also learnt from Aung San that the resistance movement was headed by a provisional government formed by his Anti-Fascist People’s Freedom League. During the initial meeting, Aung San wanted the provisional government to be taken in as an ally, with himself as an Allied Commander. Slim refused and made it clear that if the BNA wanted to side with the British, it will have to come under British command and that the BNA will not be taken in as a separate unit and absorbed into the Burma Rifles of the British. In the second and final meeting on May 30, Aung San conceded to Slim’s terms but insisted on two of his important conditions — his troops be paid and rationed by the British, and that if major orders were to be given to the BNA soldiers, the resistance leaders be consulted. Slim agreed to these. At the time of Burmese independence, it was Aung San’s provisional government that inherited the British administration. Quite understandably, such a government would carry plenty of the DNA of its past avatar as a resistance movement under the AFPFL with no clear separation between military and political responsibilities. The writer and Burma watcher, Bertil Lintner, has also observed in an article that the Myanmar army presumes “the dwifungsi, or dual function, doctrine of the Indonesian army that stated that the military has both a defence and social-political role.” This transition of power in Burma to the AFPFL also somewhat alienated the ethnic minorities whose loyalty to the British while they were rulers were much longer and steadfast. From this vantage point, Myanmar’s current problem can be seen as a consequence of the nation’s inability to, first, purge its defence forces of the political DNA inherited from the days they were freedom fighters and, second, the failure to work out a comprehensive federal political structure to satisfactorily and equitably share power among its many nationalities. Even after (or if) the current crisis in Myanmar is resolved, it is quite obvious that the country will need to exorcise its military of its political genes to work out a comprehensive federal political structure. If not, it is likely that even if democracy were to return, the spectre of a military coup can materialize anytime in the future. It may be of interest to note here that there are other nations that won militia-led freedom and have had to tackle similar challenges. Indeed, the contentious Second Amendment of the US may be the country’s own way of sublimating, not quite completely though, a similar issue. Pradip Phanjoubam is editor, Imphal Review of Arts and Politics||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
25-05-2021||Opinion||Memory and litost||I first saw Charulata in New York, in 1981. In the couple of years I’d been a novice film buff in Calcutta, I’d somehow managed not to see the classic Ray movies; whenever there was a screening, some dada or older know-it-all would say, “Ah! Don’t see that show, they have a very bad print, you should see a good print the first time!”; or, “Aparajito? You can always see that later! The Márta Mészáros is showing at the same time in that other film society and it will be very hard to come by later! In any case, how can you see Aparajito before you’ve seen Pather Panchali? Sacrilege!” So, a bit like someone growing up in Agra who had never seen the Taj Mahal, I went to study in the United States of America and finally saw PP in the all-purpose theatre of my college in Vermont. As I remember it, the print was okay, decent enough for a 16mm print that had made the rounds of many colleges across America, the subtitles irritatingly archaic, my friends’ post-screening questions reasonable but painful, adding as they did to the sudden irrational homesickness I felt (for Calcutta — I knew nothing of rural Bengal). It was snowing as we left the building and a friend began to spin and twirl under the flakes in honour of Durga dancing in her rain. After I moved to New York, I saw a large number of films in the extremely cheap art cinemas in south Manhattan. By the time I saw Charulata I’d seen the rest of the Apu Trilogy, conscientiously in the correct sequence, plus Jalsaghar and Devi. Some of these I’d seen with a Puerto Rican friend, AV, who was studying film-making at New York University, and we had an ongoing argument about the greatness of Ray; I felt I now understood in my bones why Ray was so highly regarded but AV found him a tad sentimental, and his film-craft ‘too safe’. We both suffered from the typical arrogance of boys in their early 20s and Ray had not managed to pierce my friend’s carapace of callow cinematic self-regard. For a morning show at one of the art cinemas you settled into the seats still redolent from last night’s tobacco and fast food and lit up your cigarettes. A couple of rows away there would invariably be a man tilting a brown paper bag to his mouth and the whiff of alcohol would reach you over the seats. Somebody somewhere in the dark would be eating a bagel; often there would be couples who were not there to look at the screen. From all this, the film would climb out: a hand to the right of frame, embroidering the letter ‘B’; music; a beautiful young woman gets off her large bed, adjusts her sari and goes out of the room, out to the top of some stairs and ticks off an unseen servant below; she comes back, she wanders between sumptuously appointed rooms, a slow billiard ball knocking gently into the soft sides of the confining table; the only thing that accompanies her are sounds from outside the frame, reaching us from different distances; she comes to a window and opens the slats to look down into the courtyard. The other sounds added to the first few minutes of the film were from my friend muttering expletives of wonderment under his breath. After we watched Charulata, AV’s arguments about Ray rapidly lost heft and velocity. In my mind, too, the film became a fulcrum for Satyajit Ray’s work — there were the pre-Charulata films, and then the ones that came after. Whenever I’ve thought about Ray, this is the first film that comes into my mind, with all the other fantastic ones coming only after. Since that time in New York, I’ve seen the film a few times in different contexts, in theatres, on VHS and DVD, on TV, each time with something being added or taken away from the earlier viewings. Recently, I watched the beginning of Charulata again, on an online cinema platform, and it was yet again a different experience. I realized that I was participating in multiple layers of nostalgia (in the most positive sense of the word), or, if not nostalgia exactly, then something adjacent: there is the period that is depicted around the year 1878, there is Tagore’s framing gaze on that moment from 1901 when he writes his novella, then there is Ray’s almost desirous, immersive reaching for that time through the act of turning the text into a film. This is followed by the instance that a viewer first sees the film, and hidden under each subsequent viewing there is the memory and, to use Milan Kundera’s word, the litost, not just for 1878 or 1901, but also for 1964 and then for the moments of one’s own earlier viewings. Now, watching Charulata in the year of Ray’s 100th birth anniversary, the first few minutes of the film are filled with booby traps, some good and some bad, some old and some brand new. For example, when you see the two zooms that bracket the first sequence, from when Charu leaves the bed and then the point where Bhupati walks past without noticing her, you wonder who digitally added them later and why. Even as you realize the camera movements were always there and it is you who is now over-allergic to them, you notice the painted backdrop outside the window as the two women’s card game finishes and the kaal boishaakhi begins — who put that damn backdrop into my film?! But then you move on to other things. This is May 2021, and what else is Charu trapped in but a kind of isolation and lockdown? When Bhupati and Umapada argue about whether the newspaper should carry cheap gossip, or when Amal asks how a newspaper can criticize the government (with the sharp stress on the word ‘sedition’) it again rings very different bells from the ones that would have rung forty or fifty years ago. Leaving all this aside, when you come to the legendary shot of Charu’s viewpoint from the swing, you now see it both for itself in all its glory but also in dialogue with other superb moments in cinema, for instance Agnès Varda’s undulating camera in the music rehearsal in Cleo from 5 to 7 and Maria Schneider’s girl suspending herself from the back of the car in The Passenger by Michelangelo Antonioni. As you look at the segment of road you can see from your window, with people passing very occasionally, you can swing between Charu and Durga and all the other great characters of cinema with whom they sit and laugh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
