26-05-2021||Opinion||Show some respect: Ramdev's derogatory remarks||Sir — Reacting to Ramdev’s statement that allopathy is a “stupid science” that has killed “lakhs of people” and is ineffective against Covid-19, a group of doctors wrote to the government, urging it to prosecute Ramdev for his derogatory and malicious remarks. The Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan, then wrote a rather mild letter to Ramdev, saying that his “extremely unfortunate” comments had disrespected “corona warriors” and could demoralize healthcare workers (“U-turn asana by Ramdev after nudge”, May 24). The Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust had said that Ramdev was reading out a WhatsApp message and that he has ‘utmost regard’ for doctors. Harsh Vardhan has no option but to accept Ramdev’s response — the latter tweeted that he withdrew his comment. After all, the proximity between Ramdev and the government is well known. Ramdev has a number of disciples who comprise a large part of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s vote bank. Although himself an allopathic doctor, Vardhan was present at the launch of Coronil, a product Ramdev claimed could cure Covid. Facing heavy criticism from all quarters, this stance changed. Coronil began to be sold as a product that increased immunity against the coronavirus. We are entering an era where modern sciences are likely to be supplemented by beliefs such as the superiority of desi cow urine over allopathic medicine. Only two years ago, the BJP parliamentarian, Pragya Singh Thakur, was severely criticized by oncologists for claiming that she had been cured of cancer by a mixture containing cow urine. It was widely known that she had taken the help of modern medicine for her treatment. Ramdev’s aide, Balkrishna, was also admitted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences after he fell ill. Further, Ramdev himself was admitted to a hospital in Dehradun in 2011, when his health deteriorated following a fast. Ramdev should show respect towards modern sciences. Somak Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — One is happy to note that Ramdev has withdrawn his unjustified comments on modern medicine. This is not the first time that such insensitive statements have been made about evidence-based medicines that have saved millions of lives. The current pandemic can only be controlled through vaccination, an innovation which is integral to modern medicine. Diseases like malaria, tuberculosis, smallpox, polio, plague, cholera, which killed large numbers of people, have all been brought under control, if not eliminated, with the help of modern medicine and fundamental innovations like antibiotics. One cannot simply smear a whole system of treatment which has proven to be reliable over the last few centuries. It is interesting that most political leaders do not go to Ayush professionals in case of a medical emergency even though they proclaim the virtues of such treatment before the common citizens. Instead, they fly abroad or rush to the nearest corporate hospital for aid. People suffering from ailments deserve better than to be given such ill-informed advice. Such statements lead to an epidemic of distrust, further aggravating the nation’s already chaotic response to the pandemic. H.N. Ramakrishna,Bangalore  Speak up Sir — The Lakshadweep islands have grown restive on account of certain new policies allegedly introduced unilaterally by the new administrator, Praful Khoda Patel. Islanders have pointed out that these measures threaten the ecology as well as their indigenous practices. The struggles of people from parts of India that are far from the mainland seldom find space in national news. It is important that people from across the country amplify these voices of resistance. Bijoyini Pal,Howrah||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
26-05-2021||Opinion||Life lessons: Sunderlal Bahuguna||Sunderlal Bahuguna — he fell to Covid-19 recently — may no longer be around. But death cannot erase his life and work. In 1974, he pioneered the Chipko movement, a non-violent agitation aimed at protecting trees, which led to a collective mobilization to preserve India’s thinning forests. Be it protecting the Himalayan forests or opposing the Tehri dam to resuscitate the Ganga, Bahuguna’s work stemmed from an important conviction that a stable ecology is complementary to a stable economy and society. It is important to reiterate this organic connection between ecology and economy at a time when the public discourse has been trained to view the two as conflicting entities. The fault, quite obviously, lies in a flawed understanding of development, a template that continues to perceive nature and its finite resources as fodder to fuel a predatory form of industrialization. There is a need for India to revisit Bahuguna’s Chipko movement for another reason — local communities, the government must acknowledge, are the best custodians of forests. Forest communities are, today, marginalized, dispossessed of rights and resources by a conservation — archaic — edifice that prioritizes bureaucratic control over participatory initiatives. Community conservation must be protected legally and encouraged as a matter of policy. The best way to secure Bahuguna’s vision would be for India’s youth to embrace the challenge of protecting the endangered flora and fauna that remain. Their awareness about the scale of the environmental crisis would be predicated on two critical factors. As always, education would play an important role in the transition of young citizens into eco-warriors. Research has found that rising ‘climate literacy’ has brought children out on the streets. Therefore, uniform and universal amendments to the curriculum to sensitize young minds are of paramount importance. The other necessity is politics. Here too, Bahuguna’s spirit can light the path. Between 1981 and 1983, Bahuguna had led a march across the Himalayas that ended with a meeting with the then prime minister, Indira Gandhi, who passed legislation to protect some areas of the Himalayan forests from tree-felling. Throughout his life, Bahuguna showed that linking the well-being of the community and the environment would not be possible unless it is turned into political capital, the only language policymakers seem to understand. There is yet another valuable lesson in this for India’s conservation and climate fraternity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
26-05-2021||Opinion||New target: Centre versus Twitter||Is Big Tech finally standing up to authoritarian regimes? The latest confrontation between the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government in Delhi and Twitter has fuelled such a speculation. In a rather dubious directive, the Centre had ordered the popular social media platform to get rid of the label, ‘manipulated media’, that had been applied to some posts shared by senior functionaries of the party and the government. The instruction has been followed — quite predictably — by a raid on Twitter’s offices. Hearteningly, Twitter has stood its ground so far, refusing to yield to this naked aggression on the part of the government. Any media content — including videos, audio, visuals — that is deemed to have been fabricated is red-flagged as ‘manipulated media’ by Twitter. Such a censorious certification is issued only after the application of due process like technological verification as well as human review. In this particular instance, the BJP disseminated a ‘toolkit’ prepared by the Congress on Twitter, alleging that the intention of its principal political rival was to malign the Narendra Modi dispensation, prompting the Congress to retaliate by stating that the content shared by the BJP leaders is fabricated. It demanded corrective action against the mischief-mongers. The fact that Twitter issued such a label can only be attributed to serious anomalies in the BJP’s ‘repackaging’ of the toolkit. The charge against Twitter — the Centre has described the labelling as “prejudged” and “prejudiced” — is all the more curious because the government’s directive does not exactly stand on firm legal ground. As a private entity, Twitter is entitled to apply its own standards to judge problematic content. Significantly, the Information Technology Act, while allowing the government to regulate content, does not empower it to demand the removal of labels. The legal deficiencies in the government’s arsenal are only one part of the problem. The cynical agenda against the company bares the BJP’s desperation to control a narrative that seems to be going out of control. The growing anger against the government for its repeated failures to manage a health crisis must be adding to the BJP’s paranoia. There is, however, a lesson in this for social media platforms too. A cooler, non-partisan relationship — rather than snugly, warm ties — with the powers that be can provide indemnity against a witch hunt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
26-05-2021||Opinion||What lies behind the Gaza ceasefire||The directive was to Israel’s prime minister. But the echoes would have reached the corridors of the Prime Minister’s Office in South Block, New Delhi. For days, as Israel pounded Gaza with airstrikes that left more than 200 Palestinians dead, the US president, Joe Biden, refused to criticize the world’s only Jewish State, publicly defending its right to self-defence. The militant group, Hamas, which runs the administration in Gaza, had been indiscriminately firing rockets into Israeli civilian areas, killing at least 12 people. Then, as the pressure mounted from the Democratic Party’s increasingly vocal left wing, Biden buckled. Hours after Rashida Tlaib, the only Palestinian American in the US Congress, accosted Biden on the Detroit airport tarmac and communicated her unhappiness with his ambivalence over the Middle East crisis, Biden picked up the phone and told Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, that he expected a significant de-escalation within a day toward a ceasefire. A day later, Israel and Hamas had agreed to a tenuous, Egypt-mediated ceasefire. Both Israel and Hamas have claimed victory. But as the smoke clears over Gaza, the only clear winner is the progressive left in the US that played a critical role in bringing Biden to power and has now demonstrated it can bend him to its pressures on foreign policy. For Narendra Modi and his team, that’s not good news. The same cast of characters that led the pressure on Biden to get tough with Netanyahu has been vocal about human rights abuses, the crackdown in Kashmir, and discrimination against religious minorities under Modi. In November 2019, Tlaib introduced a resolution in the Congress, criticizing the Modi government over its revocation of Article 370 and the suspension of several civil liberties in Kashmir at the time. Representatives Alexandria Ocasio Cortez, Ilhan Omar and Pramila Jayapal and Senator Bernie Sanders, all critics of Israel’s treatment of Palestinians, have also questioned the Modi government publicly over its actions in Kashmir and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act that discriminates against Muslim immigrants. In March 2020, when the US under the then president, Donald Trump, inked a defence deal with India, AOC, as Cortez is popularly known, was blunt in her critique: “President Trump is signing arms deals with Modi while his administration is ethnically cleansing the country’s religious minorities,” she tweeted. As Biden seeks to bolster ties with Modi, will he be able to resist pressure from this influential segment within the Democratic Party? Biden knows that any public criticism — even if it is veiled — of India’s elected leader is sure to sour relations with a country that is central to his plans to focus his foreign policy energies on China. India is a central member of the Quad, a grouping that also includes the US, Japan and Australia, that is aimed at presenting the Indo-Pacific region with a democratic leadership as an alternative to China. Only India in the region has the military heft to stand toe-to-toe with China. All of which is why until now Biden — like previous US presidents — was widely expected to largely ignore any pressure from the left in the Democratic Party in his engagements with India. After all, that’s what the former president, Barack Obama, did when dealing with Modi, paying generic homilies to democracy and diversity without directly criticizing India’s leader. Biden, a political veteran of more than four decades, is instinctively the archetypical moderate. He, too, knows Modi well and has worked with him under Obama. But Biden’s strict missive to Netanyahu shows that the clout of the left within his party extends beyond anything that Obama had to deal with. Indeed, the political landscape of the US today is significantly different from four years ago. If conspiracy-trusting Trump supporters bring the energy and passion to the Republican Party, making its leaders kowtow to the former president’s falsehoods, it’s the youthful left that’s the fuel lifting Biden. Realpolitik would suggest that Biden needs to keep pressure from the left at an arm’s distance when building vital relationships such as those with India and Brazil, another country whose controversial president, Jair Bolsonaro, has been in the crosshairs of American progressives. That’s true not just because American businesses cannot afford to risk ease of access to India’s giant market or because Washington needs New Delhi to counter Beijing’s rise. Big countries like India — whoever might be in power — simply do not take instructions from a foreign power in public. If Biden were to tell Modi what he ‘expects’ and the White House were to then release a statement detailing those expectations, you can be rest assured that New Delhi will make it a point to not comply. America would receive nothing but a snub for its efforts. Although none of this is unknown to Biden and his experienced foreign policy team, they also can’t afford to ignore the sentiments of a growing segment within the Democratic Party. That’s especially so given how much Biden will need young, progressive voters and their icons ahead of mid-term elections in 2022, when he could otherwise lose control of the House of Representatives. Biden might still find a way to insulate the India relationship from the Democratic left if Modi steers clear of controversial steps of the scale of the CAA and the Kashmir crackdown. But that won’t be easy for Modi, given his penchant to dial up the temperature on religious tensions when that’s conducive for his domestic politics. When he does, pressure will mount on the Biden administration to respond firmly. Israel was just the first salvo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
26-05-2021||Opinion||In Ben-Gaul||There was a cartoon doing the rounds on our phones soon after the election results in West Bengal modelled on the Asterix comics. Superimposed on the original drawings of the first page of every Asterix comic, we saw Gaul now renamed “Ben-Gaul”, accompanied by a tweaked text that read: “The year is 2021 CE. The land is entirely occupied by the Gow-Mans. Well not entirely! One small state of indomitable Ben-Gauls still holds out against the invaders. And life is not easy for the Gow-Man believers who make up the camps of Fascism, Hindutvam and Religious Extrememum...” Then the characters were introduced under the heading: “The Ben-gauls are a weird bunch...” A character resembling the village druid, Getafix, was shown strolling along — “They look up to the teachings of a truly learned dude with a white beard...” — followed by him tripping on his beard to land on his head in the next frame, where the narrative continues “... And hate imposters...” Other scenes, typical to the pages of an Asterix comic book, were captioned: “They love a good political argument...”, “And a good feast...”, “They fear nothing...”, ending with “Nothing... Except for the price of Illish-Mach going up...” This was just one of many jubilant images, lines, poems, and paragraphs journeying from phone to phone after May 2. Lines such as “Humpty Dumpty came to Bengal/ Humpty Dumpty had a great fall” circulated among like-minded, mostly middle-class, people in the city. This euphoria, this pride in Bengali exceptionalism, the congratulatory messages from other regions of India for Bengal having stopped a juggernaut were, and should be, deeply worrying to the onlooker. The worry is not only that a right-wing party has, for the first time in the history of Bengal, won so many seats in the Vidhan Sabha — certainly the numbers should make anybody pause and think. If the Opposition were wise, it would tell its spokespersons to be quiet about its massive gains and build upon the base now created here with their heads down — it would be the best way to consolidate and creep up surreptitiously with a mammoth presence in five years. The worry is also not related to the actual powers of resistance ‘Ben-gaul’ has in comparison to Kerala, which has done a much better job of keeping right-wing intolerance at bay, so that one can remain fairly confident that no major inroads will be made in that state at least in the near future. The deep and abiding concern is, rather, to do with who will have the last laugh if (or when) the sectarian poison now injected into the cultural bloodstream of Bengal begins to act upon all that vaunted exceptionalism. Unlike anywhere else, the battle for Bengal in the local and national media was high profile and high decibel, and one of the key tropes against the ‘outsiders/invaders’ was Bengali cultural pride. But how long can the cultural past be invoked to fight present battles? How long will Rabindranath-Ramakrishna-Vidyasagar help the Bengali middle classes — the much-revered and then much-reviled bhadralok — hold their heads above the water? Not that they matter in electoral terms. As any middle-class citizen of the state knew growing up in the thirty-four years of Left-ruled West Bengal in the city of Calcutta and then Kolkata, it is not they who decide. Election results showed, again and again, through the 1980s and 1990s, that it really didn’t matter what the Asterix- and Tintin-reading public thought or who they voted for. This much we all know even now: that this Feluda-obsessed urban bubble did not win Bengal these elections. What then has been their role historically — what exactly is the nature of their contribution to Bengal? Any one-dimensional answer to such a large question would fail to do it justice. Yet one could point out, first of all, that the state had always had an advantage educationally in comparison with the rest of India till the 1970s. Conventionally, it is from the colonial era onward, it is thought, that education has been prized by the people of Bengal. A famous account exists of poor boys running behind the palanquin of David Hare (as also of Reverend Duff) pleading to be admitted to his school where he sponsored so many for a free education at the Hindu College if they had merit. But the Hindu College was not built on hot air — without the involvement of the entire province, it would have floundered on a seedbed of privileged Calcutta family scions alone. Detailed colonial reports — especially and most famously Adam’s Reports of 1835 and 1838 — record that pathshalas, tols and madrasas were present in great numbers throughout the region from the pre-colonial period, and that most families in the villages (not just the upper castes) sent their sons to school. A close look at Anathnath Basu’s 1941 Calcutta University Press edition of the Reports themselves (commissioned by William Bentinck but unused by Thomas Babington Macaulay, who wrote his Minute without recourse to this data) shows that William Adam, friend to Rammohan and Bengali speaker, travelled extensively across Bengal and concluded that government support for these rural schools and seminaries should be used to reinforce this traditional base: learning would then spread wider, faster and better than an English education perhaps could. History took a different turn at that moment, but this is not to say that somehow all that followed from that ‘English education’ was poison fruit from Macaulay’s poison tree, as Samar Sen put it in “Pancham Bahini”. It is only to assert that it is through a return to grass-roots education and a huge investment in schools, colleges, infrastructure and teaching that one can imagine a way of stopping, even if in the long run, the inexorable march of sectarian politics in the state. Serendipitously in alignment with this thought, Mamata Banerjee has announced at her first cabinet meeting itself that the government will set up an English-medium school in every block of the state — addressing a perceived rural demand which has led to a mushrooming of English-medium private schools in the districts. This could be a step in the right direction, although one immediately wonders where those schools’ teachers are to be found and what their level of proficiency might be. In order to address those questions, it might be wise, therefore, to supplement this ground-level task with the shoring up of every higher-education institute in the state. To set up schools, one needs schoolteachers. The average Bengali may have heard only of Ramtanu Lahiri, but Parimala Rao has shown in Beyond Macaulay that far from it being the case that graduates of the Hindu College rushed en masse into lucrative government jobs, records show that many of its students went on to take up jobs as teachers throughout the province. The minister for education does not need telling, certainly, that however depleted West Bengal may seem in terms of its former glory, enough survives that could still be put to use. World-class academics, scholars, researchers and teachers still populate the higher echelons of education in the city — all that is needed is an unbiased, non-partisan, and wholehearted commitment from the government for them to function to their full potential. Rosinka Chaudhuri is Director and Professor, Centre for Studies in Social Sciences, Calcutta. Views are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
