27-05-2021||Opinion||Unquiet island: Lakshadweep||The sangh parivar, it is being alleged, has a rather disquieting manner of making its presence felt, be it in Kashmir or, now, in Lakshadweep. The revocation of Article 370 and the accompanying excesses — curtailment of movement, a prolonged freeze on internet connectivity, a massive military mobilization — have now become an integral part of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s legacy in the Valley. The goal, apparently, was to facilitate greater unity between the country and the former state. Something similar seems to be brewing in the isles of Lakshadweep at the moment. The new administrator of the Muslim-majority islands, the first ever politician to be appointed administrator since Independence, Praful Khoda Patel, has been accused of implementing a number of measures that go against the culture and the sensibilities of the citizens. The charge cannot be wished away. Non-vegetarian food has been banished from meals in schools and hostels; a two-child norm — an embodiment of the prejudiced notion about the size of Muslim families — has been put in place for contestants in panchayat elections; the Control of Goonda Act has been unleashed to stifle dissent; there has been a move to stop the sale and consumption of beef along with a crackdown on the fishing industry as well as an easing of restrictions on liquor. These steps undertaken by Mr Patel — he is said to have the prime minister’s ears — have not gone unnoticed. A number of politicians have demanded that Mr Patel be recalled immediately; significantly, the BJP’s general-secretary in Lakshadweep does not share a favourable opinion of the administrator either. It remains to be seen whether the powers that be heed these demands. This is because in the echo chambers of the sangh parivar the acquisition of political power is invariably harnessed to a problematic ideological project. This is consistent with the fraternity’s desire to transform a secular, pluralist republic —  the crystallized vision of India’s founding fathers themselves — into a majoritarian State. That explains the energy that the BJP invests in encroaching on local traditions, be it the choice of food, faith, livelihood or even marriage. Little wonder then that the BJP’s growing political footprint in the country has also witnessed a spirited public resistance against some of the transitions that the party has sought to impose. Something else merits attention in Lakshadweep’s case. There is a case to make the administrative edifice of the island far more representative so that the concerns of the people can be addressed in the face of an institutional onslaught.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
27-05-2021||Opinion||Steep cost: Covid deaths in India||Sir — It was heartbreaking to learn that over three lakh people have lost their lives to Covid-19 in India. However, the rush at crematoria, having cremations outside owing to a lack of space, burials outside cemeteries, widening obituary columns in newspapers and so on make us think that the real figure could be far higher. There is perhaps no one who has not lost a family member, a friend, an acquaintance or a neighbour. Most people feel that it is a miracle that they are still alive even as they mourn those who died from the coronavirus. Thus, it is a relief that the number of daily new cases has now begun to decline and the recovery rate continues to be high. At the same time, it is sad to note that the daily casualty figure has remained significant. In all probability, a large number of Covid deaths are not included in the official mortality data. The deaths of Covid-19 patients with underlying comorbidities are often attributed to pre-existing conditions. Many, especially in rural areas, are dying at home and are cremated without any examination by doctors. Undercounting or underreporting Covid-19 deaths is completely unacceptable. The availability of accurate data puts experts in a better position to understand the disease and manage its onslaught more efficiently. By suppressing data, the administration will only further jeopardize its fight against the pandemic. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — India became the third country in the world, after the United States of America and Brazil, to cross 3,00,000 Covid-related deaths. Professionals in the healthcare sector have been working round the clock to save as many people as possible, but the number of infections and deaths — although there has been a dip recently — are still alarming. The only way we can protect ourselves is by strictly following Covid-19 safety protocols and ensuring that we remain indoors as much as possible. Yashi Bairagi,Ujjain Need for respect Sir — It was certainly inappropriate for the prime minister, Narendra Modi, to invite the chief ministers to be present during his one-to-one virtual dialogue with the district magistrates and not allow them to speak (“Just one side”, May 24). There is no doubt that this has also put the bureaucrats in an uncomfortable position. Such flagrant disregard for the chain of command is not good for the functioning of a federal, democratic government. But it seems that the Centre no longer cares to uphold the tenets of our Constitution. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam Sir — The relationship between the Centre and the West Bengal government is frosty to say the least. The recent snubbing of chief ministers at the virtual meet between the prime minister and the district magistrates has further irked Mamata Banerjee who considers this incident to be an insult to the office she holds. While tussles are common between politicians of different parties, it must be noted that the number of coronavirus cases in West Bengal, as with most states in the country, is alarmingly high. In this situation it is imperative that Narendra Modi and Mamata Banerjee put aside their differences and work towards the greater good of the people. Bal Govind, Noida Too soon Sir — Reports have emerged that the Indian Premier League, which was postponed earlier this month, is tentatively set to resume in September in the United Arab Emirates. The tournament was stopped after several players and staff members tested positive for Covid-19 in spite of the bio-secure bubble that was in place. With the coronavirus constantly mutating, people in all corners of the world are vulnerable to the disease. Moreover, at a time when Covid deaths have crossed the 3,00,000-mark in India, is it not insensitive to continue with such an ostentatious affair? Amit Ray Chaudhury,Calcutta PARTING SHOT Sir — In a shocking incident, a couple from Madurai brazenly flouted Covid-19 protocols and tied the knot mid-air on a chartered flight. The guests were photographed without masks and did not adhere to social distancing norms. Since then, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation has ordered strict action against the company and the crew members on board have been de-rostered. It is really upsetting to see that at a time when the whole nation is reeling under death and illness, people are insensitive enough to celebrate weddings in such a manner. The couple could have donated the money they spent on booking a chartered plane towards Covid-19 relief efforts. They showed an abject disregard for people’s suffering. M. Pradyu, Kannur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
27-05-2021||Opinion||Wrong move: ‘Indian variant’||Image, not ripeness, is all. The Indian government directed all social media platforms to take down the phrase, ‘Indian variant’, for the B.1.617 strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus believed to be the cause of the second surge. In its support, the Indian government referred to the World Health Organization, which identifies each strain scientifically, not by region. India detected the B.1.617 mutant in October 2020. The WHO mentions that it has been found in 44 countries and has listed it as a variant of concern. If there is some irony in a government insisting on the scientific identity of a virus, to combat which many Bharatiya Janata Party adherents have suggested cow urine and ingested mustard oil, there is more irony in the timing of the ban. Earlier, in an affidavit to the Supreme Court, the government referred to the “UK variant, Brazil variant, South African variant and Indian double mutant strain”. Yet the same government finds it unacceptable now, after the image of India’s leaders took a battering in the international arena because of the tragic mismanagement of the raging pandemic and of the vaccination programme. They have become as sensitive as the leaders of another Asian country, Singapore, who took serious umbrage at Arvind Kejriwal’s suggestion that a new variant was coming from there. Social media platforms are for the people. By directing them to erase a particular phrase, the Indian government is interfering with the right to free expression, especially as it is perfectly innocent of obscenity or violence. There is almost a comic aspect to this violation. Will suppressing a phrase change realities — of people dying in the thousands in what was a largely avoidable disaster? Or will the world not notice what is happening? A police case has been filed against the former Congress chief minister of Madhya Pradesh, Kamal Nath, for using the phrase, ‘Indian variant’, in comments critical of the government’s handling of the situation. He is charged with spreading misinformation under the Disaster Management Act and for disobeying a public servant’s order. He is supposed to have defamed the country and become guilty of sedition. Tolerance of contrary opinions was never the BJP’s forte, but this shows that its image is now so brittle that a mere phrase can make its hackles rise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
27-05-2021||Opinion||Political winds in Pakistan||Politics in Pakistan has taken an interesting turn. Or has it? There is too much going on, which adds to the confusion. But some say it is too little for it to lead to any significant change. On the one hand, there is the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf government’s own woes. On the other, there is the Opposition, which started out with a bang last year when it formed a joint front called the Pakistan Democratic Movement, that now seems to be facing troubles due to some recent turn of events. The two main Opposition parties — the Pakistan Peoples Party and the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz — are at loggerheads. The PML-N accuses the PPP of being co-opted by the establishment so as to offer a smooth sailing to the PTI government. The PPP rubbishes these allegations. On Monday, the PML-N president, Shehbaz Sharif, hosted a dinner for the Opposition parties in order to iron out the differences. Whether Shehbaz succeeds in this venture remains to be seen. It will be clear in the next few weeks. Sharif is seen to be more of a reconciliatory man in his party when it comes to the establishment. His politics is quite different from that of his brother, Nawaz Sharif, who prefers an aggressive style. Insiders say he does not want a fight with the establishment. He has recently been released from jail and some say his release is because some quarters want him to control his brother’s aggressive statements when it comes to the establishment. Nawaz and Maryam have also come down hard on the PPP leadership ever since the leader of the Opposition fiasco in the Senate. Shehbaz has offered an olive branch to the PPP. Insiders say that the PPP would want to be back in the PDM as its credibility has taken a hit due to what happened in the Senate. The fallout between Asif Ali Zardari and Nawaz Sharif in the PDM was another factor. There are others who say that many in the PML-N do not want the PPP to make a comeback to the PDM after these recent incidents; they say they cannot trust the PPP any longer. If this trust deficit gets addressed somehow, it could create problems for the government. A united and strong Opposition is something that the government would not want at this moment when it is busy battling infighting within its own ranks. Jahangir Khan Tareen, once a close friend of the prime minister, Imran Khan, and an important member of the PTI, has formed a group of like-minded parliamentarians belonging to the Punjab assembly and the national assembly within the PTI. The ‘JKT group’, Tareen says, is not a forward bloc. But, in essence, it is acting like one — or at least as a pressure group. This group has more than 30 members, which makes it important for the PTI government to keep it on the right side; otherwise it would not be easy for the government to survive. Tareen, a business tycoon, is accused of a huge sugar scandal that relates to fixing sugar prices by the sugar cartel as well as of money laundering. This pressure group has been able to secure meetings with Imran Khan and the chief minister of Punjab, Usman Buzdar. It has been assured that their reservations would be addressed. But the government has also made it clear that Tareen would not be given undue favours. Tareen says he is being targeted unfairly. Some say this group will make its next move in August or September when it becomes clearer which way the political winds would blow. The Opposition and the JKT group, it is believed, are waiting for the upcoming budget. If the budget leads to higher inflation, it could make things difficult for the government. The government has not been very successful when it comes to meeting the challenges in the economy. However, recent official economic projections are favourable. Pakistan’s new finance minister, Shaukat Tarin, says that economic projections of a 3.94 per cent GDP growth rate provides hope and that it would eventually become 5 per cent next year and 6 per cent the year after. Whether this materializes or not would depend on the success of the renegotiations with the International Monetary Fund. We have had four finance ministers since the PTI government came to power in 2018. From Asad Umar to Hafeez Shaikh to an extremely short stint by Hammad Azhar and now Shaukat Tarin, the government has been trying to improve its economic policies. Some experts say Pakistan’s economy is now headed towards stability, which will eventually lead to growth. When the economy starts to improve, it would bring stability to the PTI government as well. The government and the establishment are also on the same page. The principal threat is the Tareen group. Hopefully the government will be able to complete its tenure, as it should, and these political winds would just be a regular course of nature. Mehmal Sarfraz is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
27-05-2021||Opinion||Uncharted waters||The grim challenges of the Covid-19 pandemic have reduced, if not killed, the country’s appetite for most other things. There is a discernible impatience with issues and concerns that are seen to divert attention and resources from either public health or problems that have arisen because of the exceptional circumstances. Even the abrupt cancellation of the Indian Premier League, which provided many Indians with a much-needed distraction from a dangerous world outside, was greeted with an astonishing silence. In the fractious world of politics, there was a visible irritation, even among the chattering classes that love periodic bouts of politician-bashing, at the kerfuffle in Calcutta over the Central Bureau of Investigation’s ‘arrest’ of four politicians caught on camera in 2016 accepting cash from a person claiming to be a corporate fixer. This impatience was also in evidence in the world outside social media addicts over the Congress’s alleged toolkit to defame the Narendra Modi government over its handling of the pandemic. Even the modifications in New Delhi’s Central Vista — an issue that had earlier been marked by singular disinterest — has been held out as an example of whimsical governance. The mood, it would seem, is single-minded in its focus on the issue of survival. Such an assessment may be an over-simplification since the human mind operates on different — and even contradictory — levels. However, it does explain why an occasion such as the seventh anniversary of Narendra Modi’s premiership has been noted, perhaps even commemorated, in the media but certainly not celebrated. The mind space for assessing long-term trends that go beyond mere events has, alas, been blunted by the pandemic. Of course, that hasn’t stopped a bout of hyper-activity among people in whose eyes the real pandemic began that fateful day in May 2014 when Indian voters gave their thumbs up to the former chief minister of Gujarat and reaffirmed that decision with greater enthusiasm in May 2019. To many of them, the sole responsibility for the lethal second wave of the pandemic rests with the ineptitude of the Modi government. The Kumbh Mela and the final three phases of the West Bengal assembly election are held out to be examples of the government’s lack of concern with human lives. Consequently, along with high bouts of indignation, there is the parallel message that the national project involves working for a regime change, may be with the assistance of some motivated global players. Although the anti-Modi activism has, so far, been confined to journalists in the social media, a few international publications and the indefatigable chief minister of West Bengal, there is a feeling of anticipation in these circles that India will experience a Modi-less dawn in 2024, with a preview in next year’s Uttar Pradesh assembly election. This sense of anticipation has been a feature of the past seven years. Initially it was forcefully asserted that the Bharatiya Janata Party’s electoral victory in 2014 was a complete fluke — a proverbial Black Swan event — and couldn’t be sustained by the limited social profile of the party. Subsequently, it was put out that Modi would become a victim of the disruptions caused by the introduction of the goods and services tax and, more important, the demonetization of 2016. The conviction that the hardships occasioned by demonetization would cripple the BJP irredeemably was particularly widespread and this was witnessed during the 2017 UP assembly election campaign. Likewise, the Pakistan-inspired terror attacks in Uri were greeted with the message that Modi was just hot air and incapable of upholding national security. The veracity of the surgical strikes and the Balakot aerial raids were hotly contested by the Opposition during the 2019 election campaign, with disastrous consequences. The larger point to note is that at every stage in the past seven years, the Modi government has been strongly challenged, but has successfully come out of each crisis with its efficacy intact. Arguably, the proclamation of victory after the first wave subsided around November and December last year was somewhat premature and led to a measure of unwarranted complacency, both at the official and popular levels. The understandable eagerness to resume normal life was no doubt a factor behind this lowering of guard, particularly at the state level. International experience also suggests that the popular disquiet resulting from regression is invariably directed at incumbent governments, particularly if their political inclinations are right-of-centre. President Donald Trump was a casualty of this anger against incumbent governments, a trend that was exacerbated by the lunatic behaviour of some of his die-hard supporters and an insane policy of denial of the pandemic. However, what is interesting is that the Joe Biden administration too has faltered, as has the Justin Trudeau government in Canada. However, the opprobrium attached to them has been relatively little. Within India, the same phenomenon can be observed in Kerala — a state where there is a striking mismatch between the glowing international endorsements of its anti-Covid strategies and ground realities. In the United Kingdom, the vaccination programme has been a resounding success and has wiped out unhappy memories of the unacceptably high death rates among older people during the initial stages of the pandemic. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has also been the political beneficiary of a quiet popular vote of confidence in the government’s handling of the crisis. Curiously, this isn’t so much in evidence if the media are assumed to be an important barometer of public opinion. Maybe this has something to do with the penchant of the Left-liberal ecosystem to be more adept in virtue signalling — backed up by a linguistic style that is infuriatingly pious — than the Right. It is impossible to anticipate the larger political fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic and assess if its shadow will be felt in the general election of 2024. The second wave may well be controlled, and the impact of the vaccination drive could be experienced by the first quarter of 2022. However, just as the black fungus poses a threat that the medical community had not anticipated, there is no telling what the impact of the third wave will be. More to the point, will this prolonged experience of living unnatural lives have any profound impact on voting behaviour as, say, the bitter experience of the two World Wars did in Europe? These are imponderables that make the business of political forecasting excessively hazardous. In the event the pandemic persists and confounds the medical and scientific community, it is more than likely that concern and anger could be replaced by fear and a craving for reassurance. In medieval times, any profound uncertainty invariably triggered a yearning for certitudes and, by implication, religion. It is doubtful if the response of the 21st century will be substantially different. Politically, the attractions of a weakened Centre and a confederal leadership will be overwhelmed by the natural desire to outsource solutions to either a strong man or a paternalist. Since the first lockdown, Modi has changed his physical appearance and acquired a flowing beard, much like the sages of the past. Was this calculated to fit the likely yearning for a benign, quasi-religious figure at the helm? However, these are assumptions based, at best, on a reading of history and past human behaviour. As humankind negotiates a challenge that, in effect, threatens all the assumptions and beliefs of the recent past, the response could be predictable or could establish new patterns of collective behaviour. The simple point is that we just don’t know.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
