28-05-2021||Opinion||Cyclone Yaas: After the storm||Data suggest that there has been a 26 per cent increase in severe cyclonic storms in the Bay of Bengal in over a century. Given the rise in their frequency, the management of extreme-weather-related disasters — cyclonic storms, tidal surges, floods and so on — could soon emerge as the proverbial Tebbit test for political dispensations. This may not be a bad thing in itself. After all, administrative ineptitude, combined with institutional indifference to sustained ecological degradation, has played a role in turning natural disasters frequent as well as far more devastating. The anxiety regarding the political fallout of such events on the people could spur the administration into action. That seems to have been the case with the Mamata Banerjee government’s response to the threat posed by Cyclone Yaas. Last year, the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan and the allegations of corruption concerning relief and rehabilitation had become an electoral issue in the recently concluded Bengal elections. Ms Banerjee and her administration seem to have learnt important lessons from that sorry chapter. The standard protocol that administrations adopt to tackle calamities was, on this occasion, accompanied by energy and preparedness that made a perceptible difference. The credit for this must go to the chief minister. Her decision to micro-manage containment strategies enabled the state machinery to be fleet-footed. As a result, nearly 15 lakh people could be evacuated on short notice and the death toll kept to a minimum; stretches of embankments were strengthened and steps taken to safeguard agricultural produce. Even though Yaas spared Bengal’s capital, the preventive steps taken by the government could not mitigate the extensive damage in a number of places in the districts of East Midnapore, North and South 24 Parganas and Howrah. According to some estimates, one crore people are expected to have been adversely affected with three lakh houses being damaged; there have been several breaches in the wobbly embankments as well. Ms Banerjee must ensure that relief measures reach the victims at the earliest. The logistical challenge of rehabilitation would undoubtedly be amplified by the raging pandemic. The announcement of a meeting between the prime minister and Ms Banerjee to assess the damage and discuss compensation is welcome. Narendra Modi’s regime, which is known to be tight-fisted when it comes to bailing out Opposition-ruled states, must extend full cooperation to Ms Banerjee’s dispensation. This is because the political fortunes of both rivals may be decided by their ability to assuage the suffering of the people. Natural disasters can be great political levellers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
28-05-2021||Opinion||Play fair: Twitter vs Centre||Sir — The Centre’s directive to microblogging platform, Twitter, that it remove the label of ‘manipulated media’ from certain posts shared by functionaries of the Bharatiya Janata Party has no legal leg to stand on (“New target”, May 26). However, it does reveal that it is willing to go to any lengths to empower BJP leaders to tarnish political opponents and misinform the people. In the midst of a raging pandemic, the urge to engage the police to investigate so-called ‘toolkits’ discloses its intent of diverting the people’s attention from the real problems haunting the country. The BJP has failed to provide any credible digital footprint, or copies, of what it calls the Covid-19 toolkit. Nor is there any evidence of the Congress’s contribution to it. This raises serious concerns regarding arbitrary censorship and transparency. The Centre’s desperation to control any discussion on its failures and attempts to shift the blame on to the Opposition are leading to situations that embarrass a democracy. Rather than intimidate a private company, the BJP should train its workers to be more civil and truthful while engaging with critics.  S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — The Congress has demanded that Twitter affix the tag, ‘manipulated media’, to tweets of 11 Union ministers for allegedly spreading false and malicious propaganda against the party. It has alleged that the material that some BJP leaders have tried to associate with the Congress is identical to the ones already marked as ‘manipulated media’ by Twitter. An open war now appears to have broken out between the Congress and the BJP. It remains to be seen what action Twitter will take in the coming days. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai  Right decision Sir — In a positive move, the United States of America has declared its intention to reopen its consulate general in Jerusalem. The consulate general was earlier in charge of diplomatic relations with Palestine. But Donald Trump had downgraded its operations when he shifted the US embassy to Israel to Jerusalem. In view of the recent spate of conflict between Israel and Palestine, this nod towards the latter by a major world power could help deter further Israeli aggression. Madhurima Gupta,Calcutta Step forward Sir — Rosinka Chaudhuri has penned a timely piece on the recently concluded elections in Bengal (“In Ben-Gaul”, May 26). While acknowledging the spectacular victory of the Trinamul Congress, Chaudhuri has drawn attention to an important outcome of the elections — the emergence of the Bharatiya Janata Party as the only Opposition in a state like Bengal, where it had no base even in 2016, when it garnered just three seats. It has won as many as 77 seats this time. This ought to set the alarm bells ringing for Mamata Banerjee and the TMC. The big question is — will it? While granting that the TMC valiantly fought off the BJP for over 200 seats, in spite of the latter’s money and muscle power, it must be admitted that the BJP and its divisive, Hindutva-based agenda has been able to make significant inroads into the hitherto inclusive fabric of Bengal’s political culture. In fact, the rot had set in prior to the 2019 parliamentary elections when it captured 18 out of 42 seats. It is to the TMC’s credit that it appointed the strategist, Prashant Kishor, in time. The social welfare plans envisaged by him and carried out by the TMC have paid rich dividends. Banerjee’s charisma and untiring efforts have also made a difference. Chaudhuri has raised valid queries about the legacy of Bengal’s icons such as Ramakrishna, Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar and Rabindranath Tagore. They, however, shall continue to be the beacons that guide future leaders of Bengal. This must be followed up with steps towards course-correction and periodic introspections. Dipak Banerjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
28-05-2021||Opinion||Misty past: Right to be forgotten||It is never easy when there is no defined law on an issue. The right to be forgotten, for instance, has become an urgent theme, since the internet, databases and social media platforms can retain personal information in perpetuity, even when it is no longer relevant. In Europe, the General Data Protection Regulation of 2016 lays down the conditions for the withdrawal of personal data from public access. It associates the right to be forgotten with the right to erasure, while Indian courts associate it with the right to privacy. This was indicated by the recent Delhi High Court judgment that reportedly asked two platforms to remove the link to its own ruling in an earlier case against the petitioner. The petitioner had been acquitted but, he claimed, the accessible record was hurting his chances of a career and, as can be imagined, was also damaging his social reputation. Last year, the Orissa High Court, when ruling on the need to remove images of sexual intimacy and violence from the internet, uploaded after a relationship had soured, reportedly associated the right to be forgotten with the Constitutional right to life and liberty. This was seen as a corollary to the right to privacy established as fundamental by the Supreme Court in 2017. The issue of a private citizen’s control over personal information is not simple. The right to be forgotten may clash with the right to free expression and, in relation to court cases, with the need for public information and the transparency of judicial records. The Delhi High Court’s ruling is an interim one while it considers these aspects. There is also the danger of suppression for a motivated change of narrative. At the same time, it is unfair to stigmatize a person for something that is irrelevant or not part of the judicial process. Without a specific legislation, courts are compelled to go case by case. Two judgments of the Gujarat and Karnataka High Courts went in two opposing directions, the principles appearing to be different. Besides, Article 21 of the Constitution is becoming too stretched with various rights being derived from it. The personal data protection bill, 2019 partly deals with the issue, but it is still not law. A law is needed to clarify the right to be forgotten.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
28-05-2021||Opinion||Child marriage: The girls are in danger ||The Covid-19 pandemic has made girls all over the world even more vulnerable to the menace of child marriage. A profoundly regressive practice, child marriage is an unquestionable violation of human rights, the result of several intricately intertwined factors, among which are patriarchy, poverty and the lack of education. A report by the United Nations Population Fund states that the pandemic is projected to result in 13 million additional child marriages which might otherwise have been prevented. It has also been suggested by the international children’s charity, World Vision, that the pandemic has the potential to put an extra four million girls at risk of early marriage. One of the major reasons for this spike is poverty, induced and escalated by Covid-19. To survive in this pandemic, economically disenfranchised parents often resort to child marriage to escape the financial burden of caring for a girl child. The Odisha State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has corroborated the growing trend of child marriages as a result of the pandemic. Since April 2020, more than 180 attempted child marriages have been reported in Odisha according to various district child welfare officers. Another incentive for poverty-stricken families is that younger brides often require smaller dowries or command higher bride prices. The closure of schools during this national health crisis has also left young girls extremely vulnerable to forced marriage. Several media reports have corroborated these facts. Concerned with such reports, I had raised an unstarred question during the 252nd brief monsoon session of Parliament. Surprisingly, the ministry’s response was arbitrary and inexplicable, claiming that as per the information received from the National Crime Records Bureau, there was no data to indicate a rising number of child marriages in India. Despite sufficient circumstantial evidence to suggest an increase, the response to the question ostensibly means that neither has the government maintained a database on child marriages during the lockdown, nor has it conducted any in-depth survey. The NCRB either did not collect such data, or such acts do not get reported as they are crimes. Thus, sadly, there is not even an acknowledgment of this simmering crisis. This is where the problem lies. The lack of a data-driven, evidence-based approach seriously jeopardizes troubleshooting and beneficiary mapping. It prevents the government from addressing the phenomenon. Further, the paucity of data limits the government’s understanding of how to tackle the crisis. Thus, it is imperative for the government to conduct studies and surveys and collect in-depth data to understand the prevailing ground realities concerning child marriages in India during the pandemic. Although the government’s consideration to raise the minimum age of marriage for girls from 18 to 21 has been lauded as a progressive move, this alone would not be enough to tackle the menace of child marriage. It might even be counterproductive; there might be a further persecution of girls by their families until the age of 21. Regressive social practices against women are deep-seated in patriarchal society. From the time they are born, girls must have access to education, career opportunities, right to choices regarding marriage and so on. Gender sensitization and awareness programmes should also be made mandatory in schools. In order to abolish child marriages, the government needs to take cues from Unicef, which centres its work around five key interventions: adolescents as agents of change, social mobilization among parents and within communities, investments in education for children both in and out of school, access to social protection programmes and linkages with skills and employment opportunities. These interventions are in tandem with India’s commitment to eliminating child marriage by 2030 as part of the sustainable development goals. First, the government needs to acknowledge that child marriages perpetuate a vicious cycle of poverty, weaken the development of a skilled workforce, reinforce gender inequality and have a detrimental impact on the health of society and the economy. India has made notable progress in reducing child marriage: Unicef data from March 2018 state that 25 million child marriages have been prevented in the last decade. However, the same data also highlight that considerably more work is needed, especially now and in the aftermath of the pandemic. Else, by 2030 more than 120 million girls will be forcefully married before their 18th birthday. This is a grim reminder that we have to move fast and decisively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
28-05-2021||Opinion||Crossed lines||The mayor of New York City, with an eye on the winding down of the pandemic, has announced that teachers and children shall come back to school in September, the beginning of the new school year. He found online teaching to be distinctly inferior to classroom teaching. Besides, underprivileged families, among many of whom Covid-19 took a heavier toll, have found it difficult to give children regular access to remote learning. In such cases it has proved disastrous, particularly for pupils with disabilities. This widened the education gap, according to the mayor as well as the governor of New York, because online learning worked well only for better-off households, while others had to pay a heavy price. The emphasis, rightly, is on a practical aspect that could ultimately defeat the end of education. But there is another, as important, facet. The mayor mentions the superiority of classroom teaching, which the governor, too, underlines when he says, “[B]y no stretch of the imagination is remote learning a substitute for in-class participation.” In this approach, the classroom is central to education, irrespective of technological advances and higher standards of living. In a piece by Katie Reilly in the Time magazine last August, a teacher in New York City expressed his discomfort at virtually meeting his new class for the first time. They would not get to play games or plant the garden as they normally did each year — activities central to the classroom community that built trust between teacher and student. Trust develops through contact and functions on multiple levels. In the “Ischooley Lockdown” series, a blog run by Ebong Alap, a voluntary organization, one teacher not only notices the absence of his adivasi students from his online classes, but is also distressed by the quality of his only in-person contact with them when he calls out their names and roll numbers to deliver their weekly midday meal rations. Will our relationship now only be through these numbers? their eyes seem to ask. The classroom is a space of parity, away from the inequalities and enforced roles of home and immediate social group. It is a unique community where learning happens not through textbooks and grading alone but also by relating to others, making friends, planning pranks, quarrelling and playing together, competing and creating, understanding other ways of life and different histories. There can be no education without this. Children learn as much from their teachers as from their peers: young brains take fire from one another, sparking new interests, fresh ideas, other dreams. Also, as one teacher points out in the blog, school is not just a place for studies; teachers keep a watch on their students’ physical and mental health, stop them from dropping out and prevent minor marriages. The rise in the number of minor marriages while schools were closed last year is proof of this. Mentoring is a matter of daily kindness and understanding, something that cannot be inserted into digital packages of learning material. Since it is the pandemic that has interrupted normal school life, children may hope to return to classrooms when it recedes. The spread of foundational education in India has been slow, so the classroom is especially precious. While both teachers and students would like to return to it, there are also areas of concern. For some children, the disruption has been great, if not total. Talking about a couple of villages close to Siuri in Birbhum, a friend said that most children have no access to a smartphone, and even if there is one available, the father takes it to work. There is no question of online classes for them; he, together with many teachers, is worried that children will forget much of what they have learnt, particularly as many households rely entirely on the school for education. Teachers from different areas refer to the trauma children are going through, of isolation and fear, exacerbated by the tragedy of losing their closest relatives. Covid has left orphans — that is in itself a matter of acute concern. Those who do have access to devices for lessons — girls mostly have to beg it off their father or brother —  may not get a stable internet connection for the length of the classes, or may have to get on to the roof, go outside or even climb a tree to hold on to the connection. If they can concentrate at all on a class through the screen of a phone, that is. For many, the atmosphere is seldom conducive to classes at home, riven with insecurity, want and hunger, their guardians’ stress and, frequently, violence. These children cannot walk back into school and pick up where they left off. Academically and emotionally, they have to be nurtured back into the system — will governments create scope for such adjustments? The other area of concern is of a different kind. The Centre is pushing determinedly for online higher education: the University Grants Commission has now ‘allowed’ universities to teach 80 per cent of non-technical academic courses online. This is in spite of strong protests from college and university teachers when the UGC ‘allowed’ 40 per cent of virtual lessons with ready-made material last year, as well as schoolteachers’ accounts of their pupils’ difficulties during school closure. Although the government has not recommended virtual classes for schools, how would the problems be different? Older students may have somewhat better access to online routes but uncertain connectivity would remain the same. A young teacher in a college in Purba Medinipur has found that many of her colleagues do not have computers, and the know-how required to record lectures on the phone and upload them onto a specific platform eludes many. Exchange in class is limited at best, and innovations dependent on technological familiarity alone can substitute for the use of the board — in mathematics, for example. Inequality is built into the online system, as is the stifling of dialogue. All this is apart from the deprivation of collective college or university life in which friendships blossom, adventures begin, talents burst out and horizons expand to take in the world. Those who know this in India are privileged; with 80 per cent of classes online, they stand to lose it too. Instead of opening up higher education to those who opt for it, this system will gradually exclude capable students from disadvantaged economic backgrounds or locations who dream of greater learning. This inequality is one of the major reasons behind teachers’ objections. Besides, virtual lessons can supplement classroom teaching, they cannot replace it. A decline in standards of learning and research would be inevitable, especially if, as is being suspected, universities and colleges funded by the government are forced to adopt the new system under UGC and State pressure. Online teaching would mean a reduction in overheads. This government seems unaware that education is dynamic, born through the contact of minds, not through screens and figures. It is not interested in higher forms of knowledge. Only those who can afford it would be able to go to private universities with in-person classes, thus deepening inequalities further. The National Education Policy, 2020 lays emphasis on maximizing enrolment and aims at full literacy and numeracy. It also opens up the route to vocational training very early. Marketable skills are certainly welcome, and the NEP clearly leans that way, if only routes — none obvious yet — are found to fulfil its glorious promises. But the path to higher education, to intellectual enquiry and research, is becoming narrow. Is India aiming at a literate population with no outstanding philosophers, scientists, historians, linguists or mathematicians?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
