29-05-2021||Opinion||Tug of war: Centre's IT rules||The slugfest over the new rules governing digital intermediaries has turned scrappy with the Narendra Modi government ready to rip the legal protection afforded to global social media platforms that have dared to trigger a debate over its brutal methods to quell free speech. Facebook-owned WhatsApp and Twitter have decided to dig their heels in and stand up to the intimidation. WhatsApp has filed a case in the Delhi High Court, challenging certain provisions of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 that require it to unmask originators of messages on its platform that the authorities deem to be offensive. Twitter sparked a flutter when it accused the government and its minions of trying to intimidate its officials in India after the platform tagged certain tweets of senior ruling party politicians under the ‘manipulated media’ rubric. The Jack Dorsey-owned firm enraged the government when it said it was ready to engage in constructive discussions with the government in order to remove the odious provisions in the new IT rules that it felt were designed to inhibit free speech. The Centre responded with a bellicose statement in which it questioned the locus of a for-profit, private company for having the temerity to suggest amendments to the laws of the land instead of abiding by them. The big beef is over the new rules that were framed on February 25 that require significant social media intermediaries — entities with a user base in India of over five million — to create a grievance redressal mechanism within a period of three months manned by officers based in the country to address complaints of users and take down content that is deemed objectionable. The social media platforms have baulked at the directive as they view this as a blatant attempt to strangle free speech. These intermediaries have often refused to heed orders to take down politically-coloured content or reveal the identities of those who posted them in the first place. WhatsApp has argued that it cannot do so because it uses end-to-end encryption to ensure that messages shared between two or more people remain private. The government has no patience with such scruples and has issued veiled threats to these platforms that they could end up jeopardizing the considerable revenues they earn from their local operations. Twitter has faced a lot of heat over its content moderation decisions in several jurisdictions, such as the United States of America, Singapore, Australia and the United Kingdom. The Indian government has argued that the laws relating to social media content in some of these countries are far more onerous. This assertion needs to be examined. The question is not over the wording of the legislation but the invidious intent that lurks behind it. Legal experts contend that Indian laws are so broadly framed that they will allow government agencies to act on mere suspicion and embark on fishing expeditions to ferret out and prosecute critics of the government and its policies. Both sides need to see reason and act with maturity; threats and accusations will benefit no one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
29-05-2021||Opinion||Odd claim: Prakash Javadekar says India to be fully vaccinated by Dec||Sir — It was both infuriating and amusing to read that the Union environment minister, Prakash Javadekar, has claimed that India will be fully vaccinated against Covid-19 by December. In the months since the vaccination drive was launched, a mere 14.5 per cent of the population have received their jabs. The Union government has made a mess of handling the Covid-19 crisis, including the manufacturing and administering of vaccines; on what grounds is its minister claiming that everyone will be vaccinated by the end of the year? In order for that to happen, vaccine production has to be increased manifold. Deeksha Roy,Mumbai Points to ponder Sir — It was interesting to read the report, “Kotak advises RBI to print more money” (May 28). In a recent interview, the president of the Confederation of Indian Industry and the managing director of the Kotak Mahindra Bank, Uday Kotak, urged the Narendra Modi government to provide another round of fiscal support aimed at protecting livelihoods, especially those of the weaker sections of Indian society. He argued that in the light of the widespread devastation caused by the second wave of Covid-19, now is not the time for either the government or companies to look at their financial balance sheets. There are several reasons why Kotak’s call for another round of fiscal relief packages, including the printing of money, is both timely and justified. On February 1, when the Union finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, presented the Union budget for the current financial year, it was assumed that the Indian economy had already seen the worst of Covid-19. It was considered a foregone conclusion that India’s gross domestic product would overcome all the loss it suffered in 2020-21 — when it contracted by around 8 per cent — and grow by over 12 per cent this financial year. However, both these assumptions proved to be off the mark. Owing to the vicious second wave of Covid-19, economists have been rapidly dialling down on India’s GDP growth forecasts. It is even possible that at the end of the current financial year in March 2022, India may not be able to get back to the absolute GDP levels it had in March 2020. Underwhelming GDP growth is a reflection of much greater distress in the economy. For one, while the second wave resulted in job losses and reduced wages across almost all income classes, it effectively made matters far worse for the poor. As a result, people are expected to severely cut down on their expenditure, especially on anything they consider non-essential. This, in turn, would delay, if not completely derail, the cornerstone of the government’s Covid-19 recovery strategy — getting fresh investments from corporate India. The key question facing the economy is, how will the demand deficit be addressed? As things stand, businesses will continue to hold back on investments because there is not enough consumer demand, and consumers will not demand more because they do not have enough income to spend. This is a vicious cycle, and it could get worse if the pace of the vaccination programme does not pick up or if there is a deadly third wave in the offing. Only one economic entity can break this cycle: the government. By providing additional direct monetary help to the poor and extending its existing schemes for collateral-free loans to small businesses, as Kotak has suggested, the government can arrest and reverse the slide. Khokan Das,Calcutta PARTING SHOT Sir — It was heartening to learn that the Kerala government has announced an initial lump sum of Rs 3 lakh for each child that has been left orphaned by the Covid-19 pandemic, and also a monthly payment of Rs 2,000 for each of them till they reach the age of 18. That is not all: the state has also said it will bear the cost of the education of these children up to the degree level (“Kerala orphan aid”, May 28). The Pinarayi Vijayan-led government must be thanked for this initiative. It will go some way in helping children whose lives have been torn apart by this deadly disease Sourish Misra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
29-05-2021||Opinion||Stirring unrest: 25 years of Princess Diana's death||Next year will mark the 25th anniversary of Princess Diana’s death, but, sadly, she is not being allowed to rest in peace. I enjoyed going on royal tours with Diana and Charles, but very early on I realized that being a full-time royal reporter is even more dangerous than becoming a war correspondent. Royal stories are circulation boosters. There is pressure from editors to come up with “scoops” at any cost, which is why royal reporters have to resort to quoting unidentified “insiders” and “friends”. The worst thing you can do is get a real scoop. It upsets jealous rivals. Martin Bashir’s BBC Panorama scoop was sensational — an exclusive interview in which Diana revealed “there were three of us in this marriage”, a reference to Prince Charles’s married mistress, Camilla Parker-Bowles. Bashir was born in London to Muslim Pakistani parents but converted to Christianity in his teens. His fatal, possibly criminal, mistake was to forge bank statements to gain access to Diana via her brother, Charles Spencer (who had refused to give his sister the shelter she requested when her marriage was under strain). Prince William condemned Bashir following last week’s damning report by former judge, Lord Dyson. There were two other Pakistanis in Diana’s life — the heart surgeon, Hasnat Khan, whom she considered marrying at one stage. And Diana’s friend, Jemima Khan, who took a salwar-clad princess to Pakistan to meet her then husband, Imran Khan, to see if an English-Pakistani marriage might work. Hasnat’s mother firmly quashed the idea. The BBC’s current director general, Tim Davie, has said that he will not broadcast Bashir’s Panorama interview in full again. But I am sure it will figure in a future Netflix drama. Like Marilyn Monroe, Diana, only 36 when she died, will forever be young and beautiful. Best kept secrets The author, Andrew Lownie, would be perfect for a literary festival in India. He is the author of The Mountbattens: Their Lives and Loves; the last British Viceroy of India and his wife, Edwina, had an open marriage. Lownie has been telling me about his protracted legal battle with Southampton University, which bought the diaries and letters of the Mountbattens but insists on keeping them secret, especially the material from 1947 and 1948, dealing probably with India and Pakistan and possibly Edwina’s relationship with Nehru. The Cabinet Office is behind the ban, although Lownie also detects the influence of the royal family. Lownie, who has spent £250,000 of his own money on his legal battle, says he suspects “Edwina’s letters and diaries will be more revealing, charting first reactions to Nehru and other Indian leaders, when and where she met Nehru, comments on political issues. It may reveal details of how they were not always impartial, information about Partition and the massacres. It may show their states of mind [in] 1947-1948 — they had been about to divorce and she was having a difficult menopause. There are rumours of him having an affair with an Indian Prince.” Home away from home Why are Tamilians so good at mathematics and science? It’s a question I put to Sir Shankar Balasubramanian, a professor of chemistry at Cambridge University, after his visit to Helsinki where he and Sir David Klenerman were awarded the one-million euro 2020 Millennium Technology Prize for their “development of revolutionary DNA sequencing techniques”. This will help with everything from cancer to Covid-19. Balasubramanian reckons it has more to do with “culture” than anything in the DNA. “I was born in Madras, now Chennai, in 1966,” he says. “I was nine months old when my parents migrated to the UK.” As an Indian he is not lonely at Trinity College, where Balasubramanian is a Fellow. “Of course, Venki (Nobel Laureate, Venkatraman Ramakrishnan) is at Trinity as well. Amartya Sen (also a Nobel Prize winner) is also a Fellow. (The Indian mathematical genius, Srinivasa) Ramanujan was at Trinity (from 1914-1919). Being in Cambridge and being in Trinity, you have a lot to live up to if you’re an Indian because there have been many great Indian scholars.” New ventures Normally when I talk to Mallika Basu, it is either about her cookbooks or her grandfather, Jyoti Basu. But this time she is promoting an enterprising venture by the young gun, Aadit Shankar, who read PPE at Oxford, abandoning a career in banking. Last week he started selling stuffed parathas (choice of potato or keema) with pickle and yoghurt at a counter at Selfridges. Aadit says: “My dad is from Bangalore, mum’s Punjabi, from Delhi. She’s a big influence on the recipes.” Footnote The Shakespeare plays you do at school stay with you. In my case, it was Julius Caesar in Patna and Twelfth Night in London. Now, owing to the Black Lives Matter movement — May 25 marked the first anniversary of George Floyd’s murder — even the Bard’s plays are under scrutiny. “Anti-racist Shakespeare” seminars are being held at the Globe theatre, built to resemble the Elizabethan venue for which the Bard wrote his plays. A Midsummer Night’s Dream endorses that “white is beautiful, that fair is beautiful, that dark is unattractive,” said actor and seminar speaker, Aldo Billingslea, making the play problematic from the first line, “Now, fair Hippolyta”. The project is especially relevant for a country like India where there is a premium on “fair complexioned brides” and a ready market for skin lightening creams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
29-05-2021||Opinion||Return of the local||In 2014, Narendra Modi resurrected a phenomenon that had been dormant in Indian politics for three decades. This was the national wave —‘Hindutva wave’ or ‘Modi wave’ as it was dubbed then — on the back of which the Bharatiya Janata Party swept two consecutive general elections as well as a host of states early in its first term. Ever since the Congress landslide of 1984, politics had progressively become ‘localized’ and revolved around a complex matrix of caste, region, religion and welfare. Power in Delhi was won by stitching together a phalanx of disparate parties on the basis of a ‘common minimum agenda’. All that changed as a dominant BJP constructed an electoral coalition, which, with the exception of southern India, cut across caste, class and region. The height of this national wave was the 2017 elections in Uttar Pradesh, which saw the BJP romp home with over a three-fourths majority, the biggest in almost four decades. Since then, however, this national wave has receded. With the exception of 2019, the BJP’s electoral returns have been patchy at best. Even before the Covid-19 crisis, the old political cleavages of Indian politics — caste and language — as well as relatively new ones — class and gender — have been, almost imperceptibly, pushing back towards the centre stage. But this halting and waning national wave might just have been taken off the tracks by the more ferocious wave of the pandemic.  After a heady phase where even state politics has tracked national sentiment, politics seems headed towards a more familiar localized form. In order to understand why, we must return to the making of the 2014 national wave, which has shaped politics ever since. It was made up of two components — Hindu nationalism and economic aspirations — both of them fused together and embodied in the leadership of Modi. While Hindu nationalism has rightly been the focus of much attention, it is often overlooked how the Modi mandate was made possible by the preceding two decades of rapid economic growth. This growth raised the horizon of expectations of the electorate, reflected in an assertive and enlarged new middle class. When these expectations were frustrated in the latter years of the United Progressive Alliance, they hitched their hopes on to Modi, voting across demographic lines on the basis of a ‘national narrative’ of Hindutva and socio-economic mobility. In the midst of his first term, realizing he couldn’t deliver the crores of jobs he promised, Modi tempered expectations by promising a new, less-ambitious bargain. The economic aspirations of the people would be fulfilled by an enabling State, which delivered tangible goods like cooking gas, toilets and bank accounts — what Arvind Subramanian and others have termed ‘new welfarism’. Along with this, the vested interests represented by the nexus of the corrupt elites — politicians, businessmen, intellectuals, bureaucrats, union leaders — would be vanquished, creating a modern, efficient State, putting India on the orbit of prosperity. This narrative of economic aspirations, which has been creaking under four years of economic slowdown, high unemployment, and, lately, de facto recession, is in complete tatters now. The unforgettably haunting images coming out of the second wave — dead bodies floating in rivers, people dying outside hospitals, dull-eyed relatives waiting in interminable lines for oxygen — have revealed an India that has transitioned, in the words of Yamini Aiyar, from a “flailing State” to a “failed State”. To anyone with a pair of functioning eyes and a reasonable grip of reality, India is not a ‘Vishwaguru’ or the next China; it is more comparable to Nigeria or Bangladesh. In fact, Bangladesh has better development indicators than those of India and has exceeded India on per capita income as well. Even the opium of religious nationalism can’t any longer obscure the gnawing reality that we appear today more of a ‘third world country’ than we ever did. Even when the health crisis subsides, the effects of the severe economic crisis brought on by the first and second waves are likely to last till the term of this government. In these times of economic uncertainty, the outlook of the ordinary Indian is bleak, a far cry from the bullish days of the early Modi years. In the face of a failing State, people become more dependent on kinship and caste networks as a means of socio-economic security. It wasn’t the State that was co-ordinating demands for injections, oxygen and hospital beds, but social and community networks. Similarly, when economic resources are perceived to be scarce, the competition between communities for public goods assumes a sharper edge. This shift of the dominant narrative from ‘aspiration’ to ‘security’ can reflect in political competition in two ways. One, it can heighten the salience of sub-ethnic identities, such as caste. The BJP’s cross-caste coalition, formed both on the basis of Hindu unity and shared economic mobility, has already been fraying with the exodus of dominant agrarian castes, such as the Jats in Haryana and the Marathas in Maharashtra. The steadily accumulating insecurity can tear this coalition further apart, with some of both dominant and non-dominant castes returning to their preferred political vehicles in order to bargain better for limited goods. And two, it can increase the salience of the local over the national. When the horizons of expectations shift to basic necessities like healthcare and ration, the patronage of the local pradhan or councillor assumes more importance over the high-pitched rhetoric or extravagant promises coming from Delhi. In the absence of a credible promise for socio-economic mobility, a Kashyap or a Jat villager in UP who might have voted for Modi in the 2017 ‘wave election’ might revert back to the trusted local strongman of his caste. Thus, the networks of the local elites are likely to, once again, become the critical driving force driving electoral outcomes in their constituency. It might be recalled here that the first breach in a nationally driven politics, in the general elections of 1967, came on the back of two successive droughts that had cratered growth and sent food prices skyrocketing. There were famine-like conditions in Bihar and eastern UP, the first time ever since Independence, and the country was pejoratively termed as leading a ‘ship to mouth’ existence. These were the conditions that brought the latent centrifugal forces of Indian politics — caste and language — to the fore and marked the decisive emergence of regional parties on the national stage. Some smaller parties, which might have been written off as anachronistic remnants half way into their political graves, might now see a revival. Consider the case of the Rashtriya Lok Dal, a party of Jats of western Uttar Pradesh. It was reduced to a single seat in the 2017 UP elections (even this lone MLA later shifted to the BJP) and was wiped out in 2019. The erstwhile patriarch of the party, Ajit Singh (now deceased from Covid-related illness), as well as his son, Jayant Chaudhary, failed to even defend their strongholds of Muzaffarnagar and Baghpat, respectively. This party is now on the upswing. If one goes by its surprisingly strong performance in the recent panchayat polls, on the back of some huge rallies during the farmers’ stir, the voter base of the party is drifting back towards it. The extraordinary performance of the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) in Bihar certainly attests to the palpable current of economic frustration among large sections of voters, enough to jump-start these smaller parties. This doesn’t mean that Hindutva is no longer the dominant ideology of the country. A long-term ideological re-alignment has indeed taken place over the last three decades and it will remain so in the foreseeable future. The BJP will also continue to enjoy its financial and organizational advantages. But if Hindutva alone could create a cross-caste solidarity or a national wave, the BJP would not have lost the 2004 or 2009 elections. Nor would it have been a marginal player in UP and Bihar for much of that decade. As Rahul Verma and I have argued, the ideological dominance of the BJP has preceded Modi, even as it has accelerated under him. The BJP’s national wave and its statewide manifestations were constructed on a narrative that could glue together the promise of economic prosperity with Hindutva under the leadership of Modi. Insofar as the second wave has destroyed the economic narrative and blunted the leadership appeal of Modi (who has come out looking not just incompetent but, worse, a cynical politician), the clock of Indian politics seems to be turning back to the pre ‘achche din’ era. The enduring weakness of the Congress means there is no counter national narrative, leaving the field open to regional and local politics. In 2017, Uttar Pradesh was the crowning apogee of the BJP’s national wave; next year, it might well prove to be its elegy. Asim Ali is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
