30-05-2021||Opinion||Twada privacy privacy, sadda privacy? ||When Rushdie created Reverend Mother Naseem, the all-knowing mother in Midnight’s Children who could enter her daughters’ dreams at will, he wasn’t thinking of end-to-end encryption. We, the readers, weren’t worried either. It is not a very improbable situation, as mothers and daughters all over the world and across generations will tell you. Only, in this case Rushdie’s mastery had taken the sting out of realism, made it magical and elicited the good laugh. The privacy battle between WhatsApp and the Government of India is a hoot too, only sadly so, given that it is we, the people, and our privacy that is at stake. That is all It is hilarious because on one end of this privacy tussle is the Facebook-owned messaging platform, all sanctimonious, invoking right to privacy. And on the other end is the ruling BJP, demanding a change in the way the app is encrypted, all in the name of cracking down on fake news. Union information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad even said: “We are not seeking the content of the WhatsApp message. We only say who started the mischief. And if it has come from abroad, who picked it up in India first. That is all.” Under the Carpet Such a song and dance about privacy, such complicated legal wrangles. Almost all countries have legislation about privacy, around privacy, continuously evolving stratagem to puncture privacy. There is even a day earmarked for data privacy and it is celebrated in the United States, Canada, Israel and 47 European countries. To get back to the WhatsApp-GoI tussle and its laughability, mind you, earlier this month Facebook came under fire for removing/restricting pro-Palestine posts on Instagram and Facebook. In April, it hid posts with the hashtag “ResignModi”. It will not do to forget how the Adityanath-led BJP government in Uttar Pradesh has been cracking down on posts flagging Covid-19 treatment related complaints or pleas for help. When a man in UP’s Amethi tweeted saying he needed an oxygen cylinder, an FIR was lodged against him. And reportedly, the IT ministry working on instructions from the home ministry had Facebook and other social media platforms remove posts critical of the Centre’s handling of the pandemic. This is the same government that pulled up Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal for live-streaming his meeting with PM Narendra Modi on the state’s Covid-preparedness. Reverend Mother Naseem breached her daughters’ dreams, true, but she did not act on the information. She contained the secrets within her person, kept swelling in the process, becoming dangerously stretched. Rushdie, rather cleverly, called the chapter ‘Under The Carpet’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
30-05-2021||Opinion||Hello, Goodbye. See you, Sometime.||Come, you gone one, do come. Feel at home. This is where you belong. In the elements, in my elements. Do not think me water alone. I am water but not water alone. I am many things. So many that I have lost count. So many that you shall have to count. For you have made me this countless thing. You are the one. You believe it is I, but you it is who it is. My maker. You it is who made this thing of me that I did never begin as. I began as a stream, you made a river out of me. Glory be! What a river. A river of what things! Save me, save me from myself, from what I have become. Or what you made of me. You made of me a deity, of me, a prancing unbridled thing without a care, of me virginal and of my careless velocity, a thing such as no other thing, a thing that arrived and was gone, and thing that never ceased, not to arrive, not to depart, and a thing that forever shone of pristine things, such a thing I was. And what a thing you made of me. A deity. The licence became all yours, the responsibilities all mine. All your licentious things you came and lumped onto me, all your filth, your lies and your sins, your excretions and exculpations, the blood you drew, the sweat you extracted, the tears you wrung from unconsoled hearts, the noxious carbons you abandoned in hapless palpitating souls, all of it. That is what you made of me. Deity, Maa, Benevolent Receptacle of Effluence, I am, now, Effluence. I have received enough. Look at me. But don’t look at me. I may no longer look the shape of a river. Not here. Not now. I may look some other shape. But that’s only now. Look at me. But do not look at me. This is not me. This is not who I am. This is not how I look like. This is not the shape of my course. But this is the course of the shape I am now. Look at me. But don’t look at me. I am not me. I am now what you made of me. You cannot bear to look? But of course you cannot bear to look. Who can bear to look at how you look in my waters. Look into my waters, and don’t shut your eyes. Look, and you shall see yourself. But who can bear to look at themselves, when it is my waters they are looking at themselves in? They do say, don’t they, that it is tough to see your face in boiling waters? My waters are boiling. Look at me. Or don’t look at me. You can’t look at me. Before you come to look at me, much before your gaze arrives upon me, you will see things that will drive you away from me. The approach to me is no longer an approach, it is a prohibition. I do not have a bank, or banks; what I have on either side is bankruptcy. Look at what used to be my banks and you shall understand. It is all dead currency, wasted stuff, of no use any longer. Or perhaps there is use, but it is not use that I may be able to explain to you. Will converse with dogs and vultures if I were to explain the uses of things that now lie on my banks. I am to learn their tongue. Fortunately that will be easy, to find a tutor in the language of wanton predators. Such is this time, a time of predators in plenty. Ignore my entreaty, violate my plea. Do look at me. This is how I have been made to look. Do not believe this is me. I am not this. I am not a shape. I am not a figure. I am not static. But I have been made to look all of these things: a shape, a figure, a static thing. I am not this, although it is true I look like this. For no fault of mine. It is me you drink I am the purest of the impure I know not what you think No more my business what you endure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
30-05-2021||Opinion||Demolition squad||In Archive Fever: A Freudian Impression, Jacques Derrida wrote, “[e]ffective democratization can always be measured by this essential criterion: the participation in and access to the archive, its constitution, and its participation.” These words, rather premonitory and prudent, further shake the intellectual conscience at a time when the Annexe building of the National Archives of India along with the National Museum and the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts are ready to be demolished. This move by the Centre is to make way for the Central Vista project that proposes to build a new Parliament building and new residences for the prime minister and the vice-president. The demolition of the NAI Annexe building entails a serious risk involving the transfer of historical records from old repositories to new, temporary storehouses. It has invoked resentment among various sections of society — in India and abroad — as archives are not only central to the scholarly enterprise but also markers of active civic endeavour in a democratic society. Meanwhile, the Union minister of culture, Prahlad Singh Patel, has assured that the main Lutyens’-style building of the NAI that houses the ‘majority’ of the repositories will not be affected by the Central Vista project and, hence, resistance against the demolition is unnecessary. The NAI, the largest repository of historical documents, has been serving scholarly and intellectual needs of the country for the last 130 years. It came into existence in Calcutta in 1891 as the Imperial Record Department with a staff consisting of one keeper and eight clerks. Following the transfer of the colonial capital from Calcutta, it was shifted to Delhi in 1911 and was later rechristened the National Archives of India on August 30, 1947. As a custodian of public records, it preserved various government documents from different spaces and times. The holdings of the NAI constitute the records and treatises of the East India Company, the records of various departments of the government of colonial India placed under the governor-general that include public/general/home department (1764-1879, 1881-1946), residency records (1801-1954), foreign consultations (1860-1905), the governor-general’s secretariat’s records (1890-1949), among other documents. The NAI’s cartography section houses more than one lakh maps, including some rare and confidential maps related to various parts of India and 30 other countries, such as Afghanistan, Pakistan, Bhutan, Myanmar, Nepal, Tibet, and China, from as early as 1600 AD. The NAI also has a private archives section, which has in its custody an extensive collection of private papers of historical significance. These papers are acquired either as gifts or donations from various trusts, families, and individuals or are bought by the purchase committee of the Indian Historical Records Commission. The Oriental Division, another important part of the NAI, preserves around 1.3 lakh Persian, Arabic and Urdu documents in the form of manuscripts, parwanas (permits), farmans (royal decrees), and bai’namas (sale deeds) and various official Mughal documents from the period of Aurangzeb (1657-1707) to Shah Alam II (1759-1806), one of the major transitional periods in Indian history. Since Independence, the NAI has been expanding and preserving public records of the post-1947 period as well, covering major episodes in the formative years of independent India. These include documentations related to major political happenings, such as the transfer of power from the British, attainment of Independence, Partition, property claims of Partition immigrants, rehabilitation, integration of the princely states into the Indian republic, framing and adoption of the Constitution and the liberation of colonies from France and Portugal. It evolved from a colonial organization of record-keeping for administrative convenience to a postcolonial repository of historical documents/rare manuscripts and an institution of knowledge-production in India. The NAI complex has two portions: the old Lutyens’ building and the Annexe building, which would be demolished. The old building serves as the administrative block and accommodates Repository numbers 2, 3 and 4. These three repositories house the documents of the post-1857 period. The Annexe building houses Repository number 1 (preserving documents from 1748 to 1857 in a regular series), the Oriental section, the Private Archive section and the Accession Records section where newly-acquired documents are stored before being catalogued. The records of Repository number 1 and the Cartography section are very old and, naturally, most of the records are very delicate and brittle. The Oriental section in the NAI is already grappling with such issues as administrative apathy and intellectual negligence that have grotesquely stunted its functioning. The factors contributing to this indifference are numerous. The non-acquaintance of archivists and of new scholars with Persian, Sanskrit and Urdu records, most of which are in the Shikasta script, is a principal problem. The problem has been confounded further with the NAI’s decision to acquire manuscripts and documents in regional languages especially after 1950. Consequently, the holdings of the NAI have increased enormously without a corresponding rise in expertise of archivists in those scripts and languages. This restricts their engagement with these records. The end result of this gap between acquisitions and available expertise has led to the locking up of some of the rare documents in Persian, Urdu, Arabic, Sanskrit, Prakrit, Tamil, Malayalam, and Modi (records from Maharashtra). The transfer of these records in the absence of staff possessing linguistic skills is not only an onerous job but also portends intellectual alarm. In this context, it must be noted that some important series of documents that were recently acquired and kept in the Accession section in the basement of the Annexe building are still awaiting cataloguing. Some of them — six lakh documents pertaining to the pensions of freedom fighters, ten lakh claim files of post-Partition immigrants from Pakistan, a huge bulk of military records and those of the Archaeological Survey of India — need to be catalogued to augment further research in these fields. Additionally, newspapers like the Jam-i-Jahan Numa, the first printed Urdu newspaper in India that is preserved in the NAI, are yet to be catalogued. The dearth of regular staff and the vastly diminishing capacity of archivists to read the languages and scripts in which the materials are preserved are two most visible reasons for such a lapse. The demolition of this building, therefore, would put innumerable such documents at the risk of getting lost or damaged on account of being mishandled by inexperienced hands. The documents also face a larger menace: of being damaged by environmental threats or falling prey to microorganisms, termites and white ants if physical conditions like temperature, humidity and access to light are not maintained at standard levels in the new storing places. A sense of urgency has emerged because the officials working in the NAI are yet to receive any plan of action for the safe transfer of records to a place that fulfils the pre-requisite environmental conditions for safe storage, even though digging for the Central Vista project has begun on the Rajpath in spite of the pandemic. Any arbitrary or hasty transfer can lead to loss and mismanagement of records. They would then be unavailable for scholars who are already inconvenienced because of limited access to records due to the pandemic. The statement by the Union minister of culture might appear impressive but it does not invalidate the concerns about the transfer of records following the demolition of the Annexe building. It is pertinent to understand that museums, libraries, archives create and preserve national identity and contribute to the democratic stability. The NAI, having a long history of its own and marked by the complexities of its time, symbolizes the entangled histories of India. Therefore, proper consultation with and participation from archivists, historians, and librarians should be sought before muddling with the existing order of the historical records. The author is Assistant Professor in History, AMU||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
30-05-2021||Opinion||New Assam chief minister is ushering in a new work culture ||The re-elected Bharatiya Janata Party-led government in Assam has hit the ground running. With the first-time chief minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, sticking to his there-is-no-tomorrow work schedule as in the past, most of his cabinet colleagues, too, are seen trying to match his pace. The new set of ministers are travelling much more than their predecessors, holding regular review meetings, setting deadlines and fixing responsibilities to meet their targets. Few also act tough in front of the cameras. This is not all. With ministers working without keeping an eye on the clock, the workload of senior bureaucrats has also increased. Deputy commissioners and designated additional deputy commissioners, too, have reportedly been asked to be proactive. They have been tasked with visiting hospitals during odd hours every day to ensure that Covid-19 patients get proper care. Senior doctors are on night shift for Covid duty. Sarma himself visits hospitals at around 2-2.30 am, and even calls up hospital managements across the state at odd hours to get feedback on the Covid situation. Government insiders say that they have not seen such energy before and hope that this dispensation ushers in the right work culture, something the state has always lacked. A man in a hurry, Sarma’s avowed goal is to ensure Assam’s place among the top five states in the country. The journey started on May 10, the day he took oath. Most hope this is not a false dawn. Edged out of the BJP, Ram Madhav appears to be trying his best to remain relevant and possibly bounce back. The former high-profile BJP general secretary was dropped in a party reshuffle and shunted back to the parent body, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. His exclusion was seen as a reflection of the current regime’s annoyance with his style of functioning. However, instead of sulking, Madhav seems to be striving to please the bosses. Madhav has been regularly writing newspaper articles, aimed at hailing and defending the Narendra Modi government. Recently, he argued firmly in favour of Modi’s pet project, the Central Vista. Critics have been slamming Modi for going ahead with the ‘vanity’ project, instead of using the money to save lives threatened by the pandemic. Madhav, in one of his articles, termed the Vista project a matter of “pride and necessity”. He is even liking and re-tweeting posts by BJP leaders, some of whom are said to have played a role in shunting him out. In another article on the completion of two years of Modi 2.0, Madhav devoted the majority of his words to shower praise on Modi’s leadership; but in conclusion, he sought to advise that the PM should put “greater focus on decentralism and cooperative federalism...” Here, Madhav seems to have erred badly, since the Opposition has already been accusing Modi of centralizing power and being dictatorial towards states. The Shiv Sena, often attacked by the BJP for compromising on its ideology by joining hands with the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party, has hit back hard by asking for the views of the RSS chief, Mohan Bhagwat, on the dead bodies floating in the Ganga and buried in the sand on riverbanks. The Shiv Sena leader, Sanjay Raut, expressed outrage at Bhagwat’s silence on the disposal of bodies without last rites being performed, saying that it should be a major concern for Hindus. ‘It is as important an issue as Ram temple in Ayodhya. Why is RSS chief silent? Is he not speaking on such a critical religious issue because of politics reasons?’ Raut asked.  What the Shiv Sena is trying to point out is that the RSS cannot be treated as the representative of Hindus and that all its activities are guided by political considerations. Even BJP leaders have not spoken a word on the bodies strewn on the riverbanks. This happened in Uttar Pradesh, where the sangh parivar’s beloved, Yogi Adityanath, is chief minister. Photographs from Prayagraj, Kanpur, Unnao and Varanasi were used the world over to stress the enormity of the Covid crisis in India. But the UP government remained in denial and avoided any debate on the violation of religious code. Some commentators from the RSS-BJP ecosystem tried to offer silly reasoning like bodies being buried in sand or thrown in the Ganga were not new practices and happened in the past as well. But nobody bought that logic and saw this as failure of the ‘Modi-Yogi double engine’. The Opposition has started using this as a major political plank to puncture the BJP’s Hindutva politics, arguing that the party failed to come to the rescue of Hindus as well. That the PM had said that he was called to Varanasi by Ma Ganga is also being highlighted by the Opposition as the riverbed along his constituency is now dotted with such shallow graves. The recent poll debacle has left the Congress further divided in Kerala where a massive campaign is on to replace the state party president, Mullappally Ramachandran. The man-in-waiting to replace him is the Lok Sabha member, K Sudhakaran, whose stock has been rising within party ranks since the run-up to the state polls. Once popular mostly in northern districts, Sudhakaran — who, like his arch rival, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, hails from Kannur — has been garnering enough support in the southern districts mainly on account of his fiery oratory skills and courage to play hardball against a strong Communist Party of India (Marxist). Yet there are those who feel he would be too much of a shift from the party’s previous chiefs because of his brazen style of functioning. But only the Congress rank and file know how badly they need to rejuvenate the party and not leave any vacuum for the BJP that has been waiting in the wings for long. Although many have been seeking a change of leadership in Karnataka, citing inadequate Covid management, the pandemic seems to be helping the CM, BS Yediyurappa, hold on to the chair. At 78 years, the Lingayat strongman has already crossed the age barrier to be either sent to some Raj Bhavan or consigned to the dreaded margdarshak mandal that stalwarts like LK Advani were dumped into. With the support of some diehard loyalists in the cabinet, Yediyurappa seems set to be cruising for now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
30-05-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Lives in question||Religion and morality are formative concepts in society, imagined as abstract principles. Yet there is nothing abstract or equal about their formulation, since they often restrict women’s freedom. The debate over women’s right to abortion demonstrates this conflict clearly. The fact that the United States of America should be one of its most turbulent sites underlines how certain human rights — the woman’s right over her own body — can still be put to question in a progressive, democratic and scientifically-minded country. It is understandable that pro-life groups should uphold the rights of the unborn, some claiming that life begins with fertilization and it is sinful or immoral to terminate it. That is as much of an opinion as that of pro-choice groups which assert women’s right to end a pregnancy. But the conflict is compounded when the two sides are identified with opposing political parties and courts decide to think again as well. Thus it is disconcerting for pro-choice groups and for those Americans — 59 per cent according to a Pew survey — who wish abortion to be legal under most circumstances that the Supreme Court has agreed to take up a crucial case on the matter next term. The Dobbs vs Jackson Women’s Health Organization case originated in a Mississippi law that banned the termination of pregnancy after 15 weeks except in cases of medical emergency, not even rape or incest. This legislation challenges the 1973 ruling in the Roe vs Wade case which allows termination till a foetus is able to exist independently outside the womb, that is, around 24 weeks. The Supreme Court had marked this as a Constitutional right, linked to the right to privacy. The conservative thrust against termination was intensified in the Donald Trump years, when anti-abortion laws — some proposing full bans — were promulgated with increasing frequency by the states of the south and the mid-west. Now that the Supreme Court has six conservative judges and three liberal ones, pro-choice groups have reason to worry. The proliferation of anti-abortion laws — unconstitutional according to the 1973 ruling — is one manifestation of the divisions wrought by Republican rule. India, where women’s rights are endangered in daily life, yet has a forward-looking abortion law. The problems here are different. Poverty and concealment often prompt women to go for unsafe abortions, and sex selection, although outlawed, leads to female foeticide. But misuse of a law can be corrected; restricting or banning termination by law cannot. In the US, much will depend on the Supreme Court’s handling of the Dobbs case. The danger lies in the possibility of sharper social conflict, deeper political division and the limiting of women’s rights. That the US president, Joe Biden, has released a budget that, for the first time in 30 years, does not ban federal funding for abortions makes the Democratic position on termination clear. The outcome will show where the American Dream places the woman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
30-05-2021||Opinion||Unfriendly facts: Friends reunion||Sir — The world hung on to every word uttered in the Friends reunion episode aired recently. But for some of those who had enjoyed watching the show as youngsters, the episode was a long, painful reminder of how white privileges are taken for granted and all the other problems that the show tried to normalize — the body-shaming of a younger Monica, or the male characters’ homophobia, and the lack of racial diversity — are just some of the instances that make socially aware individuals cringe. The ‘friends’ said they will not reunite again — we can only be grateful. S. Banerjee, Calcutta Sir — The editorial, “Tug of war” (May 29), rightly pointed out that in the war of words between the Indian government and social media giants, such as Twitter, “[b]oth sides need to see reason and act with maturity; threats and accusations will benefit no one.” The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 have proved to be a bone of contention between tech companies and the Indian government. The battle has now reached the Delhi High Court, with WhatsApp filing a lawsuit challenging some provisions of the rules as unconstitutional and inimical to the privacy of individuals. Under the new IT rules, social media platforms like Twitter are required to process official requests for content removal within 36 hours, failing which could expose their local employees to legal action, including seven years of imprisonment. If the firms fail to obey the new rules, they run the risk of losing their “intermediary” status in the country. This status protects them from being prosecuted for objectionable posts made on their websites. In the recent past we have seen the government block the Chinese app, TikTok. Many fear that Twitter will suffer the same fate. One hopes the case will reach a consensus wherein balance can be maintained between the country’s interests and individuals’ rights. Ashoke Basu,South 24 Parganas  Sir — If social media sites like Twitter are banned in the country for taking a stand regarding the fundamental rights of Indian citizens, then India will no longer have the right to call itself a democracy. The new IT rules are not just autocratic but they also reveal a lack of understanding about how the internet works. The latter revelation is worrying for more than one reason. If this is the awareness that our policymakers have about the world wide web, how will they frame laws that protect the interests of Indians? The data privacy law, if and when it comes into effect, must be framed by independent experts and should include provisions that protect citizens from the government’s excesses as well. Internet rights, in the future, must be treated as fundamental rights. Piyali Patranobis,Calcutta Sir — If there is one lesson this last week has taught me it is that there is nothing certain about life. One minute you are sitting with your family, laughing over an old joke, and the very next minute, you might find the most unexpected person in the room battling for survival. The pandemic is like a giant tsunami that has swept everyone off their feet. Times are such that one cannot even provide friends and family a shoulder to cry on. Hugs have become virtual. So has grief. Grief is a funny thing; the realization that you cannot hear from a person ever again brings with it an emptiness that can be numbing. Grief is not as simple a process as it is thought to be. Science says there are five stages of grief; yet, in the last few weeks, I have experienced so many different stages of grief and there is definitely no sequence, no order to them. All the pain reverberates inside us, whether we acknowledge it or not. This reminds us more than ever before to be thankful for every breath we take. But people must also be told that it is alright to feel remorseful about being alive. Do whatever you have to in order to get through the day because this too shall pass. Gitanjali Sharma, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
