31-05-2021||Opinion||Run for life’s sake||Governments go out of their way to keep liquor shops open or permit home delivery of alcohol when lockdowns strike. But a morning walk or a run is no-no. In the first case, the State has revenue at stake. In the second, a health-conscious individual offers only notional gains to the State or the economy. The Covid-19 wave of 2021 is different in that the majority of the infected are asymptomatic. From among the asymptomatic-infected, those that tested positive, largely quarantined at home and recovered. A mild infection may (among other reasons) point to underlying good health. Maintaining good health is a sensible precaution against the onset of disease and when disease strikes, it helps minimize its impact. Since we can confirm infection only by testing and since not everyone tests, the asymptomatic segment acquired hues of a ghost in our midst carrying the virus. Walkers, runners and cyclists were sent home because even if they were healthy or trying to be so, they could be transmitting the virus. Hence the crackdown. Similar enthusiasm wasn’t there in probing the comorbidities, habits, addictions and lifestyle-related problems that enhance vulnerability to infection. How are these conditions acquired? It is the elephant in the room nobody likes noticing. Sample, for instance, the altered social status of stress. Our tryst with stress commences in school. Academics dominates; sports enjoy no priority. It’s just the beginning. Awaiting is India’s marriage market, which values the prospect of sky-high success in candidates. Pursuit of career, status, wealth and property follow. We now know that stress — it affects immunity — is no longer the fashionable accessory of success we once liked to flaunt. Stress doesn’t get meaningfully discussed because doing so demands questioning the role of money in life, the nature of our jobs, the social units we live in, the insecurities they attract, the purpose of life and so on. Such inquiry exposes the rat race India authored for itself, courtesy the matrix of high population and the feudal yardsticks for deciding success. It is an unhappy mire bogging down many. Yet, the inability to find meaning in it is rarely admitted. Doing so is seen as unmanly and, of late, unpatriotic. The easier option (as witnessed during lockdown) is to deny those trying to de-stress or invest in health their rights and cage them as carriers of the virus. Through the lockdown of 2020 and the lockdowns by other names of 2021, the enforcers rarely mentioned mental health. Depression’s toll remains unknown. Governments promote the notion that India behind closed doors is unquestionably happy. In media interviews, top healthcare industry officials, when asked of the paradigm shifts caused by Covid-19, highlighted the promise of medical insurance and digital health missions. Few emphasized easily accessed preventive measures — like physical activity — that augment health at little added cost. Then, there is the dispute of outdoors versus indoors. Right from the first wave (2020), it was reported — more in foreign countries, where the active lifestyle is on secure footing — that the risk of catching the virus while engaged in physical activity outdoors isn’t as high as indoors provided safety protocols like physical distancing are followed. The second wave in Mumbai was characterized by more cases in apartment complexes and high rises. On April 26, a senior Central government official was quoted in the media advising the use of mask at home too. If you look for the culprits triggering the second wave, you will notice that the list includes indoor gatherings like weddings. And lest you argue that the Kumbh Mela was held outdoors or that Covid-19 has reached the Everest base camp, let me add: an active lifestyle rarely comes with that fanatic attitude associated with religion. As for the virus at the EBC: it should have been avoided but don’t forget the context — Everest is business; where money rules the imagination, distorted priorities follow. Within days of Section 144 declared in Maharashtra and life reduced to essentials, slices of Mumbai media included walkers, joggers and cyclists among those allegedly disrespecting the new norms. Sure, they disrespect norms if they are out in groups. But barring exceptions, that wasn’t the trend during the second wave. People venturing out were much fewer than before. Those who walked, ran or cycled typically did so alone and kept distance from others. The website, Scroll, reported that being physically active enhances antibody count after vaccination. Why then do we discourage the culture of being physically active? Going forward, this must change. A morning walk or run is a less damaging fix than State-supported alcohol dependency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
31-05-2021||Opinion||Difficult line: Higher education||The enthusiasm for online education — several caveats notwithstanding — seems to be infectious. Last year, the University Grants Commission, which oversees matters related to higher education and academic standards, directed all institutions of higher education to offer 40 per cent of their non-technical courses online on a government-mandated platform. In 2017, the figure was 20 per cent. Now, the UGC has gone a giant step further. It has put forth a proposal that will allow universities to offer up to 80 per cent of any non-technical academic programme online. If the previous directive were not indication enough that universities are expected to comply with the ‘proposal’, the latest suggestion makes it painfully clear. The move does not augur well for the quality and efficacy of higher education in India. Students, teachers and faculties have expressed their apprehension that the staggered increase in the pace of online learning actually reflects the government’s intention to cut expenditure on higher education even further. This fear is not without basis: higher education outlay had dropped by over Rs 1,000 crore in the Union budget earlier this year. Further, the newest proposal throws into sharper focus the Central government’s disregard for the plight of students in vast swathes of the country who have little or no access to essential aids for an online curriculum such as computers, smartphones and steady internet connections. The National Education Policy 2020, unsurprisingly, has an evangelical attitude towards online learning. But the question of access and the stark digital divide have been ignored. It must also be asked why the UGC — tasked, as it is, with upholding standards of excellence in academia — seems to be turning a blind eye to the fears expressed by teachers about the inevitable negative impact on the quality of teaching if online classes were to gradually replace in-person teaching in the near future. This sudden indifference to classroom teaching only reveals this regime’s instrumental approach towards education and knowledge. The classroom, after all, is a space that transcends the learning process. It encourages critical thinking — a rare resource in an authoritarian polity — besides improving learning outcomes. The online medium can only supplement the classroom experience, not replace it. Perhaps India’s rulers, known for discouraging independent thinking, find the kind of thriving, collaborative ambience that is ideal for India’s higher educational institutions somewhat undesirable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
31-05-2021||Opinion||Grave error: Modi govt scales up oxygen export||Sir — Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has accused the Narendra Modi-led government of scaling up oxygen exports in the midst of the pandemic, without bolstering India’s capacity to meet its own oxygen requirements first (“Priyanka spotlights oxygen export jump”, May 30). If this accusation is true, it is a grave error on the part of the government. Its vaccine diplomacy has already left India in serious trouble with a majority of the population not getting access to vaccines. While it is always important to help those in need, this should not happen at the cost of the lives of Indian citizens. The government must come up with an answer. Abhirup Bhattacharjee,Calcutta Match winner Sir — People feel that the Bengal elections signify the victory of Mamata Banerjee over Narendra Modi, Amit Shah and indeed the entire sangh parivar. But it is much more than that. It is a victory of knowledge over ignorance, of truth over lies, of history over myth and of the principle of unity in diversity over polarization. In this context, it must be asked what do politicians like Asaduddin Owaisi hope to achieve by contesting from places like Bengal, Bihar and Maharashtra where they have no chances of winning? People of Bihar who fell for his rhetoric lost out on the promise of jobs made by the Rashtriya Janata Dal leader, Tejashwi Yadav; people in Uttar Pradesh made a similar mistake. Independent candidates — be they from any religion or caste — should not seek to divide the electorate. I served this country not just as an air force officer but also as a sportsperson. What Modi and company forgot, in essence, was that ‘khela’ in Bengal is associated primarily with football and we footballers are great fighters, not sycophants. Banerjee’s battle was copybook football, that too played with one leg. I challenge the Bharatiya Janata Party to succeed on its own in any state without the help of the ‘godi’ media and the ego of Opposition parties who contest elections where they have no hopes of winning. I am also surprised at the sycophancy of administrative and police officers, who obey the orders of their political masters even though they know these to be unconstitutional. I once refused to carry out an unlawful order by a sports minister as the regional director of the Sports Authority of India. I paid a price for this, but I did not bow down to the minister. If I were a serving officer today, I would have resigned, and I salute the brave administrative service officers who have done so. S.S. Hakim,Gulbarga, Karnataka Let it rain Sir — In a glimmer of hope for farmers reeling from cyclones along both coastlines, the southwest monsoon has made a timely entrance for the second consecutive year. An evenly distributed monsoon can ensure that farmers sow long-term crops like paddy, sugar cane, red gram and other pulses to increase their income. However, efforts must also be made to harvest India’s abundant monsoons so that farmers have access to irrigation all year round. B.D. Gupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
31-05-2021||Opinion||Tinted frames: Indian economy||The Reserve Bank of India’s annual report for 2020-21 agrees with the forecasts made about the rate of economic growth for the Indian economy at a negative 8 per cent for the year. The economy had pulled itself out of a technical recession in the third quarter of 2020-21 by registering a small but positive growth. For the current year, 2021-22, the forecast for growth remains at around 10.5 per cent. The RBI seems unduly optimistic, claiming that it expects that any adverse impact on the economy due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic will be contained by July. This is against the macroeconomic backdrop of a major lag in the vaccination programme, rising unemployment, surplus capacity in manufacturing with extremely sluggish demand, inflationary pressures in food and fuel items, a sharp contraction in household sector savings — from 21 per cent to 8.1 per cent — and a badly mauled services sector. The RBI’s argument for a quick economic recovery revolves around the need for greater private investments. Hence, it will continue to support economic growth in terms of an accommodative monetary policy. It will find ways and means of keeping interest rates from rising significantly despite inflationary pulls. For investments to gather momentum, investors must be confident about the state of affairs in the economy, especially the growth of demand for goods and services. They can also respond positively to any major public investment drive; for instance, through the creation of physical infrastructure like public health facilities. However, the core problem remains that consumers are not only lacking confidence about future jobs and incomes but also suffering from reduced earnings. They are, as the official data suggest, drawing on their stock of past savings. The only way out is the countercyclical fiscal policy of transferring resources to the household sector, especially for the middle classes and the poor. Leaving the states to raise their borrowing will not suffice, since those in poor fiscal health will refrain from doing so. The Central government has to come up with the necessary revival package. Uday Kotak’s recent comment makes a lot of sense. This is the time to expand deficit financing by borrowing from the RBI. The alternative is a likely collapse into deep depression. In that case, the nation’s financial ratings will fall below the investment grade. The urgency of the need for stimulating demand is something that the policymakers cannot see, or perhaps refuse to admit that it can be a solution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
31-05-2021||Opinion||Digital ennui is here||The word, ‘alternative’, while signifying another choice, is almost always suggestive of the premonition that the choice wouldn’t be as good as the option we are having to forego. Yet, we take it as the best way out, assuring ourselves that the difference between the two would be nullified by avoiding the prospect of availing neither of them. However, it doesn’t take long for the illusion to dissolve. You soon realize that for all its merits and simulations, it’s only an alternative, with all its attendant faults and failings. By then, there’s no opportunity of going back; so you slog through the ordeal. Dead end As a deadly pandemic descended upon the country and we closed down our educational institutions, it seemed as if the entire system were staring at a dead end. Alternatives began to crop up soon enough in the form of an entire panoply of platforms, such as ‘Meet’, ‘Zoom’, ‘Teams’ and so on. We were impressed with the range of features, from the liberty to switch on audio and video at will to recording the class without fuss. The general perplexity at the overall disruption gave way to a new-found amazement at the ability of the online medium to not only replicate, to a certain degree, the ambience of a classroom but also do away with locational divisions. The earlier ritual of journeying to an institution, assembling at a fixed place, attending classes and then trudging back home now transformed to keeping an eye out for the class link to be sent by the class representative and then swiftly entering the virtual classroom. A boring lecture could be avoided by simply removing the earphones. The seamless replication of the physical classroom on these platforms and the sprinkling of additional, unique benefits did create a favourable impression initially. But it didn’t take long for us to realize that online classes are a chimera. True, lectures take place, students interact, and features like the digital whiteboard or screen-sharing are conducive to illustration. Yet, this mode of teaching also leads to the rapid dwindling of interest in the methods of teaching and learning. Physical classes not only facilitate direct interaction between teacher and students but also deepen the engagement among students. Online classes, on the other hand, alienate students from the essence of learning and interaction. The result is the deepening of an ennui, which congeals into an aversion towards the entire modus operandi of education in the new normal. Derailed In the long run, one would have to accept that online education platforms are a singularly despairing alternative to the physical classroom, which, in spite of its limitations, appears irreplaceable. Online education will not be going away anytime soon. But whether online education remains in line with requirements is a question that even ardent proponents of the medium would hesitate to answer in the affirmative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
31-05-2021||Opinion||Season of death||The attack by Israel on the al-Jalaa building on May 15 where Al Jazeera’s office was located along with other offices has since been widely denounced by citizens, international agencies and media organizations from all continents. The multi-storied building came tumbling down, leaving many dead and wounded. The media house, Al Jazeera, was given barely an hour’s notice to vacate the building before the attack.  The heinous act has its roots in a 73-year-old decision to create Israel as a country for Jews who had been without a homeland for centuries. The idea of a Jewish homeland, Zion, was articulated by Theodor Herzl in his book, Der Judenstaat (1896), which soon became the early-twentieth-century credo for Zionism. It was in May 1948 that Israel was carved out as a country for Jews from all over the world, leading to the forced displacement of some 700,000 Arabs. The phenomenon of making such a huge number of people homeless to create a home for others who had been historically homeless and scattered was captured in the popular imagination by the Arabic term, nakba. It means a great catastrophe or a phenomenal disaster. Initially, the term was used from the perspective of the Palestinian Arabs. Subsequently, as the conflict between the Palestinian Arabs and the Israeli Jews acquired local tones and a different texture in international diplomacy, the term was pressed into service to depict — quite ironically — the plight of Israeli victimhood. Today nakba or naxba — it is spelt both ways — is understood neither exclusively as Arab victimhood nor entirely as Israeli victimhood. May 15, which marks the anniversary of the nakba, was chosen for the attack so that it conveyed a clear message to the community of nations. The symbolism was not about the selfhood of the Jewish homeland. It was, unfortunately, more about the ascendancy of the rightist politics. It was about the normalization of violence and genocide; and it was also about twisting history in which dominance by force itself becomes a moral validation for action. It is sad, although not surprising, that Zionism has been held by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh as worthy of emulation in an India on its disastrous way to becoming a Hindu rashtra. The Arabic word, naxba, brings to one’s mind another Arabic term, nauba. That, too, means a catastrophe, a disaster, or a situation or a condition inviting catastrophe. In time, the Arabic, nauba, became naubat in Persian and is in use in Hindi, Marathi and Gujarati with similar meanings. The difference between the two terms is that while nakba refers to the silent pain and suffering caused by a numbing catastrophe, nauba brings home woe and wailing in anticipation of an impending catastrophe. The entire months of April and May 2021 have the character of an unparalleled naubat in India. Switch on a television channel, open a newspaper or a magazine, or pick up the phone and call a friend, you will notice this shroud of naubat enveloping the words that come to you. Quite clearly, we are in the middle of a calamity, the scale of which has no precedence in known history. The coronavirus pandemic has affected nearly three crore persons. Over the last few days around two lakh new cases are being reported daily. One hopes that this number does not rise to seven to eight lakh everyday by mid-June as is being predicted by experts. We are not thinking of the third phase as yet, although there is near certainty that another deadly phase may affect India. Some recent media investigations indicate that the actual number of casualties is many times more than the official number of deaths during the second wave of Covid-19; but even the compacted official statistics are frightening. The figures are larger or on a par with those of victims in other remembered natural or man-made calamities. The Spanish Flu in 1918-19 affected 17 million persons. The Partition of India and Pakistan resulted in the death of persons between one to two million (the claims vary). The Bangladesh war saw 2,69,000 persons killed in the subcontinent — Pakistanis, Indians and Bangladeshis. The Killari earthquake killed over 30,000 while the Kutch earthquake took 18,600 lives. The official figure of the dead due to the coronavirus has crossed the 3,00,000 mark, and the number of infected persons is nearing 30 million even if one does not consider the records of crematoria or the corpses fished out of rivers. The coronavirus pandemic is going to intensify as the weeks pass by. One simply does not know how high the toll will be if the dreaded third wave hits us. The tribal and rural districts, which had remained relatively unaffected so far, have started showing high incidence of Covid-19. Millions of families have already been devastated. They have lost their dear ones, lost jobs, lost opportunities, lost hope. Sadly, the coronavirus epidemic is also coupled with an ideological virus. What we are facing is not just an individual’s tragedy: it is a large, unprecedented and universal catastrophe, a nakba or a nauba. What is shocking is that the Central government has not just been ineffective in coping with the catastrophe but even cynical in its approach. No prime minister of a populous country with its people living in extremely crowded cities and towns would have kept the management of the coronavirus on hold deliberately in view of the visit of a foreign dignitary in February 2020. No prime minister would have allowed, encouraged and actively endorsed huge election rallies and religious melas knowing well that the second wave had already set in. No one, except the most superstitious, would have allowed vaccine-producing companies to export vaccines when the requirement at home was so overwhelming; and no regime would have faked a narrative, making the Tablighi Jamaat gathering appear as the source of the trouble. While scientists all over the world are working round the clock to find a foolproof scientific response to the Covid-19 threat, the Modi regime has been busy undermining scientific thought. I write these words in pain, not in anger. There is news of death of a family member or a relative in every home, every mohalla, every family. Death surrounds us today. One feels sad that when the new grand Parliament building comes into being, the first meeting held there may turn out to be one for national mourning. When the Ayodhya temple comes into existence and is open for worship, the first expression may — I hope not — be ‘Hey Ram’. What an unprecedented nauba, biological and ideological. G.N. Devy is a literary scholar and cultural activist ganesh_devy@yahoo.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
