01-03-2021||In recent months||GDP turns positive||But the margin of 0.4 per cent is too close for comfort. The National Statistical Office’s second revised estimates revealed that GDP will decline by 8 per cent in 2020-21; revising its first ballpark figure by 0.3 per cent. The agrarian unrest has become too noticeable to be fobbed off with schemes especially after PM-KISAN was found misdirected. The engine of the economy — consumer spending — fell in Q3 that had coincided with the festive season. And, the simmering social disquiet the country is witnessing rarely has a positive correlation with economic growth, as former PM Manmohan Singh has repeatedly stated. Covid-19 has reappeared in several states and the election season in another five will require the undiluted attention of corona warriors.None of these amber lights along India’s economic highway account for the Modi government’s announcement about the biggest-ever revamp of the economy. The scale and the sweep — from banks to MSP — overshadow the 1991 efforts by a mile. The revenues from the large-scale sale of PSUs and land will fuel the government’s expenditure on welfare and infrastructure modernisation. These ambitions have a long gestation period, while it is near and the immediate that seek equal attention. Foreign Minister S Jaishankar pointed out at the Asia Economic Dialogue last week that India can no longer afford jobless growth. The government also needs to address the societal disquiet for the V-shaped recovery to be equitable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/gdp-turns-positive-218881
01-03-2021||With the poll bugle sounded for the Assembly elections in four states and a union territory||Poll bugle sounded||Buoyed by its emergence as a close second to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the Lok Sabha poll of 2019 in West Bengal, the BJP has upped the ante to wrest power from the TMC. The saffron party got a boost in the state recently when seven Trinamool MLAs jumped ship to join it. However, CM Mamata Banerjee is valiantly fending off anti-incumbency in a bid to win a third term by wooing voters with various schemes, including providing coronavirus vaccine free of cost. In neighbouring Assam, the shadow of the violent anti-CAA protests looms large. The ruling BJP-led coalition has to contend with the ‘grand alliance’ forged by the Congress and other parties.A keen contest is expected in Puducherry, which was placed under President’s rule last week after the Congress-led government was toppled amid allegations of poaching of its MLAs. Even as the traditional rivals in Tamil Nadu, the DMK and the AIADMK, are again pitted against each other, the latter faces a churning with its former general secretary Sasikala, released from prison in January, also in the fray. In Kerala, the Congress-led UDF, which won 19 out of 20 LS seats in 2019, is a strong challenger to the ruling CPI(M)-led LDF. Overall, while the BJP is keen to expand its footprint, the other parties are desperately trying to hold their ground. The May 2 verdict will be crucial to the fortunes of various stakeholders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/poll-bugle-sounded-218876
