02-03-2021||Don’t let the pandemic fool you — famous words or a passing statement by Justin Sylvester||Crowning glory||Connected yet divided, diversity and inclusivity are issues that have been pushed to the forefront in Hollywood for quite some time. Ever since the ‘Oscars so white’ debate raged, the representation of blacks has been much talked about. Golden Globe 2021 was no different as hosts Tina Fey and Amy Poehler looked at the elephant in the room and spoke openly about the absence of black members in the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, the organisation behind the awards. In their characteristic tongue-in-cheek monologue, they even questioned the nomination choices, especially how black-led projects were overlooked.Many of the wins like that of ‘The Crown’ were on expected lines, though surprises too were in store. Besides, many rued the snub to other favourites such as the film ‘Mank’, which had six nominations. But then, no awards jury has yet mastered the please-all formula. Nor a seamless way of presenting an award show especially in pandemic times. Unsurprisingly, Twitter and meme makers went in overdrive underlining the digital chaos, including the accidental muting by Daniel Kaluuya during his acceptance speech for Supporting Actor award. Whatever the grouses or expectations, there is no denying that Golden Globe celebrated television and cinema, which as Naz Perez rightly put it, ‘Got us through one of the hardest times in history.’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/crowning-glory-219235
02-03-2021||The rollout of the Covid vaccine on March 1 for a vulnerable segment — above 60 years of age and those with certain ailments in the 45-59-year age bracket — marks the crucial second phase of the vaccination programme||Vaccination drive 2.0||At the same time, the initial response is a pointer to better acceptance of the vaccine. This is in contrast to the hesitancy seen in phase one when only around 60 per cent of the healthcare and frontline workers came forward to get the vaccine. That Prime Minister Modi was among the first to get the indigenous Covaxin shot is a big endorsement to the drive. The government needs to ensure that the enthusiasm of people sustains. If the hesitancy persists, it may allow the younger ones to take the vaccine alongside for its optimal use, as also prevention of waste of resources.Given that over 10 crore people across the country are targeted to be given the shots in this phase, on its smooth run hinges a faster road to the much-needed herd immunity. The recent spike in Covid-19 cases has sparked a renewed urgency to control the run of the pathogen before it balloons into a second wave. The inoculation must outpace the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/vaccination-drive-2-0-219221
