03-03-2021||Will you marry her?’ The Supreme Court’s poser to a man accused of raping a minor girl is disturbing to say the least as it reflects a shocking lack of gender sensitivity in the judiciary at the top. Though the court clarified that it was not forcing the accused to marry the victim||Rape and marriage||It’s not for the first time that such a suggestion has come from the courts. In July last year, the Orissa High Court had given bail to a man accused of raping a minor for marrying the victim who had turned an adult by that time. There are several such examples from across India. Rape is all about sexual assault or intercourse without consent. The offence becomes all the more serious if the victim happens to be a minor as she can’t give valid consent. But often victims are coerced to marry their violators due to fear of stigma, pressure from family and society. Unfortunately, courts end up giving sanction to such marriages. One can understand such a suggestion in a case of ‘rape on false pretext of marriage’ or where the accused and victim were live-in partners as it could be a case of a relationship gone sour.A civilised society has certain non-negotiables which can’t be tinkered with. The bottom line is that rape is the worst form of crime that violates a woman’s body, mind and soul. The perpetrator has to be awarded deterrent punishment. He can’t be incentivised by giving legal sanction to his gruesome act by allowing such marriages. Despite all its good work, even in the 21st century the Indian judiciary remains a male bastion. There are only two women judges in the SC against a sanctioned strength of 34. As on September 1, 2020, there were only 78 women judges in 25 high courts against a sanctioned strength of 1,079. Addressing gender deficit is important to deal with this problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/rape-and-marriage-219788
03-03-2021||At long last||Cleaning the Augean stables||The latest skeleton to tumble out of the closet is that a majority of the college principals are ineligible for the post they occupy. Of the 61 private colleges examined so far, 45 heads do not meet the prescribed criteria. More than 30 are either overage or working in an officiating capacity, even as five institutions have been found to be headless. Earlier, about half a dozen vice-chancellors came in the HPPEIRC firing line when it came to light that their appointments were not as per the UGC norms. The commission has also been constrained to order the refund of salaries of staff that were deducted by the managements of some colleges during the Covid crisis in disregard for government orders.An overhaul of the sector is imperative. At stake is the future of not only the nearly 23,000 students of the private colleges and universities but also that of the many more prospective ones. The grim state of affairs calls for the plugging of the shortcomings in the system that has led to the standards falling to such deplorable depths. Stringent action against the wrongdoers and regular monitoring of institutes will help clean the Augean stables.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/cleaning-the-augean-stables-219786
