04-03-2021||Nothing could serve as a stark reminder of the deteriorating law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh than the spurt in crime||Hathras re-run||With Assembly elections due in the state next year, the political connotation of rising crime has not been lost on the political parties, with the BJP alleging that the Hathras accused was a Samajwadi Party activist and the latter denying it. BSP supremo Mayawati has also voiced her concerns over Dalit and women’s harassment in the state. The Yogi government has been making claims of cracking down on crime to boost the state’s image but it has to first put its own troubled house in order as the involvement of a BJP leader in the Unnao case revealed. The police have also maintained that the firing on a BJP MP’s son in Lucknow was staged.The state government has to guard against allegations of castes and communities being targeted as in the case of Vikas Dubey’s police encounter and the slugfest over UP politician Mukhtar Ansari, now lodged in a Punjab jail. The onus lies on the state government and its police to prove that their actions are fair and transparent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/hathras-re-run-220181
04-03-2021||Amid the euphoria over India and Pakistan agreeing to strictly observe the ceasefire agreement and give peace a chance||Pakistan at it again||The OIC’s statement conveniently makes no reference to human rights violations taking place in its member countries, particularly Pakistan, which is a habitual offender on this count. The acquittal of terrorist Omar Saeed Sheikh, the main accused in the 2002 murder of American journalist Daniel Pearl, exemplifies the travesty of justice. Retaining Pakistan on the grey list, the FATF — the global watchdog for money-laundering and terror financing — recently had to remind the courts in that country to mete out ‘effective, decisive and proportionate’ punishment to those involved in terrorism.The disappearances and killings of Baloch activists are becoming frighteningly common. Even the crusaders based outside Pakistan are not being spared. Idris Khattak, who was investigating forced disappearances in Pakistan for organisations such as Amnesty International, himself went missing in November 2019. The persecution of minority communities and the vandalisation of their religious sites also underline the country’s abysmal human rights record. Pakistan is well advised to do course correction rather than succumb to the temptation of taking potshots at India at international fora.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/pakistan-at-it-again-220182
