05-03-2021||This court shudders to think as to what would have happened if the victim was an officer belonging to a lower cadre… If that is the position in which lady officers are placed||No country for women||Incidentally, technology is coming to the rescue of victims, though many times it also becomes a source of blackmail. The horrible incident of girls at a hostel in Jalgaon, Maharashtra, being reportedly stripped and forced to dance by policemen is another case of rampant misuse of power and position by law enforcers and protectors. The case would have, perhaps, not found resonance in the state’s Assembly and calls for justice not made but for the emergence of its video recording. Equally reprehensible is the alleged sex-for-job scandal that has embroiled Karnataka Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. Though pleading not guilty, he was forced to resign a day later when an incriminating video surfaced.However, the final delivery of justice to the victims is a long haul even after the registration of the case. The NCRB 2019 report indicates a grim pendency in courts of 90 per cent and a conviction rate of less than 25 per cent in crimes against women. Instilling in boys the values of respecting girls and women and treating them as equals is essential to curb the oppression that they are subjected to.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/no-country-for-women-220678
05-03-2021||The Supreme Court of India deserves unreserved praise for its decision to dismiss a sedition petition against former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Farooq Abdullah with a fine of Rs 50||Dissent is not sedition||The learned judges have made it clear that dissent or disagreement with the decisions of the Central government is not sedition. So, Disha Ravi and Farooq Abdullah cannot be prosecuted simply because they do not agree with the government on farm laws or the abrogation of Article 370. There is no democracy without dissent and debate. The court has correctly identified the petitioners’ attempt as ‘publicity interest litigation’, and by imposing the fine it has sent a cautionary message out to frivolous and politically motivated litigants.That the order came the very same day a Washington-based think tank, Freedom House, downgraded India’s status from ‘free’ to ‘partly free’ points to two conflicting facets of India’s present-day predicament. While our institutions try to remain free, there is an attempt by those like the petitioners in the Abdullah case to make the country ‘partly free’ by gagging dissent using those very institutions. The government should ensure that its image does not get sullied any further by its police or vigilante groups, and it is in its interest to showcase India’s free media and all other democratic institutions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/dissent-is-not-sedition-220679
