06-03-2021||The projection by the Comptroller & Auditor General of India that Punjab’s public debt would double in the next five years is a matter of grave concern. The CAG report says that new borrowings are being used to repay the earlier loans||Punjab’s debt burden||Power subsidy to the agriculture sector has for long been a bone of contention in Punjab, given its importance as the mainstay of the state’s economy as also because of the politically sensitive nature of the constituents it caters to. Punjab faces handicaps in development on account of being a border state and the shifting of industries to neighbouring states has only added to the problem. The government’s plans to engage its NRI population as a partner in development, for which a separate department of NRI Affairs was set up, have also been affected because of Covid and the lockdown, making additional resource mobilisation a challenge. Good governance and digital reforms have aimed at cutting costs even as the state claims inadequate financial compensation by the Centre.The state has been demanding fiscal stimulus on the ground that states alone cannot meet all expenditure and that the Centre should fund all Central schemes and provide alongside non-fiscal aid to protect lives and livelihoods. The state should also explore the possibility of setting up ancillary units to supplement the industries being set up in its neighbourhood and also devise ways to reinvent its agriculture on a more ecologically sustainable model and incentivise it. The Centre, on its part, should not just identify debt-stressed states, but also formulate ways to look into their just demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/punjabs-debt-burden-221214
06-03-2021||Bengaluru and Shimla have been adjudged the ‘most liveable’ among 111 cities of India on the Ease of Living Index of the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry. Not surprisingly||Misleading liveability||Does clean air have nothing to do with ease of living? It’s baffling that Gurugram, listed in the World Air Quality Report among the most polluted cities on the planet, figures as high as No. 8 on the liveability leader board. The flawed evaluation criterion gives weightage of 30 per cent to citizens’ perception, which is a major factor contributing to a city’s good, bad or ugly image.The ranking race can offer no solution to vexed urban issues. Long-term planning and regular monitoring of projects are needed to ensure holistic and sustainable development of cities. The Smart Cities Mission, launched with fanfare in 2015, remains a work in progress, hampered by fund shortage and tardy implementation. The ongoing financial year has seen a yawning gap of around Rs 3,400 crore between the original and revised allocation for this mission. Such a half-hearted approach should be shunned if we want to make our cities actually liveable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/misleading-liveability-221213
