08-03-2021||Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi could not have been more mistaken when he dismissed the Quad in 2018 as a ‘headline-grabbing idea that would dissipate like sea foam’. The first overseas trip by US Defence Secretary Austin Lloyd will be to Asia and not the NATO headquarters. US President Joe Biden has prioritised a Quad summit over confabulations with European leaders. The foundation was laid with a Quad Foreign Ministers' meeting initiated by the month-and-a-half-old US administration. The US President is being roasted for not being fast enough on Iran and Yemen||Primacy for Quad||The renewed commitment by the Quad during Covid has been remarkable. The India-Russia summit was called off last year ostensibly due to the pandemic, but US Secretaries of State and Defence travelled to Delhi to keep the momentum going. The Quad Foreign Ministers, too, had touched base in Tokyo while the pandemic raged. Together, each country has its unique collection of strategic challenges emanating from China. What is common so far is their fear of China’s aggressive territorial grabs and the gradual but inevitable militarisation of the Belt and Road Initiative. But China’s ongoing National People’s Congress has thrown up new imperatives that India can ignore at its peril.Beijing is making big bets on emerging technologies and the Biden administration has recognised the formalisation of China's ambitions by resolving to escalate the battle against ‘techno-autocracies’. Despite lending its military shoulder to the US-Japan-Australia troika in the South China Sea, India has found little comfort from Washington and Tokyo in its strategic journey to acquire or develop cutting-edge technologies. Now that China has also resolved to pour funds into Tibet to build an important passageway opening to South Asia, maritime security cannot be the Quad’s only calling card. The forthcoming Quad summit should set the stage for partnership not just in physical but in all aspects of security, including technological.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/primacy-for-quad-222112
08-03-2021||There is more than what meets the eye in cases of bootlegging and illicit liquor trade in Punjab. That in more than 1||Nab the big fish||The latest spark for these allegations was the Majha hooch tragedy which claimed the lives of more than 110 persons in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts in July-August last year. Yet, despite the Chief Minister immediately ordering a crackdown and the state police chief monitoring the investigations, it is just the small fish and not the sharks that are netted by the authorities. But soon after in September, when the probe into the liquor racket was shifted by the ED from Punjab to Delhi, AAP leaders accused the authorities adopting delaying and obstructing tactics. Even as the Opposition smells a thriving multi-crore booze scam and resultant loss of thousands of crores of rupees of the state’s revenue, action on the ground leaves a lot to be desired.The seizure of a huge quantity of illicit liquor and raw material used for its distillation during a raid on an Amritsar premises last week points to the absolute lack of fear of the law by the offenders, who may even be out of jail on bail. The well-oiled network of distillers and liquor racketeers will keep flourishing till the kingpins are brought to book. And, sadly, the spectre of another spurious liquor tragedy striking anytime — wreaking havoc on unsuspecting consumers — will continue to loom large.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/nab-the-big-fish-222111
