09-03-2021||With the eight-phase elections for the West Bengal Assembly slated to begin on March 27||Electoral battle in Bengal||The choice of Nandigram, the hub of a farmers’ movement against the Left Front government, symbolises best the dilemma of development in West Bengal. The flight of Tatas from Singur only accentuated this. With work on the dedicated eastern freight corridor nearing completion and plans afoot to connect Bengal with both the west and east coasts with similar rail corridors, the BJP has been trying to pitch itself as a party that favours development even as the TMC faces charges of involvement in scams. The allegations against the West Bengal CM’s kin have a ring of the Bihar elections where the BJP used the ‘Jungle Raj Ka Yuvraj’ slogan to target RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav.With Union Home Minister Amit Shah reiterating that CAA will be implemented after Covid vaccination ends, including the granting of Indian citizenship to refugees from Bangladesh, it will be interesting to see how the issue plays out. As PM Modi is scheduled to visit Bangladesh to attend the birth centenary celebrations of Mujibur Rahman on election eve, India will have to allay Dhaka’s apprehensions on CAA. With the Congress and Left Front joining hands, and the BJP pulling no punches, Mamata will find little room for complacency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/electoral-battle-in-bengal-222545
09-03-2021||THE Congress government’s last Budget before the 2022 Punjab Assembly elections is||Poll-year populism||Even as the state’s debt has risen to Rs 2,73,730 crore — it was around Rs 1,53,773 crore in 2016-17 — the government has allocated Rs 7,180 crore to provide free electricity to farmers. For obvious reasons, power subsidy has remained sacrosanct for successive governments in Punjab, even though the Comptroller & Auditor General (CAG) has repeatedly red-flagged this largesse as a key contributor to the state’s abysmal economic condition. The FM has also announced schemes to promote horticulture and crop diversification, but it would require wholehearted efforts to make such ventures viable and sustainable for growers.The Budget has something in store for virtually every section of society, be it government employees, old-age pensioners, students or industrialists. It seems the cash-strapped government will yet again be living beyond its means. Mobilising resources and enforcing fiscal discipline to ensure that there is no paucity of funds for the social sector, which has for long suffered neglect in Punjab, continue to be a tall order. Curbing the menace of tax evasion, which has been eating into the state’s revenue, is another challenge. Rationalising of subsidies can help to reduce the financial burden, provided there is strong political will to look beyond electoral gains in the state’s interests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/poll-year-populism-222546
