10-03-2021||While the Punjab Budget avowedly has the welfare of farmers on its agenda||Plans for crop diversification||Official word will be awaited on the cycle of sowing paddy which has been pushed back to conserve groundwater and the delayed harvesting and the resultant stubble burning which causes pollution in Delhi-NCR. Whether the use of technology has led to an improvement in the depleting groundwater level and its contamination will also have to be ascertained. When it comes to crop diversification, the state also needs to tread with caution on account of scams in the past involving agencies like the Council of Citrus & Agro-Juicing and the Organic Farming Council of Punjab that were accused of misappropriating government funds. Also, the schemes were alleged to have covered less land than envisaged in the scheme.The agriculture sector has served as a cushion for the economy, helping it absorb the shock of the pandemic and the lockdown while the manufacturing and services sectors were among the worst hit. While it may make political sense for the government not to rock the boat unnecessarily, it needs to keep its focus on making agricultural practices sustainable. Crop diversification has to be based on need and scope. A pragmatic approach that keeps the interest of farmers in view by offering them choices based on local conditions will encourage them to decide what is good for them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/plans-for-crop-diversification-222977
10-03-2021||Even as the Opposition has upped the ante against the NDA government over the skyrocketing fuel prices||Rein in fuel prices||The government has managed to make its coffers swell through thick and thin, but it has been a no-win situation for the consumer all along. Between November 2014 and January 2016, the excise duty on petrol and diesel was raised on nine occasions to cash in on the plummeting global oil prices. In March last year, the disruptions caused by the outbreak of the pandemic were cited for imposing a stiff hike in taxes so as to prop up the tottering economy. Now, with the firming of prices in the global oil market, the masses are again at the receiving end.It’s the fear of electoral setbacks more than the plight of the common man that might prompt the government to take drastic action soon. According to a report prepared by a leading brokerage firm, the budgetary target of tax collection of Rs 3.2 lakh crore can be achieved even if excise duty on petrol and diesel is cut by Rs 8.5 per litre on or before April 1. This should give the government another reason to do the needful and pacify the hapless populace before it’s too late.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/rein-in-fuel-prices-222976
