11-03-2021||The peer-reviewed article based on the performance of India’s indigenous Covid vaccine||Covaxin shows potency||The crucial phase 3 data that emerged last week is also promising as it addresses another significant concern: that of the vaccine’s efficacy. Bharat Biotech, which has manufactured the vaccine in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute of Virology, Pune, announced that interim phase 3 trial data showed that the vaccine has shown 81 per cent effectiveness. If this claim is also corroborated by peer-reviewed analysis subsequently, then Covaxin should be on the roll as one of the most efficient doses globally and overcome the acceptance hurdles that it is currently facing — both in India and with prospective buyers abroad. The latest findings should alleviate some doubts of potency, such as those expressed in Brazil which had bought Covaxin doses.Credibility is the key to the success of the vaccination programme, which, in turn, is vital for taming the coronavirus that has seen an alarmingly upward curve in the past couple of weeks in Punjab and some other states. With just 2.3 crore doses of the two vaccines approved for use — the other being Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield — having been administered in the nearly two months of the immunisation drive, the target of vaccinating 30 crore people by August at this rate is a long shot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covaxin-shows-potency-223432
11-03-2021||The American proposal to involve India in the Afghan peace process is an acknowledgment that New Delhi is a key stakeholder in the trouble-torn country. With Joe Biden at the helm||India in the picture||The US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, has envisaged a United Nations-led initiative to bring together foreign ministers and envoys from Russia, China, Pakistan, Iran, India and the US ‘to discuss a unified approach to supporting peace in Afghanistan’. India’s importance in the scheme of things has also been underlined by Russia, which says it’s natural for New Delhi to eventually have a ‘deeper involvement’ in a dedicated dialogue. Moscow has been quick to reject a media report that claimed it kept India out of the peace plan.The Indo-Pacific is another region where the US is looking forward to unstinting support from India. In the backdrop of China’s assertiveness, the Quad is gradually growing in stature as a countervailing force. The four-nation alliance will take its collaboration to the summit level tomorrow when President Biden will hold virtual talks with the Prime Ministers of India, Japan and Australia. From Covid-19 vaccines to climate change, the grouping is keen to focus on multifaceted cooperation, ostensibly in an effort to counter criticism that it is merely an anti-China platform. Amid the American outreach, India needs to ensure that its own interests are not compromised. Positive developments in the neighbourhood — the Ladakh disengagement and the LoC ceasefire — should spur New Delhi to deftly walk a tightrope.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/india-in-the-picture-223433
