12-03-2021||That the Punjab and Haryana High Court has had to make the availability of safe houses for runaway couples in each district of Punjab and Haryana as also Chandigarh mandatory is a sad reflection of a misogynist culture. That so many such homes are required is testament to the deeply entrenched socio-cultural mores of caste||Keeping couples safe||The killing or forcible separation of young couples who dare to defy the social norms prevailing in the name of family honour remains a social evil in this region, cutting across educational and financial strata. In a big relief to the men and women in love, the court has since 2002, when the first runaway couple approached it, always endeavoured to ensure a mechanism that upholds Article 21 that guarantees protection of life and personal liberty as sacrosanct. The verdicts, over the years, have put right to life on a higher pedestal, regardless of the legality of the couple’s marriage or even in cases of live-in relationships.Interestingly, on one occasion last June, the court sought to play the concerned family elder as it cautioned the runaway couples that real life was not the ‘Bobby-like’ reel world. The fairytale dreams of many a smitten adolescent come crashing down when they face the harsh realities of life and intimacy as well as affection turn into hostility. Sound advice to keep the youngsters grounded along with ensuring shelter, help desks and legal aid to couples tying the knot against their families’ wishes is the required judicious mix.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/keeping-couples-safe-223984
12-03-2021||A year has passed since the World Health Organisation declared a global pandemic after over a lakh cases of Covid-19 were confirmed across the world||One year of pandemic||That eight vaccines against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, have been approved by at least one country indicates a miraculous collaborative effort. Yet, the rollout can only be seen as a starting point. The race to end the pandemic and reduce it to a sporadic or endemic disease will be a long-drawn one. Studies predict that most high-income countries will have vaccinated their populations by early next year, but bigger hurdles need to be overcome: over 80 poor countries will have to wait until 2023. Simply put, the world won’t be back to normal travel, trade and supply chains until maybe 2024 unless rich countries play a proactive role in ensuring a level-playing field by waiving patents and supporting delivery. New Delhi’s outreach in this regard deserves global applause and recognition.The post-vaccine patterns in Israel and the UK have shown promising results, as the rate of new infections seems to be declining. Extensive research is already underway the world over to determine, among other things, how long the protection lasts, whether booster doses are required and the vaccine’s impact on viral transmission. Until high levels of population immunity via inoculation are achieved, precautionary measures will have to be kept in place. Any letup in outbreak responses could mean inviting serious trouble. The year gone by has been witness to immeasurable pain. Ensuring there’s no repeat demands individual and collective responsibility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/one-year-of-pandemic-223985
