13-03-2021||The incredible achievements of Mithali Raj||Mithali inspires||The Indian cricket board (BCCI) has always been male-centric. After the International Cricket Council (ICC) took over women’s cricket too, BCCI was the last of the top-eight cricket-playing nations to take women’s cricket under its wing. Over the years, India’s women cricketers got central contracts and gained greater visibility, but it still is an uphill battle for the women. For instance, Covid wiped out one full year off the professional lives of India’s women cricketers — after the team reached the final of the 50-over World Cup last year, they didn’t play international for a whole year. Another weird fate that can befall only women cricketers — the current series against South Africa was scheduled to be played in Thiruvananthapuram, but last month it emerged that the stadium had been made available to Indian Army for a recruitment drive! And mind you, these are ‘good times’ when women cricketers can use the infrastructure and facilities of BCCI.Sport is a great vehicle for social mobility, and for improving health parameters and raising incomes. It’s a terrible idea to keep one half of the population shut off from the benefits of sport. In India, a very large number of girls are still not allowed to go out to play, study or seek employment. Mithali and her ilk in different sports are doing a great service to the nation by inspiring girls to take up sport.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/mithali-inspires-224291
13-03-2021||The countdown to the Assembly elections in West Bengal is seeing the fierce TMC-BJP faceoff assume ugly proportions. With Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee recovering in a hospital after the injury she sustained after filing her nomination from Nandigram||West Bengal faceoff||The Election Commission prides itself on ensuring the conduct of peaceful, free and fair elections across the length and breadth of the country, whatever the challenges. West Bengal poses a huge test. The state has a history of poll violence and has seen attacks on the convoys of political leaders and workers in the run-up to the elections. With passions running high and given the intensity of the campaign to deny the country’s only incumbent woman Chief Minister another term and her determined bid to win yet again, the elaborate eight-phase election schedule is bound to keep the EC officials on their toes. Paramilitary forces have been deployed early this time, and their presence will hopefully curb incidents of violence. The special observers appointed by the EC also have their hands full to make sure that all measures are taken to instil confidence and prevent irregularities.Leaders of the Trinamool Congress knocked at the EC’s doors on a day when a delegation of farmers led by Rakesh Tikait arrived in the poll-bound state to campaign for the repeal of the three farm laws. There is no dearth of political drama in the state, and it is only going to get more intense. Mamata Banerjee is no stranger to fighting pitched political battles and has already displayed her resolve this time around. An electoral battle fought through EVMs and not on the streets is a fervent hope.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/west-bengal-faceoff-224302
