15-03-2021||Successive administrations in Shimla have failed to address the acute shortage of parking spaces not only for the huge influx of tourists||Green tax on vehicles||In 2016, the High Court had discontinued the cess imposed by the corporation. The SMC was rebuked for erecting barriers at four entry points to the capital city on highways to collect the tax without taking due permissions, as also for the nightmarish traffic jams that it led to. While the problem is sought to be resolved by collecting tax via an app or at toll counters, unless it is complemented by adequate parking lots, the visitors are bound to feel cheated. Interestingly, Manali has been successfully collecting the green fee at toll barriers for some years. Even as the earnings are used to improve civic amenities, related questions about the conservation of greenery and reducing carbon emissions remain.Curbing serpentine traffic queues and removing bottlenecks, especially during weekends and the holiday season, require a multi-pronged strategy. It remains to be seen if Shimla’s other revived plan (a project report was also made in 2008) of constructing a tunnel parallel to the old Sanjauli-Dhalli tunnel so as to accommodate the burgeoning crowds meets the promised deadline of a year. Shimla is in danger of losing its title of the ‘queen of the hills’ if thousands of tourists, instead of enjoying the scenic hill town, continue to end up fuming and choked on roads chock-a-block with vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/green-tax-on-vehicles-225297
15-03-2021||With the economy still recovering from a Covid-hit year||Haryana’s outreach||The largesse entails revenue deficit which the government intends to offset through borrowings, but ways will have to be found for generating additional revenue to meet the shortfall and attract investments. The government plans to spend big on education and social security, increasing the reach and range of various schemes, so as to be inclusive and give a fillip to the health sector by setting up new medical colleges, mostly in the hinterland of the state. Agriculture and industry have been a priority for Haryana and the state plans to set up a reserve fund by way of capital investment for expenditure on big-ticket projects. But the economy will also require inclusivity for reviving trade and commerce, still wilting under the impact of Covid-19, with tourism and hospitality sectors taking a major blow. While a Global City is being planned at Manesar, cities like Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat need to get their act together in the wake of disruptions caused by the pandemic.The Khattar government plans to spend Rs 100 crore on reviving the Sutlej-Yamuna Link canal. The announcement in itself is not new and also involves its neighbouring states with political implications with which it will have to contend warily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/haryanas-outreach-225259
