16-03-2021||The two incidents — caught on camera — of violence perpetrated against boys in two places of worship in the past couple of days paint a grim picture of our society. In one video||Unholy acts||Our heads hang in shame over such disgraceful blots that continue to smear the canvas of our culture. For every two steps forward enabled by education, progress, development and espousal of secularism over the past seven decades, we seem to be taking a step back into the rut of bigotry and racism. Endeavours to uproot the deeply embedded socio-religious prejudices and biases seem to pale in comparison to the fanning of the fires of religious intolerance. Sadly, the flames reduce even the basic humanitarian principle of empathy towards one and all, especially the weak, to ashes.The two events in which the shrines turned into courts of instant justice call for exemplary action. The authorities must come down heavily on the guilty fanatics who are now facing an investigation. It does not bode well for a society if places of worship that should be spreading peace are turned into battlegrounds driven by hatred for the ‘others’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/unholy-acts-225687
16-03-2021||With the publication of a jointly authored opinion piece in The Washington Post on Saturday||Quad on track||On the Quad agenda is a major initiative to help end Covid-19 that has ravaged the US and India in particular. There is unanimity among the four leaders that overcoming the pandemic is the key to economic growth and stability. The plan envisages expanding and accelerating the production of safe, accessible and effective vaccines in India. A central role for New Delhi on this count is a shot in the arm for its Covid diplomacy, which has admirably withstood the Chinese challenge.The Biden administration’s outreach to strengthen India-America ties is another development that seems to have displeased China, which has been insisting on delinking the border dispute from bilateral exchanges. Later this week, US Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin will visit India to hold discussions with his counterpart Rajnath Singh on operationalising major defence partnerships between the two nations, including the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement that was signed days before the 2020 US presidential elections. It will be the first trip by a top official of the Biden administration to this country. The Ladakh disengagement might have signalled a thaw, but India will remain wary of China as long as sustainable peace eludes the LAC. In the meantime, New Delhi should make the most of its growing friendship with Washington to further its strategic and economic interests and also keep Beijing on the back foot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/quad-on-track-225686
