17-03-2021||The exposé of a job scam in the Army is a matter of concern. Regarded as an august institution with strict rules which are meant to be complied with||Job scam in Army||The pandemic and the lockdown had cast their shadow on Army recruitment also. Not only had the process to be halted temporarily, but also recruitment had to be made in compliance with Covid-specific norms. Registration was done online and candidates were warned to beware of mediators or touts assuring success in the recruitment process. Aspirants were required to bring a Covid-asymptomatic certificate signed by a competent authority and take precautionary measures while taking part in the recruitment process. Laxity in enforcing all this should be ascertained and corrective action taken.Facing a shortage, the Army had been finding itself unable to attract adequate and quality manpower because of the availability of alternative remunerative career options. An institution that claims to care well for those serving it was finding it difficult to meet its requirements because of the service conditions and risk perception. But circumventing rules is no solution to get the required manpower for a demanding career, especially at a time when the country is involved in a tense standoff on its borders. A CBI inquiry apart, the Army should take action at its own level to fix such lapses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/job-scam-in-army-226176
17-03-2021||The contentious issue of distribution of powers between Delhi’s elected government and the Lieutenant Governor had more or less been settled||The Delhi Bill||The Supreme Court ruling, which came after constant AAP-Centre run-ins since 2015, had given the Delhi Government a freer hand. As a consequence, it had stopped sending files to the L-G before implementing policy decisions, though he was kept in the loop regarding administrative developments. As the party explores legal challenges to the dilution of powers that the proposed legislation is set to enforce, the Centre claims the amendments ‘further define’ the responsibilities and that ‘government’ in any law made by the Legislative Assembly shall mean the L-G, whose opinion will have to be obtained before taking any executive action.The repercussions of the amendments go far beyond the political feud. Making it mandatory for an elected government to route all files through the L-G, in an effort to tilt the balance of power, infringes on its autonomy. It also all but ends the hope of full statehood for Delhi, a promise made by every party at one time or the other. The L-G, at present, does have the power to refer any matter over which there is a disagreement to the President, though even here the SC made it clear that the L-G ‘should not act in a mechanical manner without due application of mind so as to refer every decision of the Council of Ministers to the President’. The Centre’s move is ill-advised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-delhi-bill-226175
