18-03-2021||The fact that Delhi remains the most polluted capital city in the world flies in the face of the many exhortations and plans made by the authorities concerned to tackle with the noxious situation. Though||Most noxious||Green laws have been toughened over the years amid grand declarations and designs to deal with the alarming problem. But the continued poor ambience, unfortunately, reflects a lack of honest and steely determination to make Delhi free of the impurities. Notwithstanding the frequent warnings, raps and rebukes by both the high court and the Supreme Court, as also the green tribunals in the matter, the system has betrayed a stubborn impunity while implementing the rules framed for reducing air impurities.Aggravating the malaise is the choking reality that not just Delhi, but large tracts of the country, especially urban areas, are also in the strangling grip of air pollution. With little to show by way of taming the monstrosity, not only is public health criminally compromised but also economy is drastically hit. Green and sustainable solutions are aplenty. They must be executed forthwith to a T. Any further laxity is fraught with the danger of reaching a point of no return.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/most-noxious-226717
18-03-2021||Elections are a perennial affair in India||Common electoral rolls||The BJP-led NDA government strongly favours simultaneous elections, having registered resounding wins in successive parliamentary polls, but the fragmented Opposition is not so enthusiastic about it. The collapse of the governments in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Puducherry in the past year and a half underlines how difficult it would be to synchronise Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha elections. It was the dissolution of some Legislative Assemblies in the late 1960s and the Lok Sabha in 1970 that had ended the post-Independence practice of conducting simultaneous polls. Any move to curtail or extend the tenure of some Legislative Assemblies has to be well thought-out in the face of constitutional hurdles. In the short run, the focus should be on reducing the frequency of elections. In its report tabled in the Lok Sabha in December 2015, the parliamentary standing committee on law and justice had said that holding polls on fewer occasions would provide relief to the people as well as the government machinery.The current parliamentary panel has also made a pitch for common electoral rolls. This is an implementable idea that can curb irregularities and minimise duplication in voters’ lists. No political party should have an objection to such a reform. It’s here that a start can be made right away.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/common-electoral-rolls-226714
