19-03-2021||Had it been a Bollywood thriller||Mumbai mess||The murky goings-on have laid bare the nexus between politicians and tainted police officers. There is no denying that political patronage emboldened trigger-happy Waze to have a free run. The high-profile case has predictably sparked a tug of war between the Centre and the state. With former allies Shiv Sena and the BJP at loggerheads, the Centre has been quick to entrust the probe to the NIA. Hiran’s death is being investigated by the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad.Central and state agencies need to work in close coordination, not at cross purposes, and get to the bottom of the matter at the earliest. It would be a pity if political one-upmanship were to influence the probe and prevent the whole truth from being revealed. It’s a scary thought, but what we know so far might be just the tip of the iceberg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/mumbai-mess-227296
19-03-2021||The wastage of 6.5 per cent of the Covid vaccine doses in the country amounts to a colossal loss of the precious commodity that holds the key to containing the spread of the dreaded coronavirus. The initial rollout of the shots in mid-January among healthcare and frontline workers was marked by apprehension about the shots||Prevent vax wastage||In this scenario, the optimal use of inoculation can be ensured by revisiting the vaccination strategy. The pace of beneficiaries in the second phase of the immunisation drive which opened to all above 60 and those above 45 with underlying diseases is encouraging. The wastage is likely to be plugged if more categories of people are included in this phase. The advice of some experts to allow all above 45 at this stage holds water. So does that of opening more vaccination centres and supporting more pharma companies that can produce the vaccine.The boosting of the vaccination rate assumes significance in the light of the resurgence of an alarming spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in some states, including Punjab that is now witnessing the second highest caseload, after Maharashtra. Equally of concern is the fact that Punjab tops in the fatality rate. As these sobering figures have been touching new heights recently— and with little sign of the spike waning — it is urgent to redouble the efforts to control the ravaging coronavirus. Along with governmental efforts, socially responsible Covid-appropriate behaviour is the need of the hour. It is a pity that laxity has set in following the crucial mask-hand hygiene-distancing or test-trace-treat routines. Avoiding unnecessary outings, crowded places or congregations will go a long way in not only ensuring our good health but also, ultimately — and vitally — keeping the wheels of the economy moving.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/prevent-vax-wastage-227292
