22-03-2021||The NDA government appears to be seriously pursuing the concept of an All India Judicial Service (AIJS). Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told the Rajya Sabha last week that the government was trying to expedite the setting up of the AIJS. According to Article 312(1) of the Constitution — which provides for setting up All India Services||All India Judicial Service||A Law Commission report (1987) recommended that India should have 50 judges per million population as against 10.50 judges (then). Now, the figure has crossed 20 judges in terms of the sanctioned strength, but it’s nothing compared to the US or the UK — 107 and 51 judges per million people, respectively. As on January 28 this year, the working strength of the subordinate judiciary was 19,318 against the sanctioned strength of 24,247. It means almost 5,000 posts remain vacant.Pendency figures also paint a grim picture. According to the National Judicial Data Grid, 3.81 crore cases are pending in various district and taluka courts across India. More than one lakh cases are pending for over 30 years. Last month, 14.80 lakh cases were filed, while the number of decided cases stood at 10.77 lakh. The situation deteriorated in the past year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown. A 2012 report of the National Court Management Systems projected that the number of cases being filed would reach 15 crore in 30 years, requiring 75,000 judges. It’s time to build consensus and take a decisive step towards the AIJS before India is hit by a litigation explosion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/all-india-judicial-service-228694
22-03-2021||One full year of agony and uncertainty||Tokyo dreams||Thus, our athletes, table tennis players and fencer who qualified for the Olympics in the past few days deserve praise for keeping their spirits high and their game sharp. Bhavani Devi, the first-ever Indian fencer to make it to the Olympics, practised alone on the terrace of her house in Chennai, her coach in Italy watching online and giving instructions. As restrictions eased, she travelled to Italy. G Sathiyan, one of the table tennis players to qualify for Tokyo, chose to play in the Polish league, getting there after a one-month wait for a visa. Five weeks in Tokyo helped him polish his game, and despite carrying an injury, he got his Olympic berth. During the lockdown, discus-thrower Kamalpreet Kaur trained hard at home, using a double bed for weight training and flower pots as dumbbells — it paid off as she broke the national record in qualifying for Tokyo. Long jumper Murali Sreeshankar, who as a kid insisted on sleeping in a jersey signed by Usain Bolt, worked on his body strength and speed during the restrictions. The 21-year-old broke the national record to qualify for the Olympics. Neeraj Chopra, who had qualified back in January 2020, had no event to compete in over a year. Early this month, he broke his own national mark. Months of inactivity seem to have left Chopra, India’s best medal hope in track and field in Tokyo, hungry.These are stories that inspire. The pandemic crushed the Tokyo dreams of gymnast Dipa Karmakar and several boxers as tournaments were cancelled. Some of India's badminton stars won't make it because they won't have enough events to improve their rankings. There’s something to both cheer and sadden in sport — the spate of recent qualifications outweigh the sad bit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/tokyo-dreams-228691
