23-03-2021||WORLD Water Day provides an opportunity to reflect upon the way in which efforts towards ensuring water security are flowing. There are some inspiring stories of determination to conserve the precious elixir that have transformed lives and livelihoods in many places. But||Ensuring water security||The drought-prone villages of Bandlapalli in Andhra Pradesh, Batka Phala in Rajasthan and Nadia in MP have overcome the aridity with their water harvesting structures, leading to a stop in distress migration. They hold a lesson for Himachal Pradesh that is staring at a drought-like crisis. Equally stunning is how the water-scarce Pookkottukavu village of Kerala, led by its women, has revived dried-up streams and recharged groundwater to become water-surplus. Punjab and Haryana that are grappling with depleting water tables due to unchecked water extraction and water-guzzling paddy cultivation would do well to copy it. Haryana’s own Barokhan village has built a commendable pond system that enables recycling household waste water for irrigation, reducing dependence on groundwater.Importantly, the jal yodhas have shown how investment in water security yields economic gains. Their villages are today thriving and robust units. The range of trickle-down effects of their efforts is excitingly vast and has promising prospects for many a place. They vary from food-surplus (Barmani in MP), manifold rise in income (Himmatpura, UP), year-round jobs (Bhuanpada, Odisha), fighting salinity to reclaim infertile land (Vellapallam, TN) and improving livestock economy (Ramdurga, Karnataka). Communities and local bodies elsewhere must replicate these water management strategies to uplift their sagging economies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/ensuring-water-security-229074
23-03-2021||IT’s a cesspool of corruption that has been laid bare by a series of murky developments in Maharashtra||The stinking feeling||With the Centre-state tussle intensifying by the day, things are going to get messier. The National Investigation Agency is probing the SUV case as well as the mysterious death of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran, while the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad claims to have got some important leads. These agencies need to avoid stepping on each other’s toes so that the knotty affair can be unravelled at the earliest. Political pressure exerted by the Central and state governments can undermine the entire investigation.The whole sordid saga has turned the spotlight on the nexus between the political class and the police force. Both are well advised to do introspection, followed by course correction, if they are keen to regain the trust of the public. It’s clear that the Augean stables can’t be cleaned unless there is zero tolerance to corruption.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-stinking-feeling-229064
