24-03-2021||Exactly a year after India imposed the world’s strictest lockdown in order to contain Covid-19||Covid resurgence||The nationwide lockdown from March-end to May-end last year had impacted millions of lives as well as livelihoods. The economy, which had slipped into recession, is still struggling to regain the pre-Covid growth rate. Going by this nightmarish experience, another lockdown is ruled out. The Maharashtra Government has made it clear that people must follow Covid-19 safety protocols if the state is to avoid another lockdown. This holds true for the rest of the country as well. The basic drill — wearing masks, washing hands and maintaining social distancing — is still as relevant, if not more, as it was a year ago. The violators should be strictly dealt with as per the law so that it deters others from becoming reckless. Even though the election season is in full swing, the onus is on political leaders to encourage Covid-appropriate behaviour at rallies and exhort their supporters to arrange smaller gatherings. Political and social congregations that turn out to be super-spreaders of the virus will jeopardise India’s valiant fight against the pandemic.It is also critical to extend the vaccination programme beyond the limit of 45 years set by the Centre on Tuesday. People in the working age group (25-60 years) need to be covered at the earliest so that they can keep contributing to economic recovery without the fear of getting infected. Though the daily caseload is rising, it is nowhere near the peak of around 98,000 that was witnessed in September last year. This should inspire confidence among all stakeholders and spur them to minimise the damage caused by the second wave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-resurgence-229662
24-03-2021||Murmurs have already begun and barbs are already being pointed||Mixed bag of honour||Most of the jury’s choices can be faulted. Despite the rich haul of Malayalam cinema, the Best Feature Film award for Priyadarshan’s Marakkar: Arabikadalinte Simham is a reminder that the country’s top awards recognise cinema that apes Baahubali-kind of historicals, if not outright Bollywood masala. Moreover, Manoj Bajpayee, an actor par excellence, and gifted actor Dhanush deserve the Best Actor Award. Even in the case of Kangana, beyond her party affiliations, she remains a talented actor. Yet, the National Awards can’t be seen as a reward for party loyalists. Nor should these be handed out to appease certain sections of fans, as the award to Sushant Singh Rajput starrer Chhichhore in the Best Hindi Film category is being read by many sceptics.Undeniably, no award jury can ever arrive at a ‘please-all’ formula and as veteran director Shyam Benegal once said, ‘another jury will come out with a different set of winners.’ Yet those at the helm of saluting the best must not only be fair but like Caesar’s wife be above suspicion. The National Awards are far too prestigious to come under the shadow of censure. Amidst the circus which other award shows have become, the National Awards must stand tall. These should neither fall prey to increasing Bollywoodisation nor to partisan selections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/mixed-bag-of-honour-229660
