25-03-2021||With sordid events of crime continuing to unfold in Uttar Pradesh every few minutes and the horrific ones among them making the headlines every few weeks||Deep rot of lawlessness||Sadly, compounding the grim situation is the failure of governance and law enforcement to check the soaring crime. Rather, an atmosphere of fear and vigilantism against the minorities with impunity is perpetrated, by the thriving politician-police-criminal nexus. The ordinary citizen is denied justice. Getting the prosecution process going is a frustratingly arduous task. The long-winded criminal justice system, sagging under the weight of a massive backlog of cases and poor conviction rate, buries the victims in deeper malaise.In this state of broad disorderliness, a gritty dhaba owner taking on the two head constables who refused to pay up the food bill provides much-needed hope. The audacious and abusive cops had slapped false charges against him, his staff and some customers present at the time, as also a fake ‘encounter’. A month and a half later, the cops find the tables turned, with FIRs registered against them. It remains to be seen if the youngster who has dared to dent the standard template of cops riding roughshod over the common man gets a fair trial.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/deep-rot-of-lawlessness-230037
25-03-2021||The Supreme Court’s decision to not allow waiver of complete interest and extension of the six-month Covid-related loan moratorium came with a telling observation that courts are not advisers to the executive on matters of economic policy. What the apex court did permit was the waiver of interest-on-interest or compound interest for all borrowers||Counting pandemic losses||Comparisons are odious and misplaced all the more in the Indian context, but it would be erroneous to not take note of Joe Biden’s ‘rescue plan’. The massive $1.9 trillion economic stimulus package dishes out $1,400 payments to most Americans. More than money, what it sends out is a message of optimism and hope — in short supply as small and medium businesses in our country struggle to stay afloat and there is no end to job losses, even though the stock exchange may have us feel otherwise.The loan moratorium was conceptualised as a crisis-response measure, so the banks have a valid argument to charge interest on the deferred EMIs. But that the crisis is far from over cannot be lost on the government. For many, the worst may be over, but what has followed is equally challenging, especially in the absence of any direct support. The silence and inaction on the visible markers of an upward spiral for home budgets, the exponentially high fuel and LPG prices, inspires little trust in policy intervention to bail out the struggling millions. A year since the announcement to lock down the country is as good a time as any for serious stock-taking.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/counting-pandemic-losses-230038
