26-03-2021||The outrageous incident on March 19 at the Jhansi railway station where four legitimate travellers were forced out of the train by vigilantes is the new nadir in India’s slide into the abyss of lawlessness and bigotry. This is not just a case of four women getting heckled by rowdy men||New nadir of bigotry||Two nuns of the Delhi-based Congregation of the Sacred Heart were accompanying two 19-year-old students or postulants en route home to Rourkela in Odisha after they had completed their course. The two teenagers were hoping to don the habit soon. But the ABVP workers travelling from Rishikesh to Jhansi insisted that the nuns were ‘taking’ the two youngsters to get them converted. According to news reports, the vigilantes called in the police and forced the women to get down at Jhansi, their own destination, where the women were kept at the Government Railway Police station till 11 pm. Had it not been for the local St Jude Church, the travellers would have had to spend the night at the railway police station because of the assumption made by some Hindutva hotheads. They were let off after the parents confirmed that the youngsters were born Christians, and resumed their journey the next morning. Is this the new Indian normal? Have our constitutional rights of freedom of life, movement, speech and religion been withdrawn? Will the State machinery act according to the assumptions and prejudices of political activists?It is heartening to note that Home Minister Amit Shah, while campaigning for former Union minister KJ Alphons at a Christian-dominated constituency in Kerala, assured that the government of Uttar Pradesh will bring the culprits to justice. BJP’s attempt to grow beyond the cow belt should make it more representative, and accountable towards minorities and their rights as citizens of this country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/new-nadir-of-bigotry-230498
26-03-2021||Afast-track court’s conviction of the accused in the Nikita Tomar murder case is a welcome development. The 21-year-old was shot near her college in Ballabgarh||Justice for Nikita||Delayed justice has become the norm across the country mainly because of our broken down judicial system on account of various factors like pendency of cases, low conviction rate and frequent adjournments. While the system offers the right to appeal all the way up to the highest court of the land, it is important for the lower rungs of the judicial system to set the ball rolling by functioning efficiently and effectively. The intention to fast-track cases of heinous crime is a welcome show of intent. The ruling came within five months of the horrific incident, and despite the hurdles created by the pandemic in the normal judicial processes.Efforts have been made to give special courts a clear mandate to deal with specific categories of crimes within a stipulated period to reduce the backlog with provisions for funding. The courts also have their constraints because of inadequate infrastructure, increased workload and lack of adequate staff strength. But attention needs to be paid to prompt redress of grievances. Public faith in the judicial system ultimately depends on its ability to deliver justice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/justice-for-nikita-230499
