29-03-2021||The defining images of India-Bangladesh ties during PM Modi’s just concluded Dhaka visit would be his presence as chief guest at the National Day celebrations and New Delhi’s entry into an upcoming Russian nuclear power plant there. The nuclear plant foray||India-Bangladesh ties||There was a five-year interlude when Hasina in her first term as PM established her pro-India leanings by inking the Ganga water sharing pact and ending unrest in Chittagong Hills where rebels from the north-east found safe havens. Yet those decades of political hostility and a slide into Islamism made Bangladesh a staging point for ISI’s depredations, shattered its economy causing massive infiltration into India and generated hostility about Indian proposals to restore connectivity and transit. Favourable political winds in Dhaka since 2008 have finally dispelled the misgivings about India as a conniving giant and Bangladesh its credulous victim.The turning point was the land boundary agreement and the trust reignited among the two armies after years of close interaction. The steady rise in trucks and trains crossing the borders, a huge increase in documented travel and talks for an FTA indicate the two countries’ preference for steady investment in ties rather than a myopic view. But uncontrolled passions of ideology and religious fervour also roil the land, as was evidenced from the police firing on protestors during PM Modi’s visit. Both New Delhi and Dhaka would do well to avoid trying to squeeze in domestic political objectives. Rekindling of suspicions about a Hindu India trying to dominate Bangladesh is a spoiler both sides might want to avoid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/india-bangladesh-ties-231888
29-03-2021||The Punjab Government’s order on observing one-hour silence every Saturday as a mark of respect to those who lost their lives to Covid-19 may be noble in intent||One-hour silence order||The decision is not without a precedent. A year ago, PM Modi urged the citizens to light lamps, candles and torches for nine minutes as a symbolic message in the fight against coronavirus to thank the frontline warriors and the essential service providers. The practice of observing the Earth Hour towards the end of March entails turning off non-essential lights for an hour as a show of commitment towards the preservation of planet earth, and the importance of nature has been renewed in no uncertain terms by the onset of the pandemic.The state government’s decision may be a preventive measure so that people avoid congregations to check the spread of the virus and spend time together. But exceptions are needed so that people are not inconvenienced. If the shutdown can have no impact on the Covid vaccination drive and essential services can continue unhindered despite the lockdown, there is no point in preventing people in the productive age group from going out to work at a time when the ambit of the vaccination drive is being widened. Attention should be directed more at restoration of activities crucial for sustaining livelihoods. Observing two minutes of silence has been a time-tested way to pay respect to the dead. The practice may well hold good even today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/one-hour-silence-order-231882
