31-03-2021||Red-faced over the criticism of its March 26 order to the deputy commissioners of border districts to ‘politely turn away’ the fleeing Rohingya||Volte-face by Manipur||The issue has been simmering since 2016-17 when lakhs of Muslim Rohingya began escaping the torture in their country, which the UN has accused of ‘ethnic cleansing’. Many of them have crossed into India. With a number of bilateral infrastructure projects tied to it, Myanmar is an important link in India’s Look East Policy. The Centre needs to break its silence and give clear instructions on the course of action to be taken by the affected states so as to avoid any more faux pas. It is a complicated subject with implications of a demographic shift — as feared in Assam — and the capacity of India to absorb and help the needy refugees at the cost of ensuring the depleting resources to its own citizens.In this regard, all eyes are on the Supreme Court which is looking into a related case. On March 27, a Bench led by Chief Justice Bobde reserved its order on a plea seeking the release and protection of around 150 Rohingya detained in a Jammu centre. These immigrants are being identified as illegal immigrants so as to deport them to Myanmar. Significantly, the SC had dismissed an earlier similar petition seeking the retention of some Rohingya in Assam over the genocide in Myanmar. Even as international humanitarian conventions call for giving shelter to persecuted minorities, the MHA has told the SC that their stay is illegal and fraught with serious national security ramifications.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/volte-face-by-manipur-232251
31-03-2021||The outrageous attack on the BJP MLA from Abohar||Matter of shame||A people’s representative, or anyone for that matter, being subjected to such crass and boorish conduct is a matter of shame. The animosity on display has to be proactively discouraged. The opposition is to the farm legislations, not individuals holding a different view or who may just be toeing the party line. The state has seen days not in the very distant past that it would rather not remember. For Punjab’s sake, all political parties should shed their differences for a brief moment and publically resolve that no attempt to create divisions, social or communal, is allowed to succeed. An all-party meeting could be the first step to douse any feelings of ill-will and simmering tension.Protesting is a democratic right, but resorting to violence and venting out anger in ways that pose a risk to an individual’s physical well-being cannot in any way be condoned. The hope that New Delhi would accelerate the process to resolve the standoff with the protesting farmers at the borders looks dim. That gives no right whatsoever to any protester or sympathiser to the cause to take the law into his or her hands. Frustration over non-acceptance of demands is understandable, but it cannot be made an excuse to resort to unlawful activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/matter-of-shame-232250
