01-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Breathless praise||Evaluation of any sort needs to be objective. Without objectivity, assessments lack clarity and teeth and can fall prey to partisanship. This kind of impartiality is especially critical when it comes to evaluating the performance of the government in combating a pandemic and the associated challenges to healthcare. It is thus shocking to note that a task force put together at the behest of the highest court of the land has lavished fulsome praise on the Centre for its handling of the medical oxygen crisis during the second wave of the coronavirus. In its report, the National Task Force, comprising experts and bureaucrats, mentioned the Centre’s “hard work and efforts” towards combating the crisis even though the ground realities tell a starkly different story. India reported at least 512 oxygen-related deaths earlier this year; given the lack of accurate data, it would not be unreasonable to infer that the actual number of deaths on account of the paucity of oxygen is likely to be much higher. It is not just the loss of lives that points to the unequivocal failure of the Central government. In spite of signs of rising infections, the Centre pushed ahead with densely-packed political rallies in poll-bound states — Bengal is one example — as well as with religious functions like the Kumbh Mela. Further proof of administrative culpability lay in the way in which the State cracked down on citizens — and hospitals — for raising concerns about the oxygen shortage: the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, ordered the seizure of properties of citizens who chose to blow the whistle on oxygen shortage or deaths. It can be argued that this kind of intimidation, coupled with the Centre’s lapses, dented India’s standing in the international fraternity. The prime minister’s rhetoric of Atmanirbhar Bharat is bound to ring hollow when his government is found wanting in terms of fulfilling even the most rudimentary needs of public healthcare. That is not all. The NTF has ended up making a series of recommendations for the future. Among  them are the proposals to equip all 18 metro cities to be self-sufficient in terms of oxygen supply and the setting up of a war room to monitor the movement of oxygen and its distribution in a transparent and timely manner. What is the need for such guidelines if the Centre has indeed performed credibly in its ‘oxygen test’? The NTF, much like the Centre, seems to have tied itself up in knots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
01-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Dowry deaths in Kerala, animal cruelty in Cambodia ||Act now Sir — It is shameful that even after 60 years since Parliament enacted the Dowry Prohibition Act and 16 years after the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, dowry deaths continue to be a major cause for concern (“Just fight”, June 29). A series of recent suicides and deaths of women in Kerala, allegedly because of dowry-related demands and violence, has revealed the social and economic cracks in the state. Kerala, which has the highest literacy rate in the country, was considered to be far more progressive considering the history of social movements in the state. But none, including the Left, took the question of gender inequality seriously, even though poor women played a central role in many of these struggles. While social evils like class and caste have been addressed, questions of gender-based exploitation have often been swept under the carpet. Women have significantly contributed to Kerala’s success in improving social indicators such as literacy, education, birth rate and life expectancy. Yet their presence in leadership roles continues to be minimal. The state government has finally taken note of the growing dowry deaths, following the recent unfortunate suicide of a number of young women. The chief minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, has announced a round-the-clock police helpline for women to report dowry harassment, domestic violence and other gender crimes. The administration has also promised to strengthen domestic conflict resolution centres in all districts. It will, however, take more than executive interventions to end the dowry system that continues to prevail within the private space of the family. Resistance arising from within the institutions of marriage and family will be more effective in curbing the practice. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — It is astonishing that discrimination against women continues unabated in Kerala in spite of the state having a high literacy rate for both men and women. This proves that the belief that development and education can always bring an end to discriminatory practices is not true. The government must urgently implement measures to curb this malpractice and ensure that stringent punishments are meted out to the guilty. Vinay Asawa,Howrah Sir — The situation of women in Kerala must act as an eye-opener to policymakers that formal education means little if it is not accompanied with progressive thinking. It is of utmost importance that lessons on gender equality are imparted to children from a very young age. Vibha Dutt,Mumbai  Matter of shame Sir — Recently, the authorities in Cambodia confiscated a defanged and declawed pet lion after the owner displayed the animal on social media. While there were no other indications of cruelty, removing the teeth and claws of any animal is  barbaric and drastically reduces their quality of life. The government must be lauded for swiftly taking action. It is hoped that the young male lion will be appropriately rehabilitated. Ashmita Sengupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
01-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Smarting city||A lucky mascot deserves ardent dedication. So the Bharatiya Janata Party’s plans for Ayodhya are bigger than those for any other city so far. According to the prime minister at a recent review of these plans, Ayodhya is being developed as a spiritual centre, a global tourism hub and a sustainable smart city. Perhaps the burgeoning of Ayodhya is expected to obliterate the blood, sweat and tears of the Babri Masjid-Ram Mandir dispute, the destruction of the mosque and its painful aftermath. Otherwise, the prime minister’s remark that Ayodhya should manifest the finest of traditions — did he mean India’s or the BJP’s? — and the best of developmental transformations would be riddled with irony. The most striking transformation has been achieved by the destruction of the structure on the site where the Ram temple is being built. Could that be the finest tradition? The prime minister described Ayodhya as spiritual and sublime; to establish its spiritual status, enormous material investments are being made to develop infrastructure for better communication — airport, railway station, roads, river banks — and a greenfield city with space for ashrams, maths, hotels, lodgings for devotees and so on. The prime minister’s paean to Ayodhya was well-timed. The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, in charge of the funds to build the temple, is facing allegations of shady land deals and misuse of funds from certain Opposition parties as well as from some mahants, three of whom had been party to the Ram Janmabhoomi land dispute case. There is a rising demand for official investigation and a transparent rendering of accounts: the funds came from devotees countrywide. Earlier there had been complaints about deception in funds collection: persons posing as authorized collectors had apparently made off with people’s contributions. The glory of the Ayodhya-to-come visualized by the prime minister may perhaps erase all this sordidness but this represents, ironically, those traditions that Indians recognize most easily. At the bhoomi pujan last August, the prime minister had said that Ram belongs to all. In the same vein, he proclaimed this time that Ayodhya is etched in everyone’s consciousness. He may have been indirectly urging people to envision India as a single religio-cultural entity. But Ayodhya has become unforgettable for reasons of deliberate divisiveness, not unity. The prime minister may have been right — for the wrong reasons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
01-07-2021||Opinion|| Listen to the dissenters||Dissent — defined by Collins as a (strong) disagreement or dissatisfaction with a decision or opinion, especially one that is supported by most people or by people in authority — is the cornerstone of governance and democracy. Like cornerstones, dissent is not very attractive, least of all to those inhabiting the building; often ignored until it becomes wildly disruptive and threatens imminent instability. Like cornerstones, too, the removal of dissent renders the structure precarious and often dangerous. Indeed, one might consider dissent, and the ability to tolerate dissent, the litmus test of governance. Metaphors, after all, are meant to be mixed. For while a democracy is undoubtedly governance of the people, for the people and by the people, it is also, by nature, governance representing the majority of these very people. Which is laudable, of course. Democracies function best when they come closest to representing as many people as they can. And the more people they represent, the closer they come to realizing their hopes and aspirations. And, of course, by nature, they will never truly represent all the people, because there will always be some differences of opinion, some diversity in choices, in value systems, in beliefs and in the expression of these. If this sounds glorious and paradoxical and quixotic, it is because democracies are all these things, and more. It is at the same time both an expression of a consensus and an expression of dissent by the consensus. It is dependent upon both a fulfilment of our responsibilities and an exertion of our rights. So it has been from its earliest recognizable forms, when groups of people engaged in discussion to take important decisions as they settled down from hunter-gatherer to agrarian societies. India, with its rich diversity of cultural heritage, is oft-quoted to the extent of becoming a trope. Our earliest settled democratic republic states in the subcontinent are now believed to date back to the 6th century BCE, very close to the earliest traceable origins in Athens in the 7th century BCE. This naturally lends itself to an ability in the subcontinent to live together peacefully while respecting diversity (at least most of the time) while also tolerating the differences that are expressed as plurality and as dissent. Of course, democracies work best when situations — environmental, economic, social and political — are favourable. They are less systematic in times of adversity, when this very plurality and dissent lend themselves to chaos, perhaps even anarchy. This, too, is laudable, because the chaos then becomes a potent indicator that the democracy can function better, and, in fact, may need to, in order to respond conclusively to a crisis. The chaos itself, may, in taking itself apart and putting itself back together, show us potential ways out of the crisis. Such is true not just for countries, but for any and all sorts of enterprises where large groups of people come together and work together towards achieving a common goal — from sports teams to housing colonies to work places. The human body, too, tends to resemble a democracy based upon what most of its constituent organs decide — in both health and disease. Diseases lend themselves to discomfort, manifested by signs and symptoms, often anarchic. Yet, the signs and symptoms themselves are also potent indicators that the body is not functioning as it should and that it can do better. The distress they cause leads us to treatment, which, if all goes well, may lead us out of the crisis caused by the disease. If this sounds like an oversimplification, it is because it probably is. All metaphors are. They bring out what is common and gloss over what is different. As do democracies, often. Dissent is not always constructive to democracy, certainly not when it leads to death and destruction. There are limits to its expression by citizens as well as limits to the tolerance shown to it by nations. It may not be desirable or even convenient, particularly when nations and institutions already have a fair amount to deal with, during a crisis. However, like diseases, they are potent indicators that there is something of concern, something which would merit improvement or fixing. As with diseases, they are always worth paying attention to, and unwise to ignore or dismiss. Why is this fairly lengthy exploration of how dissent reflects diversity and shapes democracy and mirrors disease important? Because, as much of the world endures the second wave of the novel coronavirus pandemic, it is clear that there is great heterogeneity. The symptoms vary widely, as do the profiles of people affected, as do theories about the modes of transmission. So too, do recommended treatment regimens, vaccine availabilities, mutations, rates of transmission, resources available, outcomes and disabilities resultant therefore. Teeming groups of experts from various fields have been trying, and will continue to try, to examine this heterogeneous data and decipher the signal from the background noise. There is great diversity in exposures, courses and outcomes. Some of this diversity is natural. Much more is man-made, and perhaps could have been avoided with better mask hygiene and consistent social distancing. The world’s two largest democracies conducted rallies and elections, on differing scales, during this period, for instance. And where there is such diversity in a pandemic, including in access to vaccines and treatment, it was perhaps inevitable that there would be dissent and differences of opinions on the best way to go about addressing the disease itself. Covid-19 may have often been called the great equalizer but it has often been anything but, often amplifying existing social and economic disparity based upon age, sex, race, religion, community, urbanization and several other factors, all across the world. Where there was a widening of such disparity, amidst disease and death, there was bound to be dissatisfaction and dissent. There has been discussion about whether such dissent is to be tolerated or not, or if expressing criticism of how healthcare systems or governing bodies are handling the crisis is disloyal or even anti-national. Based upon recent verdicts by the Supreme Court of India and addresses by Justice D. Gupta and Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, dissent continues to fall well within the purview of the constitutional rights of the citizens of India. That said citizens may express this right to dissent and thus express disapproval of, dissatisfaction with, and disagreement with governance while grappling with disease and death is perhaps, to be expected. In fact, the rule of psychosocial and political well-being is mutually respected dissent or agreeing to disagree for better solutions. That most people with Covid-19 may be asymptomatic or recover uneventfully is true. It is, however, of very little comfort until lasting solutions to the pandemic are found. Reports of the pandemic, whether in scientific literature or in popular media, may undoubtedly be distressing, but even more so would be turning our faces away from our fellow humans in their suffering. This is as true of developed countries as it is of developing countries. Unhappiness does not occur in a vacuum. There is usually a very real, very evocative context. Our current context is the long Covid. Positivity and productivity may be possible in this context, but are often accompanied by privilege and must be recognized as such. Dissent is certainly not convenient at present. It is, however, a potent indicator of this unhappiness and that things could and should certainly be better. It may not be welcome, but it exists. It is certainly worth paying attention to. It is certainly worth listening to. May we listen — to ourselves and to each other. Debanjan Banerjee and Migita D’Cruz are consultant psychiatrists in Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
01-07-2021||Opinion||Estranged partners||Five years after the fateful referendum on June 23, 2016, what is the current balance sheet of Brexit? Answer: two weakened unions, the British and the European, and bad-tempered relations between them. The weakening of the British union is obvious. There will be another referendum on Scottish independence within the next few years. Scottish nationalists may win it with the argument that Scotland should leave the British union to rejoin the European one. A vote in Northern Ireland on Irish unification seems more likely than at any point since it was first provided for in the Belfast agreement in 1998. Boris Johnson’s government is full of rhetoric about keeping the union together but has no strategy for doing so. The negative economic consequences of Brexit have been hidden by the impact of the pandemic but some are now emerging from the Covid fog. Official figures show that British exports of food and drink to the European Union declined by nearly 50 per cent in the first quarter of 2021. An academic study has estimated that the United Kingdom’s exports of services were cumulatively £113 billion lower over the four years of 2016 to 2019 than they would have been if the country had not quit the EU. Despite the glorious photo opportunities offered by the recent G7 summit in Cornwall, Britain’s international influence is clearly diminished. In Cornwall, the UK and the United States of America promulgated a New Atlantic Charter to mark the 80th anniversary of the original Atlantic Charter signed by Winston Churchill and Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1941. An inoffensive catalogue of good intentions, it nonetheless invites a painful comparison between the global influence of Britain then and now. Countries like Germany and France see their strategic future in the ‘European sovereignty’ of the EU, the very organization that Britain has just left. It is less immediately obvious that the EU has been weakened. Some in Brussels and Paris even suggest the opposite, arguing that it is easier to agree on further steps of European integration after getting rid of the pesky Brits. Indeed, perhaps the greatest unity ever achieved between member states of the EU has been in their negotiations with Brexiting Britain. But if you want a ‘geopolitical’ Europe, one that can hold its own against a superpower like China, then losing a large member state with the financial, diplomatic, military and other assets of the UK is a big loss. Objectively, the Union’s external strength is diminished at precisely the moment it needs to be increased. Moreover, levels of Euroscepticism are alarmingly high in core member states. The vote share of Eurosceptic parties in the EU has more than doubled in the two decades since 2000. In a recent ECFR poll, more than 50 per cent of French, Germans, Italians and Spanish said they think the political system of the EU is ‘broken’ rather than ‘working well’. Only 46 per cent of German respondents and just 38 per cent of French said it was a good thing for their country to be a member of the EU. These views are not a result of Brexit. Rather, they are a product of concerns similar to those that drove many Brits towards Brexit. But they are sharpened by the fact that there is now a large former member state with which to compare the EU’s performance. The figures in that ECFR poll are almost certainly so high because it was conducted in April this year when the contrast between the UK’s and the EU’s vaccine roll-out performance was most stark. In polling done by eupinions for my Oxford research group a month earlier, 45 per cent of Europeans said they thought that the European commission had handled the procurement and distribution of vaccines badly. According to the Dutch scholar, Catherine E. de Vries, Euroscepticism across the continent works by benchmarking  and Brexit provides a big new benchmark. Even if most Europeans think that Brexit is a mistake overall, they can still see post-Brexit Britain doing better in individual areas. Vaccines are not the only one. This brings us to the problem of bad relations across the Channel. Most continental Europeans talk very little about Britain at the moment and then only with bewilderment, irritation or contempt. In the most astonishing finding in the ECFR poll, just 14 per cent of German respondents said they see the UK as an ally of Europe, an ally being defined as “a country that shares our interests and values”. A larger number (20 per cent) preferred to describe Britain as a rival. True, 34 per cent viewed Britain as a “necessary partner” of Europe, but then 31 per cent said that about Russia and 28 per cent about China. Here, you have to distinguish between inevitable and avoidable cross-Channel tensions. It is inevitable that there will be increased competition, especially as regulatory regimes diverge in some sectors. On Northern Ireland, it is a logical impossibility to have a closed border between Great Britain and the EU but an open border between Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland, and the Republic of Ireland and the EU. The Northern Ireland protocol tries to square this circle with an awkward fudge. It was always going to need a lot of trust and goodwill to make it work  but that is precisely what is now lacking. The current level of mutual distrust and mud-slinging was anything but inevitable. Ninety per cent of the blame for this lies with the British government, especially with Boris Johnson and Britain’s lead negotiator, David Frost. The bombast. The point-scoring. The twisting and turning. The declared willingness to breach international law. The refusal to have any structured relationship with the EU as such beyond narrow implementation of the withdrawal and free-trade agreements. But a small part of the responsibility lies on the continental side, and particularly with the European Commission. I recently participated in an online meeting with a senior Commission official closely involved in relations with the UK. In tones of constant irritation, she repeatedly stressed that Britain is simply “a third country”. Of course that is the legal position, just as when two people divorce they become, legally speaking, third parties. But Britain and the EU were married for more than 45 years. Imagine someone who had been married for 45 years speaking of their former spouse as just “a third party”, a complete stranger. A more historically aware and strategic language should be heard from the EU’s political leaders, including the new German government after this autumn’s election. In the long run, we must work towards a Britain where a clear majority sees the point of being in the EU and an EU that is doing so well that even the sceptical, cussed English want to rejoin it. In the meantime, however, what we need in cross-Channel relations is the political equivalent of the famous prayer of the theologian, Reinhold Niebuhr: the courage to change what can be changed, the serenity to accept what cannot be changed, and the wisdom to distinguish the one from the other.  Timothy Garton Ash is Professor of European Studies at Oxford University and a Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
