02-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: SC raps Centre on migrant database; Greece recovers stolen Picasso and Mondrian||Right decision Sir — Without mincing its words, the Supreme Court has stated that the labour ministry is “not alive to the concerns of the migrant workers” and its “non-action” is “strongly disapproved”. That the Narendra Modi government needed to be told by the court to ensure that no migrant worker goes hungry shows it in a rather unfavourable light. The country’s top court has made it clear to the government that feeding the migrant workers cannot be made conditional on their possession of any card. It is a meaningful reminder to the Centre that the right to food, a basic need, is an intrinsic part of the right to live with dignity. As an entity tasked with upholding the right to life, the government cannot turn its back on the migrant workers when they need its support the most. The failure of the government to set up the national database for unorganized workers, a portal for migrant and unorganized workers to ensure their rights, welfare and food security has drawn flak from the apex court, which pointed out the Centre’s “unpardonable apathy”. The government expends a lot of time, money and energy on building the Central Vista and carrying out the delimitation exercise in Jammu and Kashmir. But it is least interested in keeping an updated register of migrant workers, a task that can be accomplished with Rs 45.39 crore and allotting rations to states commensurate with the present population. The government is so callous that it blames the delay in finalizing the NDUW module on ‘software problems’. It is now left to set right the problem by July 31, the deadline set by the Supreme Court. Thanks to the apex court’s intervention, all migrant workers, wherever they are, will have access to dry rations and instantly eatable food from government-run outlets and community kitchens to stave off hunger till the pandemic lasts. The Supreme Court has stopped short of asking the government to support the migrant workers through direct cash transfers, leaving the decision to the government since it is a “matter of policy”. Migrant workers make up nearly one-third of the country’s population. The government’s concern for them would reflect its concern for the nation. Therefore, the Centre’s patriotism is on test. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The Supreme Court’s rap on the Union labour ministry’s “apathy and lackadaisical attitude” towards setting up a migrant database, in spite of its directives as far back as August 2018 in the context of the implementation of the National Food Security Act, is quite a strong judicial indictment. The court recognized that such a database is central to the identification of migrant and unorganized workers in need of rations and other benefits. The bench has directed the labour secretary to ensure that the portal is launched by July 31. One hopes that the Prime Minister’s Office, which failed to monitor the implementation of the court’s 2018 directives, complies with its order this time. Those responsible for the “unpardonable” failure to set up the migrant database should also be prosecuted for dereliction of duty. The entire nation was witness to how hard the migrant labourers were hit by the lockdown thoughtlessly announced by the prime minister last year at less than four hours’ notice, with no contingency plans to mitigate their hardships. While this labour force contributes massively to developmental activities at sites far away from their homes, they are voiceless in the absence of recognized associations when it comes to engaging in collective negotiations with employers for the improvement of working conditions. The labour ministry must therefore encourage the formation of such labour unions. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Sir — The apex court ordering the Centre to implement the ‘one nation, one ration card’ scheme and provide dry ration to migrant workers at their place of work until the pandemic subsides is heartening. The court has also commendably asked all states and Union territories to run community kitchens for them. The spree of lockdowns and curfews have left workers of the unorganized sector in a lurch. The photographs of the desperate march of millions of migrant workers to their faraway homes in the scorching heat during the first wave of the pandemic highlighted their plight. It is shameful for the government that it has not planned remedies for such situations even after a year. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — The ‘one nation, one ration card’ scheme is of great importance as it will allow any migrant labourer to obtain ration from any part of the country. However, owing to some political reasons, a few states and Union territories have not yet implemented it. Taking note of this, the Supreme Court has now asked all regional governments to implement the system by July 31. There are hundreds of migrant workers who are employed outside their home states and do not have ration cards. It is then the duty of the government of the state in which they are staying to provide them food during these difficult times. Manisha Panwar,Ujjain Lost and found Sir — Greece must be congratulated on having retrieved two stolen paintings — Pablo Picasso’s Woman’s Head and Piet Mondrian’s Stammer Mill. These will now be exhibited at the National Gallery as part of celebrations marking the 200th anniversary of the Greek War of Independence. People often do not recognize the significance of museum heists — the loss of artefacts does not affect only the influential class or connoisseurs. Artefacts are markers of the cultural history of a nation. For instance, Woman’s Head is said to have been gifted by Picasso to the Greek for having resisted fascism; its loss would have been immeasurable. Supratim Sinha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
02-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Special place||The pandemic gave a special dimension to India’s National Doctors’ Day. It is celebrated every year on July 1 in memory of Bidhan Chandra Roy, the former chief minister of West Bengal and a doctor of almost mythical repute, whose contributions to medical organization and infrastructure, to education and to healing are of abiding consequence. The institutions he was instrumental in building still serve the people. The Indian Medical Association began celebrating the day in honour of doctors and healthcare workers from 1991. The bleak and frightening situation in 2020 and 2021 has sharpened people’s awareness of the dedication and sacrifices of doctors and healthcare workers. The IMA’s count of doctors who died of Covid-19 in the two years is close to 1,600; this does not take into account nurses, ambulance drivers and numerous other healthcare and peripheral staff who did not survive the pandemic. Remembering their sacrifices should also bring to mind the silent tension and sacrifice, sometimes grief, of their families. Gratefulness and remembrance were perhaps the dominant emotions on Doctors’ Day; the prime minister celebrated the contributions of the Indian medical fraternity in his speech arranged by the IMA. But beyond celebrations, governments and the public have other obligations. The government subsidizes medical education, but the security and welfare of working doctors must be ensured too. An important issue is that of working conditions — they cannot be made scapegoats, as one doctor was made not so long ago, when the administration fails to provide what is necessary. The initial shortage of protective gear in the first wave and the shortage of oxygen in the second wave pushed medical workers to the edge. That healthcare in villages and semi-urban areas suffers from a lack of doctors is partly a reflection of poor infrastructure that can be improved in a targeted way. Perhaps the financial allocations promised by the prime minister will help in these spheres. Meanwhile, violence against doctors must stop and be stopped; administrative routes for complaint should be at the forefront for those who do not want to go to court. One day of celebration does not mean that doctors and healthcare staff can be taken for granted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
02-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Keep the faith||The findings of the survey conducted by the Pew Research Center on religion and associated public sentiments in India are undoubtedly illuminating. The inferences cannot be dismissed easily because data for Religion in India: Tolerance and Segregation was collated after interviewing almost 30,000 respondents in 17 languages between 2019 and 2020. It can be argued that the survey mirrors prevailing public sentiments and, by that reasoning, the study brings tidings that are both good and bad. On the bright side, the majority of Indians continue to believe that respect for all religions remains integral to national identity. Hearteningly, each of the six major faiths also has reasons to believe that India permits unhindered practice of all faiths. But there are troubling associations concerning the compact of religion and State. For instance, 64 per cent of Hindus believe that their faith and 59 per cent think that the language, Hindi, are the primary markers of nationhood. A significant numerical segment among them, unsurprisingly, support the Bharatiya Janata Party whose views on pluralism and language are alleged to be discordant with constitutional guarantees. The survey will bring more cheer to the party. A large number of Indians, it found, endorse political intervention in matters of faith; very few among them are interested in harnessing social relationships that cut across religious lines; interfaith marriages remain an anathema to Indian society. These sentiments offer a context for some of the seminal transitions that have been taking place in New India. Violence and discriminations against minorities, the emergence of legislations encouraging institutional witch-hunts against interfaith unions, the inception of a shrill nationalism that feeds the rising bigotry, among other worrying trends, can only be understood after examining the growing public support for these initiatives, most of which form the core of the ideological agenda of India’s ruling party. The survey also reveals the peculiarities of the secular project as a result of which conservatism, even dogma, can coexist with a refreshing tolerance for pluralism. Yet, as is evident from the survey, the future of this spirit of accommodation does not seem assured given the enthusiasm — from the State and its subjects — for a seemingly sectarian model. The potential erosion of India’s secularism that is unique would be a signal of the capitulation of modernity to the demands of orthodoxy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
02-07-2021||Opinion||Time to change the rules||In the factory of the world, where productivity is paramount and everyone is set on being upwardly mobile, the first stirrings of rebellion are being seen. Thousands of young people, most of them college-educated, are getting together online to support a lifestyle where they can relax — not after earning millions, but after saying ‘No’ to conventional success. Take Liu Na. This 29-year-old Beijinger gave up her advertising job in 2019 because of overwork. Working on just three hours of sleep everyday had left her such a wreck that she had to be pepped up every afternoon with a programmed message on her mobile saying “You are special.’’ No regrets In contrast, over the last two years, she’s had the time to meet friends, shop for the fruit she loves — grapes — and gone hours without checking her phone. Still, she needs a minimum of 2,000 yuan as rent for her flat, for which she’s taken up a string of odd jobs: selling lipstick, working as an usherette in a theatre, and, finally, selling insurance. She has no regrets. Nor does Wang Xiao, who dropped out even before entering the professional rat race. Overwhelmed by her frenetic life as a college student, Xiao left university, moved back with her father, and took her final year exams online. She graduated, but failed her Master’s entrance exam. But that didn’t motivate her to go back to university to seriously pursue higher education. She’s content living at home, painting silicone dolls, and selling them online at 60 yuan a piece to meet her now drastically reduced living expenses. She hopes to save enough to travel around China “like a nomad’’. It’s not women alone taking the plunge. The 24-year-old techie, Huang Wei, made a sudden decision to hand in his resignation after a persistent feeling that he had been reduced to a robot by his long working hours. He doesn’t know what he’s going to do next; right now, he just wants to “lie flat’’. Origin story The ‘lie-flat’ movement is a backlash against the punishing ‘996’ culture promoted by IT start-ups where young people are expected to work from 9 am to 9 pm six days a week. But it is also a backlash against “involution’’, the endless pressure to do well which mostly results in you simply remaining in the same place. The pressure these days is felt by everyone, from parents pushing their infants to training classes so that they can get into the best private school to students competing throughout school to get into the best university. So widespread is this backlash that the authorities have been forced to sit up and react — in the only way they know. Last month, they banned the sale of products by e-commerce companies that have the words ‘lie flat’ and ‘involution’ written on them, including stickers. In May they had banned an online group with 10,000 members who had declared themselves to be believers in the ‘lie flat’ creed. As academics in China have pointed out, that’s hardly a solution. Other such online groups exist, and with the government carrying on with its relentless pursuit of ‘growth’, more youngsters are bound to join them. Perhaps the ban was to prevent anything spoiling the centenary celebrations of the Communist Party of China. It just wouldn’t do, would it, if, as the grand celebrations kicked off in Beijing and across the country on July 1, you had youth lounging around street corners in T-shirts proclaiming ‘Lie Flat’. All names have been changed||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
02-07-2021||Opinion||First love, last rites||In just about every religion or value-system known to humanity, the human body gets a new life after death. The withholding of this life is great trauma for the family, community, and encircling society. In U.R. Ananthamurthy’s classic Kannada novel, Samskara, when the blaspheming Brahmin, Naranappa dies, he leaves the Brahmin settlement of his village in a quandary. Who will do the last rites of the Brahmin who had flouted every rule of Brahminism while alive — consuming meat and alcohol, spending time with Muslims, taking a low-caste mistress? His dead body lies like a giant question mark in the village, while the seductive body of Naranappa’s mistress, Chandri, and the gold jewellery she offers for those who will give her dead lover his last rites, draw gleams of lust in the eyes of the impoverished, caste-proud Brahmins. The stinking, rotting corpse, meanwhile, turns into a slow metaphor for corrupt Brahminical Hinduism. Far away in time and place, in Homer’s Iliad, Priam goes to beg for the body of his son, Hector, from Achilles, the man who killed him in battle. In a fit of vengeful rage, Achilles tied the body of the slain Trojan hero to his chariot and dragged him around, even though the Sun-God, Apollo, intervened to keep Hector’s body miraculously unblemished. An old man, Priam, appeals to Achilles’s memory of his own father, so that Achilles takes pity on aged Priam and returns to him the dead body of his beloved son. And at the end of Thebes’s civil war in Sophocles’s play, Antigone, the victorious king, Creon, decrees that the body of the rebel, Polynices, will be denied the respect of last rites and will be left to rot and vultures. Antigone’s struggle, in the play named after her, is to dare the royal decree and give her brother the last rites he deserves. Beyond religion and culture, the touch of the kindred dead body, in the last instance, is always an act of love. ******* Like many people whose lives have spanned different continents, I have known the strange disembodiment of the death of a loved one that happens at a distance. When I was in my twenties and a student in the United States of America, within a period of three years, I lost both my parents, both in their mid-fifties. My father’s death was first a phone conversation with my mother, who told me to stay strong as my father had been admitted to the ICU following a major cardiac arrest. He had already gone — perhaps it was possible for my mother to lie to try and momentarily protect my emotions 12,000 kilometres away as their marriage had ended fifteen years ago. A day or two later, death news was an email from a friend. For a range of reasons too difficult and painful to get into, I was no longer close to my father, who lived with his new family. The first death of a parent was an absence in my life — the absence of a dead body, the absence of ritual, even the absence of mourning. Living in a university town in the American Midwest, I had no one around me who might mourn for him, and the difficulty of our personal relationship seemed to clog the possibility of a personal mourning too. The fever that came upon me that evening felt like a cold hand. Before my mind could grieve, my body did. The lack of the reality of death — of one related to me by blood — it seemed, had clogged its release and had pushed my body to illness. My mother’s voice had crumbled on the phone in her dalliance with the truth; little did we know that exactly three years and two days later, the news of her death would awaken me in the middle of the night. Death a telephone call, following two-and-a-half days of coma after a sudden cerebral stroke. Would I go to see her now? This time, the reality of death was a choice. But not much of one for a graduate student on a tight purse-string, to make a trip from New Jersey to Calcutta, fighting tough travel regulations in a post-9-11 world. What would I go for? She was the last member of my immediate family; I had no sibling, and no one else that close, no one whose grief I had to share. It was all mine. I decided not to make that trip, to go touch death and the remains of the body. To go to embrace all that all alone, said a friend, would be asking for more punishment. ******* I thought it was only distance that disembodied death, distance that spread over oceans, leaving me, so many of us, unprepared for the fact that since March 2020, disembodiment has become another name for death. For those of us lucky to be alive, lucky to be home, death has become images on our screens. Death is hard to see even when in the same city, deathbeds hard to visit, mourning rituals impossible, unless it’s your own immediate family where death has paid a visit. We’ve been living through a war. A war takes loved ones and often forgets to return their bodies, while scattering unrecognized corpses across the battlefield. The disembodied deaths of battle now combine with the intense communality of virtual social life — every day, the photos of dead loved ones show up on my Twitter and Facebook timelines. But many others remain elusive for me — the face of an aunt who passed away in Calcutta last October, taking with her my childhood home; that of our former landlord across the road in Delhi, chronicled merely in calls and messages, that of my neighbourhood optician in Calcutta, the first in my personal acquaintance to fall to this illness, back in May 2020, a death that felt like a bad rumour in those early days of the pandemic. Meeting people has been such a rare thing these days that word often comes from people at several removes from the dead. The finality of loss without the painful — but essential — ritual of a last goodbye, while unclaimed bodies wash up on the shores of our rivers. Who, we wonder, have been looking for these bodies? Beyond the primal grief of death, there is a loss in the loss of the body that never closes, that steals the final image from you. After all these years, I think of the choice I made, not to fly over to do the last rites for my mother, whatever little choice that I had that day. Togetherness is what the human body and soul crave in life, and togetherness is what they crave at the moment of death. That’s why last rites are precious. Not for religion, but for love. The sandal-paste on the dead beloved, the new clothes, even the touch of dead, cold skin. Between the disembodied death and the unclaimed body will dwell the giant scar of this pervasive human tragedy that haunts us today. The author is professor of English and Creative Writing at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
