03-07-2021||Opinion||Indian Ocean: India's pond, troubled waters for all ||Looked at from this side of the Palk Strait the Chinese threat looms large in Sri Lanka. Most recently, the Sri Lankan parliament passed the Colombo Port City Commission Bill with a nearly two-thirds majority in the 225-member house. Land reclamation work on what will be the Chinese-built $15-billion mega-special economic zone began in 2018. The passing of the bill revived India’s concerns about Chinese domination of the island nation. But the real game is being played beyond Sri Lanka in the shared waters of the Indian Ocean where the Chinese and other global powers all want to fish in troubled waters. Over the past decade and more, China has become India’s main irritant on the Indian Ocean front, just as it has been along our land border. If the Indian Navy began receiving more funding in recent years, it’s because of what an American scholar identified as China’s ‘String of Pearls’tactics. Sri Lanka, the teardrop-shaped island has become the pendant in that string when looked at from India. The Port City which aims to be an international financial enclave with Chinese funding and participation, has been in the news for close to a decade.  Only the bill part is new and is aimed at putting a management scheme in place, and, in the process, legitimise Chinese ‘occupation’. The provision for co-opting ‘foreigners’ on the board and sanctioning payments in foreign currency are expected to work in China’s favour, to the near-exclusion of other nations, most of which are unlikely to be interested anyway just for the very same reason. From a Sri Lankan point of view, the Port City promises tens of thousands of jobs for the locals – though it remains to be seen whether these will be at the top or bottom-end. But even this will be a departure from the norm. For all other Chinese-funded projects, all the labour and the material needed are sent from the Middle Kingdom. But following that model in Covid-ridden Sri Lanka could easily have led to social unrest and political instability, which the ruling Rajapaksas cannot afford. Leaving out the divided Tamil polity, there is a ‘national consensus’ in Sri Lanka, when it comes to working with China on the so-called development front. Sri Lanka has always faced the danger of being an economically unviable nation, depending exclusively on a traditional agriculture and tourism economy. But that cannot address the economic aspirations of the citizenry. In turn, the elimination of the LTTE more than a decade ago too has deprived the rationale for the majority Sinhala people and polity to remain united. Nor can the Sri Lankan state and the Sinhala polity afford a social struggle like the two 'JVP insurgencies’ of 1971 and 1987-89. It was the first militant uprising in the post-Independence era, after which independent Tamil youth groups took to guns in the North and the East. This turned into the LTTE. For Colombo, the Chinese are important in two ways. First, they provide funding for growth and development. Colombo also wants Beijing’s backing to block Western criticism particularly at the UNHRC for the way it put down the LTTE insurgency. India doesn’t fulfil these needs for the Sri Lankans. We concluded it wasn’t an economically viable project, that too when India was still coming out of the massive cash-crunch of the ’90s. At a different level, India is not a P-5 member in the UN Security Council with a veto, which is what Sri Lanka needs if there are any moves against it. The ‘national consensus’ has thus worked to China’s favour. The ‘Big Two’ political parties of the majority Sinhala community seem to have an unwritten understanding to have India as their security guarantor, but accept developmental funding from wherever it came. If the ruling Rajapaksas thus launched the unviable Hambantota project, their political Opposition helped convert it into a debt-equity ‘swap deal’, handing over Sri Lankan ‘territory’ on a 99-year lease to China. The Opposition voted recently against the Port City Bill on specific aspects but the fact was that the government did not require their support. They still welcome the project because it is expected to help to revive the Sri Lankan economy. Predators, all Thus far, the Chinese have tried to package their presence in Sri Lanka and around the region as benign and development-driven. That is obviously not enough to ease Indian anxieties. India’s strategic interests have changed sharply in recent years. Step back many decades and our concern was over the US base at Diego Garcia. This became particularly acute in the wake of the 1971 Bangladesh war when the US Seventh Fleet was despatched to arm-twist India and prevent us from over-running the erstwhile East Pakistan. The tables are turned now, and Indians are not talking about the Cold War past and the accompanying American interest in Sri Lanka. Ever since the post-Pokhran II (1998) Vajpayee government, New Delhi has been bending backward to accommodate the US and its allies, leading up to the Quad strategic-military arrangement, also involving Australia and Japan. But India’s ‘Malabar Exercises’, since expanded to include all Quad members is not the only one. India has the ‘Varuna’ exercises with the French, a quiet but dependable military supplier for decades. New Delhi is also on record that it was working on similar but separate military exercises with Russia and the UK, as with other nations, before Covid intervened. France also has greater legitimacy to access the Indian Ocean, given that it has greater territorial interests in the region than any other erstwhile colonial power, including the UK with islands of what is residual BIOT (British Indian Overseas Territory) in the Indian Ocean Region, still under the control of the UK. Lately, Germany another aspiring European nation too has crafted an Indian Ocean doctrine. Maybe, the European nations will take their time to venture out, either under the EU flag, or as individual nations, but may wait for others to fight their Neo-Cold War before entering big time, if at all. Russian roulette From an Indian perspective, our enduring strategic connection with Moscow suffered after President Boris Yeltsin, under American pressure, held back cryogenic engines for ISRO’s space programme, and also impeded India’s military preparedness in other ways, during the nineties. Yet, Russian diplomats across India were rattled when India signed the precedent-setting defence cooperation agreement with the US in 2005. Russia began taking interest in India’s neighbours, including Sri Lanka, then, but seemingly slowed down in between, possibly owing to President Vladimir Putin’s strategy to strengthen the home front. Delhi thus got a breather on the Russian front at the time. Yet, Moscow began dabbling with Islamabad, supplying them with weapons that they had denied in the Cold War past and later. Is that a tit-for-tat, or the Russian way of protecting their own strategic interests in South Asia? India’s relations with Moscow, especially on the geo-strategic front, are not as unshakeable as they were in earlier decades. Moscow is alive to New Delhi moving further away from it and into the American orbit for good. That’s despite what they now seem to have concluded is a one-off S-400 missile defence programme with India. Epoch-changing pacts India in recent times has expanded the scope and reach of the IOR (Indian Ocean Region) Division, which itself was a relatively new entity in the Ministry of External Affairs, to include Comoros, Madagascar and French Reunion, among others, to push the periphery to coincide with the emerging Ocean-centric strategic realities to suffocate China within what is known as the 'Indian pond'. That is, the waters on this side of the arc comprising Comoros, Madagascar, Reunion and Mauritius, all the way up to Maldives and India's own Lakshadweep group of islands, with Assumption Island and Seychelles in the middle. The US' Diego Garcia military-base is located in these waters. But ever since the Cold War era, our neighbours see New Delhi as being unconcerned about their strategic interests. On the contrary, India is their prime suspect, following its role firstly, in the creation of Bangladesh. Later we also launched extra-territorial missions – the IPKF to Sri Lanka (1987-89) and ‘Operation Cactus’ in the Maldives (1988), though in both cases, New Delhi's decisions derived from specific requests from embattled governments in the respective countries.  They also feel they should have been consulted either before or after signing epoch-changing defence agreements with extra-regional powers (the Soviet Union, 1971 and the US, 2005). Such arguments may have some merit considering the relative sizes, cut off from their historic and cultural roots that some Indian seems wanting to impose on them, as if they as nations and peoples owe their present to their Indian past. But more importantly, they resent India and Indians continually suspecting them, vis a vis New Delhi’s given position viz a third nation at a given time. The Quad question India, of course, looks at it differently. Through the Quad and other military exercises, India may have diverted some of the strategic concerns to the Ocean front, from the land border with China. If and when, battlelines are to be drawn for a Neo Cold War, or even beyond, then Indian allies are now clear. China can count on Pakistan, yes, and possibly, Afghanistan’s Taliban by default. Where does that leave a peeved Iran, whom India has hurt over US sanctions, and Russia, which would have to make a choice, if it had to be counted? Indian Ocean used to be considered India’s pond. China has since declared that it’s not India’s Ocean even though it claims the South China and East China Seas are its own. But then, why blame China and Sri Lanka, when western friends have ceased to consider South Asia and its waters, India’s ‘traditional sphere of influence’ and want to fish in the troubled waters even post-Quad? The US has even tried to sign a framework defence treaty last year with the Maldives -- reportedly behind India’s back. The SOFA (Status of Forces Agreement) contained clauses for US armed forces to carry personal arms as they roam around the idyllic and not be subject to local laws. It was an example of the global games that are underway in the seas around India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
03-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Congress-AAP war of words in Punjab, BCCI payment gap for women cricketers||Fix the problem Sir — With the Punjab assembly elections around the corner — they are slated to be held in 2022 — a war of words has broken out between the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party about giving free electricity units to the people of the state. The AAP leader and chief minister of Delhi, Arvind Kejriwal, in a bid to come to power in Punjab, has promised 300 free units of electricity to all households in Punjab if his party wins. Why is he making false promises to the people of Punjab when he cannot even manage Delhi properly? He has even promised a waiver on previous power bills. His claims are not to be trusted. It must be remembered that Punjab is reeling under a debt of nearly Rs 3 lakh crore. Any party that talks about giving free electricity units is opportunistic and power hungry. If it wins, it will most certainly betray the people’s trust by not following up on its promises. Such claims by political parties and their leaders amount to nothing. They are merely made to influence voters. Worryingly, the Congress is going through a crisis in Punjab, and this may affect the morale of the party’s units in other states. The Bharatiya Janata Party is always waiting for the opportunity to resort to unscrupulous means to bring down state governments. This was witnessed in Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka where members of legislative assemblies from the Congress were seen joining the BJP. Well-known Congress leaders such as Jyotiraditya Scindia and Jitin Prasada also switched sides. India’s Grand Old Party is going through rough weather owing to infighting. Punjab is an important state for the party. The farmers’ agitation against the three controversial farm laws passed by the Centre has had an impact on the state. The Shiromani Akali Dal, which is in the Opposition in the assembly, will take advantage of this situation. Moreover, the open fight between the chief minister, Amarinder Singh, and Navjot Singh Sidhu does not bode well for the state government. It is high time the Congress high command took the matter seriously. If it does not do so, it may lose yet another state to the saffron camp and its communal forces. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The situation in the Punjab Congress is getting worse. There seems to be no immediate solution to the rift between Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu, who is keen to replace the former as chief minister. Ironically, the Gandhi family appears to be giving more importance to Sidhu than to Amarinder Singh, even though the latter has proven to be a successful chief minister who reflects well on the party. If the feud is not resolved soon, the outcome will not be palatable for the Congress. The Aam Aadmi Party may crush the dreams of both the Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal. N. Viswanathan,Coimbatore Not fair Sir — It was interesting to read that the Board of Control for Cricket in India will recommend both the ace Indian cricketers, Mithali Raj and Ravichandran Ashwin, for the prestigious Khel Ratna award. However, in its own annual contracts with players, the BCCI ensures that women cricketers are paid a mere fraction of what the men are paid. In the contracts announced in May, the highest grade for women cricketers has a retainer of Rs 50 lakh while the lowest grade for male players is worth Rs 1 crore. Mere gestures of equality, such as recommending Raj and Ashwin for the same sports award, do nothing to hide the inherent discrimination in the BCCI. Romit Sen,Calcutta PARTING SHOT Sir — It was heartening to read that for the first time since the pandemic started, the daily positivity rate for Covid tests in Chennai has fallen to below 1 per cent. Reportedly, no street in the city has more than 10 cases, and 71 lakh vaccine doses are to be received by the state government. The Union health minister had lauded the efforts of the Tamil Nadu administration to contain the virus. However, this does not mean that the common man should be free to roam, that too without following Covid norms, as there is the fear of a third wave. N. Mahadevan,Chennai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
03-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Mr Thick, Ms Thin||'Jack Sprat could eat no fat, his wife could eat no lean’ — or so goes a popular nursery rhyme. In reality, though, Jack Sprat can eat all the fat he wants since the Potbellied Man, a species created by the labour and love of women, is a figure of cultural veneration. Be it in India or North Korea, the protruding male belly — Bengal’s beloved bhnuri — is supposed to be a signifier of abundance and not excess. Little wonder then that in a perfectly Kafkaesque moment, North Koreans are reported to be shedding copious amounts of tears at the sight of a relatively sprightly Kim Jong-un emerging after a hiatus in the shadows. The absence of the Supreme Leader from the public eye is as strange as his altered form in that country and around the world. Foreign correspondents are apparently buried in their notebooks, taking note of such critical foreign policy issues as the comparative tightness of the strap of the swanky watch on Mr Kim’s slimmer wrist. Pyongyang is beside itself with worry that a lighter leader is indicative of diminished political clout. That weight loss can be a weighty issue in a gender-stratified world is best understood by examining the differential and discriminatory cultural rhetoric on weight. A podgy authoritarian leader can be foisted upon a nation as an ideal. But no such licences are available for a woman leader. Ladies, Gentlemen seem to be of the opinion, need to be lithe. A study published in the journal, Equality, Diversity and Inclusion, found that the electorate that voted the portly Donald Trump to power would likely reject women candidates for being overweight. Closer home, while campaigning for the Rajasthan assembly elections, Sharad Yadav suggested that the former chief minister of the state, Vasundhara Raje, should retire since she had put on weight. Politics is not the only sphere where women are not expected to throw their weight around. Two independent studies conducted by different NGOs showed that women who are overweight have slimmer chances of being employed and heavier chances of being underpaid than their male counterparts. This selective shaming has resulted in the genesis of a troubling set of aesthetics and ethics. From being forced to wear the corset that irreversibly damages internal organs to going under the knife to excise the excess from their midriffs, women have been coerced or conditioned to keep their waistlines in check. The mind suffers as much as the body in the process. Research by the National Bureau of Economic Research shows that being overweight produces higher dissatisfaction among women. Anorexia, an eating disorder that is the result of a distorted comprehension of the idealized, but problematic, body shape, is not known to be common in men. Work, not weight, should be the best parameter to judge the performance of political creatures. It would be interesting to see how puffed-up men have performed on this index over the years. In fact, the pandemic has shown that women leaders — New Zealand is one example — do a far better job than men, heavily set or waif-like, when it comes to caring for the nation. Is there not food for thought here?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
03-07-2021||Opinion||Tribute gone wrong: 'Circle of Heroes'||The New York governor, Andrew Cuomo, announced a new monument in Manhattan’s Battery Park to honour the essential workers who went beyond the call of duty during the coronavirus pandemic. It was unveiled just two weeks ago after Cuomo announced the termination of the city’s Covid-19 restrictions and the state of emergency. The gesture, however, is receiving criticism. The ‘Circle of Heroes’ monument consists of 19 maple trees planted in a circle around an eternal flame symbol. The trees each represent the 19 groups of essential workers, including doctors, nurses, paramedics, firefighters, teachers, National Guard troops, sanitation workers, food service workers and delivery drivers. The structure cost about $3 million to put together; moreover, it is in an area that is not much travelled. There is an online petition signed by over 4,700 people pushing the governor to relocate the monument. Some essential workers themselves said they used the area as an escape during stressful times. The monument occupies about two per cent of the total green area. Essential workers expressed their dismay on social media as well as in a www.change.org petition. The House Representative, Jerry Nadler, tweeted, “New York’s essential workers deserve our honor and respect — and we can commemorate them with a memorial. But bulldozing vital open space in lower Manhattan isn’t the way to do it”. Others pointed out that it would be better for the money to be used to set up a fund for essential workers or raise their pay instead of building a monument in a space that they love. Man versus food If you take part in a bet, be careful what you put on the line. Unless you live to eat waffles. That is exactly what a man in Mississippi had to face after losing a Fantasy Football league. As punishment, Lee Sanderlin, a journalist, was required to spend 24 hours in a Waffle House in Brandon, Mississippi. With each waffle he consumed, an hour was shaved off the timer. He live-tweeted the whole experience, which started a little past 4 in the evening. He spent a total of 15 hours at the Waffle House, which is a well-known national food chain in the United States of America, with 2,100 locations mostly concentrated in the South. Sanderlin’s live tweets quickly gained traction on social media. “Waffle number 6 and I’m eagerly staring into the abyss, hoping for it all to end. Also, 4 hours down now,” he tweeted at one point. In another post, he said: “Hello. It is hour 7. Where we stand: 6 waffles consumed. 11 hours remain. Insides are in shambles, but two kind Mississippians came in and gave me some Rolaids. Shoutout those people. Yr boy is in PAIN [sic].” Around 6 in the morning, he ordered his final two waffles and was able to leave at 7 am. “This was horrible and I recommend no one ever do this,” he said in his final tweet. Uncomfortable truths Confronting the US’s social justice issues, especially those about race, have always been a struggle for some people in the country. Now, that struggle is showing up more explicitly in the American education system as lawmakers, social justice activists and school education boards battle one another on what is ‘okay’ and ‘not okay’ to teach to kids in high school when it comes to the nation’s racist past. The term that has been extensively used is ‘critical race theory’, which refers to how racism has played a role in the creation of the US’s legal systems and policies, and how white supremacy and privilege came into being and led to the ongoing oppression of people of colour. Critical race theory is a very academic concept; it has been around for 40 years, started by a Harvard Law School professor in the 1970s. Today, there is ongoing debate regarding teaching such a concept in high school. Nine US states have already banned it. Naysayers say it teaches children to feel guilty for being white and that it actually encourages discrimination against white people. In Florida, a school curriculum banned critical race theory and focused on teachings about “patriotism and love of country, citizenship, the US form of government and the Constitution”. No matter which side of the aisle one is on, it is clear that these actions will spark debate around free speech as well. It remains to be seen how the courts will ultimately rule on the matter. Momentous day The US celebrated Juneteenth, also known as Liberation Day or Emancipation Day, on June 19. On this date in 1865, the last few enslaved people were freed. While most gained their freedom owing to the Emancipation Proclamation put forth by Abraham Lincoln in 1863, those in Texas were not made aware of the decree until 1865. This year marked the 156th celebration of the momentous day. On June 17th, the US president, Joe Biden, signed a law making this day a federal holiday — a huge milestone for many Black Americans. After the signing, the vice-president, Kamala Harris, made a public statement drawing attention to the importance of the context of the moment. “We are gathered here, in a house built by enslaved people,” Harris said. “We are footsteps away from where President Abraham Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation, and we are here to witness President Joe Biden establish Juneteenth as a national holiday.” Juneteenth celebrations involve cookouts, barbecues and fireworks. It is also common for people to drink red beverages such as red soda pop, where the colour represents the struggle the enslaved people endured and the perseverance they showed. Some sources have also linked the tradition to a reference to the bloodshed that took place. People are also encouraged to shop at black owned-businesses and take the time to educate themselves on the historic significance of the day. Footnote A study by a popular dog services site has revealed the most preferred dog breeds in the US. After mixed breeds, Labrador Retrievers, Golden Retrievers, German Shepherds and the Goldendoodle are most popular. According to the survey, more than half of American dog owners got a new dog during the pandemic. Cockapoos are the number one dog breed in New York City this year. They are a cocker spaniel-poodle mix and are known for their gentle nature.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
03-07-2021||Opinion||Golden summer||It is the television, carrying matches live into the home, that shapes the consciousness of the Indian cricket fan today. However, growing up when I did, my window to the world was the radio. I first heard The Beatles on the BBC World Service’s Top Twenty programme, and it was on that same channel’s Test Match Special that I followed every stroke of a Test hundred at Lord’s by Garry Sobers. That was in 1966, when I was eight. Three years later, New Zealand toured India for a three Test series, and I suppose I must have followed some of the cricket on All India Radio. However, no memories of that remain. But I do remember very clearly the impression that Kiwi cricketers made on me in the summer of 1973. I had just come off an intensive season of schoolboy cricket, playing every Sunday from February to April for my school’s First Eleven. When the summer holidays commenced, it was too hot to play cricket in my home town, but I could at least follow the game — and at a much higher level too — via the radio. In this summer of 1973, Glenn Turner (picture) became the first batsman in 35 years to score a thousand first-class runs in an English summer before the end of May. He made these runs opening the batting for the New Zealand touring team, against a series of County Elevens. Back then, the World Service had a Saturday Sports Special, which ran uninterrupted on that day of the week from 5 pm to 11.15 pm IST, with breaks only for news. I heard several of Turner’s innings live as they unfolded on successive Saturdays, following the others via the BBC’s daily Sports Roundup, a bulletin, 15 minutes long, that summarized the important sporting developments of the past 24 hours. ‘1,000 runs before the end of May’ was one of the most select of all sporting lists. Its six members in 1973 included W.G. Grace, Wally Hammond and Don Bradman (who had done the feat twice). For a batsman from New Zealand, the most unglamorous of cricketing nations, to be in this sort of company attracted the admiration of otherwise patronizing English commentators, and it made a powerful impression on this Indian schoolboy too. In June, a series of three Test matches between New Zealand and England began. The first match, played at Nottingham from June 7-12, 1973, was thrilling to hear on the radio, and must have been even more thrilling to watch at the ground. New Zealand were set a mammoth 479 to win in the fourth innings, and made a very good fist of it. I followed every run of their chase on the family radio, lowering the volume and placing my ears ever closer to the receiver after 9 pm, when my family went to sleep, staying on myself to listen till stumps were drawn at 11 pm IST. It is now almost half-a-century since that epic Test match. But without looking at the scorecard I can tell you that the captain, Bevan Congdon, and the off-spinning all-rounder, Victor Pollard, both made centuries. I seem to remember that they batted in contrasting styles, with Congdon playing in a more orthodox fashion, in the V, and Pollard hitting across the line and in the air too. Two summers previously, India had beaten England for the first time in England, after 40 years of trying. Unfortunately for me, that Oval Test of 1971 was played in late August, by which time I was in boarding school. I could not follow the match on the radio, and had to be content with reading about it in the next day’s newspapers. On the other hand, I followed every ball of this England-New Zealand Test of 1973, and thus have much clearer memories of how it played out. Indian cricket fans had long condescended to cricketers from New Zealand. The two most salient facts about them so far as we were concerned were, first, that it was New Zealand who were responsible for the lowest ever Test score, 26 all out, and, second, that it was in New Zealand that we won our first Test series overseas. However, after hearing how Glenn Turner emulated Grace, Hammond and Bradman in scoring 1,000 runs before the end of May, and after closely following Congdon and Pollard as they almost chased down those 479 runs at Trent Bridge, I myself would never again take Kiwi cricketers less than seriously. Three years later, in a Test at Wellington, the myth — shared by Englishmen, Australians and Indians alike — that the Kiwis were mere pushovers when it came to Test cricket was decisively shattered by a deadly spell of swing bowling by Richard Hadlee. After taking four wickets in the first innings, including those of Gavaskar, Amarnath and Vengsarkar, Hadlee demolished us in our second innings, his figures reading 8.3-0-23-7. India lost by an innings and some. While Richard Hadlee was the star, important roles were also played by two Kiwi heroes of the English summer of 1973, Glenn Turner and Bevan Congdon, who both scored half-centuries the only time their side batted. No individual did more to make cricketers (and fans) of other countries treat Kiwis with respect than Richard Hadlee. He had as his indispensable ally his younger contemporary, Martin Crowe, who was, in his day, the best batsman in world cricket, just as Hadlee had been the best bowler. Crowe was also an outstanding captain, his tactical skills showcased in the 1992 World Cup, when he experimented by having his bowling attack opened by a spinner. As readers might have guessed, this column was prompted by the recently-concluded final of the World Test Championship, which was won deservedly — and authoritatively — by New Zealand. It was nice that the Kiwis made it to the final ahead of Australia, the country closest to them in space, but whose condescension towards them has been the most marked. (After playing a Test in New Zealand in 1946, the Aussies refused to play against them for another 27 years.) And it was even more creditable that the Kiwis beat us in the final, for, apart from the massive discrepancy in population size, it is India which, in terms of financial muscle, administrative control and ability to bully others, is unquestionably the game’s sole superpower. As part of my tribute to cricketers from New Zealand, let me choose an all-time eleven from that country. Opening the innings with Glenn Turner would be that brave left-hander, Bert Sutcliffe, who toured India twice, batting well on both occasions. At numbers three and four would come Kane Williamson and Martin Crowe, with the captaincy alternating between the two. Completing the ranks of specialist batsmen is Martin Donnelly, a magnificent left-hander of an earlier vintage, who scored hundreds at Lord’s for New Zealand against England, for Oxford against Cambridge, for Gentlemen against Players, and for the Dominions against England in the famous ‘Victory Test’ of 1945. At six, seven and eight figure three very accomplished all-rounders. These are the wicket-keeper, Brendon McCullum, and the left-arm slow bowler, Daniel Vettori, both very well known to, and much admired by, younger Indian fans; and, after them, Richard Hadlee, who, apart from being a great fast bowler, could bat handily, left-handed, down the order. Three places remain, and they must all go to seam and swing bowlers, from a country that has specialized in producing high quality practitioners of this type. At least one place must be reserved for a left-armer, and although Richard Collinge of the 1973 team has strong claims, I will go for Trent Boult of the 2021 team instead. With Boult must come his long-time partner in destroying batting line-ups, the right-arm swing bowler, Tim Southee. To fill the last place I choose Shane Bond, who was perhaps matched only by Waqar Younis in his ability to swing the ball late close to 100 miles an hour. Here then is my all-time Kiwi XI, in batting order: 1. Glenn Turner 2. Bert Sutcliffe 3. Kane Williamson (captain) 4. Martin Crowe (vice-captain) 5. Martin Donnelly 6. Brendon McCullum (wicket-keeper) 7. Daniel Vettori 8. Richard Hadlee 9. Tim Southee 10. Shane Bond 11. Trent Boult. If a mythical contest against an all-time Indian XI were played on a crumbling track in the subcontinent, the Kiwis would struggle against Kumble, Mankad and Ashwin, but if the match were played instead under an overcast sky in Southampton in July, I would back Hadlee, Bond and company to get the better of Gavaskar, Tendulkar and their ilk. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
