04-07-2021||Opinion||Promises and eggs||Some years ago, former cricketer and commentator-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu had said, “Wickets are like wives. You never know which way they will turn.” Mr Sidhu is no wicket, and going by his own definition, not a wife either. His political turns have little mystery to them anymore. There is actually a Sidhuism for it ‑ “Promises, like eggs, are meant to be broken.” Sidhu made his political debut in 2004, alongside film actor Suresh Oberoi and TV actor Gajendra Yudhisthir Chauhan. At the time, when asked about his decision, Sidhu had said, “No party is good or bad, its thinking is what makes a party good or bad. Swans and fish co-exist happily in Mansarovar.” Perhaps Mansarovar is home to a certain variety of fish and swans, perhaps Sidhu knew what he was saying, but typically swans feed on fish — small ones. Sidhu won the BJP the Amritsar Lok Sabha seat in 2004 and 2009; in between, in 2007, he won a by-election. In his cricket career, Sidhu was known for his fours and sixes; the singles he ignored. In the 2014 elections, when the BJP had the late Arun Jaitley fight elections from Amritsar, Sidhu all but retired from active politics. The BJP nominated him to the Rajya Sabha in 2016, but two months into his term he quit. He said, “I quit from Rajya Sabha because I was told that I shouldn’t look towards Punjab.” When Sidhu walked out of Mansarovar… sorry, the BJP, the Punjab Assembly elections were around the corner. For a while there was speculation that he might join the AAP, but eventually he joined the Congress. Overnight, he felt at home, olden family associations with the grand old party came flooding back. Soon he was calling the BJP Kaikeyi and the Congress Kaushalya. As analogies go, he was Ram. No swans, no fish. It is election time and yesterday once again for Sidhu. The party high command is sending mixed signals, Sidhu is sometimes growling, sometimes scowling, sometimes prowling. When asked if Sidhu was considering the AAP option, Arvind Kejriwal had said last month, “He is welcome.” If we could get Sidhu himself to commentate on Sidhu, what would he say? Perhaps this ‑ Aap jaisa koi mere zindagi me mein aaye toh. No?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
04-07-2021||Opinion||Poise. But no, this is noise||There is a definitional issue floating about somewhere. Should have probably avoided the mention of floating and employed some other word; floating things haven’t quite been the flavour, mostly what floats about today frightens. But that apology made, there remains that definitional problem. Often a thing is not what it is defined in the books as, pata to chal gaya hoga ab tak? I mean they often say Leader, when in actual fact they may have really meant a Dealer. A Dealer in a variety of things — lies, subterfuge, thuggery, fear, intimidation, destruction, disruption, division, diversion, deception, demoralisation, demonisation, and another similar sounding word maybe? Democracy. Freedom of Speech. Secularism. Equality. Fundamental Rights. Aatmanirbhar. TikaUtsav. Vishwaguru. What do those things even mean? Match the definitions to the reality and I shall give it to you, game, set and match. There is a definitional problem. A thing is not what it is meant to be. Happens. Take this business of drones. One would have thought they are a thing of stealth and silence. They arrive unseen and unheard, boom!, and they are gone. But no. Drones often drone, as in from noun they turn to verb and then they cease to correspond to the noun they originally came introduced as. They make an awful racket most of the time, I mean if they were overhead, you’d know because you’ll hear a droning and a whirring and a swooshing down and a swooshing up and away. And sometimes they just wouldn’t go away, they’d go on and on and on, drone, drone, drone till you can have no more droning. That’s not what drones should do. But they do. They don’t arrive and depart, having done the job before anyone can know it was a drone that did the job. They arrive and they stay and they let it be known it is a drone droning away. You may be able to relate to what I am trying to suggest. Their presence no more carries surprise, often they come announced, on short notice sometimes and folks worry and scurry and wonder what the latest drone arrival may bring down, but there is no surprise in that a drone is about to arrive. Or, truth to tell, about to revive itself because it has never really gone. It’s been there, forever ready to drone. We must beware of drones, we are being duly alerted, they pose a threat to national security. Be careful people, take cover. I am here and I am there You could well say everywhere Hear me out, don’t say groan! Else, you know, I’ll have you prone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
04-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Lessons of loss||The pandemic forced the world to pause. In spite of sporadic sputters of a return to ‘normal’ life, no one is quite sure when the world will be fully functional again. Whenever that happens, it will have changed — for people grieving for their loved ones as well as for countries struggling to heal their wounded economies. But the pandemic will leave behind another form of damage, the consequences of which may unfold in the time to come unless governments pay special attention to remedial action. The closure of schools for long periods — nearly 16 months at a stretch for some countries in Latin America, for example — has meant that thousands of children in low- and lower middle-income countries have lost touch with lessons. The experience of Latin American and African countries shows that distance learning and online classes are not a solution for large numbers of children in lower-income families, especially in rural areas. This finds itself echoed in India: one in four children has internet connectivity and the devices needed, according to a Unicef report. After schools closed, some families got smartphones, but regular recharging is impossible for them. Most reports on the impact of school closures on children are based on data available till early this year; the crisis they indicate has intensified with the second wave. Its most alarming aspect is the exacerbation of inequality. The hard work to universalize education in developing countries has been undone. Children are dropping out of school in huge numbers: 1.8 million children in Mexico, says a report on Latin America, and 1,70,000 in Peru. The lack of access to connectivity and to devices is certainly a major reason for this, but that is modulated by other factors. In Africa, for example, regions in Burkina Faso or Congo do not have electricity, as a result of which even lessons arranged on radio — which some students lack — and television cannot be accessed. Children often fail to follow distance learning; many forget what they have learnt, especially if their parents have not been to school. Girls are at a disadvantage; in sharing devices, their turn comes last, if at all. Children in underprivileged households turn to work to help failing household finances; child labour and minor marriage have spiked. In some regions of Africa, such as a province in Congo, there are fears that children will be recruited by militant groups. This is a many-faceted tragedy. Remedial lessons alone can help, if governments are serious about erasing inequities caused by unequal education. This should be a priority even at a time of economic difficulties caused by the pandemic. The Indian government, with its eagerness for online education, must observe its failure all over the world. Even developed countries have reported problems for poorer groups and children with disabilities. The pandemic exposed inequalities in education systems that were taken for granted before Covid. These are now many times greater.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
04-07-2021||Opinion||Why Lalu's sons Tejashwi, Tej Pratap got the jab||Tejashwi Yadav and his elder brother, Tej Pratap Yadav, sons of the Rashtriya Janata Dal chief, Lalu Prasad, recently strolled into a private hospital and took the Covid-19 vaccine, Sputnik V, by paying for it. Unfortunately, this sent several leaders of the ruling National Democratic Alliance into shock. The latter had been yapping away about the need for the two brothers to get vaccinated in order to set an example for people. Some were even accusing them of harbouring non-scientific biases against Covid-19 vaccines. But all the juicy gossip was suddenly taken away from the detractors of the RJD scions. Not to be outdone, the leaders of the ruling alliance gathered themselves and started accusing the leader of Opposition, Tejashwi, of insulting the common people by refusing to take the free vaccines provided at government hospitals. Some even said that he reneged on his decision to take the vaccine only after everybody in Bihar is vaccinated. A clever Tejashwi, though, refused to get drawn into this vaccine politics, and said: “I always used to hear the saying ‘you can’t please everyone’, but am experiencing it now.” However, an RJD leader revealed that the two brothers got inoculated because of the decision of the Speaker of the legislative assembly to not allow non-vaccinated people inside the premises during the monsoon session. earing jet-black cataract goggles, the chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, rolled down the window of his car at the airport. He had just returned from Delhi where he got his eyes operated on. “All is well. The doctors have asked me to stay away from dust and smoke,” he said. Several were left grimacing at the remark. They pointed out that the CM has forgotten that Patna often has the dubious distinction of being the most polluted city in the country, owing mostly to dust particles and smoke. People whispered that Kumar, being the CM, could easily escape pollution at his sprawling official residence. “Nitish has been here for almost 16 years and we have noticed dust and smoke levels rising every passing year. The cases of eye, chest and skin ailments are shooting up due to this. He has good intentions of curbing pollution, but always falls short on will and implementation,” a senior pollution control board scientist said. Speculations about a cabinet expansion by the prime minister, Narendra Modi, have been doing the rounds for some time now. But no one knows when it will take place. Not allowing any information to leak is seen as an achievement by the current regime. During an informal gathering, Amit Shah had told a probing reporter that gone are the days when news about the party and the government got leaked. The centralized structure of the government and the ruling party makes this easy. Critics say that only “two people” are decision-makers. Names of some of the possible inductions into the cabinet have been floated in the media. Many Bharatiya Janata Party leaders are wary that if their names get published, then they may get rejected in spite of being considered. During informal chats with journalists some leaders are heard requesting that their names should not be printed. A student at a university under the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government has been fined Rs 5,000 for questioning the CM over a fee hike and changes in the reservation policy. The Master’s student, Neha — the vice-president of AISA’s Delhi unit — posted her remarks in a chat box during the webcast of the convocation in December last year. What is strange is that Kejriwal entered politics with protests, hunger strikes and even a dharna outside Parliament in 2014. AISA claims Neha has been singled out since several students had posted such comments. The varsity has evaded queries about the fine. Akhil Gogoi’s release from judicial custody will reinvigorate Assam politics. The 46-year-old anti-CAA crusader, peasant rights activist and first-time MLA is being seen as the spark the Opposition needs to take on the formidable CM, Himanta Biswa Sarma. If he plays his cards right, Gogoi could be difficult to stop. Political observers feel the battle-hardened Sarma and Gogoi could dominate state politics — there will be a one-man ruling party and a one-man Opposition, one of them said. The ‘divided, rudderless and shrinking’ Congress thus runs the risk of becoming a bystander in the Sarma-Gogoi tussle — a scenario the BJP-led alliance won’t mind, except for Gogoi breathing down its neck. The Kerala BJP president, K Surendran, was already smarting from the poll debacle when bribery allegations hit him. He is now the prime accused in two cases related to poll bribery. His party is in a dilemma since replacing him would imply guilt. But factions within the party are leveraging the situation to dislodge the president who has antagonized too many of them. That leaves the Central leadership in a fix, foiling its plans to rebuild the party in a state that has consistently rejected it. Kerala is already missing its ‘teacher’ who steered the health ministry till the Left Front decided to drop all ministers from the previous cabinet. The mark that KK Shailaja ‘Teacher’ left seems indelible; her successor in Veena George cannot keep up in spite of doing a decent job. Even the Central European University has recently picked Shailaja for the prestigious Open Society Prize. It seems the adage, once a winner always a winner, was coined for women like Shailaja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
04-07-2021||Opinion||Taking a Pew||Did you know that the last question in Pew Research Center’s widely discussed ‘Religion in India’ survey reveals that 46 per cent of all Indian men wear beards? It’s shocking but true that the Indian cricket team (male) isn’t representative of desi men at large. Nearly all its members, with perhaps one exception, are bearded regardless of faith. The optimistic way of reading this hirsuteness is to see it as a bristling sign of unity in diversity. Bearded we bond, shaven we shatter. Maybe Kohli’s men are the way forward: perhaps we should all grow beards in the cause of national unity. This survey of 29,999 Indians is stuffed with questions and answers about the relationship between both religion and nation and religion and religion. Q69 asks “How important do you think it is to support India’s cricket team, to be truly Indian?” Pew’s surveyors have clearly been reading up on Norman Tebbit’s test for national loyalty, the desi version of which used to be exclusively directed at Indian Muslims. Pew’s finding is that Hindus and Jains top the list of the faith communities that believe supporting the Indian cricket team is important to be “truly Indian” at 79 per cent. Christians and Sikhs bring up the rear, with 63 and 65 per cent, while Buddhists and Muslims sit in the middle, with 74 and 75 per cent, respectively. There are some people for whom that result will be a disappointment because it doesn’t bear out their biases. There are others for whom it will have come as a relief: thank god this hasn’t given the bigots a stick to beat Muslims with. But either way, it’s curious that Pew should ask that question given the fact that the designers of the survey surely know (or ought to) that this question has been weaponized against Indian Muslims for decades. Moreover, why would a survey ask that question now in a country where, in recent years, religious and social minorities, especially Muslims, have been singled out and persecuted as disloyal and ‘anti-national’? Asking a loaded, majoritarian question is a bad idea in principle, regardless of the answer. Pew doesn’t think that it is asking a loaded question. It has an appendix on the survey’s methodology defending the questionnaire: “To improve respondent comprehension of survey questions and to ensure all questions were culturally appropriate, Pew Research Center followed a multiphase questionnaire development process that included focus groups, cognitive interviews, a pretest and a pilot survey before the national survey [italics added].” If you crossed a corporate brochure with the jargon of the Minority Report, this passage would be their lovechild. It doesn’t, however, explain the puzzling vagueness of some of the survey’s questions. Q11y, for example, asks respondents: is there a lot of discrimination against ...? The blank is filled in successive questions with India’s principal religious communities: Hindus, Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and Jains. The answer to this question is strikingly uniform: a large majority of every religious community believes that no religion or caste in India is discriminated against. Similarly, in answer to Q4, about the current economic situation of religious communities, large majorities of every religious community affirmed that their material condition was good. In the follow-up question (Q5), clear majorities within all communities felt that their economic prospects were going to improve in the next twelve months. (It’s important to note here that the survey was mostly completed before the pandemic and had to be cut short on March 23, 2020 because of the lockdown.) Even Narendra Modi’s corporate cheerleaders might have hesitated to argue that India before the pandemic in early 2020 was an economically buoyant, middle-income paradise where a rising tide of prosperity was lifting everyone’s boats: an even-handed, non-discriminatory, pluralist heaven. And yet, a Martian whose knowledge of India was derived exclusively from reading the answers to Pew’s scrupulously weighted and curated questions might come to that conclusion. There are several possible explanations for this. Perhaps the figures for the economic downturn before the pandemic were just wrong, or a species of wishful thinking on the part of economists hostile to Modi. Equally, it’s possible that the lynchings, the love jihad and anti-Romeo campaigns, the assaults on Muslim universities, the discriminatory CAA law and its complementary pincer, the National Register of Citizens, didn’t add up to discrimination in the minds of India’s Muslims; this is possible, but not likely. Perhaps Q11y (whether religious communities are discriminated against) might have been differently answered if it had been more specifically phrased. If, instead of asking an abstract, almost existential, question about discrimination, the survey had asked each community’s members whether they had been discriminated against in concrete contexts, like the real estate market or the job market, they might have ended up aggregating very different answers. I don’t know a single Muslim in Delhi who hasn’t found renting or buying a house an ordeal and it is unlikely that the experience of Muslims in other Indian cities is radically different. Yes, this is anecdotal evidence and intelligently collected data are always better than anecdotal impressions, but if a data-gathering exercise doesn’t ask specific questions, it might get bland answers, unmoored from real-life experience. The answers to Pew’s questions about Indian attitudes towards neighbours from other religious communities suggest that Indians of all faith communities would rather live in communal ghettoes than diverse neighbourhoods. In a society where there is a power differential between an economically depressed religious minority and a hegemonic and relatively more prosperous majority, the desire of both to live in segregated neighbourhoods is not the same phenomenon. One might be a preference shaped by discrimination, insecurity and fear and the other might be a form of ethnic assertion powered by superiority and contempt. Questions like this flatten that asymmetry and homogenize the answers. The survey and its interpreters have made much of two seemingly paradoxical findings. One, that Indian religious communities prefer the company of their own kind and, two, that despite this, they see religious diversity and toleration as a quintessentially Indian value. Sudipta Kaviraj once described this style of co-existing peacefully without much interaction as “back-to-back adjacency”. But he was describing a pre-modern, pre-colonial equilibrium. When journalists celebrate this indifferent co-existence as a sign of segmentary tolerance, they invoke a vision of fuzzy communities, long dissolved by the enumerated majorities and minorities of the nation state. The survey’s most substantial findings constitute a formal documentation of the fact that the erstwhile Bharatiya Jana Sangh’s slogan, “Hindi, Hindu, Hindusthan”, has been consolidated into a substantial demographic and political reality. Nearly two-thirds of all Hindus believe that true Indians must necessarily be Hindus and a majority of Hindus believe that a true citizen is a Hindu Indian who speaks Hindi. The lesson of the Pew survey is that segregated co-existence in India today is not a symptom of India’s boundless tolerance for difference but a euphemism for majoritarian supremacy. Criticizing a survey is a curious exercise; it can feel a bit like shooting the messenger. This is meant to be a poll of what Indians think after all, not Pew’s considered opinion. The thing is, an electoral poll’s accuracy is measured against the election it seeks to anticipate. A survey like this one, designed to take a country’s religious temperature, is unfalsifiable. Once published it just exists, an online repository of quantified truth. Some of its questions are considered and the answers to them tell us important things about India. Others (like the one about supporting the Indian cricket team and true Indianness) are a form of louche, nose-picking curiosity that should never have made the questionnaire. Exercises like Pew’s not only aspire to authoritativeness, they also have authoritativeness thrust upon them. The reasonable response is an engaged and attentive scepticism. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
04-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Research needed to ensure safe harvesting of algae||Sir — There is a lot of talk about harmful algal blooms owing to a warming planet. But little is said about using algae to fight climate change: they remove carbon dioxide from our atmosphere, store it as biomass, and replace it with oxygen. The raw algal biomass can also potentially be used as biofuel. Dry algae do not burn as well as fossil fuels, but they release more oxygen and less carbon dioxide than fossil fuels when burned. But growing algae in our ponds and seas is not an option because this will devastate the marine ecology. Research needs to go into methods to safely harvest algae. Srikanta Bhattacharjee, Calcutt Sir — Given the onslaught of the pandemic, it is not surprising that the vaccine was brought out in record time. Usually, vaccines take years to formulate, test and launch. This time, though, clinical trials were set up to get the minimum information needed to win emergency-use approval, and follow-up study has been less than systematic. It is understandable that any criticism of vaccines or apprehension about side effects is being brushed off and silenced as fear-mongering. There can be no doubt that people should get vaccinated as soon as possible. But this does not mean that genuine concerns should be dismissed. One such concern is the impact that the vaccine is having on women’s menstrual health. As is often the case, women’s health takes a back seat when it comes to policy decisions. Yet, all evidence seems to point to the fact that women are more likely to report mild or moderate side effects, and many who had blood clots because of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine were women. An overwhelming number of them also suffered anaphylaxis following vaccination. Women and men can react differently to vaccines because the former’s immune systems are adapted to protect the foetus from infection but also not to attack the foreign cells that make up part of the foetus. It is thus not unexpected that many women have reported that the Covid vaccines have disrupted their menstrual cycles. While some are experiencing late periods, others report heavy bleeding. More research is needed to ascertain how the vaccines affect women’s menstrual health and to take measures to counter any adverse side effects. Contrary to popular opinion, asking more questions about the vaccines and funding more research on them — even while the vaccination drive is on — will only boost public confidence in the vaccines. Malini Bera,Bhubaneswar Sir — The Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, underlined that the judiciary needs complete freedom from any extraneous influence, namely the legislature or the executive, to apply checks on governmental power and action and enforce the rule of law (“Needed: Full freedom for judiciary”, July 1). While delivering the 17th Justice P.D. Desai Memorial Lecture, Ramana cautioned judges against being swayed by public opinion, often amplified on social media platforms. He also referred to the unjust laws of the colonial era being misused. The Central government’s design to introduce the National Judicial Appointments Commission to interfere with the appointment of judges is clear. It is also accused of sitting on several recommendations for the appointment of judges to high courts and the apex court to suit its narrow political interest. The judiciary is the chief guardian of the constitutional ethos. The executive tries to prey upon the weaknesses of judges by offering post-retirement prospects to get favourable verdicts. Some judges, however, stand out for their integrity. The judge, H.R. Khanna, dissented to the ruling that the right to life could be suspended during the Emergency — this cost him the post of chief justice and he resigned. This is in sharp contrast to a slew of recent verdicts — those on the Rafale contract, the PM-Cares fund, the Sahara-Birla diaries or electoral bonds case, and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act to name a few instances. Ramana rightly reminded judges that they need to live by the strictest of codes so as to uphold the image of the judiciary. Jahar Saha, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
