05-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Just a name||What looks like a storm in a teacup may spill over the rim. The debate in Tamil Nadu regarding the use of the term, ‘Union government’, by M.K. Stalin, the chief minister heading the new Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam government, seems a waste of time. State leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party, supported by their electoral allies in the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, have objected to the change from ‘Central government’, which the BJP-friendly AIADMK used while in power. They claimed, first, that a democratically elected government should not change an expression which the people are used to. That is just silly, of course. Why should this change of nomenclature disturb the Opposition? These terms are used interchangeably. But the BJP suspects a hidden agenda and mala fide intentions behind the new government’s preference. The DMK top brass’s argument is that the Constitution defines the country as a Union of states, just as cases in the Supreme Court refer to the Union of India. It is neither wrong nor is the Tamil term for it new, since it was used first by C.N. Annadurai in 1957 — and repeatedly by the DMK since then. The state BJP’s insistence that the Centre be called the ‘Central’ government has two sources. One is insecurity — it has been left on the Opposition benches together with the AIADMK in the state. The defeat here coincided with its resounding defeat in West Bengal and its frank absence in Kerala. The BJP’s professed intention to decimate all Opposition did not work in these states — they have voices of their own. Earlier, the DMK as Opposition had protested against the Centre’s infringement of states’ rights and had also made state autonomy a feature in its election manifesto. So the BJP is antsy about the timing of the DMK government’s change of nomenclature; it believes the government is ‘confrontationist’. In the larger context of the BJP’s vision of a monolithic nation, the DMK has touched a raw nerve. This is the second source of the state BJP’s jumpiness, because, instead of a federation of states, the BJP views India, according to the state BJP general secretary, as one entity with states formed only for administrative purposes. The BJP’s aggressive thrust for centralization in every sphere manifests this self-serving vision. Not a storm in a teacup then, but a political and philosophical conflict that underlies the tensions in India today.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
05-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Mithali Raj sets a world record, teaching creative writing||Runaway success Sir — Hats off to the captain of the Indian women’s cricket team, Mithali Raj, for leading from the front to script a win in the third and final one-day international against the mighty English side. With her unbeaten knock of 75, Raj has also become the top run scorer in women’s cricket across all formats. This is quite an achievement and is yet another feather in her cap. She was rightly adjudged the Player of the Match. Due credit for the win should also be given to our bowlers, especially Deepti Sharma, who were able to restrict England to just 219 runs. Although we lost the ODI series 2-1, our team will be a force to reckon with in the Twenty20 series. Shafali Verma’s aggressive batting should give India a rollicking start. However, it is disappointing that our star batswoman, Harmanpreet Kaur, is going through a lean patch. One hopes that she works on her batting and finds her groove during the upcoming T20 series. India should buckle up for the games ahead. N. Mahadevan,Chennai Sir — The ace Indian cricketer, Mithali Raj, set a world record and scripted history by overtaking the tally of the renowned English batter, Charlotte Edwards, to become the highest run scorer in international women’s cricket. The Indian skipper must be congratulated for this achievement. Such landmark feats have made Raj a cricketing legend. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — People who are brushing off Mithali Raj’s achievement as not significant epitomize everything that is wrong with the sport. Had any male player achieved a similar feat, praises would have poured in. Those who argue that the over-10,000 runs that Raj has scored are not significant because the tally combines all three formats of the game have perhaps forgotten that women cricketers do not have as many opportunities to play as their male counterparts. Moreover, cricket has always been an expensive sport to practise. Female cricketers in India are at a disadvantage because while they need to spend the same amount as men to develop their skills, they earn a fraction of what the men do and have fewer avenues of income through cricket. Raj thus deserves more credit than her male peers for her success. Rima Roy,Calcutta  Wrong formula Sir — Students of creative writing are taught about point of view, setting, building character, dialogue, imagery and how to use these tools effectively to produce ‘good’ writing. But who decides what is good writing? Can teaching styles and methods that are used in classics help students develop an individual style? Imitation is a great form of flattery, but it does not make for great art. Teaching creative writing is another way of mass producing bestsellers. Tara Mukherjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
05-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Careless state||India has a huge number of unorganized workers who do not have a fixed residence in their place of work. They are temporary migrants who move from one job site to another. They have no rights that can be easily established, are paid poor wages and have abysmal working and living conditions. They are a faceless, nameless mass of people who represent the ‘economic untouchables’: the economy needs them, but society refuses to integrate them. The two waves of the pandemic have hurt this section of the population the most. In 2020, thousands of migrants marched barefoot over highways with all their material wealth, journeying home when the lockdown suddenly took away their livelihoods. This year, too, a similar fate struck them during the second wave. The pictures of migrants walking hundreds of miles became the indelible image of Covid-19 in India. A few days ago the Supreme Court pulled up the Centre for still not having created a National Database for Unorganised Workers to facilitate the distribution of benefits like food rations and cash transfers to these workers. The ministry of labour has been ordered to complete the project by July 31. In fact, the ministry had been instructed as far back as in August 2018 to create the portal with an updated registry of all migrant workers. The court used strong words, describing the lapse as unpardonable and indicative of the apathy of the government. It also remarked that the labour ministry was not alive to the concerns of migrant workers. In spite of the order of 2018, the government allocated only 45 crore rupees this year to set up the portal and update the data. In the context of this failure, three conclusions can be drawn. The first is the sheer inefficiency of the government in not being able to deliver on a low-budget and uncomplicated project. Secondly, this is not an issue of scarce financial resources; rather it is one of insensitivity towards people who have very little say in national politics. The third conclusion emerging from the failure to create the portal goes beyond mere apathy. It is part of a systematic effort to keep the larger working population under stress. The farmers and the workers all represent potential sources of trouble, capable of questioning economic policies that only create ever-widening inequalities in wealth and incomes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
05-07-2021||Opinion||How to heal with books||The second wave of the pandemic has proved to be devastating for India, with countless families losing their loved ones to the virus. These losses can be particularly challenging for children. Unable to express their pain and grief, children tend to feel lost, anxious and disillusioned under these challenging circumstances. Emotions — grief, sadness, shock and disbelief — can persist in varying degrees for days, weeks, even months. A supportive environment and, at times, therapy can go a long way in helping children cope with loss and grief. But how does one take care of children’s emotional health during a time like this? How should we discuss loss with them? Experts have identified reading and responding to literature as a powerful medium to introduce children to traumatic life-events. Research suggests that exposure to relevant literature during unprecedented circumstances can enhance children’s well-being. Picture books can play a unique role in supporting children’s grief reactions. Children’s picture books are a distinct literary genre, conveying meaning through image and text. This transactional and transforming relationship between images and text help children in ‘meaning-making’. Picture books deal with varied subjects. Think of a topic, and you are likely to find a picture book on it. There are even titles on death, grief and loss, some of them by Indian authors. Listening to stories or reading them can be therapeutic, especially when one is surrounded by grief and uncertainty. These books also liberate young minds from stress and anxiety. Moreover, children’s books facilitate conversation, providing a safe structure to discuss difficult topics like loss, death, grief and fear. Children find it easier to relate to characters responding to fear than to talk about their own worries. Books help build resilience and faith. Beloved literary characters offer children the courage to stand up for themselves and others. They also show young readers that emotions are transient, that bad days turn around, and there are ways to bounce back. The narrative and the characters are crutches for children learning to navigate complicated emotions. They learn to express embedded feelings through them. Besides, these titles also help children enhance their knowledge about life-altering events. For instance, one can explain what death is by using picture books. The Heart and the Bottle by Oliver Jeffers is a case in point. There are other exceptional children’s books on grief, including the Japanese pop-up masterpiece, Little Tree, and the Norwegian gem, My Father’s Arms Are a Boat. Text and image have combined in striking ways in these instances to comfort children. Children must be encouraged to turn to literature during crises. Conversing with children about unpleasant subjects from time to time is equally crucial for their well-being. In fact, Maurice Sendak, an illustrator and writer of children’s books, has argued that we should refrain from shielding children from the dark. Children who spend time reading books are more likely to find the light of hope and resilience.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
05-07-2021||Opinion|| A tightening noose: Cinematograph Act amendment||In the world of public relations communications, the trick to ensure that a negative story has minimum impact is to “bury” it on a “good day” which, in PR parlance, means a news-heavy day, when the attention is likely to be diverted by other big developments. And, invariably, it works. For the Union information and broadcasting ministry, June 19 was such a day. With the front pages dominated by the Twitter row, Milkha Singh’s death, the scandal involving fake Covid tests and new developments in Kashmir, it quietly pushed out details of the government’s controversial plan to create what will effectively be a “super” film censor as part of a radical overhaul of the existing film censorship regime by amending the Cinematograph Act, 1952. Sure enough, the news went almost unnoticed, as MIB mandarins had hoped. Many newspapers and television channels didn’t even pick it up on the first day. But, of course, film-makers noticed, and were surprised that such far-reaching changes were being sought to be pushed through so casually — almost stealthily. A number of high-profile figures such as Adoor Gopalakrishnan, Hansal Mehta and Anand Patwardhan have since spoken out, describing some of the proposed amendments as “regressive” and “dangerous”. Most controversially, the cinematograph (amendment) bill, 2021 proposes to give the Central government powers to ‘re-examine’ films already cleared by the Central Board of Film Certification, and to reverse the original decision of the board “if the situation so warranted”. In other words, the CBFC will be stripped of its status as the sole authority on film censorship matters, with the Centre itself assuming the role of the final arbiter of a film’s destiny. Critics fear that the whole process of film certification could become politicized once ministers and bureaucrats get involved. Although the CBFC will continue to be the first port of call for film-makers seeking an exhibition certificate, its independence is likely to be compromised as it will be constantly trying to anticipate and second guess the government’s reaction to its decisions. This, in turn, will colour its judgment as it will hesitate to clear a film which it might feel would not sit well with the ruling party’s ideological sensitivities. There are fears that the proposed dispensation will put film-makers at the mercy of ministers, with a film’s fate being determined by the political fashions of the day rather than its artistic merit. It would also embolden partisan pressure groups to harass film-makers they don’t like. For all the noise and bluster, the truth is that so long as there is a professional review process in place, and once a film is cleared for screening, the capacity of such groups for mischief is limited. For example, Anand Patwardhan’s Ram Ke Naam survived attacks from right-wing Hindu groups because it had been cleared by the CBFC after reviews. He has said that groups like the Bharatiya Janata Party’s students’ body, the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad, tried to stop its screenings, but because it had a censor certificate, they could not do anything. The new law will have the effect of boosting their nuisance value by undermining the sanctity of the board’s decisions, not to mention that film-makers will have the shadow of fear constantly looming over them as the government will have the power to ban a film any time it feels such an action is “warranted” in the interest of national security, public order, decency or morality among other things. Although such a provision also exists in the present law, it cannot be used, given that it was stayed by the Karnataka High Court after the Kannada film-maker, K.M. Shankarappa, challenged it way back in 1990. The ruling was later upheld by the Supreme Court, and the provision remains inoperative. The new law will reinstate it, setting the clock back to the 1990s. Film-makers are concerned as much by the nature of proposed changes as by the timing of the government’s move. In the midst of a pandemic and a looming economic crisis, surely there are more pressing matters that need its attention? I would argue that it is precisely during a crisis, when public attention is diverted, that governments tend to accumulate more powers, and smuggle in policies that may not have an easy ride in normal times. We are looking at sweeping changes with chilling implications for independent film-making. Yet there were no consultations with the film industry. Ostensibly, comments have been invited from the public, but given the tight deadline — the draft bill was released on June 19, and the last date for submitting comments was July 2 — it looks more like a box-ticking exercise. Given the government majority in Parliament, there’s little doubt that the bill will go through. But at what cost to free speech and India’s reputation as an open and free society? Among liberal democracies, India already has perhaps the toughest censorship regime, with the government so heavily involved in the business of film censorship. The new move risks feeding further into the growing idea of India as an “illiberal democracy”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
05-07-2021||Opinion||The key element||Opposition parties are a fundamental aspect of democracy. A distinctive feature of democracy lies in dealing with difference. Kautilya and Machiavelli, two authorities on Statecraft, treated difference as a threat to stability. However, unlike feudalism or communism, democracy provides institutional status to the Opposition, incorporating it within the larger canvas of governance. In modern times, J.S. Mill, the liberal, did not recommend liberalism to India because, according to him, Indians had not reached the stage of self-rule. Despite this, democracy endured in India. The Opposition maintains constant vigil on the ruling party’s activities and provides the people with political choice for future elections. Understanding democracy through the Opposition party can reveal a novel, exciting picture. As the name suggests, the primary duty of the Opposition party is to oppose the policies and programmes of the party in power. However, the purpose of such opposition is not to impose its views in place of the ruling party’s. Instead, it needs to interrogate and critically evaluate, highlighting limitations and risks, explicit or otherwise, in the policies proposed by the government. The Opposition, thus, has a tricky and complex role to play and wait for its turn in the next elections. One of the complexities is choosing between maintaining consistency and playing the role of the opposer. For example, when in power, party X proposes programme S. Opposition party Y opposes S. If Y subsequently comes to power and chooses to promote S, X should strictly oppose S even though X had proposed it earlier. In this way, X helps expose any weakness in the programme, thereby minimizing errors in the policies implemented by the ruling party. Such role-playing also allows the Opposition party to examine its policies in a new light. Any questioning regarding the moral consistency of the Opposition party needs to consider this crucial political role assigned to it. The party in power can have long-term, deleterious effects on the functioning of democracy, undermining the open-mindedness and the continuous exploration of truth that are central to liberalism. The method, therefore, is far more critical than the moral consistency in upholding liberalism and the principles of democracy. In discharging this task, the Opposition parties can examine the ruling party’s policies in detail and from different angles. The party in power should facilitate this as they fulfil a duty essential to upholding a healthy democracy. Given the broad scope to criticize, the Opposition needs to vary its approach and avoid repetitive, predictable arguments. Adhering to expected lines of debate would expose the underuse of opportunities at the Opposition’s disposal and make it easier for the ruling party to circumvent criticism. This would weaken the Opposition’s ability to make a critical assessment of the government’s policies. Instead, the Opposition party can bring new facts into the discussion, offer new interpretations, and reveal new dimensions, helping both the people and the ruling party understand the policies. This philosophical method is a distinguishing feature of liberalism and democracy. One can find creative ways of opposing British rule in India in the works of modern Indian thinkers. For instance, Macaulay’s Minute on Indian Education presented all Western policies as good and all Indian practices as bad. Accepting this education policy was, therefore, tantamount to accepting British rule in India. On the other hand, suppose everything in Indian education is awful and rejected and the only perfect alternative is modern Western education. In that case, it leads to the next question — who can impart this education to Indians? In Macaulay’s colonial project, the answer is already embedded in the question — namely, the British. That would be their justification to be in India and to remain here, thereby continuing colonial rule. We can find a counter to this trap in the writings of Swami Vivekananda and Sri Aurobindo. Macaulay’s underlying formula was based on ‘either-or’ — India could either continue with the existing education system and be doomed or reject the current educational practices entirely. Vivekananda and Aurobindo, however, abandoned this ‘either-or’ formula. Instead, they chose to accept some desirable features of the modern West and the positive aspects of Indian tradition. They conceded that there are evils in Indian society. They took the list of evils from their adversaries and made it their own. However, they also reminded those like Macaulay about the vices and the limitations of the modern West. The counter-strategy provided a creative alternative to the predictable rejection usually put forward by the Opposition. It offered a formula to undermine the British strategy and carve out an initial space for the Indian freedom struggle. This ‘and’ model is seen in post-Independence Indian society far more than Macaulay’s ‘either-or’ model. Similarly, Mahatma Gandhi proposed non-violence as an unconventional and creative political strategy to combat the British which led to much confusion for the mighty raj. Initially, they were unable to understand it as it did not fall within their rulebook. Then they underestimated it. When they ultimately recognized the power of this strategy, it was too late to deal with it other than by conventional force. Once that failed, they finally agreed to discussions. These instances give us an insight into the extensive opportunities available to those who are in the Opposition. More importantly, despite dissent, Opposition parties should refrain from ignoring and repressing the presence of the ruling party. This can have unforeseeable, long-term consequences. For example, in Hind Swaraj, Gandhi engages in dialogue with his immediate Indian adversaries. Likewise, the Opposition needs to engage with the ruling party’s policies and uphold the people’s best interests. Similarly, the ruling party needs to create a common platform to facilitate this engagement. The arguments put forward by the Opposition can help people evaluate the government’s policies better and take decisions regarding the next elections. This view through the lens of the Opposition thus gives us a different, and more precise, picture about the functioning of democracy. In addition, several examples from the Indian national movement can further enrich our understanding of the relationship between ruling and Opposition parties. A. Raghuramaraju teaches philosophy at the Indian Institute of Technology Tirupati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
