06-07-2021||Opinion|| In Mamata’s Bengal, women are crossing age-old boundaries, so what if the personal is political?||Linen has been around since the Egyptians and the Mesopotamians used the fabric. No one gave much thought about how and where to wash attire until a Frenchman by the name of Napoleon Bonaparte objected to the act of cleaning dirty linen being turned into a public spectacle. Decades later, Victorian Brits acknowledged Bonaparte’s suggestion and soon all its colonies were following their masters till a former capital of the British empire in the present time thought otherwise. These days, a lot of dirty linen is coming out for cleaning in Mamata Banerjee’s Bengal than ever before with more and more ruling party members putting on display their private lives, leaving no question answered. Algernon Moncrieff in Oscar Wilde’s The Importance of Being Earnest had found scandalous, “the amount of women in London who flirt with their husbands… It looks so bad. It is simply washing one’s clean linen in public.” Clean or unclean, women in Calcutta are no longer ashamed to hang them out to dry. Why else would a newly elected MLA rush to a hospital at midnight where her estranged husband was kept following his arrest by the CBI? Why would the man’s live-in partner keep crying and knocking on prison doors with cameras focussed on her? Politics in Bengal never overlapped with the personal until now when personal allegiances opened doors to rewards or banishment. Sujata Mondal bagged the Trinamul’s membership and, also a ticket to the Assembly from Hooghly’s Arambagh, some 117 km from her hometown Barjora in Bankura district. Sujata Mondal lost. None of this would have happened had Sujata’s husband, Saumitra Khan, not walked out of the Trinamul to join the BJP. Infidelity, if any, in the short-married life of Khan and Mondal was strictly political, but the bedroom became the arena for settling political scores. And this is not the only instance. When he found new love, former mayor Sovan Chatterjee walked out on his wife of 23 years and two grown-up sons and ended up losing his position of power as well. During a cabinet meeting, Mamata had asked Sovan to decide which one he wanted to focus on, his role as a minister or a lover. Sovan’s estranged wife Ratna, “the wronged woman”, found comfort in the unbridled support she received from the chief minister. Today, Ratna is an MLA from a seat that her husband once represented, and sees a political career ahead of her. Chatterjee, without the two women in his life, would have been dumped from public memory by now. How many of its former mayors can Calcutta recall every day? Since he is without a political party, Chatterjee can hardly be called an active politician. Keeping Chatterjee fresh in the mind of city residents is his partner Baisakhi Banerjee. She posted two videos with Sovan in which he announced his decision to leave his property to her. Her Facebook profile mentions her name as Baisakhi Sovan Banerjee, a practice common in Maharashtra and some other parts of the state but unusual in Bengal. If in other parts of India, the husband’s name is seen as a sign of patriarchy, it is the reverse in Baisakhi’s case. By including his name, Baisakhi has staked her claim on her life with a man that she loves. This was emulated by a media person a few weeks ago, which after a furore appears to have been reversed. Now, people are owning up to their relationships. The young MP, Nusrat Jahan, flaunts her pregnancy out of wedlock. Her contemporary and friend Shrabanti Chatterjee, who contested unsuccessfully in the Assembly elections, is on the way out of her third marriage while trotting out her latest relationship. Shrabanti has not let her career, or her motherhood, come in the way of who she is. She is determined to fulfil her desires, both as a woman and an artiste. It didn’t take long for newly elected Trinamul MLA Kanchan Mullick, a name that has been doing the rounds of Calcutta’s film and television industry for almost two decades, to have his domestic squabbles and personal dalliances come out in the open since being elected to the Assembly. For Mullick’s actor-wife, her estrangement with him could open doors to another career. There is something absolutely Calcuttan about this trend. Unlike other ancient cradles of civilisation burdened with centuries of tradition and morals, Calcutta was always free. Calcutta was no Benaras or Delhi. It was modern in the strictest meaning of the word. As it grew, Calcutta was creating its own idiom. Right from its inception, Calcutta was breaking social norms. Like Job Charnock taking up an Indian wife. There are more such instances.  Catherine Werlee’s -- married to an East India Company officer George Francois Grand-- alleged affair with Phillip Francis was one of the longest-running scandals of its time in the late 18th century since Francis was caught at the Grand household trying to break into the woman’s bedroom, while the husband was away playing a game of cards. A divorce and a duel followed. Catherine later moved to France and found herself in Napoleon’s court. As the British roots dug deeper, Calcutta’s native society to found itself clinging to the moral code of its colonial masters. Till the Mondal-Khan episode, or the triangle amoureux, involving former mayor Sovan Chatterjee, Ratna Chatterjee and Baisakhi Banerjee exploded on the living rooms of Calcutta, the city maintained a Victorian approach to scandals in politics. “There were rumours about a minister and an IAS officer in the days of the Left Front government. Nobody knew the truth. Neither spoke about it, always hush hush. Not like how it unfolds now almost every day,” said a retired IAS officer. Hush hush is passe in Mamata Banerjee’s Calcutta. Love has always been around and so has lust. The two often go together, hand in hand. A veteran Congressman in Bengal is rumoured to have forced the former husband of his wife to sign their divorce papers. The two got married and lived happily ever after. “For good or bad, the CPM while in power kept the personal space separate from politics. They could have got the husband to file a case, give him political protection and embarrassed our party and the leader. They didn’t do any of it. Nobody ever discussed this “marriage” again. There were other such instances too,” said a Bengal Congress functionary. “Imagine if a leader from the BJP today decides to marry and does something similar. The entire state CID will be after him.” Even when events went beyond control in such dalliances in Calcutta and blood was spilled, the personal still remained personal. Sometimes in the 1990s, a former councillor’s partner was killed in firing. Police did not pursue the case. Same for the suicide of a daughter-in-law in a prominent political family of south Calcutta, who was allegedly involved in an extra-marital affair.  Former Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar had sent CCTV footage of two Trinamul MPs “caught in the act” in the Parliament complex to Mamata. The issue was never discussed in the party. For most of the years that Jyoti Basu was chief minister, his visits to then Great Eastern Hotel and occasionally meeting “old friend” R.P. Goenka post-Writers’ Buildings, were possibly the only glimpses into what was personal in his long life. His successor Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, on the other hand, would spend his evenings at Nandan, where the Information and Cultural Affairs department had an office, sipping black coffee and sometimes watching a film. At this same office, Bhattacharjee often met members from the film and theatre fraternity that gave rise to some salacious gossip, all of which died a natural death. For some in the CPM family who led a colourful life, neither the party nor the Opposition raised a stink. “CPM old-timers recall that if rumours about any party member got too loud, Jyoti Basu would comment, ‘Esab ki hochchhe (what’s going on?’.” The matter would end there. The past it seems was all about men. That is what has changed now. Under a woman chief minister, and a feisty one who rose from the ranks smashing patriarchy and male domination in Bengal’s politics, the trend of today is centred around women claiming the right to their sexuality. The women in Calcutta are unafraid of breaking social mores. In India, the public and the private have always been separate constructs, a colonial variant of a European idea. A politician’s image had to be squeaky clean for him to engage in public service.  There has been a departure of some sorts here. Social anthropologist and teacher at Jadavpur University Amitesh Mukhopadhyay says women’s empowerment is incomplete without sexual empowerment. “By giving a sewing machine to a woman, society tells her this is what you can do. Society sets the limits for her. Women’s empowerment is incomplete without sexual empowerment,” says Mukhopadhyay. Mukhopadhyay says the prism that the middle-class viewed society through is being shattered. “The middle class created boundaries and then becomes the gate-keeper, keeping a watch on those who cross the line. What young women in public life like Nusrat Jahan have achieved is that they have crossed the boundaries that society had set for them in various roles. She has done what many of us are struggling with,” says Mukhopadhyay. History is the key to looking at the present. Like Calcutta, which grew unburdened of any legacy, neither of these women is looking for any approval from any corner. Given that the reigning deity of Calcutta is Kali, it was possibly something pre-ordained. This had to happen and happen in Calcutta. After all Kali is the free spirit, the symbol of existence, of freedom that does not need any validation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
06-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Birthday bumps||Centenary birth celebrations of a behemoth have begun. The Chinese Communist Party — its gargantuan reach affects the lives of 92 million people — has turned 100 and remains, by all accounts, quite sprightly on its feet. The energy of the CCP — India’s communist outfits appear decidedly somnolent in contrast — needs to be understood in terms of a context that weaves in the national and the international. The CCP remains the undisputed political force in China with the president, Xi Jinping, an ambitious and authoritarian leader, setting the agenda for party and nation. There can be no doubting the ground that China has covered under the party’s watch. It is now the second largest economy with a blistering pace of growth. China managed to grow, albeit slowly, even as other economies were being battered by the pandemic. Beijing’s political heft, augured by its economic muscle, is now considerable; so much so that the position of the world leader, long held by the United States of America, is up for grabs. The CCP has also served as a torch-bearer of progressive change, ushering in literacy, public healthcare, championing women’s rights, even though the upper echelons of the party resemble an old boys’ club. The irony, however, is that the CCP also remains the architect of monumental tragedies. Mao Zedong, Mr Xi’s mentor presumably, watched as millions died in the course of the Great Leap Forward: the Cultural Revolution and, later, the Tiananmen Square killings demonstrated that the Party does not think twice before turning the gun — real and metaphorical — on the people. These transgressions are an embodiment of the antithesis that informs the relationship between totalitarian societies and the ideals of freedom, rights, dissent and democracy, and attempts to purge China of ‘historical nihilism’ by the party apparatus are unlikely to bear fruit. Worryingly, China’s belligerence is no longer an internal affair. In a telling speech to mark the CCP’s centenary, Mr Xi thundered that China’s competitors would get their ‘heads bashed’ if they were to intimidate Beijing. Words have, for a while, been followed by action with China raising the global temperature with unprecedented acts of aggression in different corners of the world, from Tibet to Taiwan, the South China Sea to Ladakh to Hong Kong. The world order is also being realigned in the process with the West and the East meeting to contain the dragon in the room. Several blocs, military and economic — be they Quad or the B3W — have emerged as a result of the lines being redrawn. An age of aggression will dawn as Beijing pursues a global order with Chinese characteristics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
06-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Sri Lanka acid spill results in marine life destruction, Covid and healthcare workers||Grave loss Sir — The remains of at least 176 turtles, 20 dolphins and four whales have washed up on the shores of Sri Lanka following the sinking of an acid-laden ship in late May. This is only a fraction of the actual numbers as many marine mammals sink to the sea-bed after dying. The acid spill has caused irreparable damage to the environment. The shipping company must be held accountable for the incident. Anamika Saha,Calcutta Not enough Sir — The pandemic has been difficult for everybody, but few groups of people have fought it as closely and as relentlessly as healthcare workers (“Special place”, July 2). Doctors all over the world have laid down their lives in the fight against Covid-19. In India, with its overwhelmed healthcare system and lack of basic amenities, doctors, nurses and other healthcare personnel have been pushed to the brink. Since the outbreak of Covid-19 early last year, the medical community has worked tirelessly at the expense of their own well-being and that of their families. It was thus heartening to see the prime minister, Narendra Modi, pay tribute to healthcare professionals on National Doctors’ Day. Around the same time, the audience at Wimbledon gave a rousing ovation to the scientist designing the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine and the staff of the National Health Service on the first day of the tournament. The pandemic exposed the many failures of governments across the world. While appreciating the services of the medical community is essential, it is not enough. There is an urgent need for a substantial increase in resources and a commitment towards a scientific mindset. The Indian government has, so far, failed on both counts. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — In the last year and a half, countless doctors have lost their lives to Covid-19. It is absolutely imperative that we recognize their service, but not just on National Doctors’ Day. India suffered from an acute shortage of oxygen and other life-saving drugs just about a month back as a result of government apathy and oversight. Thus, the gratitude expressed by the prime minister seems somewhat hollow. Had the government prepared for the second wave of the pandemic, many healthcare professionals would still be alive. One can only hope that the government will not repeat its mistakes. Surabhi Jain,New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
06-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Beyond votes||When there is excitement over a speech that asserts what should have been normal, it is clear that India is going through hard times. In the Justice P.D. Desai Memorial Trust lecture, the Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, underscored the nature of a functioning democracy. In it people’s sovereignty is manifested by their dignity and autonomy, achieved through a public discourse both ‘reasoned and reasonable’. The emphasis on reason and on people’s dignity hit hard at a time when both are seriously endangered. In this context the CJI declared that the mere right to change rulers every few years is no guarantee against tyranny. Articulating something that democratically-minded Indians have been feeling for a while, this statement gave to the speech a deep, strongly reverberating dimension. The CJI did say that Indians have shown themselves up to the task of electing governments — they chose a different party or combination eight times out of 17 elections — but his vision of democratic space implied their continued engagement. Besides elections, integral to democracy are day-to-day public discourses, criticism and protests. But these require an atmosphere of justice. The CJI spoke of the possibility of oppression by weaponizing law, as the colonial rulers did. That was rule by law, not the rule of law, the subject of his speech. The rule of law would need an independent judiciary free of pressure from the executive and legislature and, nowadays, from the amplified force of social media. At the same time, law must be used to render justice, not to inflict oppression. By referring to the tyranny of the elected and the use of law for oppression, the CJI’s speech went to the core of current experience. It gained a sharper point with his suggestion that it was necessary to reflect how far the rule of law was used for the protection and welfare of the people during the pandemic. The CJI’s speech ignited hope that the rule of law, bound by ideals of justice, would perhaps be applied to issues such as the Citizenship (Amendment) Act or the imprisonments in the name of the Bhima-Koregaon violence. Equally important would be the recovery of the democratic space with public discourse and expressions of dissent, for that would offer the most meaningful resistance to tyranny.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
06-07-2021||Opinion||Taxing plan||The G7 countries are mooting to subject large businesses to a global minimum corporate tax rate on a country-by-country basis. According to the G7, subjecting companies to a minimum tax rate would end the “race to the bottom” on corporate tax rates and tackle base erosion and profit shifting practices employed by large businesses. While the proposal may have some peculiar advantages, it is not as straightforward as it seems. Firstly, the idea of a global minimum tax is not new. As part of its 15-point BEPS Action Plan, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has come up with a range of recommendatory reports to tackle some of the common ways in which businesses avoid paying corporate tax in countries in which they operate. Since 2018, the OECD has been discussing a reform package — bifurcated into two pillars — to address the direct tax challenges posed by the digital economy. The Pillar 1 approach, on allocation of taxing rights, faced serious objections from developing countries that felt that their taxing rights were not being protected. The Pillar 2 approach, on introducing a global minimum corporate tax rate, would be meaningless in the absence of fair and equitable reallocation of taxing rights in the context of the digital economy. Secondly, it is true that countries lose billions of dollars in tax revenues every year to corporate tax avoidance, but we must ask who the proposal would benefit the most? As per the proposal, any “top-up” tax collected from businesses that have paid less than the minimum tax rate in foreign jurisdictions would be clawed back by the United States of America as the country of residence. Since most large businesses that benefit from preferential tax rate structures are tax residents in the US, it is the US that will benefit significantly from additional tax revenues. Thirdly, the rate of tax — currently mooted to be at least 15 per cent — is likely to be an issue of disagreement. The rate is too low and will kindle a new “race to the minimum”. Most countries apply a corporate tax rate of more than 15 per cent, but companies pay much less in tax, thanks to tax incentives and schemes. The proposal would die sooner if countries continue to provide tax incentives or insist on overbroad carve-outs. Finally, the G7 finance ministers do not set the global tax agenda. Recent international tax reform has taken place under the umbrella of the G20 nations, which includes emerging powers such as India and Brazil. To call the G7 proposal a “global agreement” is misleading at worst and naïve at best. It is imperative to keep in mind that the average corporate tax rate in the world has gone down significantly over the last few years. Perhaps governments realize that low corporate tax rates attract foreign investment. The proposal unfairly targets smaller countries that have few options other than keeping their corporate tax rates low to attract investments and retain their overall competitiveness. It is unfair on the part of a handful of rich countries to ask these smaller countries to surrender their national sovereignty to legislate on tax law and policy. India must strongly oppose a G7-centric proposal in the guise of international tax reform. Doing so becomes particularly important when the country is reeling under economic distress due to the Covid-19 pandemic. A tax system should be certain and fair. But it must also be flexible, which includes making changes to tax rates to suit the immediate and long-term needs of the exchequer without external control.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
06-07-2021||Opinion||Shadow boxing in Cornwall||Touted as a counter-response to China’s Belt and Road Initiative project, the G7, an inter-governmental political forum of the world’s wealthiest democracies comprising the United States of America, Japan, Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada launched the Build Back Better World initiative at the recent Cornwall summit. Proposed by the US president Joe Biden, it seeks to focus on providing “values-driven, high-standard, and transparent infrastructure partnership” to help narrow the $40 trillion needed by developing nations by 2035. However, there is no commitment on the modalities to mobilize resources to fund the projects under B3W. The BRI is a multi-trillion dollar, politico-economic, transcontinental, long-term policy and investment project, which aims at infrastructural development and the economic integration of China with member countries. Apart from geopolitical ambitions, one crucial motivation for China to launch the BRI in 2013 was the domestic saturation of the infrastructure market; so much so that there were reports of Ghost Cities — constructed townships — lying vacant because of infrastructure surplus. This, however, is not the case with the G7 nations launching their B3W, particularly with the US that faces one of the worst infrastructure deficits of all time. The G7 is neither endowed with capital surplus nor is it a saturated domestic construction market like that of China. The US’s ageing and dilapidated domestic infrastructure requires massive investments. According to the American Society of Civil Engineers, the US faces a $2.59 trillion infrastructure deficit that calls for massive government spending. The Biden administration had proposed a $2.25 trillion infrastructure plan to be spent over eight years, but it has been downsized to $1.7 trillion as per the latest estimates. The report by the ASCE also states that in the absence of significant infrastructural investments, the US economy would lose $10 trillion in growth, with exports declining by $2.4 trillion coupled with the loss of three million jobs domestically. Construction has become China’s major export. Beijing possesses an enormous capital surplus, with its forex touching a record $1 trillion in May 2021. China has been the most resilient economy in the post-Covid world. It grew positively at 3.2 per cent during the pandemic as opposed to the G7 economies, which registered a sharp contraction in GDP varying from 9 to 21 per cent in the April-June quarter of 2020. According to the International Monetary Fund, unemployment in the G7 countries has risen, varying from 3.3 per cent to 11 per cent. According to the University of Southern California’s US-China Institute, Japan and the European Union members of the G7 collectively have greater trade ties with China than they do with the US. However, the trade equation between the EU and the US may ameliorate, subject to the relaxation of tariffs imposed by the Donald Trump administration. All these factors shall impact the nature and scope of the B3W project. B3W differs from BRI. The former is a collective endeavour of seven countries with a democratic political system as opposed to BRI that is solely designed and executed by China that follows a one-party communist system. But the B3W is not without its infirmities. Given their trade and investment deals with Beijing, Germany, Italy and the EU may be hesitant to sever their ties with China. Second, the pandemic has adversely affected the growth of the G7 economies. Finally, regime changes in G7 countries due to their democratic political systems make the B3W a volatile project. The BRI has had its fair share of criticisms due to allegations of corruption, lack of transparency and signs of malinvestments and corporate debt in the projects undertaken. However, a hurried, uncritical acceptance of the US-backed B3W as a panacea to the BRI would be undesirable. Moreover, pitching the G7’s B3W against China’s BRI may resurrect an ecosystem of two-bloc politics reminiscent of the Cold War. India was invited, along with Australia, South Korea and South Africa, to the G7 summit. New Delhi’s response to the B3W was positive. However, India’s assessment must be based on to what extent does the B3W benefit New Delhi. Given India’s extensive economic ties with China and its political ties with the US, it would be challenging for India to decide whether it should adhere to and engage with a potential power bloc-based configuration or call for a revival of NAM 2.0 but not as a ritual performed every three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
06-07-2021||Opinion||Bigger picture||As Pakistan-administered Jammu and Kashmir  goes to the polls on July 25, the constitutional and practical realities underpinning the electoral exercise across the Line of Control will once again highlight some of the limitations of the popular global discourse around the Kashmir issue. A total of 2.88 million people are reportedly eligible voters. The diverse political unit of Jammu and Kashmir which came together because of a confluence of many factors in the 19th century, has propounded many myths. One such myth relates to PAJK, a sliver of the undivided princely state that has been controlled by Pakistan since 1947, which has often escaped popular discussion. Pakistan refers to this area as “Azad Jammu and Kashmir”, meaning independent Jammu and Kashmir. Its legislative assembly has the power to elect its prime minister and president. At international fora, the nomenclature of executive positions and a separate Constitution are presented as evidence by Pakistan that the region is an independent entity. However, the reality is a lot different. On top of this, the whole electoral exercise is held in a manner that perpetuates the unrealistic expectations and ideas that Pakistani society has about Jammu and Kashmir. This in turn has held all the efforts towards subcontinental cooperation hostage. First, there are contradictions between the Pakistani and PAJK Constitutions. For instance, Article 257 of Pakistan’s Constitution holds that the “people of Jammu and Kashmir will define their relationship with Pakistan after obtaining freedom”. On the contrary, Part 2 of Section 7 of the 1974 PAJK Constitution says that “no person or political party in Azad Jammu and Kashmir shall be permitted to propagate against or take part in activities prejudicial or detrimental to the ideology of the state’s accession to Pakistan”. Under Section 5(2)(vii) of the PAJK legislative assembly election ordinance of 1970, “a person will be disqualified for propagating any opinion or action in any manner prejudicial to the ideology of Pakistan, the ideology of the state’s accession to Pakistan or the sovereignty and integrity of Pakistan”. Thus, without signing an affidavit of allegiance to the accession of Jammu and Kashmir to Pakistan, nobody is allowed to take part in the PAJK legislative assembly elections. In the past, the Amanullah Khan-led Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front and the All Parties Nationalist Alliance espousing an independent state of Jammu and Kashmir were not allowed to participate because they refused to sign the affidavit. Within the same Constitution, the oath of office for the appointment to important posts like those of the prime minister, president or Speaker in PAJK contravenes the claim that PAJK is an independent country. For instance, the oath of office for the president of PAJK reads: “As President of Azad Jammu and Kashmir, I will be loyal to the country and the cause of accession of the state of Jammu and Kashmir to Pakistan...” Second, there are 45 elected seats which include 12 “refugees constituencies”. These 12 seats have been used as an instrument to skew the overall result of the assembly in a particular direction. They are reserved for the people who migrated from the Indian side of Jammu and Kashmir in 1947 and settled down in various parts of Pakistan. In 1947-48, approximately 80 per cent of the migrants settled down in the Punjab province of Pakistan. As compared to the hilly PAJK, Pakistani Punjab offered more economic opportunities for the migrants. The number of original refugees and their descendants living in different parts of Pakistan is estimated to be at least two million. Nine of these seats are located in different parts of the Punjab while the remaining constituencies are scattered in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Balochistan and Sindh. Equal seats — six each — have been allocated for refugees coming from Kashmir province and Jammu province respectively, the two culturally, ethnically and linguistically distinct provincial units of Jammu and Kashmir. However, on the ground, it results in absurdity in terms of representation. The data of the 2006 assembly elections reveal that there were 5,46,031 registered voters for the six seats for Jammu whereas there were only 35,256 voters for the six seats reserved for the Kashmir province refugees. Although the number of seats is the same, the number of voters from the Kashmir province is only .06 per cent of the total migrant vote bank. Even within the six seats for the Jammu province, the strength of the constituencies is uneven: LA5 and LA6 in Rawalpindi had 5,000 and 1,50,000 voters respectively. Holding elections for these refugee constituencies has little practical representational and legislative relevance as the descendants of the 1947 migrants are socially and economically well-integrated in Pakistan, particularly Punjab. In fact, the bulk of Muslim migration was from the Dogri and Punjabi speaking Jammu plains of Jammu province. Even before 1947, a substantial portion of the population living on the Jammu plains was tied to neighbouring parts of Punjab province — now in Pakistan — because of family, trade, education and employment. The geography played its part as from Jammu city — the winter capital of Jammu and Kashmir — major Pakistani cities like Sialkot and Lahore — the capital of Pakistani Punjab — are less than one hour and less than two hours away respectively. In contrast, the distance between the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir, Srinagar, Lahore is at least 10 to 12 hours away. Moreover, with regard to refugee seats, past experience demonstrates that candidates who are close to the ruling dispensation in Islamabad are able to win these seats. In 1975, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto’s Pakistan People’s Party brought down the government led by the Muslim Conference, a PAJK-based party, on the strength of these refugee seats. In 1990, the Muslim Conference won all the 12 refugee seats. Nawaz Sharif, the then prime minister, boasted that his government had given these seats to the Sardar Qayoom-led Muslim Conference as a gift. Similarly, in 1996, when Benazir Bhutto assumed power in Pakistan, these seats were won by the PAJK chapter of the PPP. There were cases where people fraudulently contested elections. In 1996, a politician was elected on a PPP ticket although it was found that he had illegally registered himself in the electoral list when he did not have any connection to Jammu and Kashmir. In the 2016 elections, six seats reserved for Jammu refugees went to the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz of the then prime minister, Sharif, whereas the party won three out of the six seats for the Valley refugees. Third, Islamabad has the power to dismiss any PAJK government. Article 53 of the PAJK Constitution gives the federal government the power to dismiss an elected government in PAJK. This provision is part of the emergency provisions of the Pakistani Constitution. Therefore, the federal government enjoys the same emergency powers over PAJK as it does over any other province of Pakistan. The broader constitutional and procedural contours within which elections to the PAJK assembly had been previously held demolish the myth that the region is an independent entity. The holding of elections for Jammu and Kashmir migrants in different parts of Pakistan merely serves as an instrument to benefit the ruling party in Islamabad. More important, it perpetuates a selective pan-Pakistan societal narrative on Jammu and Kashmir that consequently limits the scope and ability of the Pakistani State to approach the Kashmir issue and the broader India-Pakistan peace process with realism. With little change to the overall structural variables, the bigger picture that emerges after the July 25 elections is going to be no different. Luv Puri is the author of Across the LoC||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
