07-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Tirath Singh Rawat resigns as Uttarakhand CM, right to food of stray dogs||Change of plans Sir — It was hardly surprising when the chief minister of Uttarakhand, Tirath Singh Rawat, handed over his resignation to the governor, Baby Rani Maurya, within only four months of being appointed, reportedly citing the constitutional provision that requires him to get elected to the assembly within six months of assuming office, and the unlikelihood of the bypolls in the state being held in time on account of the pandemic (“Uttarakhand CM steps down after 4 months”, July 3). In the meantime, Uttarakhand gets Pushkar Singh Dhami as its new chief minister — its third in four months. Dhami, who is the youngest chief minister Uttarakhand has seen till date, expressed his gratitude to prime minister, Narendra Modi, the home minister, Amit Shah, and the Bharatiya Janata Party national president, J.P. Nadda, for giving him this opportunity. However, Rawat seems to be merely a pawn in the plans of the BJP leadership that wants to show that it stands for the Constitution by sacrificing Rawat instead of forcing the Election Commission to hold the bypolls. This might have been done to set a template to be used against Mamata Banerjee, who is also supposed to contest the bypolls to keep her position as chief minister of West Bengal within the next few months. It is likely that the Election Commission will hold up Rawat’s case as an example for not conducting bypolls in Bengal. This could force Banerjee to step down. But one should not forget that these two cases are different. Rawat’s mismanagement of the Kumbh Mela and the fake RT-PCR tests scandal during the event could cost him dearly, especially with the Uttarakhand legislative assembly election knocking at the door. On the other hand, Banerjee lost her seat but her party won by a massive mandate. Besides, there are no state elections in the near future, so there is no reason for the bypolls being delayed. Rawat’s case is a clear example of the myopic vision of the outgoing chief minister and the BJP high command. More so because even though he knew that he would have to be voted to the assembly in six months, neither he nor the party could chalk out an effective plan for this. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — Tirath Singh Rawat’s resignation may prove to be an alarm bell for Bengal’s chief minister, Mamata Banerjee. Ever since the result of the Bengal elections went against the saffron party, the BJP has been restless — the ruckus inside the assembly during the governor’s address is a recent example. There is a chance that the Election Commission decides to postpone the Bhawanipur bypolls to next year because of the pandemic. After all, nothing is impossible in politics. Jang Bahadur Singh,Jamshedpur Sir — The change of guard in Uttarakhand may have had the hidden agenda of rattling the leadership in Bengal, but it has also exposed fault lines in the saffron party. Whatever the pretext of Tirath Singh Rawat’s resignation, it reflects poorly on the leader who was chosen by the BJP to govern the state. This would not inspire trust among the people in the new chief minister either. Besides, the rise of Pushkar Singh Dhami has disappointed many senior leaders in the party — the leadership reportedly had to spend an entire day trying to pacify discontented members, especially those who had switched from the Congress to the BJP. Clearly, then, the saffron party and its members are not devoid of the thirst for power, an image that Rawat’s seemingly selfless gesture tried to project. Priyam Gupta,Calcutta Take care Sir — Animals have often been politicized in India — the cow is a prime example. But little effort has been put into actually improving their lives. The Delhi High Court’s decision regarding the right to food of stray dogs is thus a move in the right direction. The court has now instructed the Animals Welfare Board of India to designate appropriate spots for feeding them. Across India, urban strays, in particular, have become dependent on human beings for sustenance. This makes it all the more important for people to care for these creatures. All states should make similar arrangements for stray animals. Purabi Sanyal,Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
07-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Cannon fodder||A shadow often falls between enlightened law and the nature of its implementation. An instance of this worrying gap has come to the fore — ironically — on the 10th anniversary of a momentous legislation. Ten years ago, the Salwa Judum, an armed vigilante outfit raised and patronized by the State against its battle against Maoists in Chhattisgarh, had been banned by the Supreme Court, which stated that the deployment of tribal youth as special police officers was illegal. The apex court, in essence, was frowning upon the practice of raising militias whose members — cannon fodder to the powers that be — bore the brunt of the collateral damage in the battle between the State and the insurgents. The learned judges had also strongly argued in favour of rehabilitating and protecting members of the militia that was to be disbanded. It would be instructive to assess the State’s response towards this intervention after a decade. There are allegations that the SPOs have been rechristened as the District Reserve Guard, a constituency of poorly- trained and poorly-paid personnel, which has been known to commit excesses much like the Salwa Judum. Even more worrying is the absence of justice for the victims of the militia’s crimes. Depositions by survivors before judicial commissions or India’s premier investigative agency yielded very little corrective action against the perpetrators. The Supreme Court’s judgment assumes importance not only because of its patchy implementation. There is also the matter of the judgment exposing the hypocrisy of the State. It is fashionable to chastise ‘non-State actors’ in the modern security parlance. Usually, and not always without reason, non-State actors are, it is argued, rogue elements that retain the potential to disrupt peace and wreck lives. But this branding is not unproblematic. The rise of shrill nationalism in India has resulted in the conflation of critical opinion with that of non-State actors in a bid to delegitimize — criminalize — their views. Little wonder then that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party is prone to spotting an ‘urban Naxal’ — a bona fide dissenter — in every corner of the country. This could well be a ruse to deflect attention from the deployment of militias, admittedly with a few tweaks to their form, in conflict zones. The violation of the letter and spirit of an important judgment on an extrajudicial agency — the Salwa Judum — must be an occasion to deepen the public engagement with the layered nature of its history and State complicity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
07-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: In custody||It was not an assassination but a slow death. Death in custody. When the priest, Stan Swamy, was arrested last October like certain poets, journalists, teachers and lawyers in connection with the Elgaar Parishad case, he was ailing and elderly, but active. He had fought lifelong for the rights of tribal people, against their land alienation and the imprisonment of young tribal men as Maoists when they protested. It is a bitter irony that, after a rapid worsening of his health, he should die in custody, accused of Maoist links. The State’s attitude was made clear when he had to move court to get a straw without which he could not drink water. Interim bail was refused him in May when he said he was too ill to live long, and he died before the medical bail application could be heard. His death highlights three things. The first is the habitual refusal to give bail under the advice of the prosecuting or investigative agencies in spite of the Supreme Court’s emphatic declaration that bail should be the rule and jail the exception, aside from specific circumstances. Stan Swamy was booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act that made bail difficult, but earlier, the Supreme Court had said that even in anti-terror and narcotics cases, an accused was entitled to bail if there was no immediate possibility of a trial. The denial of bail to Stan Swamy and the others arrested in the Elgaar Parishad case goes against Supreme Court rulings, while treating the accused as convicts overturns the principles of justice. There is also the question of humanity. The treatment meted out to those labelled ‘urban Naxals’, most of them senior and with medical conditions, displays a targeted lack of compassion. Stan Swamy’s co-prisoner, Varavara Rao, was released on six months’ bail after his family’s desperate efforts, but not till the senior citizen’s physical and mental health had deteriorated unrecognizably. Both he and Stan Swamy had Covid-19; hospital stays did not seem to help much. For neglect is a weapon too. And last, prolonged detention without bail helps the State punish anyone who dissents or has different priorities. Stan Swamy and his co-prisoners were all known as champions of the underprivileged. The State is responsible for Stan Swamy’s death. But the shame of it and the loss it signifies are the Indian people’s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
07-07-2021||Opinion||On a two-way street: Investment Treaty Arbitration||The State being held accountable by courts is a cherished feature of democracies. Even a submission to the jurisdiction of international courts is applauded on some occasions. But sovereign powers are not usually expected to be bound by decisions of tribunals comprising individuals sans institutional backing. And yet, the Investor-State Dispute Settlement does this very thing. Also referred to as the Investment Treaty Arbitration, this mechanism rooted in the Investment Treaties and Trade Agreements signed among sovereigns subjects the states to arbitration when they fail to provide the promised benefits to foreign investors. In the Indian context, we have had at least three recent examples of liability fixed upon the state as a result of ISDS — the Cairn arbitration award, the Vodafone arbitration award and the Devas arbitration award. What added to the worries of the embattled Indian economy are proceedings initiated by Devas Multimedia Pvt Ltd and Cairn Energy before US federal courts to seek the enforcement of awards against India to the tune of $135 million and $1.2 billion, respectively. It may seem arbitrary and a case of a foreign corporation holding hostage a sovereign power to amend and enforce its laws; more so when the country is flailing to fully provide for its own citizens. But there is some method in this madness. India is not the only country to face such proceedings. In 2012, an arbitral tribunal had directed Ecuador to pay $1.77 billion to Occidental for cancelling the latter’s contract. In 2014, an arbitration tribunal at The Hague rendered an award in favour of Yukos against Russia that was in excess of $50 billion. Similarly, Venezuela was ordered to pay $1.6 billion to Exxon to compensate it for nationalizing the country’s oil projects. That said, it is not always that these tribunals rule in favour of corporations. In fact, as per data available with the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, out of 1,104 known cases of ISDS, 274 were ruled in favour of states against 212 rulings in favour of investors. In 2018, a tribunal ruled in favour of India and against the French investor, Louis Dreyfus Armateurs. Nevertheless, the ISDS has been criticized by not just states but also other stakeholders. The primary complaint against the ISDS is that it undermines the powers of the sovereign state. A foreign corporation can bring an arbitration claim against a state and then bind the latter to the award rendered by a private tribunal, all the while bypassing the judicial system in the country of investment. Moreover, it restricts the government from altering its regulatory policies. In cases such as Eli Lilly vs Canada, the legal basis of the decision taken by the government was challenged and eventually upheld by the courts of Canada. In 2009, a Swedish company, Vattenfall, brought an investor claim against Germany when the latter delayed granting permits for establishing a coal-fired power plant. The delay was on account of public opposition and reports of inter-ministerial consultation on climate change, pursuant to which the government intended to alter its laws. The state was faced with an investment arbitration claim of $1.9 billion that ultimately had to be settled. The ISDS is an imperfect system but all is not wrong with it. It is a two-way street that has the potential to unduly overburden a state but, more importantly, also provide an independent forum for foreign investors to seek redressal of their grievance. Not every country that imports investment has a democratic government or an impartial judiciary. In the absence of these, investors may find themselves in want of a forum to seek compensation for a genuine wrong done to them. For middle-income countries like India, which are investment importing as well as investment exporting, the ISDS can be a useful tool. It is particularly valuable for Indian investors in foreign countries. In recent years, the Government of India has opposed not only the mechanism but also some of the reforms proposed to improve the system. In 2016, India unilaterally terminated its bilateral investment treaties with over 50 countries. Admittedly, the new model BIT of 2016 retained the provision for resolving disputes through the ISDS but only as a last resort. Moreover, to regain regulatory autonomy of the state, many subject matters have now been excluded from the scope of the ISDS. In an attempt to explore alternatives, the Investment Cooperation and Facilitation Treaty signed with Brazil in 2020 strongly emphasizes a mechanism for dispute-prevention and a tiered dispute-resolution process. Prima facie, the mechanism appears to be arduous and one that could culminate into a diplomatic limbo. The new treaty texts may be a step in the right direction qua regulatory control of the sovereign but they border on protectionism. On the two-way street of BITs, these also subject Indian investors abroad to similar rigours. It may seem arbitrary that a corporation can hold a government liable for losses. But these are legal obligations that the state has exposed itself to willingly; and legal obligations to which Indian investors in foreign countries can hold foreign governments liable. Governments that have been stronger critics of the system have also complied with adverse awards to maintain bona fides. Even as governments around the world look for a better solution to the BITs, pending arbitrations and their final awards, such as in the case of Cairn, Vodafone and so on, would have to be duly honoured by the state. Future treaties may assert the regulatory authority of the state but a difficult dispute resolution process is bound to detract potential investments in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
07-07-2021||Opinion||Welcome to the show||Remakes are never their own thing although sometimes they can affect at what they will never be; they are a pretence, often counterfeit, often plain farcical. The one purpose remakes may yet serve is to remind us of the original. June 24 occasioned such a reminder; Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Dilli ki doori, dil ki doori’ session with Kashmiri entities was a pyrrhic attempt at a remake whose use-before date has quickly expired. This is how the original played out. November 2, 1947, Lal Chowk, Srinagar. A lofty stage, a large congregation. The ink is still moist on the Instrument of Accession, Article 370 of the Constitution will take another two years to be written in (and another seventy to be struck out). Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah turns fondly to Jawaharlal Nehru, Kashmiri Musalmaan to Kashmiri Pandit, and sings out the vows in Amir Khusro’s verse: “Mun tu shudam/ Tu mun shudi;/ Man tan shudam/ Tu jaan shudi;/ Takas na goyad bod azeen/ Mun deegaram/ Tu deegaree.” (“I am You and You are me; I am your body, You are my soul; So none should hereafter say, I am someone and You someone else.”) What was to follow would knock the stuffing off that sublime song and render it a tattered feast for vultures. That is how we began, in poetry. This is where we are now, in the ringing absence of it and worse. Recall just some of what those convened around the prime minister’s table have publicly said of each other recently, recall the circumstances they have wreaked on each other, or have expressed the desire to wreak. All of what briefly came to transpire on June 24 is a remake; it’s all happened before, and happened time and again. Here’s a taste of the first souring. Sheikh Abdullah is irked that Gopalaswami Ayyangar, Nehru’s minister for Kashmir affairs, underlines the impermanence of Article 370. He writes to Nehru. “Shri Ayyangar stated that Article 370 was not a permanent feature of the Indian Constitution and ‘when the time was ripe’ the provision could be wiped off the Constitution... This clearly shows that even though assurances were given to us... such assurances came with a good deal of mental reservations.” No assurance to the contrary is forthcoming from Nehru. This is mid-1953. The Sheikh activates his agitations and is quick to get the National Conference to propose an “end to the uncertainty” — a call for plebiscite with the option of independence written in. Nehru responds with affront. He writes to the Sheikh: “You know that the question of Kashmir has had not only a logical appeal for me but also a strong emotional one. But I can suppress my emotion, if necessary, if logic demands that... Thus far I have proceeded on the basis of friendship and confidence in you and have been vain enough to expect the same from you... To me it has been a major surprise that a settlement arrived at between us should be bypassed or repudiated, regardless of the merits. That strikes at the root of all confidence... No treaty would be worth the paper it is written on, if it was to be repudiated soon after...” The relationship is fast funnelling down the vortex of suspicion. On the night of August 8, 1953, the Sheikh is dismissed from office and bundled into jail for conspiracy. He would remain behind bars until just a month before Nehru’s death in May 1964. It is during that time, during the long chaining of the “lion of Kashmir” that the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir gets drafted and adopted; the Sheikh had no role to play. But the show proceeded. The bonhomie of 1947 utterly unmade, remakes were in the making. Sheikh Abdullah would himself come to play a role in the first one. He would sign a power accord with Indira Gandhi in 1975 and become chief minister again. But this remake was to give way to another, and many yet would follow. In 1984, the Sheikh’s son and successor, Farooq Abdullah, is toppled in a palace coup effected under the auspices of Rajiv Gandhi, then general secretary of the ruling Congress. Two years later, Rajiv and Farooq would turn out as dual-lead of another remake; they would hold hands at a rally in Jammu and utter sweet things of each other that time and cynicism have now completely obliterated. Anyhow, Farooq is chief minister again. In the three-and-a-half decades since, this is how the lead cast of recurrent remakes has looked: Farooq Abdullah. A long and tumultuous interregnum presided over for the better part by Jagmohan. In 1996, Farooq Abdullah again. Then Mufti Mohammed Sayeed in the company of the Congress. Then the Congress’s Ghulam Nabi Azad in the company of Mufti Mohammed Sayeed. Then Omar Abdullah. Then Mufti Mohammed Sayeed again, this time in the company of the BJP. Then, upon his passing, Mehbooba Mufti in the company of the BJP. And then, poof! She may be written down in history as the last chief minister of the state of Jammu and Kashmir as it once used to be. She remains too, with the Abdullahs and sundry others, part of the exclusive club labelled the Gupkar Gang by those she sat across on June 24. In that time, in those three-and-a-half decades of remaking and remaking redux, these few things too came to be. A murderous drift took hold of the Kashmir Valley and shook the foundations of state and society alike. The gun-blazoned “aazaadi” insurrection invited a jackbooted military crackdown, but the crossfire brought upon the Pandits a harsh, and yet unresolved, banishment. The hurricane barrelled into the Valley’s core and its far corners and deposited them in tattered tent shanties across the Banihal, India’s largest, and probably most intractable, internal displacement. Kashmir was turned into a ghastly theatre of discord, destruction, disruption and wanton death, such that other than the pitiless brochure cliché of paradise, there remained nothing paradisal about it. A people more battered and brutalized would be hard to find. The subcontinental collaboration towards the reduction of what it means to be a Kashmiri, in body and in soul, remains a work in progress. It is a project so engulfing that you may be excused if you omitted to remember that a war too was fought — another one — over Kashmir’s northern flank in the summer of 1999, the first military eyeball-to-eyeball between nuclear powers. What’s left of Kashmir to do a remake with? And where have Kashmiris figured in it, if ever? What was the gathering of June 24 on about? There were those there who’d travelled down from demands of secession or self-rule or, at the very least, autonomy. The Sheikh’s distrustful prophecy over Article 370 is now the truth. There is no state that “cornerstone” guarantee can be applied to for there is no state anymore. The demand that the state be restored, moth-eaten as it would be, and a throne be readied, however sawn and stunted, is just how farcical and fake the nature of this latest remake is.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
