08-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Home away||Just statements may sometimes touch the surface of a problem. Responding to a public interest litigation asking that the government provide three meals, drinking water, free shelters, free public bathrooms and toilets, soaps and sanitary napkins to the homeless in Mumbai, the Bombay High Court reportedly said that providing homeless people, beggars and pavement dwellers with free shelters will only increase their numbers unless they ‘work for the country’; there are government schemes for that. The state cannot give them everything. The court felt that the state and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation were doing everything within their capacity to supply the homeless with water, food and sanitary napkins. These authorities were, however, asked by the court to ensure that homeless people could use public toilets for free. Last month, the high court had asked the BMC for information regarding the building of shelter homes in every ward. The report of work in progress was apparently satisfactory. The high court pointed out that the petitioner had not found out who the homeless in the city were. That would have been useful, because pavement-dwellers are not a homogeneous mass. There are seasonal and informal sector workers among them, who do not earn enough for an urban home, yet have no source of livelihood in their villages. Some have lost their homes and livelihood to river erosion or the loss of common land to private or government schemes and cannot sustain themselves on relief or compensation, even if they received it. The Bombay High Court’s reference to work under government schemes was rather puzzling; besides, many pavement dwellers do work. There should be close scrutiny of beggars, especially children and women, because they are often forced to beg by criminal groups which engage in abduction, trafficking and drug-related transactions. Homeless families may have sick or aged members who need care. All this is true of most Indian cities. The homeless represent governmental failure at many levels. The Supreme Court insisted on night shelters, which are still not sufficient in most states. The Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Urban Livelihoods Mission has an excellent scheme for shelters, but the numbers of urban homeless indicate that the scheme has not quite flowered yet. But protection is especially urgent during the pandemic, whether they are working for the country or not.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
08-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Stan Swamy's death, Sha’Carri Richardson's disqualification from the Olympics||Matter of shame Sir — The demise of the 84-year-old Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist, Stan Swamy, who was suffering from multiple ailments and was on ventilator support in a hospital in Mumbai, is a matter of shame for the Indian State and its agencies which hounded him for months and had failed to provide the minimum human consideration owed to him as an ailing, elderly man (“In custody”, July 7). He was arrested in connection with the Elgaar Parishad violence and booked under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act that made bail difficult. Swamy suffered from Parkinson’s disease and was unable to even hold a glass in his hand. He had several other ailments and contracted Covid-19 while in custody. It would need an impossible stretch of imagination to believe that Swamy, who had served the poor and the helpless for decades and had no record of any crime in his life, would work for the violent overthrow of the Indian State. It is incomprehensible how Swamy’s plea for bail, considering his ill-health, could be rejected so many times. His health deteriorated in jail and he simply did not get proper treatment there. The death of Swamy is an institutional failure. His painful demise is a blot upon the nation and bears witness to the heartlessness of the administration. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore Sir — It was heartbreaking to read about the demise of Stan Swamy in prison owing to the lack of proper medical care. Swamy had tirelessly worked for the rights of tribal people before he was arrested on dubious charges under an anti-terror law. As an activist, he had questioned the non-implementation of the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution, which stipulated the setting up of a tribes advisory council made up solely of people from the adivasi community for their protection, well-being and development in the state. Swamy, implicated in the Bhima-Koregaon violence, was the oldest person accused of terrorism in India. The National Investigation Agency had accused him of channelling funds to Maoist groups through the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee that was co-convened by him and Sudha Bharadwaj, who is also languishing in jail for similar charges. It is a matter of shame that Swamy, critically ill while imprisoned, was refused bail repeatedly. In his last days in prison, Swamy had reportedly expressed that he did not wish to live for long if his situation were to remain unchanged. He had tested positive for Covid-19 in late May and finally passed away at a private hospital in Mumbai on July 5. His death is a testament to the determination of the Bharatiya Janata Party to wipe away all traces of dissent in New India. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — It is clear that the NIA is struggling to find evidence against those charged under the UAPA in relation to the Bhima-Koregaon violence. Thus, there is no doubt that Stan Swamy would have eventually been acquitted by the courts. Unfortunately, he breathed his last in a Mumbai hospital away from his loved ones. His imprisonment had broken his body but not his soul. In a letter to a Jesuit colleague from Taloja Central Jail he wrote that even ‘a caged bird can still sing’. The Indian government is sending a strong signal to the activists fighting for the rights of tribal people and other disenfranchised communities — if they continue to defy the government, they will meet a similar fate. As citizens of a democracy we must ask ourselves if we have now become a police State. Anthony Henriques,Mumbai Sir — Although the United Nations body on human rights has expressed its shock and regret over the death the Stan Swamy, it is too little, too late. While the international body had repeatedly raised the question of the octogenarian’s arrest, it was unable to do anything. The UN must introspect on its failures. Abir Ganguly,Calcutta  Too harsh Sir — The disqualification of the American sprinter, Sha’Carri Richardson, from the Olympics after she tested positive for cannabis has raised questions regarding the fairness of the decision. Marijuana is prohibited under the rules of the Olympics, but it is not a performance-enhancing drug. Richardson, who reportedly took the drug as a way of coping after the death of her mother, has since apologized. But many have argued that the policing of the usage of marijuana is firmly rooted in racism. It is perhaps time for the Olympic Committee to reconsider some of its archaic rules. Konkona Chatterjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
08-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: The predators||Predation does not obey frontiers. Perhaps that is the principal inference that needs to be drawn from the list compiled by Reporters Sans Frontieres that has brought together, according to the international media watchdog, the “Predators of Press Freedom”. In what is another dubious achievement, the Indian prime minister has found himself among heads of state and governments that are arguably nibbling away — with relish — at the edifice of an independent media. Keeping Narendra Modi company are North Korea’s Kim Jong-un, Iran’s Ali Khamenei, Syria’s Bashar al-Assad, Myanmar’s army general, Min Aung Hlaing, Brazil’s Jair Bolsonaro, Hungary’s Viktor Orbán, among others. None of these statesmen can claim to have an envious record when it comes to upholding the cause of a free and fierce media. Significantly, the RSF has unveiled the modus operandi of this transgression in the Indian context. Flooding the media ecosystem with false narratives, unleashing a targeted witch-hunt against journalists and activists courageous enough to speak truth to power, the creation of patronizing — complicit — relationships to force owners of media outlets to toe the government’s line, introducing problematic legislations that seek to clip the media’s wings in the name of reform, sustained attacks on the credibility of the media as an institution — Mr Modi, the RSF argues, has a formidable and diverse arsenal at his disposal that has been employed to throttle the fourth estate. The Centre’s response to adverse views is well-known. It is likely to dismiss the allegations, project the criticism as yet another international attempt to tarnish New India, and sing paeans about its commitment to the free press — the Union home minister had vouched for the government’s fidelity to press freedom on National Press Day last year. But data exist that make it difficult to deflect attention from these charges. India’s decline on registers of the autonomy of the media — the 2021 World Press Freedom Index is one example — has been precipitous under Mr Modi’s watch. Worryingly, India is not bucking the international trend in this context. The dawn of the Age of Post-Truth, which has corresponded with the emergence of electoral autocracies, is synonymous with orchestrated attempts to stifle sentinels of truth; the media, ideally, should rank among these. The calamity, then, is not institutional; neither is it limited to specific nation states. What the RSF’s “gallery of grim portraits” reveals is a civilizational crisis the outcome of which remains unknown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
08-07-2021||Opinion||Reimagining embankments||The Sunderbans delta and Bengal’s coastal districts are facing a disaster, once again. Flooding induced by the cyclone, Yaas, facilitated by numerous breaches in the embankments, has severely affected lives and livelihoods in these areas. The delta and the coastal stretch may have survived Aila, Bulbul and Amphan in the past. But Yaas assumed a different significance, lashing the state as it dealt with a health hazard. The adverse effects have already attracted policy attention at the highest level. In this context, there is need for an objective assessment of embankments through the lens of disaster risk-reduction. If one has to build resilience in these perennially risk-prone areas, there must be a paradigmatic shift in embankment management coupled with other vulnerability-reducing interventions. Embankments are among the oldest flood-control measures in flood-prone countries. Findings from international research projects show that embankments are usually the most favoured among flood-risk management options and often create a dependency, which, in turn, results in their continued adherence. India has had a long tryst with embankments. During the colonial period, the need to bring more land under agriculture required reclaiming land and its protection from seasonal flooding. This encouraged the construction of embankments. Over time, there was increasing scepticism among colonial engineers regarding the impact of embankments on the riparian system. However, the post-colonial State continued to promote embankments. Embankments, much like dams and canals, signify the triumph of man over nature. While dams and canals drew their legitimacy from their contribution to food security, embankments were conceived of to protect the fertile floodplains from the vagaries of flooding. In the delta, the embankments became the very basis for human settlement by facilitating the protection of land from the intrusion of saline water. According to the report of the working group on water resources management for the Eleventh Five Year Plan, there are close to 34,000 kilometres of embankment in India that protect some 18.22 million hectares of land. Around 75 per cent of these embankments are located in Assam, Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal, with Bengal alone having around 30 per cent of these structures. Between 1953-2010, the total financial damage caused by floods amounted to Rs 18 billion. The expenses incurred on flood-control measures have continued to rise. Much of this money is spent on the construction of new embankments, repairing of existing embankments, and other bank-strengthening activities. Yet, reports of embankment breaches and collapse are quite common. Embankments, like canals, are resource-intensive, bear a strong footprint of the State, and are potential sites for rent-seeking. A lot has been written with respect to canal management. Unfortunately, embankments only receive attention after a disaster. Embankments, as witnessed in the riparian tracts of north Bihar, often become sites for diverse disaster risk. In disaster parlance, the risk is a product of hazard and vulnerability. The hazard itself is one of the risk drivers. Embankments fragment habitations. Some habitations continue to remain on the riverside of the embankment while other — supposedly protected — habitations lie on the countryside of the embankment. There could also be habitation right on top of the embankment. The biophysical vulnerability varies across these habitations. But the people residing in them also command varying degrees of assets. These assets — the very means of production — are drivers of social vulnerability that result in a fragile kind of life and livelihood, which collapse during a calamity. Embankments actually escalate disaster risks by giving a false sense of protection in these vulnerable areas. Embankments as sites for disaster risk are also an outcome of moral hazards. Sometimes, people living on the riverside habitations breach the embankment to reduce their risk of flooding. Influential people in the countryside also breach the embankment in order to direct saline water to their fisheries (bheries). In order to build resilience in flood-prone areas, there is a need to reimagine embankments. Resilience building in such spaces would require capacity-building of the community so that people can anticipate, absorb, adapt, mitigate and transfer the disaster risk. This would require interventions that aim to minimize the occurrence of natural calamities and weaken the factors that create vulnerabilities. There is a need for an interdisciplinary and a participatory understanding of the efficacy of embankments on life and livelihoods of riparian populations as well as for the exploration of a novel State-community partnership in the management of embankments. Examining the feasibility of elevated hazard-proof housing, creating safe water and sanitation facilities, a basket of stable livelihood options and risk insurance should be integral to the policy of reimagining embankments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
08-07-2021||Opinion||A western disturbance||Last Friday, after their commander paid a final courtesy call on the Afghan president, Ashraf Ghani, the combat troops of the United States of America evacuated their main operational base in Bagram on the outskirts of Kabul. Within a day, British troops and forces from other countries of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization stationed in different provinces began their own journey out of Afghanistan. As the British defence secretary told the House of Commons on July 5, the American withdrawal had left Britain in a “very difficult position to continue” the mission in Afghanistan that began after the terror attacks on US cities on September 11, 2001. The fallout of the departure of foreign forces that had been stationed in Afghanistan for the past 20 years was immediate. Jubilant over having worsted yet another superpower, the Taliban forces overcame the feeble resistance of the demoralized Afghan National Army. Already in control of more than half of rural Afghanistan, the Taliban are in the process of acquiring control of the regional capitals. There are suggestions that, barring a dramatic turnaround, Kabul may fall to the Taliban in the next six months. In the gloomy assessment of the former president, Hamid Karzai: “Look at the scene. We are in shambles. The country is in conflict. There is immense suffering… Those who came here 20 years ago in the name of fighting extremism and terrorism not only failed to end it but, under their watch, extremism has flourished. That is what I call failure.” As a last-ditch attempt to prevent Afghanistan reverting to the medievalism practised under the rule of Mullah Omar, the authorities have tacitly sanctioned the re-establishment of tribal militias to supplement the ANA, which has been adversely affected by desertions and a string of military failures. However, having disbanded as a military force for at least a decade, the non-Pashtun constituents of the erstwhile Northern Alliance may find that they may have left it too late. It will require the emergence of another charismatic Ahmad Shah Massoud plus a great deal of military resources for the Taliban offensive to be checked in at least half of Afghanistan. As of now, the Taliban are leaving nothing to chance and, indeed, concentrating their military advance on the non-Pashtun areas, thereby pre-empting the resistance. The disarray in the opposition to the Taliban within Afghanistan mirrors the erosion of the global resolve. Apart from India, which held out till the last but without the capacity to do much to bolster the anti-Taliban opposition within the country — New Delhi still lacks any meaningful connect with the Taliban — all the countries of the West, plus Russia and China, have opened their lines of communication with the Taliban, hoping desperately that this version of the Taliban is not going to be a carbon copy of the one forged by Mullah Omar. As of now, there is slim evidence that the Taliban, they are poised to reclaim the lost Emirate, has changed course. The final report of the Afghanistan Study Group released in February 2021 to outline the US’s possible ‘New Approach’ to the Afghan mess after the withdrawal was a case of American policymakers trying to put a gloss on a clear defeat. It took comfort in the assessment — born out of the US-Taliban agreement in Doha — that the “Taliban are not an international terrorist organisation, and there is no evidence that they have any intention to attack the US.” At the same time, it seemed to agree with the report of the Taliban sanctions the monitoring team presented to the Security Council in May 2020 that “Relations between the Taliban, especially the Haqqani network and Al Qaeda remain close, based on friendship, a history of shared struggle, ideological sympathy and intermarriage.” The Study Group report concluded that “This persistent linkage explains, in part, why the Taliban resisted the US demand that they renounce and severe their ties with Al-Qaeda, and instead committed only to ensuring that Al-Qaeda is no longer a threat to the interests of the United States and its allies in areas controlled by the Taliban.” The faith in a ‘reformed’ Taliban that has shed its earlier medievalism and jihadi impulses has occasionally been used to justify the US exit from Afghanistan. The Study Group imagined that the Taliban has “softened” its approach: “While still demanding the removal of the current government and the establishment of a new constitution, the group often refers to an ‘Islamic foundation’ for the state that does not involve a Taliban monopoly of power. This Islamic foundation may countenance greater flexibility on education, health, women’s rights and human rights than was the case in the 1990s, but it would likely entail some restrictions on these rights.” It is noteworthy that the belief in a humane “Islamic foundation” hasn’t found reflection in the organization of life in areas where the Taliban have re-acquired control — at least this is what Western media accounts suggest. Going by the Study Group report and Jo Biden’s evasive non-answer to a pointed question on the withdrawal from Bagram, one conclusion is inescapable: the withdrawal from Afghanistan is a clear admission of defeat. The grim consequences of a renewed civil war in Afghanistan and the possible establishment of an extremist regime committed to theological precepts of unending wars to establish the faith are known and acknowledged by those who committed themselves to the regime change project in 2001. That the determination to do something about it has been replaced by tacit acceptance — as long as it doesn’t affect Europe and the US — is likely to bolster the belief in Islamist circles that the West is morally degenerate and politically vulnerable. Whether this will enhance the internal security of Europe and the US or make it more vulnerable is an issue worth considering. Interestingly, the two big gainers from the departure of the US and Nato forces from Afghanistan are likely to be China and Pakistan. There are reports to suggest that China is anxious to cut a deal with the Taliban, with Pakistan playing a key role. The terms of this understanding would involve the Taliban stopping all material assistance to Muslims in Xinjiang in return for big Chinese investments — through Pakistan — in the mineral industries and infrastructure of Afghanistan, an engagement that would also fill existing gaps in Beijing’s Belt and Road Initiative. There are serious implications of recent developments in Afghanistan on India’s national security. First, despite occasional strains in relationship, Pakistan will enjoy a privileged status in Taliban-held Afghanistan. Second, the role that China seeks to play in the economy of Talibanized Afghanistan is certain to enhance Islamabad’s clout in Kabul. Third, in the absence of a common border, there are obvious limitations to India’s capacity to intervene effectively in Afghanistan unless Iran and Tajikistan are on board. During the previous Taliban regime, India offered military and financial assistance to the Northern Alliance and kept alive the resistance movement. Despite the Alliance’s present state of unpreparedness, this strategy will have to be revived. However, on this occasion, it must involve greater coordination with the US and European countries whose willingness to assist anti-Taliban forces is likely to involve a measure of detachment. Finally, India’s capacity to play a role in Baluchistan, the Pashtun belt on both sides of the Durand Line and among the Tajiks, Uzbeks and Hazaras in Afghanistan will necessitate higher levels of information and local expertise. The expertise and commitment that were once the hallmarks of the Indian Political Service is worth replicating.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
