09-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Sharper teeth||As serious crimes persist and evolve in nature, in what way must laws be designed to deal with these offences effectively? This would be a pertinent question to ask in the light of the Centre preparing the draft anti-trafficking bill, which seeks to significantly widen the scope of offences that count as human trafficking and impose stringent punishments accordingly. The trafficking in persons (prevention, care and rehabilitation) bill, 2021 has already been praised by experts. They say that it addresses nearly all the concerns raised in 2018 when a previous draft bill had been passed in the Lok Sabha in spite of stiff opposition from parliamentarians and experts. If the new bill is passed into law in its current form, it will expand the ambit of exploitation to include, among other things, forced labour, organ harvesting, illegal clinical drug trials or unlawful bio-medical research. Importantly, it will include transgender people along with women and children in the definition of trafficking victims. It will also be operative in trafficking cases with cross-border implications. There will be scope for life imprisonment in most incidents of child-trafficking, especially those involving more than one child. In extreme cases — for instance, where the victims are less than 12 years old — even the death penalty can be sought. Trafficking has traditionally thrived on poverty, moral turpitude and violence. The crisis has been exacerbated by the pandemic. The enormous financial hardship on families, the death of one or both parents of several children, the mass displacement of people and the closure of schools, where at-risk children could have received attention, have aggravated the threat. Trafficking also relies on shadowy networks among seasoned traffickers, law-keepers and officials. As such, it is heartening that the new law would consider as offenders anyone in a position of authority, including defence personnel, government servants and doctors. However, will the paltry conviction rate — it fell to 22 per cent in 2019 from 29.4 per cent in 2018 — rise under a tightened law? This can only happen if reform is introduced to India’s under-resourced and desensitized police force. The involvement of India’s counter-terrorism task force in the ambit of the bill is instructive. However, concerns about checks and balances in the investigative process are warranted given the fact that overriding powers are increasingly viewed as a licence for impunity on the part of investigative agencies. The draft bill will be useful when it is implemented effectively and responsibly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
09-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: The ‘Union government’ debate, Rafale investigation by France||Strong stand Sir — A debate has broken out between the government of Tamil Nadu and the Centre with the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam-ruled dispensation insisting on using the term ‘ondriya arasu’ or ‘Union government’ instead of ‘madhiya arasu’, that means Central government (“Just a name”, July 5). The decision of the chief minister, M.K. Stalin, to stick to this stance is a major step towards reviving the spirit of the Constitution in our collective consciousness. After 71 years of adopting the Constitution, it is time that we remembered the original intent of the founding fathers — Article 1 of the Constitution says that “India, that is Bharat, shall be a Union of States”. In fact, the Constituent Assembly did not use the term ‘Centre’ or ‘Central government’ in any of its 395 Articles in 22 Parts and eight Schedules in the original Constitution. Perhaps this was done consciously, in order to prevent the centralization of powers in one unit. However, following the Partition and the violence of 1947 in Kashmir, the Constituent Assembly was forced to revise its approach and it resolved in favour of a strong Centre. Stalin’s assertion that his government would continue to use the term, ‘Union’, has revived the debate on state autonomy and federalism. Besides, the conflict arising between the Tamil Nadu government and the Centre must be seen as the result of a power tussle and not merely a definition problem. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — The reference to the government at the Centre as the ‘Union government’ by the chief minister of Tamil Nadu is not incorrect. The Constitution itself refers to India as a ‘Union of States’. While taking oath of office in May 2019, the prime minister, Narendra Modi, did not say that he is a Central minister but “a Minister for the Union”. Even a parliamentary committee suggested the use of the term “officials of the Union of India” in place of “Central government officials”. The Centrally administered territories of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, the national capital territory of Delhi, Lakshadweep and Puducherry, to name a few, are known as ‘Union territories’ and not ‘Central territories’. The Bharatiya Janata Party seems to be going overboard to centralize every aspect of our lives and administration. It appears to overlook the fact that the framers of our Constitution envisaged India as a Union of states. H.N. Ramakrishna,Bangalore Come clean Sir — An ugly war of words is raging between the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress over a French judge being appointed to investigate the allegations of corruption related to the Rafale deal worth Rs 59,000 crore for 36 fighter aircrafts purchased by India. But citizens are not getting any wiser in the absence of any official response from the Narendra Modi-led government on the issue. The Parquet National Financier of France has launched the investigation acting on a complaint by Sherpa, a non-governmental organization. The complaint is based on comprehensive reports backed by incriminating documents published by Mediapart, an online investigative journal. The same organization had earlier declined to probe the deal on the basis of a complaint filed in October 2018 by Sherpa. This indicates that the French agency has reasons to initiate a judicial investigation into the deal to unearth the truth. The Modi government can no longer disdainfully dismiss the allegations of wrongdoings as if they were figments of the Oppositions’ imagination without a meaningful probe. The Congress and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) have been pressing for setting up a joint parliamentary committee to probe the various questionable aspects of the deal. Since the deal was struck by India’s  prime minister, he owes it to the nation to come clean. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore  Shut out the heat Sir — It is true that the khorkhoris of yore are increasingly giving way to the ugly sliding glass ones (“Wise window of yore”, July 8). But it is not just a change in architectural aesthetics or inconvenience — khorkhoris are notoriously difficult to clean — that is responsible for these windows falling out of favour. Windows like khorkhoris and jali windows of Rajasthan and Gujarat kept out the heat while allowing wind to enter houses. But as the heat rises outside, these are no longer sufficient to keep houses cool. Aesthetic windows, then, are yet another victim of climate change. Abhik Ganguly,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
09-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: High table||The exit sign, at times, can glow brighter than that of entry. The most talked about point concerning Narendra Modi’s cabinet expansion is not the seven promotions and 36 new inductions but the demotions of 12 ministers. Some of the prominent netas who now find themselves without their beloved kursis include Ravi Shankar Prasad, Harsh Vardhan, Ramesh Pokhriyal and Prakash Javadekar. Mr Prasad, having led the Centre’s heavy-handed charge against social media platforms such as Twitter, may have reasons to feel a bit cut up. That the axe fell on Mr Vardhan and Mr Pokhriyal, the Union health minister and education minister, respectively, is being cited on non-performance. It is true that India has been lashed savagely by the pandemic with the second wave exposing an unprecedented crisis in oxygen, hospital beds and basic medical amenities. But in a regime as centralized as the one that is run by Mr Modi, where decisions independent of the prime minister’s nod are rare, it would be unfair to pin the blame on the health minister alone. Again, Mr Pokhriyal has been hauled up for the delays in appointments in premier institutions, opacity and policy U-turns, but here too there are whispers that the Prime Minister’s Office had a hand in slowing down things in some instances. It appears that some of the ministers who have been dropped are the proverbial fall guy: taking the plunge only to protect the boss’s sheen. If this speculation is indeed true, it does not say much about Mr Modi’s leadership qualities. A leader who is averse to taking his share of the blame for what clearly are collective failures on the part of the government he heads speaks poorly of the democratic ethos within the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. In any case, standards of assessment need to be fair for the entire pecking order of the government. The myth of the BJP being a party with a difference has been busted in another way through the cabinet expansion. The anointment of seven new faces from Uttar Pradesh betrays the BJP’s desperation to send the right signals to the poll-bound state: the outcome of the elections, the BJP is hoping, would set the template for the Battle of 2024. What this shows is that just like any other party, the BJP prioritizes political considerations over performance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
09-07-2021||Opinion||Rediscover the human touch||In March 2020, an abrupt, Covid-induced lockdown triggered a mass human migration in India. The Indian administration received significant criticism from its global counterparts for aggravating a crisis amidst a raging pandemic. The analyst, Pronab Sen, argued that in the absence of substantial economic capital, migrants were being forced to return to their homes so that they could bank on social capital to stay afloat during the crisis. While the first wave of the pandemic brought to the fore the concern of people dying of hunger, it did not make the idea of death an everyday matter for society at large. The second wave in India has, however, completely changed this notion. Media reports of underreported death counts as well as the visuals of graveyards with multiple burning pyres have stoked the deepest fears in the people. Life, undoubtedly, is uncertain; but when we experience this uncertainty in our everyday affairs, we end up suffering from a ‘novel’ phobia — ‘Covid phobia’. Because of this, we try and maximize our chances of survival by distancing ourselves from possible sources of infection. A good example of this was wealthy individuals taking shelter in safer countries to escape the dire situation in India; this safe physical space was available as a result of their fortunes and influential social connections. Another manifestation of ‘Covid phobia’ was people postponing treatments of other medical conditions. Managing the disease is often a lonely affair. Covid phobia is thus an upshot of this loneliness: the fear of ‘dying alone’ haunts us rather than dying itself. Coping with this emergent crisis calls for collaboration. There needs to be collaboration on taking safety measures and distributing critical medical resources. However, the ground reality is that people across different social strata have varying levels of access to healthcare and other resources. This inaccessibility, combined with inadequate medical facilities, aggravates Covid phobia, which, in turn, makes social collaboration difficult. Amidst a global crisis, instead of an expansion in the circle of caring, there is evidence to suggest that social collaboration is diminishing in the face of shrinking social capital. The exchange of critical information on social media platforms has been a heartening phenomenon. Nevertheless, we need to reflect on whether these platforms reach the ones who need help the most. There is also the challenge of the iniquitous nature of the economic capital needed to survive. Unlike the affluent segments, those who are banking solely on their social capital have been left with nothing as State and society retract their circle of caring. There are predictions that suggest that pandemics and other such extreme events are expected to become periodical occurrences in the age of climate change. Strangely, climate change is still believed to be a phenomenon of the distant future even though the world is getting adversely affected by climatic disasters, leading to extreme uncertainties, fear and panic. Moreover, our responses to such crisis situations, be it Covid or climate change, are likely to be inadequate. It’s safe to assume that we are going to see similar situations in the near future where people would have to live amidst multiple constraints and with limited resources, and the lack of financial resources and social capital would further threaten the lives and livelihoods of marginalized people. Is society capable of collaboration when faced with imminent death? While Covid phobia is diminishing the potential for collaborative action that can emerge as a critical pillar of support for the disadvantaged people, a new form of eco-anxiety, climatic disaster phobia, is likely to creep in. Climate change is expected to exacerbate migration on a mass scale. This displacement is likely to lead to the emergence of newer spatial boundaries based on the lines of class and caste and make society more fragmented. Cities could restrict the entry of rural folks. Upscale neighbourhoods could turn into gated areas under surveillance. In fact, the notion of a ‘climate haven’ includes the idea of gated communities that can efficiently exclude others from accessing critical resources and offer an increased scope of survival to their subscribers. It’s also possible that a black market would take over the dispensing of critical life-saving resources during the crisis. This means that, once again, those on the margins are going to be the worst hit by the fallouts of climate crisis. Harnessing social capital is, therefore, a necessary condition for the welfare of the marginalized who have been stripped of economic resources. Consequently, we as a society need to find a way to tackle our fears and consolidate social collaboration while also expanding the ethics of care. It is more important to address the fundamental human anxieties underlying phobias so that imminent crises do not escalate into humanitarian disasters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
09-07-2021||Opinion||Fire in the belly||Occasionally, an event takes place which illuminates in a flash of light the appalling injustice amidst which we live in this world every day of our lives. Such an event changes the way we look at the world and leaves a lasting impact on our lives and on the lives of many others, even those located far from the scene of the event. The Spanish Civil War must have been one such event, for otherwise so many young persons from all over Europe and America would not have volunteered to fight in distant Spain as part of the International Brigade and sacrifice their lives. In my lifetime, however, it was undoubtedly the Vietnam War that was such an event. It radicalized thousands among the literati, the result of which was the arousal of an enormous interest in Marxism all over the world. This interest in Marxism had nothing to do with the Soviet Union and the traditional communist parties, since the appeal of traditional communism had faded by then among the youth; and notwithstanding the obvious sympathy that this Left upsurge had for the revolutionary positions adopted by Mao Zedong’s China and the breakaway Maoist groups that emerged everywhere as a sequel to Mao’s split with Moscow, it generally steered clear of these groups as well. The year, 1968, was particularly crucial. In May, there was the workers’ uprising in France which got closely linked to the students’ movement that was occurring simultaneously; the workers occupied factories all over France as the students were occupying universities. And then there was the Tet offensive in South Vietnam where the Viet Cong stormed Saigon and even occupied the US embassy there, precisely at a time the United States of America was claiming success in the war; the offensive made clear to the world that the Americans could never win the war, although the war itself was to drag on for another seven years. As student radicalism acquired intensity, revolutionary literature poured out from publishers who smelt a profitable opportunity and got into the act. Antonio Gramsci’s Prison Notebooks, Rosa Luxemburg’s Anti-Kritik, Bukharin’s critique of Luxemburg, all classics that would otherwise have remained confined to obscure library shelves, suddenly flooded the bookshops along with Pelican paperbacks of the works of Frantz Fanon, Paul Baran, Paul Sweezy, Andre Gunder Frank and a host of other writers. There was a parallel upsurge in creativity in the visual arts, with cinema leading the way. Everywhere, however, there was a desire not just to produce excellent creations but also to contribute in some direct manner to the revolution that appeared imminent. I do not know the mood in India at the time since I was away, but among many Indian students abroad there was a strong desire to return to the country and contribute in some way to the revolution. Given the distance of the Left upsurge from the pro-Soviet communist parties and the cautious stance, despite a certain degree of fondness, towards the pro-Chinese breakaways from these orthodox parties, the few communist parties in the world that had adopted an independent course — independent of both Moscow and Beijing — appeared attractive; indeed the Vietnamese Communist Party itself was one such. For many Indian students radicalized by these developments and wanting to return home to contribute in some way to the cause of the revolutionary struggle, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) appeared an attractive option. The CPI(M), in turn, organized a set of annual conferences around that time where the party’s top leadership (at least two to four politburo members at each conference) interacted with Left intellectuals, including those returning from abroad, in open, no-holds-barred discussions spread over several days. I remember at least three such conferences, one held at Madras Christian College, Tambaram; one held at the Victoria Jubilee Technical Institute, Mumbai; and one at the Indian Institute of Public Administration, Delhi. Thus, the ‘Vietnam generation’ of returnees drifted to a large extent towards the CPI(M) and, to a lesser extent, towards the various Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) groups, although many, of course, did not join any political party but remained committed to the Left cause in their respective spheres of professional activity. With the passage of time, the Vietnam generation of returnees has now grown old. They are now in their seventies and early eighties. The passing away of some of them is to be expected in the normal course, but Covid-19 has been particularly severe on them. The month of May saw the passing of two such stalwarts. Ranjana Nirula was one. She came from an affluent Punjabi family, her father being a doctor who worked for the United Nations. She went first to the United Kingdom and then to the US to study about differently-abled children and how they should be cared for. While in the US, she became active in the anti-Vietnam War movement. Coming from a prosperous background, she had never had any contact with Left politics before. Exposure to Vietnam not only radicalized her but also changed the course of her life. She returned to India and became a full-time activist of the CPI(M). She worked for the trade union wing of the party (Citu), took an initiative in organizing women workers, edited — almost single-handedly — the journal of the Co-ordination Committee of Working Women, and was a founder-member of the All India Democratic Women’s Association. Right until the end, she was active in the women’s movement, especially the working women’s movement. The other stalwart who passed away in May was Mythily Sivaraman. Slightly older than Ranjana, Mythily had a job at the UN that she decided to give up and returned to India to become a CPI(M) activist. When the Keezhvenmani massacre of Dalit agricultural labourers took place, she was among the first to visit the village to report on it and draw the attention of the world to the gruesome carnage that had occurred. Her visit to Keezhvenmani was an act of immense courage for she was taking on the might of the landlords and her reports on the event were both moving and brilliant. Mythily was an outstanding public speaker and a firebrand trade unionist; but she too moved eventually to the women’s movement and was a founder-member of the AIDWA where she remained active until overcome by age-related debility some years ago. What was striking about both these activists was their abiding faith in the possibility of creating a better world. When the revolution is no longer on the horizon as it once appeared to be, there is a tendency on the part of those who had once been activists to settle down to a routine existence, going through one’s communist chores but lacking the fire in their bellies. Both Ranjana and Mythily retained their faith till the very end. This was no doubt because of the strength of their theoretical convictions; but I believe that the strength of these convictions arose from their exposure to the Vietnam War. Any system that could inflict such a savage war on a desperately poor country whose people had endured decades of brutal colonial exploitation and could even envisage bombing them “back to the Stone Age” cannot possibly be an enduring one; its transcendence is inevitable. They acquired this conviction and died with it. Prabhat Patnaik is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
