10-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Miles to go||The 2019-20 report of the Unified District Information System for Education Plus seemed to give the Narendra Modi government reason to cheer. More children joined school in 2019-20 than in the previous academic year, an increase of 42.3 lakh from 2018-19 to a total of 26.45 crore students from pre-primary to higher secondary classes. Since the government’s National Education Policy aims at 100 per cent gross enrolment rate by 2030 — two elections away — it must have felt optimistic. Not only has the GER improved, but gender parity too. There has been a growth in the enrolment of girls at all levels; they even outnumber boys in the transition from secondary to higher secondary classes. Besides, there are now more women teachers than men, while the pupil-teacher ratio has improved with the recruitment of 2,50,000 teachers since 2018-19. These may certainly be read as indications of an expanding and inclusive educational base. Yet, does a higher GER mean better education? The Annual Status of Education Report of 2019 records very disappointing achievement levels. The UDISE+ report shows that the average dropout rate at the secondary level is 17 per cent, reaching more than 25 per cent in some states, with more boys than girls leaving. Of these, 33 per cent are children from the scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and other backward classes. Unfortunately, there can be no way forward without linking the story hidden in the figures with socio-economic inequalities and kinds of employment. To create a vibrant society of young people who can deal efficiently with cognitive challenges, foundational knowledge must be solid and the need for dropping out minimized. The increase in women teachers, too, has a hidden story: they predominate in the lower classes, where the pay is lower. Also, women are perceived as more nurturing, which is a sexist bias. Teaching is a preferred profession for women because it is ‘dignified’ and ‘safe’ in a country where their participation in work outside the home is noticeably low. These do not suggest progressive attitudes. Covid-19 has upset all calculations. Children excluded from online lessons or those who have lost their parents and, therefore, access to education are yet to be counted. That many rural families bought smartphones — Nirmala Sitharaman rejoiced at this — is not a magic solution for inequality, especially with poor connectivity and the cost of recharging. On this theme, the UDISE+ report may also be read as a record of huge gaps. The number of schools without internet or computers is enormous, and some schools still do not have electricity. While ‘handwash’ facilities are now 90 per cent, washrooms for girls and boys are fewer, and 79 per cent of the more than 15 lakh schools have no washrooms for differently abled children. The hurdles to universal and equal education were already numerous — let alone digital education; Covid has multiplied them many times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
10-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: WhatsApp’s new privacy policy, post-Covid ‘revenge travel’||Hold off Sir — In a temporary respite for those Indian citizens who were circumspect about having to accept WhatsApp’s new privacy policy, the popular messaging app has said that it will not implement the policy till India’s data protection law comes into force. WhatsApp had run into stiff opposition from users who believed that its new policy would threaten their privacy rather than protect it. However, it remains to be seen how citizen-friendly India’s data protection law turns out to be. The Union government’s new IT rules have already been accused of impinging on citizens’ freedom of expression. Would a data law devised by the same dispensation be much different? Aleya Basu,Calcutta Invite trouble Sir — If large religious congregations and election rallies in the middle of the pandemic resulted in the devastating second wave of Covid-19, then bustling tourist destinations, crowded vaccination centres and hundreds of people jostling against each other in front of liquor outlets could invite, or speed up the arrival of, the third wave. The scale of damage that the third wave would wreak cannot be predicted. As such, the pictures and videos of people swarming to public spaces and openly flouting Covid-19 protocols make for frightening viewing. It is evident from the reckless behaviour of masses of people that the great suffering and the massive death toll caused by Covid-19 so far have had no significant impact on them — at least not enough for them to modify their behaviour. In what is being called ‘revenge travel’ — a phenomenon in which people are going on holiday even in the middle of a global contagion because they want to escape the fatigue of isolation caused by lockdowns — crowds are thronging to tourist destinations such as Manali or the Kempty Falls in Mussoorie, seeking respite and rejuvenation. They seem to be completely oblivious of the considerable risk to their own lives and those of others. Their actions will wipe out any possibility of citizens and the medical fraternity being able to delay or stave off the third wave even before the second wave has fully receded. Their failure — more accurately, their refusal — to resist the temptation of merrymaking during a raging pandemic could prove fatal. Moreover, going on holiday is grossly inessential at a time like this. A tourist spot is not like a workplace where one needs to go to earn a living, or a grocery store which one is often compelled to visit to stock up on essential items. It is almost as though these people no longer fear the devastation that the pandemic can bring. The moment curbs are eased after a full or partial lockdown, life goes back to the way it was before the pandemic. It is clear that a lot of people follow restrictions only out of compulsion and the fear of being penalized. They do not do it out of awareness or their own free will. If they did, then we would not be seeing so many people crowding public places, roaming around maskless on the streets, or going on holiday in droves. The lack of any kind of social distancing in vaccination centres defeats the entire purpose of getting vaccinated. The desperation to get the jabs and the disappointment people display at being turned away make it clear that the problem is not vaccine hesitancy but vaccine shortage. The Kerala High Court has cautioned that if the crowding in front of liquor retail outlets continues the third wave will not be far behind. This warning must be taken seriously. It is imperative that all of us adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour till we finally get the better of the pandemic. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — It was unnerving to watch videos and view pictures of crowds of people indulging in revelry in Manali and Mussoorie. The logic put forth by several of these travellers at a time like this is that they wish to go on a holiday before the third wave arrives. Do they not realize that the arrival of the third wave will be facilitated by their actions? The whole point of avoiding travel while the pandemic rages is to break the chain of transmission, thereby putting off the possibility of more outbreaks of the disease. In their bid to enjoy themselves for a few days, these people are putting the lives of hundreds, perhaps thousands, at risk. Sharmin Hossain,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
10-07-2021||Opinion||Tale of two friendships: Khushwant Singh's legacy||The legacy of Khushwant Singh, who always wished for warm relations between India and Pakistan, is being kept alive by his journalist son, Rahul, through the recently concluded Khushwant Singh Lit Fest, London — this year’s theme was “No man is an island”. The opening session was introduced by the Pakistani historian, Fakir S. Aijazuddin. He observed that having a virtual literary festival had distinct advantages: “We can share the joy of being able to interact like this unfettered by borders, visas or itchy censors.” In another session, Victoria Schofield explained that The Fragrance of Tears: My Friendship with Benazir Bhutto was not a conventional biography of Pakistan’s assassinated prime minister, but a very personal account of their 33-year-long friendship going back to when they first met as undergraduates at Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford. Schofield told the tale of being deported from Pakistan to India by Gen Zia-ul-Haq’s regime in 1979: “I sometimes do get accused of being a bit pro-Pakistan. I am very pro-Pakistan. I’m also very pro-South Asian, and very pro-India. Soon afterwards, I was due to have an interview with Indira Gandhi. And I was terrified the interview will be cancelled. The first thing she said to me was, ‘So they did not allow you into Pakistan.’ And I said, ‘No, Prime Minister, I’m afraid not.’ She said, ‘Never mind. You’re welcome here in India.’” Enduring message One of the best lines in The Overseas Student, Tanika Gupta’s play on M.K. Gandhi’s youthful years in London, which is now playing at the Lyric Hammersmith, comes when he is told by a steward to move from the deck reserved for Europeans during the sea voyage to England. Gandhi, then 18, reflects: “The English are so exquisitely polite. No shouting or cursing — simply a civil tone and firm kindness. It is a joy to be reprimanded by them.” Gandhi remains firmly in fashion. Ramesh Sharma’s 92-minute documentary, Ahimsa — Gandhi: The Power of the Powerless, which has been shown at the London Indian Film Festival, deserves wider circulation. Sharma tells me: “For me this has been a work of passion, as I truly believe that ahimsa is the only tool which can redeem humanity.” What impressed me was the extent to which Gandhi anticipated today’s “Black Lives Matter” movement decades before the campaign was conceived. Sharma interviewed several prominent African Americans in the course of three trips to the United States. Among them was the Democratic Congressman and civil rights activist, John Lewis, before his death at 80 years of age, in July last year. Lewis is quoted as saying: “I said to President Barack Obama on one occasion. I said, ‘Mr President, if it hadn’t been for Gandhi and Martin Luther King Jr. you wouldn’t be President of the United States of America.’” Martin Luther King Jr’s eldest son, Martin Luther King III, 63, a human rights activist, reveals Gandhi’s influence on his father: “He used to say that ‘I got my inspiration from Christ but my technique from Gandhi’.” Personal space The Daily Mail devoted acres of space to the former health secretary, Matt Hancock, apparently leaving his wife for his former special adviser. Now, the marriage of a second senior minister in Boris Johnson’s government has collapsed. Michael Gove announced that his 20-year marriage was over, but it was an “entirely amicable” split and “no one else [was] involved”. The end of Gove’s marriage was the front-page lead in The Daily Telegraph but only briefly mentioned on page 22 of the The Daily Mail. The satirical magazine, Private Eye, will no doubt remind readers that Gove is married to the Mail’s high-profile columnist, Sarah Vine, who usually delights in writing at length about the breakdown in other people’s relationships. Concrete garden I woke up at 5 am to make the 8 am opening of the Hampton Court Palace Garden Festival. It is run by the Royal Horticultural Society, which is encouraging greater cultural diversity and more Indians to take up gardening, considered good for mental health and apparently better than exercise. Perhaps I am stereotyping, but you can often guess which house is Indian-owned: either the front garden is unkempt or concreted over to allow for off-street parking for his-hers cars. His is invariably the bigger model. Tragedy retold Shakespeare’s Globe recently staged Romeo & Juliet. But Shakespeare’s tragic story of young love is reinterpreted as a grim morality tale to warn society that “suicide is the leading cause of death among all people under 35”. These days colour blind casting is common in London; in this case, both Romeo (Alfred Enoch) and Juliet (Rebekah Murrell) — she shoots herself with a pistol after Romeo dies writhing in agony after swallowing poison — are people of colour. Even the “groundlings” with the most affordable open-air tickets happily sat through the downpour. Footnote Rishi Sunak posted a photograph of himself with Nova, the family’s new Labrador retriever, which his daughters had desperately wanted. Nova made her debut on Instagram, posed perfectly on the chancellor’s lap, an indication of good training even this early on. The post has racked up 25,000 likes and counting. British media claim that this means that Dilyn, the Jack Russell rescued by his next-door neighbours, Boris and Carrie Johnson, is “no longer top dog”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
10-07-2021||Opinion||A subtle trap||People often tell me Bengal will soon have a Muslim majority. The ominous tone warns of an apocalypse such as that predicted for Afghanistan once the Americans leave. What is even more worrying is the profound mistrust with which today’s majority seems to view its supposed successor. Not that anyone admits animosity. A saffron activist I tried to ask laughed off the question, strengthening the suspicion that those who speak on Hindu-Muslim issues ignore the drawn sword covered in pleasantries lying between the two communities. I have no idea how Muslims feel about Hindus: in that respect I am like James Baldwin, the black American writer who confessed he would never know whether the white liftman had kept him waiting because he was black or the lift was genuinely busy. But persistent signs of Hindu misgivings invite two conclusions. First, while a single legal system may be ideal for national unity, it is folly to expect two such sharply different groups ever to blend into the melting pot of a unitary society. The realistic aim would be what Canadian sociologists call a “tossed salad”, a multicultural mix that is harmonious precisely because it doesn’t deny space to any ingredient. Second, although Mohan Bhagwat’s commendable assurances are welcome as an expression of his own enlightened outlook, I wonder whether comments addressed only (or mainly) to Muslims are at all relevant for general social conditions. The respective strengths of the two communities suggest that although Muslims are capable of making a nuisance of themselves, only Hindus can change the ground rules. Indeed, even alter the ground altogether. We have seen that with triple talaq, the Ayodhya temple, Jammu and Kashmir and Lakshadweep. I am not saying any of these actions was wrong, only that they reflect Hindu priorities. As Jawaharlal Nehru believed, following Jean-Paul Sartre’s assessment of France’s Jew-Gentile question, the peril lies in majority communalism. There are just so many of us that “India, Hindu India, is eternal”, as V.S. Naipaul and countless others have written. We will always carry the day. Not that we can all be lumped together. Leaving aside differences of language and region, some might be Hindus by conviction, as Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi became in London. At the same time, ambition and expediency are making devout Hindus of more and more politicians, judges, businessmen, diplomats, bureaucrats and media personnel. The third group — the vast majority — is Hindu by instinct. Religion, culture and identity are rolled into one for it. It sees lighting lamps for inaugurations and smashing coconuts for launches — customs that Syed Shahabuddin decried as unsecular — as innocently Indian. The two overlapping identities which fuelled the political demand to call all Indians Hindu can prompt rich irony. Just when the Trinamul Congress was basking in the triumph of having delivered a resounding blow to the Hindutva party, some errant members who had boarded what they then thought was the winning bandwagon shaved their heads and sprinkled Ganga water to signify their ghar wapsi. It was the only form of penance they knew. Obviously, some characteristics are common to all three groups. Although a nod (and perhaps more) from above helped, the “radicalization” of Hindus that the president of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen, Asaduddin Owaisi, blames for Muslims being lynched would not have happened otherwise. The majority communalism Nehru feared rests on conscious or subconscious prejudice that can be tapped by events like the recent Haryana mahapanchayat or by politicians like the state’s Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson, Suraj Pal Amu, who heads an organization called the Karni Sena, and reportedly makes inflammable comments. The etiology of antagonism is more complex in India than in Sartre’s France. Family servants from Bihar who believed the British should have handed India back to the Muslims from whom they took it would not kill a snake that had crept into the bathroom because it was ‘Shiv ki jatha’ and harmless. A local equivalent of Sartre’s notion of “the idea of the Jew” may stoke passion, but beard, muslin cap, mosque, minaret and muezzin back theory with a tangible personalized target in this land of evocative imagery. “Is the groom Bengali?” was asked at a rare mixed-religion marriage in Calcutta that I attended. “No, Muslim” was the answer. Overhearing, the groom shot back, “You’re quite right. We are Persian!” A Hindu guest whispered he had to say that to avoid being dismissed as a Dalit convert. Folklore keeps passions festering. However vigorously denied, they are part of the Hindu’s collective memory. Even a liberal thinker like Nirad C. Chaudhuri confessed that while he respected the logic of numbers in undivided Bengal, “what repelled [him] was the idea of living under Muslim social and cultural domination”. He tried to rationalize this aversion by saying that Muslims would reshape even the Bengali language. When the communal award of 1932 promised Muslim dominance in government, he predicted that the official education system would be recast in a Muslim mould. Leaving aside social and sexual overtones and ritual taboos, pan-Islamic sentiment was one cause of Hindu resentment, even though it was fanned by the calculated cynicism of Gandhi’s Khilafat movement. Chaudhuri talks of a rustic lad who had never left his Bengal village claiming dates as his favourite fruit because they came from Arabia. Those who attributed animosity to the communal basis of Bengal’s agrarian discontent and economic inequality were proved partly right when the new East Pakistan government lost no time in abolishing zamindari. During visits to East Pakistan in the 1960s, I found local officials and grassroots politicians surprisingly sensitive to traditional Hindu sensibilities. Anxious to be hospitable but nervous about giving offence, they seemed to expect me to burst out like Shylock to Bassanio, “I will buy with you, sell with you, talk with you, walk with you, and so following, but I will not eat with you, drink with you, nor pray with you”. My hosts couldn’t know that in my childhood we shared a sprawling railway bungalow in Lucknow with a Muslim colleague of my father’s and his family because of a shortage of official accommodation. The bungalow was big enough for distanced living but we shared a kitchen and ate together. They were enriching convivial occasions but I cannot forget a visiting aunt’s start of surprise when someone from the other family picked up a paratha, tore it in two and passed one half to her with his left hand. The National Awami Party’s Muzaffar Ahmed blamed Bengal’s “two-hookah culture” and, implicitly, Hindu exclusiveness, for partition. Asking Muslims not to be trapped in a cycle of fear somehow misses the point. Assurances that violence in the name of cow protection cannot be condoned, that those who are guilty of lynching are against Hindutva, and that anyone who says Muslims should not live in India is not a Hindu will be credible only when offenders are brought to speedy and deterrent justice. Otherwise, the victim will suspect a trap. Well-meant statements about Hindus and Muslims being of the same nation with a common DNA can sound like a clever way of reiterating that Muslims are lapsed Hindus awaiting reconversion. The pledge that Indians alone can be dominant in a democracy could be another affirmation of the majoritarian principle. No minority ever wins the numbers game. That makes the majority’s education a matter of the utmost importance. But it will remain a distant dream as long as universities are encouraged to teach astrology, politicians recommend cow dung and urine for treatment, and senior leaders boast of artificial insemination and plastic surgery in Vedic times. “Give me an educated mother, I shall promise you the birth of a civilized, educated nation,” Napoleon said. Rulers are even more like a mother when a semi-literate nation is steeped in superstition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
