11-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Hard work, harder lives||All humans are equal, but some are less equal than others. Women, as usual, have drawn the short straw. A study by the Center for Global Development found that globally, women took on 173 additional hours of unpaid childcare last year, compared to 59 additional hours for men. The gap widened in low- and middle-income countries, where women cared for children three times as much as men did. As the pandemic isolated people at home, limiting access to care arrangements and social support networks, it ended up increasing the share of women’s care work. The division of labour was skewed in other ways too. When it came to tricky decisions about which partner keeps the paid job and who quits to provide the unpaid care needed at home, women mostly lost out since they are paid lesser and have lower job security than men. Relevant data paint a grim picture. Earlier this year, research by the Azim Premji University revealed that in India, women were seven times more likely than men to lose their jobs during the lockdown and 11 times more unlikely than men to return to work thereafter. Even those who have broken the glass ceiling were left broken. Women having to juggle professional demands with housework, an independent study found, either fall seriously ill or underperform. There is a line of thought that says that one way out of the conundrum would be to compensate domestic labour. But even this kind of affirmative intervention could create a new set of challenges. Households headed by men, be it the husband or the father-in-law, are likely to view the woman as a paid employee, deepening the sense of entitlement that Indian men already harbour towards women and their labour. Remuneration for household work could put men off even further from sharing domestic responsibilities since — given the toxic nature of patriarchal sensibilities — women would be entitled to receive payment. This might lead to the creation of a culture where women choose or are coerced to shun employment outside the home. Recently, the Centre announced that male government employees who are single parents may take paid childcare leave of up to two years to take care of a minor child. This policy is welcome, but why should it preclude other fathers? Is that because domestic responsibilities, especially childcare, are intrinsically linked to primitive, gendered notions concerning the nature of labour? Policy must also cover other kinds of ground because the care economy, a fledgling area, needs imagination and meaningful support in the time of a pandemic. Cash transfer programmes and other support services for poor women and men with unpaid care responsibilities, especially those who are taking care of sick family members, can contribute to family budgets, subsidize the cost of caring and compensate for foregone sources of income. The private sector must work in tandem with the public sector, implementing flexible work hours and arrangements and increased parental leaves and introducing childcare support. Most important, enlightened interventions must not be stained by a patronizing ethic. Efficient, overworked women, at home or at work, must believe that these measures, if they are introduced across sectors, are a right and not a privilege.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
11-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Range of changes in Union cabinet baffling ||Sir — Bengalis are infamous for their love of football — arguments over East Bengal and Mohun Bagan have started many a fist fight. It appears now that geography is not a limiting factor either. Ahead of the Copa America final between the footballing giants, Argentina and Brazil, police had to ban gatherings of fans in a distant Bangladeshi village, nearly 15,000 kilometres away from Rio de Janeiro, the venue of the match, following a violent street battle between fans of the two teams. Peacekeepers may have more work on their hands with the Euro final less than 24 hours away. Abhirup Bhattacharjee, Calcutta Sir — The range of changes in the latest reshuffle of the Union cabinet has surprised both political pundits and the general public (“Makeover bid betrays guilt”, July 8). The departure of veteran ministers and the induction of new faces are being interpreted in many ways. While allies in the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance have been included in the cabinet, political considerations that will have an impact on the assembly elections to be held next year have also been prioritized. But perhaps the most important aspect here is that the failure to deal with the second wave of the pandemic has made scapegoats of certain ministers. An attempt was made to send the message that those who cannot handle their responsibilities would be shown out and those who work would be promoted. In this context, the retention of Narendra Singh Tomar as the minister for agriculture in spite of the unending deadlock between the Centre and the protesting farmers over the three controversial farm laws sends an interesting message. The government is clearly in no mood to back down and is ready to dig in its heels as far as these damaging laws are concerned. Abhijit Roy,Jamshedpur  Sir — Recently, 12 senior ministers have been removed from the Union cabinet likely on account of their incompetency. But many other inefficient ministers escaped the same fate in spite of worse performances just because of their closeness to the Central leadership. The prime minister, who seems to be intent on inducting fresh blood into the administration for the progress and development of all sectors of the country, should have paid more attention to this aspect. The country is in the doldrums and is headed for a disaster that would set it back significantly. There is still time for the prime minister to remove these inefficient officials who are making a mockery of their ministries and positions. Their actions would otherwise only degrade the image and credibility of the nation. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The grand design behind the cabinet reshuffle is not hidden from anyone. Clearly, one purpose was to remove select regional leaders from poll-bound states in order to avoid local friction — this can break vote banks — when it comes to nominating candidates or forming alliances in the future. The deeper and most serious concern, however, was the fact that the pandemic has marred the image of the government. A touch-up was overdue; this is why the health minister had to go. The rebuke received by the government over its handling of the pandemic or its passage of the new information technology rules made it hard for the Centre to keep on certain ministers.R. Narayanan,Navi Mumbai Sir — In the first cabinet reshuffle of the NDA 2.0 government, 36 new faces have been inducted into the council of ministers and seven junior ministers promoted. The surprise, though, were the 12 ministers who were asked to resign. They bore the burden of the government’s dip in popularity. By dropping these ministers, the government hopes to repair its image in the country and abroad. Muaz Qasmi,Mumbai Sir — The Centre has tarnished its image by elevating Anurag Singh Thakur in spite of his hate speeches. This sets a bad precedent and must be condemned. Soumya Bera,Howrah||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
11-07-2021||Opinion||Second class bogie||After reading the Pew report on religion in India last week, I happened to read Mohammad Ali’s essay on being a Muslim in India. Ali is an Indian journalist, now living in America. His piece appeared in the July issue of The Baffler, a magazine that appears both online and in print. It’s called “The Scream: Is this the end for Muslims in India?” Reading these disparate texts in quick succession was a deranging experience, like walking out of some temperately quantified world into a malevolent snake pit. The Pew survey aggregated answers to a set of questions put to weighted and counted individuals from India’s major religious communities. I can imagine a historian some decades from now reading these answers, expressed in percentages, as an authoritative snapshot of desi opinion. Reading Pew’s results as a contemporary, I found some of its numbers at such odds with lived (if anecdotal) reality that I think the survey ought to be required reading for historians not as an archive of information but as a cautionary tale, a lesson in how well-meaning enumeration can go unwittingly wrong. Pew’s strangest result is the response of Muslims to a question about religious discrimination. Asked whether there is a lot of discrimination against Muslims in India, a large majority of the Muslim respondents answered that they didn’t believe that was the case. To juxtapose Ali’s account of life as a Muslim in Narendra Modi’s India with Pew’s bland percentages is to look upon two incompatible realities. Ali was a reporter with a liberal Indian newspaper for a long time and in the Modi years, communal violence directed against Muslims became, by a kind of default, his beat. He writes about how the creeping majoritarianism of earlier decades became a new and brazen thing under the auspices of successive BJP governments. But the heart of his essay was his realization that the central conceit of being a reporter, being above the fray, wasn’t available to him as a Muslim journalist because his identity as a Muslim had become part of the story that he was writing. The arc of Ali’s essay is the transition from being a reporter taking risks to tell the story of India’s majoritarian turn to the realization that the vigilantes that he interviewed now defined public opinion in his country, defined a consensus committed to the violent subordination of Indian Muslims like him. Ali reflects on how traumatized and fearful his years of fraternizing with murderous goons to report from the frontline of Indian politics had left him, especially when he realized that their violent fantasies had become the stuff of middle-class WhatsApp posts. Towards the end of his essay, he comes to a conclusion that should be required reading for anyone who isn’t Muslim in India: “For some time now, Muslims have been wondering about our future in the Hindu Rashtra, or Hindu Republic. I believe that it will demand our obedience, debasement, and public humiliation. Indian Muslims will endure the model that has been deployed in Kashmir, in Gujarat, in Assam: subjected to subordination, segregation, and periodic violence. Like them, we will have to learn to live outside the protection of law, watching our helplessness feed the hubris of a triumphant Hindu public. The Muslim body’s vulnerability is the foundation of their imperialist ambitions. Modi has reduced us — all of us — to our immediate identities. As Muslims, we experience an existential threat that overrides all other aspirations. We once felt entitled to an honest life of dignity in India. That dream is over; there is no getting around this fact.” Both the Pew survey and Ali’s desolate and moving account of the violent marginalization of Muslims bear witness to modern India. Only one of them can be true. Some might argue that Ali’s job, cultivating lumpen bigots and covering communal violence as a Muslim journalist, skewed his sense of the place of Muslims in India. That Muslims going about their ordinary business (and taking time off to answer a survey’s questions) mightn’t see their plight in Ali’s dire terms. They would be wrong. Ali worked in his newspaper’s Delhi bureau and his beat was communal mayhem in North India. Any Muslim who lives in Yogi Adityanath’s Uttar Pradesh or lived in the vicinity of northeast Delhi through the riots, who reads a Hindi newspaper or watches a round-the-clock news channel, knows exactly what Ali means. Hindus might not. This could be for several reasons: because they haven’t been paying attention or because they believe Muslims have been coddled and pampered and some corrective justice is in order or simply because it’s impossible to understand the threat of institutional subordination and intimidatory violence unless you’re at the receiving end. In 2002, Ashutosh Varshney, a political scientist, wrote an important book, Ethnic Conflict and Civic Life: Hindus and Muslims in India, in which he tried to explain the base conditions for communal peace or communal violence in Indian towns. He showed that equivalently sized cities with comparable Hindu and Muslim populations often had very different levels of communal violence. He argued that one important institutional check on communal rioting was the existence of institutions that brought Hindus and Muslims together, not as friends but as professionals or colleagues or just citizens sharing common spaces. Lawyers associations, Rotary clubs, trade unions, reading rooms, any institutional setting that Hindus and Muslims shared, lessened the prospect of an open, violent breach in their relations. Towns that didn’t have strong civil society institutions were more volatile than towns that did. Varshney’s thesis was vulnerable to the chicken-and-egg argument: perhaps these institutions that transcended religious community were the consequence of communal peace, not its cause, but his book demonstrated that these institutions, however construed, were signs of civic health. In the vocabulary pioneered by the French Revolution, these institutions expressed a basic republican value: fraternity. Ironically, 2002 was also the year of the Gujarat pogrom, which, along with the ‘Gujarat Model’, came to symbolize the ideal of the radically unfraternal republic, envisioned by V.D. Savarkar and M.S. Golwalkar and halfway achieved by Modi. The subordination that Ali believes is the fate of Indian Muslims is the explicit objective of the sangh parivar’s majoritarian project. The new Parliament building needs a new motto to fit the shape of this unfraternal republic better than ‘Liberty, Equality, Fraternity’ does. ‘Community, Disunity, Impunity’ should be blazoned across its main entrance. Or perhaps it won’t come to that. Ali writes that “Modi has reduced us — all of us — to our immediate identities.” The “us” here refers to Muslims but it applies equally to Hindus. In a country where the State reduces Muslims to their religious identities, it reduces, by implication, Hindus to theirs. When Muslims are lynched and ghettoed and disenfranchised, it is in our name... unless we explicitly act and speak and write to show that it isn’t. If we do, Ali’s unfraternal hell mightn’t become a permanent condition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
11-07-2021||Opinion||What 73-year-old Lalu Prasad did not expect and who beat who in Odisha||The inimitable smiles of Lalu Prasad are said to be a giveaway. Recently delivering an address — this time a virtual one — from Delhi after over three years on the silver jubilee foundation day of his party, Rashtriya Janata Dal, the 73-year-old was telling party leaders and workers about his health and how doctors have asked him to practise abstinence from food as well as recommended drinking less water. But at the same time, an impish smile swam across his face. All senior RJD politicians listening to him also broke into smiles because they understood its meaning. Lalu, a diabetic with ailing heart and kidneys, is a foodie. He is known to love mutton, fish, sweets, and mangoes, and doctors have always found it extremely difficult to restrain him from indulging in them. There have reportedly been instances when he managed to eat sweets, mutton and kaleji (mutton liver) even while convalescing in hospitals. Referring to how well his sons, Tejashwi Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav, have coped up with the rough and tumble of Bihar politics, he said, “humko umeed nahi tha (I had not expected)”. And he smiled again. Ashwini Vaishnaw, a rather low-profile Rajya Sabha member, has beaten his party colleague and civil services batchmate, Aparajita Sarangi, the sitting member of parliament from Bhubaneswar, in the race for a berth in the Narendra Modi ministry. This is being seen as a setback for Sarangi who had won the high-profile Bhubaneswar Lok Sabha seat in 2019 against all odds. At that time, she had humbled the former Mumbai police commissioner, Arup Patnaik, who had reportedly been hand-picked by the chief minister, Naveen Patnaik, to contest the seat as the Biju Janata Dal candidate. There is no doubt that Sarangi was a strong contender for a ministerial berth at the Centre. Sarangi’s supporters are crestfallen. But if the bureaucrat-turned-Lok Sabha MP is feeling hurt at being ignored by the leadership then she camouflaged her feelings rather well. While interacting with the media which sought her reaction on the expansion of Modi ministry, she not only congratulated both Vaishnaw and Bishweswar Tudu, the two new inductees in the Modi ministry, but also described the former as a friend who also happened to be her Indian Administrative Service batchmate (1994). The Bharatiya Janata Party-Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura coalition government in Tripura is not in trouble right now, but the run-up to the assembly polls in 2023 is going to be challenging. Until now, the BJP has managed to check the dissent against the chief minister, Biplab Kumar Deb, from getting out of hand but the deep cracks in the IPFT are showing, evident from the resignation of one of its eight members of the legislative assembly, Brishaketu Debbarma, on June 29. The resignation has not been accepted on procedural grounds but this did not stop Debbarma from joining the Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance on Thursday. This is the IPFT’s second blow at the hands of TIPRA. It had failed to win a single seat in the recent autonomous council polls in spite of being part of the ruling coalition. The TIPRA leadership has claimed more MLAs would join them and that they would contest all 60 seats in the state polls. This will not be good news for the BJP. If the ‘rumour’ of a Trinamul Congress revival in Tripura after its epochal victory in Bengal turns true, the BJP could be facing two formidable rivals — TMC and TIPRA — at once. In 2018, the BJP made history by ending the Left’s 25-year reign. But if the BJP-IPFT do not get their act together, it is widely believed that 2023 could see history being repeated, this time in just five years. Embarrassment seems to be a given for the BJP’s Kerala unit. Whether it is losing its only seat in the assembly or its state president being accused of poll bribery, the party has faced it all in the state where it is yet to make as much as a toehold. While the party has high expectations of its educated newcomers, one of them has now made its leaders cringe by saying the youth wing, Yuva Morcha, should emulate the Democratic Youth Federation of India, the youth arm of its arch rival, the Communist Party of India (Marxist). The former director general of police, Jacob Thomas, whom the BJP had fielded in the recent state polls, made this suggestion to revive the saffron youth brigade. Reportedly, his contention was that while DYFI cadres actively take part in all occasions, whether funerals, medical emergencies or weddings, the same cannot be said about Yuva Morcha. Perhaps the BJP has chewed more than it could swallow by roping in former bureaucrats who have seen cadres of each party at work. The death of Stan Swamy, the 84-year-old priest jailed on terror charges in Mumbai, sparked outrage from almost all Indian Opposition parties as well as international rights groups. But the Samajwadi Party, Shiv Sena and Aam Aadmi Party have stayed aloof, perched firmly on the fence between human rights and ultra-nationalism. The silence of AAP, once a darling of liberals, has further alienated the party from its progressive supporters who backed its stance against the Centre. Party leaders privately admit that their leader, Arvind Kejriwal, has decided not to make public interventions if there is no political gain. Another notable silence was of the CPI leader, Kanhaiya Kumar, although his party condemned the harassment of Stan Swamy and the other 15 undertrials. Kumar, who wields more influence on social media than his party, has been an infrequent user since April. However, he started tweeting after the cabinet formation, leaving many wondering if he is going the AAP way of pandering to disgruntled BJP voters, who still consider him an anti-national. Tired of internal strife and mounting discontent over the Karnataka CM, BS Yediyurappa, his loyalists are now planning a trip to Delhi to apprise the Central leadership of the trouble-mongers within the house. While it is not easy to dislodge Yediyurappa, given the support he has from lawmakers and religious leaders, the CM can ignore the dissidence only at his peril. It now remains to be seen how the counter move would be taken by those miffed with his leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
11-07-2021||Opinion||Mango shake||In the Garden of Even, the mango is the fruit of bidding. Last week, the vaccine choke notwithstanding, Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina sent crates of Haribhanga aam to President Ram Nath Kovind, PM Narendra Modi and the CMs of the north-eastern states of India with whom Bangladesh shares its borders. Tripura CM Biplab Deb expressed his gratitude with pineapples, but everyone else was showering aam. Right at the beginning of July, keeping up an olden tradition and setting aside political differences, Mamata Banerjee sent PM Modi and other political heavyweights in Delhi Bengal’s choicest Himsagar, Malda and Lakshmanbhog aam. Pakistan too sent out its Chausa aam to 32 countries. There were reports that the US and China rejected the gift, but then there were other reports that claimed that this had solely to do with quarantine regulations instead of some diplomatic disinclination. In 1996, after Hasina won her first elections, she sent the then CM of Bengal, Jyoti Basu, hilsa or ilish. Later that year, she and the Indian Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda signed the treaty on the sharing of the Ganges water. That Basu had played a positive role in all of it was no secret. The late Pranab Mukherjee also played a pivotal role in Indo-Bangladesh relations. When Hasina visited Mukherjee in 2017, she is said to have cooked steamed ilish for him in the Rashtrapati Bhavan kitchen. Speaking of President Mukherjee, in 2015 US President Barack Obama gifted him a facsimile of the first telegram sent by the 33rd American president, Harry S. Truman, to the first Indian Head of State, Rajendra Prasad. When US President Richard Nixon visited China in 1972, he was gifted two pandas Ling Ling and Hsing Hsing. The visit is supposed to have normalised US-China tensions. In return, the US sent China a pair of musk oxen. Recently, PM Modi was gifted a horse, Kanthaka, by Mongolia. After World War II, Japanese schoolchildren wrote to the then Indian PM Jawaharlal Nehru, telling him about the two elephants they had lost in the war and requesting him for one.  Nehru picked an elephant named Indira and had it sent to Japan. He called it a gift from the children of India to the children of Japan. He wrote to the children of India too about this. He said, “Grown-ups have a strange way of putting themselves in compartments and groups. They build barriers… I hope you will take a long time in growing up…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
11-07-2021||Opinion||Oh my, did we meet? We didn’t even tweet||But never mind, the time is now gone. It does not matter, nothing matters, it’s all ether. There was an appointment, yes, as a matter of fact there were several, but each time we appeared for the appointment it so happened that we got told it wasn’t the appointed time. But never mind, the time is now gone. We could have met. We could have spoken. We could have had a chance to sort things out this way or that way, but that chance was kept in abeyance too long. Far too long a time for life. Wonder why, although some, or more than some, have ceased to wonder because they believe they know why. They believe this life had to run out of time, that’s why; they believe it was not a life that deserved more time. And yet a time was granted, on many occasions and many times, and each time that time was postponed for this reason or the other. We were to meet, but did we? We probably passed each other, we probably were where our shadows crossed and our breaths mingled. But oh no, not the mingling of breath, no that’s not allowed, or at least that isn’t proper, not for my health nor for yours. Keep your breath away, and please don’t take my breath away, you may be carting yourself to death. Instead, it is me. You know. Dead. What did you breathe into me? I know we never could really meet, or I would have told you and you would have heard, and having properly heard, you would probably not have had me dead. But we did not meet. Perhaps it was a rumour we met; propaganda, slander, whatever. That happens, that happens all the time. Things that never happened are reported as having happened; what did happen is not told as having happened. Like you know, you know very well, like I have been murdered and you know, but it will never be told that I was murdered. They will say I died. That happens. You get told one thing when it is another. That cup and lip and slip sort of thing, in between those things many things happen. A sip could have happened. A sip could have been prevented. Or delayed. Wait! You need a sip between the cup and the lip, do you? Give me some time, let me see, let me assure myself that I will not become a thing of peril. I’ve suddenly begun to wonder, now that I am dead and can wonder with freedom, is this where the phrase came from? Many a slip between the cup and the lip? I sought a sip, what you gave me is a slip. Well done. Whatever it was can’t be told It is all hush and a hush you see But Father, be brazen and be bold Was it coffee, tea or just me?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
