12-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Worrying script||Reminders are useful to bring facts back into focus. Such a reminder was recently issued by the Uttarakhand High Court to the state government when the latter contended that the live-streaming of the prayers and rituals at Char Dham is not permitted by the shastras. Rejecting the contention, the high court informed Uttarakhand’s advocate general that India is a democratic country governed not by scriptures but by the rule of law. There is context to this terse exchange of views. Last month, the high court had stayed the state cabinet’s decision to let local people visit the Char Dham shrines, saying that such allowances would be akin to “inviting a calamity” at a time when there are fears of a third wave and the rapid spread of the Delta variant of the coronavirus. The judiciary’s warning is not unwarranted. There is substantial data to indicate that public functions have the potential to be superspreader events. In fact, the World Health Organization linked the surge in India’s Covid-19 cases to religious and political gatherings in the country. In contrast to the cautionary approach of the judiciary, the Uttarakhand government has been bullish about its reluctance to live-stream rituals. Equally worrying is that neighbouring Uttar Pradesh has given its nod to the Kanwar Yatra from July 25. These are perplexing developments. Several religious occasions, including Ganesh Chaturthi, have been observed online since the pandemic began. Why then should the Char Dham and the Kanwar Yatra be exceptions to this ‘new normal’? The Uttar Pradesh chief minister has assured that Covid-19 protocols would be observed during the yatra; however, there is precedent to suggest that it would not be unreasonable to expect widespread flouting of these rules. During the Kumbh Mela, several thousand devotees desisted from wearing masks or maintaining social distancing norms, adding to India’s Covid-19 burden significantly. This breach is suggestive of a complicity between indifferent citizens and an irresponsible State. The flagrant disregard for public health — the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s endorsement of the anti-scientific ethic is another manifestation of this malaise — can be attributed to the eagerness to reap political dividends. But as the death and suffering during the second wave of the pandemic showed, there is, inevitably, a heavy price to pay for this collective myopia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
12-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: World Population Day, Covid-19 third wave||Growth matters Sir — Yesterday was World Population Day. Within the next decade, India will be the world’s most populous country, overtaking China. India will then be blessed with a young population — half of India’s population is already under 29 years of age — which can drive economic growth and social progress. There are many theories when it comes to population growth. Some of them are true, some false. But what can be said for certain is that for sustainable development, we should aim for national well-being, not endless growth. Minimizing excess growth in human population is a small, but essential, part of the solution. The Indian youth must not only be healthy, knowledgeable and skilled but also be provided with rights and choices to develop their fullest potential, including sexual and reproductive health and rights. Knowing how to prevent unintended pregnancies or giving birth at a hospital or with the help of a skilled birth attendant is key in the battle against overpopulation. More important, equal opportunities have to be provided to the youth. For instance, it is crucial that adolescent girls should have access to the same level of education, skills and opportunities for employment as their male counterparts. Only then can India achieve true development and modernization. Uzair Ahmed,Muzaffarnagar Battle stations Sir — A report released by the State Bank of India predicts that the third wave of coronavirus infections in India. There are suspicions that it could be as intense as the second wave, and last around three months. But India should not be caught unawares again. The impact of the possible third wave can be minimized by prioritizing two things — improving the health infrastructure, including in rural pockets, and vaccinating as many people as possible from all age groups. Vaccines are the most potent tool against the virus right now. Even though no concrete data are available on the level of protection offered by the various vaccines against the newer mutant strains, all wisdom points to carrying out the inoculation of the population as swiftly as possible. Present trends indicate that India does not have the capacity to produce vaccines fast enough to vaccinate the entire population within the next few months. Therefore, scaling up vaccine production will be key to fighting the third wave. Besides vaccination, we should also aim to enhance the surveillance systems with regard to identification of cases by increasing the level of testing and enforcing stricter isolation mechanisms. Moreover, India also needs to institutionalize the process of ensuring strict adherence to the three ‘social vaccines’ — wearing masks, constant hand-washing with soap, and physical distancing. All of these must be continued relentlessly till our country achieves vaccination coverage of more than 80 percent. People must not forget the lessons taught by the second wave of the pandemic. That would disrupt lives and livelihood further. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai  Familiar pattern Sir — A male tiger at the Panna Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh is rewriting the laws of nature by taking care of its cubs, who lost their mother recently. While the tiger can change its stripes, humans clearly cannot. Reports show that 173 additional hours of childcare fell on women last year compared to just 59 hours for men. Since lockdowns ensured many more fathers were earning their daily bread — a popular excuse when it comes to shirking childcare responsibilities — from home, why could they not keep an eye on the young ones? P. Sanyal,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
12-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Two faces||Hard times call for tough decisions in the realm of economic policy. It is better not to be ideologically inflexible and a supple, pragmatic approach is warranted. The battered Indian economy requires policies to alleviate suffering and facilitate a quick recovery. The pandemic affected the supply side of production and logistics through lockdowns and restrictions on movements. It has also severely affected consumption and investment demand through loss of incomes and jobs. Both sides of the market require policy support. The big question is which side should be tackled first to achieve the best outcomes. In the last two budgets of the Union government as well as in the special packages announced in several tranches, the thrust of the measures has been on the supply side through soft loans, moratorium on loan repayments and guaranteed credit. Businesses require credit for two reasons: working capital and investment expenditure. The former is needed to sustain production levels while the latter adds to productive capacity. If demand is uncertain, then most enterprises would not want to sustain even the existing levels of production fearing the accumulation of unsold inventories. Businesses would certainly not like to add to capacity in such an economic environment. Hence supply-side strategies would not work as has indeed been the case in India, except for industries supplying necessities. The persistence with this strategy reflects the conservative thinking that supply creates its own demand. Contrastingly, the budgetary strategy adopted by states like West Bengal has concentrated on the demand side of markets for the following reason. If people have more cash to spend, they would start buying more goods. Businesses would then realize that demand for their products is increasing and step up production. This, in turn, would lead to an increased demand for working capital and, in many cases, capital expenditures. With increased production, employment and incomes would rise too. This would have a virtuous cyclical effect on economic growth and the impasse of low demand and low production would be broken. Cash transfers to the poor and the unemployed may appear to be populist but they make sense. The West Bengal government’s resources are limited compared to those of the Centre. However, its budget signals, in a small way, the correct direction of policy in times of economic hardship. The strategy does not increase the debt-burden of the needy, provides immediate relief for consumption requirements, and kick-starts growth.  There has to be a critical mass for this economic push. In that context, the Centre is much better placed than a state to provide the adequate impetus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
12-07-2021||Opinion||Go glocal: Sustainable Development Goals||Times are not just difficult but also alarming for every sphere of our existence. At first glance, it might appear that the raging pandemic has temporarily paused climate action and initiatives related to other environmental issues. Sustainability, it appears, may have taken a back-seat too. However, with a decade left for the end of ‘Agenda 2030’, achieving sustainable development has become even more important. A significant feature of the raging pandemic is that it has disrupted the hyper-interconnected world characterized by globalization. Supply chains are badly affected and global markets are under severe stress. Evidently, the virus has laid bare the vulnerabilities and risks of a globalized world order. In fact, it has put under scanner not just globalization but also the Sustainable Development Goals. Nevertheless, this could be a turning point for the international community to unlearn and revamp its basic conduct on global governance and make it more inclusive in nature. Besides, the pandemic has also thrown open an opportunity to give impetus to a glocalized framework of global governance to protect the ‘global commons’ in the light of the broader debate on sustainability. The 1990s, characterized by the advent of globalization, transformed every bit of our lives. It not only resulted in an intricately interconnected world but also facilitated economic growth for several countries, including India. It offered new avenues for developing economies to experiment and innovate in such areas as technology, employability, investments and so on. Although globalization appeared glossy in the beginning, it started developing fissures in 2008 in the form of a massive economic recession. Over a decade later, it has been gobsmacked, once again, this time by the Covid-19 pandemic. These recurrent episodes offer stark evidence that globalization has failed to build resilient systems; this is a trait shared by both developed and developing economies. New formula This is where glocalization can fill the gap. Simply put, glocalization refers to the interpretation, representation and replication of the global elements at the local level. The term, glocalization, is used quite frequently in business parlance but it has begun to gain momentum in cultural, social and political arenas too. Utilizing it appropriately in the environmental domain is the need of the hour. Covid-19 has brought about the necessity of refining and revising globalization. This can be done by integrating glocal elements to achieve global good, be it sustainable development or climate action, by roping in local actors, such as subnational agencies, grassroots bodies, non-governmental organizations and other relevant non-State actors in the discussion on sustainability. Localizing economies would provide leverage to the development targets of those like India. This can help attain the much-needed balance between ecological equity and economic growth. Additionally, it is hard to overlook the expertise and knowledge offered by local populations that are located at ground zero and are in tune with ground realities. This kind of resource efficiency could prove to be useful in operationalizing the potential glocal elements of global governance. Factors like accountability, transparency and trust-building among the State and non-State actors are also vital in this context. Considering the changes in modern living, starting from working remotely to radically cutting down on carbon footprints, glocalization could turn out to be a viable alternative to globalization, thereby creating innovative pathways for sustainable development in the near future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
12-07-2021||Opinion||Those mysterious electricity bills||Maharashtra and West Bengal are the two costliest states in respect to electricity tariff for all categories of domestic consumption. Up to 400-1000 units of monthly consumption are common for middle-class consumers who are charged Rs 8.44 and Rs 9.42 per unit, respectively, in Bengal and an even higher rate of Rs 9.34 and Rs 11.86, respectively, in Maharashtra. The high tariffs are not charged by private operators but by the state-owned West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited and the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited. The average all-India tariff for the two categories comes to about Rs 5.76 and Rs 6.76, respectively. Maharashtra charges between Rs 6.97 and Rs 9.93 and West Bengal between Rs 7.59 and Rs 9.38 per unit for the industrial consumption range between 1,500 and 8,760,000 units per month. The domestic use of electricity in West Bengal and Maharashtra incurs higher charges than industrial use in contrast to most other states. For agricultural purpose, the all-India average flat rate amounts to Rs 2.89 per unit, whereas Maharashtra charges Rs 3.40 (Reliance Power, a private utility, charges Rs 5.37 in Mumbai); the figure is Rs 4.87 per unit in Bengal, which appears to be the third most expensive state after Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. Energy shortage in India has come down from 8.10 per cent to 0.3 per cent and peak energy shortage has dropped from 11.30 per cent to 0.4 per cent. But this has not translated into lower tariffs. The Electricity Act of 2003 paved the way to frame the national tariff policy and empowered the Central and state regulatory commissions to fix tariffs under their own jurisdictions. These commissions follow a cost-plus approach, which should be within +/-20 per cent of the average cost of supply as per the tariff policy of 2006. The loading to the cost, it was pledged, would be eliminated within the next five years. But in 2016, at the time of its review, the regulatory commissions were asked to find out a suitable methodology for the proposed elimination, thereby continuing with the same loading parameter. State government utilities suffer from operational inefficiency due to power theft, tariff dues and accumulated debt. As of February 2021, nearly 54 per cent of transmission capacity remains under state government utilities, 39 per cent under the Central government-owned Power Grid Corporation and 7 per cent under private operators. The high Aggregate Technical & Commercial losses compel state distribution utilities to resort to short-term loans to meet power purchase requirements, resulting in the accumulation of debt. In November 2015, the Centre announced the Ujwal Discom Assurance Yojana, a bail-out scheme for distressed state utilities. On joining the scheme, states had to take over 75 per cent of debt (as on September 30, 2015) over two years (50 per cent in the first year and 25 per cent in the second year). West Bengal, Odisha and Nagaland did not join the scheme then. UDAY had a mandate for states to reduce AT&C losses to 15 per cent by 2018-19. West Bengal has AT&C losses as high as 23 per cent whereas Maharashtra has managed to keep it just below the mandate at 14.73 per cent. Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and Rajasthan have losses even higher than those of Bengal. Private distribution companies operating in Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, and Calcutta enjoy operational profitability. In West Bengal, the Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation enjoys an absolute monopoly in power distribution, catering to 2.90 million consumers in the metropolitan area of Calcutta as well as in substantial urban areas of Howrah, Hooghly and the North 24 Parganas. The India Power Corporation Limited serves the Asansol area. Both of them offer cheaper tariff rates than the WBSEDCL for all categories. In Mumbai, Tata Power, Reliance Infrastructure and BEST, an autonomous body under the municipal corporation of Greater Mumbai, charge lower tariffs than the state-owned MSEDCL. Is it not ironical that people living in smaller towns and villages in Bengal and Maharashtra have to pay higher rates to state distribution utilities for electricity than city-dwellers who avail of the same services from private utilities?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
12-07-2021||Opinion||Telling tales||Great nations thrive by constantly refreshing two great reservoirs of knowledge. The first contains the knowledge from the stories we tell about ourselves. This is the knowledge of who we are as a people, how we got here, what long conflicts bind us together, what we find admirable and dishonourable, what kind of world we hope to build together. This kind of knowledge isn’t merely factual knowledge. It is a moral framework from which to see the world. Homer taught the ancient Greeks how to perceive their reality. Exodus teaches the Jews how to interpret their struggles and their journey. For America, the dominant story has been filled with resonant characters — Irving Berlin and Woody Guthrie, Aaron Burr and Cesar Chavez, Sojourner Truth and Robert Gould Shaw. This national experience invited Americans to share Walt Whitman’s passion to contain the whole vast carnival of stories, to see themselves in its themes, and to feel themselves within this story. This emotional and moral knowledge should give us a sense of identity, a sense of ideals to live up to and an appreciation of the values that matter most to us — equality or prosperity or freedom. Finally, these are shared stories; this shared knowledge should help us discover a shared destiny and our shared affection for one another. The second reservoir of knowledge is propositional knowledge. This is the kind of knowledge we acquire through reason, logical proof and tight analysis. Some of this knowledge is empirical knowledge that can be established by using evidence carefully. No, the 2020 election was not stolen. Some of this knowledge is contained in powerful ideas that can be debated: “The history of all hitherto existing society is the history of class struggles.” As Jonathan Rauch brilliantly writes in his book, The Constitution of Knowledge, the acquisition of this kind of knowledge is also a collective process. It’s not just a group of people commenting on each other’s internet posts. It’s a network of institutions — universities, courts, publishers, professional societies, media outlets — that have set up an interlocking set of procedures to hunt for error, weigh evidence and determine which propositions pass muster. These are the same principles as those of the scientific method. An individual may be dumb, Rauch notes, but the whole network is brilliant, so long as everybody in it adheres to certain rules: no one gets the final say (every proposition might be wrong); no claim to personal authority (who you are doesn’t determine the truth of what you say, the evidence does); no retreat to safety (you can’t ban an idea just because it makes you feel unsafe). Today many of us feel that America is suffering an epistemic crisis. We don’t see the same reality. People say that they often assume the problem is intellectual. Our system of producing propositional knowledge is breaking down. Why can’t those people fact-check themselves? But Donald Trump doesn’t get away with lies because his followers flunked Epistemology 101. He gets away with his lies because he tells stories of dispossession that feel true to many of them. Some students at elite schools aren’t censorious and intolerant because they lack analytic skills. They feel entrapped by moral order that feels unsafe and unjust. The collapse of trust, the rise of animosity — these are emotional, not intellectual problems. The real problem is in our system of producing shared stories. If a country can’t tell narratives in which everybody finds an honourable place, then righteous rage will drive people toward tribal narratives that tear it apart. Part of the blame goes to conservatives who try to whitewash history. Part goes to progressives who tell such a negative version of history that it destroys patriotism. But the core problem is our failure to understand what education is. “Reason is, and ought only to be the slave of the passions,” David Hume wrote. Once you realize that people are primarily desiring creatures, not rational creatures, you realize that one of the great projects of schooling and culture is to educate the passions. It is to help people learn to feel the proper kind of outrage at injustice, the proper form of reverence before sacrifice, the proper swelling of civic pride, the proper affection for our fellows. This knowledge is conveyed not through facts but through emotional experiences — stories. Over the past decades, we cut education in half. We focused on reason and critical thinking skills — the core of the second reservoir of knowledge. The ability to tell complex stories about ourselves has atrophied. This is the ability to tell stories in which opposing characters can each possess pieces of the truth, stories in which all characters are embedded in time, at one point in their process of growth, stories rooted in the complexity of real life and not the dogma of ideological abstraction. Now as we watch state legislatures trying to enforce what history gets taught and not taught, as we watch partisans introduce ideological curriculums, we see how debauched and brutalized our historical storytelling skills have become. It is unfashionable to say so, but America has the greatest story to tell about itself, if we have the maturity to tell it honestly. The Fourth of July weekend was a decent time to start. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
