13-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Imbalanced||The balancing act eludes the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. The new population policy unveiled by the Yogi Adityanath government — it claims to usher in ‘balance among communities’ and lower the total fertility rate — could well turn out to be a recipe for severe imbalances. The need for this intervention remains unclear; even suspicious. The draft population (control, stabilization and welfare) bill intends to reduce the state’s TFR to 1.9 by 2030 by enforcing a two-child norm. Perhaps Mr Adityanath is unaware that UP has made significant progress — the state’s TFR declined to 2.7 in 2015-16 from 3.8 10 years ago — without radical meddling in the lives of the people on the part of the State. Such socio-economic and demographic transitions as rising literacy, reduced infant mortality, migration and so on would propel further reductions in UP’s TFR: instead of being tempted to experiment with discredited models of population control, the government needs to serve as a facilitator to augment investments in education and empowerment. The irony of the State couching this unnecessary and potentially disruptive mediation in the rhetoric of personal autonomy cannot be starker. The draft population policy bares two significant and perpetual failures in the imagination of the Indian State when it comes to addressing the population challenge. First, it is evident that governments remain enchanted with a top-down approach instead of addressing the structural deficiencies that prevent citizens from making informed choices. That explains the implosions — on bodies and the body politic — that inevitably accompany the implementation of draconian programmes by a sterile bureaucratic corps. Second, the State remains indifferent to its criminal enthusiasm for linking welfare to exclusion. The denial of rights to people with large families, as is proposed in the draft, cannot be condoned because the State has been historically complicit in a failure that is collective.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
13-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Richard Branson in space, Uttarakhand against live streaming rituals ||Wrong timing Sir — It seems that Richard Branson now has a leg-up in the race of billionaires trying to break into space tourism. He successfully flew to the edge of space and back in his Virgin Galactic passenger rocket plane, days ahead of a rival launch by Jeff Bezos. This could have been lauded as pathbreaking at some other time. But in the midst of a pandemic — each seat would cost hundreds of thousands of dollars — this is an abject waste of resources. Pinaki Sengupta,Calcutta Shameful conduct Sir — It was quite shocking to hear the advocate general of Uttarakhand arguing against live streaming rituals from the Char Dham by insisting that the act is prohibited in the shastras (“Worrying script”, July 12). Last month, the Uttarakhand High Court stayed the state cabinet’s decision to open the Char Dham shrines for a limited number of local people and ordered the live streaming of rituals. Earlier in May, when the second wave of the coronavirus swept through the country, the high court had rebuked the government for failing to ensure Covid-19 protocols during the Kumbh Mela and, once again, at the beginning of the Char Dham yatras this year. The high court has rightly observed that it is more important to save everyone from the Delta variant of the coronavirus rather than being considerate towards the feelings of a few. The shrines were closed last summer as well, owing to the national lockdown. It is shameful that certain sections of the population continue to disregard public health and well-being. The government has moved the Supreme Court challenging the high court order staying the Char Dham yatras. Hopefully, the apex court will not entertain the whims of the government and uphold the ruling in view of the third wave of Covid-19 and will also ask the government to gear up for the future. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — It is astounding how the Uttarakhand government continues to insist on holding religious gatherings in spite of its massive blunder with the Kumbh Mela earlier this year. The Kumbh Mela was one of the primary reasons behind the spread of the coronavirus to the remote villages of India. The insistence of the advocate general of Uttarakhand that live streaming is forbidden in the shastras is not only illogical but also shows how little the government cares about the well-being of the people. Janaki Patil,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
13-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Tricky exit||Cairn Energy is a minnow in the world of oil and gas. The $400 million Edinburgh-based entity has been trying to get out of India after selling a controlling stake in its profitable Indian operations to Anil Agarwal’s Vedanta group back in 2012. Its exit from the country has been stymied by a dispute that erupted in 2014 when the Government of India slapped it with a tax demand for Rs 102.47 billion arising from an assumption of capital gains relating to the reorganization of its Indian operations in 2006. The retrospective tax demand made eight years after the event — an obvious afterthought and drawing on the taxing power embedded in a sinister provision that Pranab Mukherjee had dreamed up after losing the Vodafone case in the Supreme Court — was tossed out last December by the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague. Instead, the tribunal awarded damages worth $1.2 billion with interest and costs to the London-listed entity. The Centre has stubbornly resisted Cairn Energy’s attempt to force the Narendra Modi government to respect the arbitral award and pay up. After negotiations failed, Cairn launched a flurry of court cases around the world seeking to grab control of Indian-owned assets in the United States of America, Europe, Mauritius and Singapore — countries that have ratified the 1958 New York Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards and are, therefore, obliged to help successful disputants to recover their dues. Recently, a French court — Tribunal Judiciaire de Paris — froze 20 residential properties owned by India that were worth over 20 million euros, setting in motion a tortuous process of recovery that can only bring acute embarrassment to the Centre. Foreign investors waiting to come to India will be looking at these developments with interest. The Indian government’s dogged refusal to respect international arbitral awards will only serve to dim the country’s prospects of attracting foreign direct investment. Cairn has based its claim to damages on the terms of the UK-India bilateral investment treaty, a stand that India contests. A repudiation of treaty provisions — a position that India has adopted in other arbitral disputes including the one involving Vodafone — only besmirches New Delhi’s record of fair and equitable treatment of foreign investors who no longer have the appetite to do business in this country. Drawing on the legend from the Mahabharata, the former chief economic adviser, Arvind Subramanian, had devoted an entire chapter in the Economic Survey of 2015-16 to what he termed the “Chakravyuha Challenge” of the Indian economy. Mr Subramanian argued that a market economy requires unrestricted entry of new firms but must also permit easy exit. He had lamented that post liberalization, India has moved from socialism with restricted entry to a form of “marketism” without exit that would have seriously adverse consequences. The Cairn Energy case is a litmus test to determine how far down the road of liberalization India has really traversed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
13-07-2021||Opinion||On a toxic diet||Some years ago, amidst my struggles as a freelancer, I had an argument with a senior journalist who insisted that the only sustainable pattern of work was employment with media organizations. “Show me another viable model,’’ he snapped. I didn’t have any. I hadn’t thought of that because for me the comfort in pursuing professions like those of the media and the arts is that you have room to think with your heart. I am okay with the data crunchers cornering space in the media. In the islands of alternative content providing relief for brain awash in data, I am happy to eke out my sustenance. Among the major differences between an employed journalist and a freelancer is income. Freelancers’ earnings are tiny and irregular. If an aside is permitted, may I say it makes freelancers more sensitive to inflation. During the second innings of the Manmohan Singh government, I was months ahead of my employed colleagues in sensing inflation because I lived on a small income. They wrote of it when prices rose high enough to trouble their superior salaries. During my self-funded travels, I live in cheap hotel rooms. At times, it has been the stuff of bed, claustrophobia, a ventilator for sunshine, a fan and a TV. The TV offers you free-to-air channels, some of them dressed in the attire of news. I say dressed because quite frankly I don’t consider Indian television news, with its accompanying music, suspense and drama, the stuff of news. Surfing channels for something watchable, I found that the news channels on offer were mostly right-wing. It meant that if you wanted coverage of content that is neutral or left-of-centre, the hotel owner had to subscribe to a costlier bundle. As a guest, I would have to be wealthy and capable of affording costlier rooms serviced that way. The liberal media is typically neutral to slightly left-of-centre. It felt strange that such an editorial tilt should be expensive to afford. I would call the formula conservative for you are valuing business model more than bringing engaging content to viewers. Of additional concern to me was that many respectable print publications of the liberal sort were going behind paywalls in their internet avatars. In the long run, a high-priced liberal media would result in a less informed, less sophisticated public. In turn, that will lead to less enjoyable, potentially hostile, social spaces. Free-to-air has relevance. The problem in persisting with this argument is that since free-to-air is less business and more charity, it points to an eventual situation of professionals working for less. This provokes the question: shouldn’t journalists also earn? That’s a touchy issue. Nonetheless, deep down I have this belief that going ahead, good journalism may be forced to abandon its equation with big money because nothing reinvents itself at high cost. Change entails risk; our appetite for risk is less when operating costs are high. Another challenge involves the pitfalls in revenue sources like advertising. To extract maximum bang for the buck, advertisers are known to influence editorial decisions. How then will you argue against paid subscription as a safer source of revenue? All I can say is media organizations haven’t pushed their marketing teams enough to source advertisements. The discussion mentioned here happened well before the last general election, which returned the right-wing to power. We found no relief from right-wing politics despite warnings from beyond the fence by the liberal media. When times get tough, as they have been in recent years, we end up living frugally. Free-to-air right-wing propaganda will stay our diet unless the liberal media has a change of heart and suspends that fence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
13-07-2021||Opinion||Different kinds of schooling||The closure of schools, online teaching, the digital divide and loss of learning have figured as key concerns in the news reports on the effects of the raging pandemic on school education. Several responses have focused on seizing the opportunity to make the most of the pandemic, ushering in examination reforms and digital pedagogy. Here, we use the pandemic experience to examine the pressure to conform to middle-class notions of childhood and the contrasting imaginations of a teacher at work. The idea of childhood, as it emerged in middle-class families in seventeenth-century Europe, is intertwined with the idea of innocence and dependence of the child, segregation from adults of the community, and protection. A child not dependent on adults — economically, socially and morally — is one ‘without childhood’ and causes social anxiety. In a historical twist, marking both colonial imprint and difference, the child in India bears the burden of contemporary middle-class obsession to make a mark in the competitive capitalist world through individual merit. The pandemic has been characterized by heightened monitoring, hovercraft parenting and regimentation of what children should do and what adult roles they should prepare for and how. The middle-class adult gaze has intensified to bring both the child and the private school teacher under surveillance to mimic the customer-service provider relationship. Private schools purchased new products, trained teachers and reduced vacation to provide uninterrupted learning, akin to a good service provider attuned to the pulse of the market. These schools claim that their teachers teach well, engage children and bring creativity whether in synchronous or asynchronous mode. They respond to and find affirmation in middle-class parents’ insistence that learning must go on no matter what the crisis may be. Multiple facets of the relationship between the private school and the parent community are emerging at a time when the ‘inequality virus’ has exacerbated existing disparities in education. First, both school and parents have reached an ideological consensus that the fee paid has to be well-earned. Second, private school officials have deplored the State regulation to not increase the fee or not charge a part of the fee during the pandemic and blamed the government for encouraging ‘delinquent parents’. Third, teachers have begun to mimic the school officials’ rhetoric that they ‘enjoy performing their role as teachers’ and do not desire ‘regular vacation time’ from work. This display of responsibility, investment and professional commitment articulated through the teachers’ agency simultaneously signals erasures as well as highlights the obfuscation of the wider context — the looming threat of unemployment and salary cuts. Fourth, the navigation of the new dimensions of design and transaction through the digital mode, pushed by the State and the corporations with an uncritical celebration of technology, obliterates the context of the teacher and the child. Teaching-learning now unfolds in a context-free situation with an imagination of uninterrupted, silent learning spaces in cramped urban homes of teachers and children. We have come to inhabit sanitized social bubbles guarded by middle-class boundaries that maintain a studied silence or, at best, make token concessions to the larger world of children in government schools. Fifth, schools, teachers and middle-class parents operate with a narrow conception of education reduced to learning. This is concomitant to the shift evident in the contemporary policy discourse, ranging from the World Bank to NGOs engaged in public-private partnerships at national and local levels. Policies and practitioners argue in favour of ‘embedding social and emotional learning in the curriculum’, whereas learning is embedded in life itself. In a democratic society, learning unfolds when children participate in social life with an idea of purpose. Learning is not limited to PowerPoint presentations, quizzes, microworlds, lectures or to labouring to increase national productivity or the wealth of corporations. Rather, learning is in situ, for life’s own purpose, its joys, engagement, lived experiences and practice. Before the pandemic, government schoolteachers were portrayed with derision in various media reports. During the pandemic, contrary to the popular perception, government schoolteachers returned to the workplace to be available to the community. They organized learning groups, sent worksheets home and called on each child, performed ‘Covid Warrior’ duties, reached out to the community and distributed rations. Contrastingly, private school teachers navigated the classroom and adopted the ‘culture of blended and virtual training’ to keep the children busy. This narrative is punctuated with several omissions. The hierarchy within private schools is glossed over. There are concerns about the sustainability of low-fee private schools but not the destruction of livelihoods by the pandemic and the State’s policy responses. An eerie silence envelops the issue of government schoolteachers performing civic responsibilities as functionaries of the State even though these responsibilities not only impinge on their role and the time available for teaching but have also led to the loss of lives. Middle-class children’s experience of the ‘margins’ to learn ‘social responsibility’ and ‘community outreach’ by liaising with orphanages, widow-shelters and old-age homes recedes when a crisis comes knocking. Yet, autonomy is invoked to claim differences with government schools whose curriculum suffers implosions. But the show must go on for private schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
13-07-2021||Opinion||After the fire||On one chunk of a wall still standing in what used to be the ministry of information and broadcasting, someone has made a large portrait of the old Jesuit priest who was killed by the Orange Regime. It’s quite a large portrait, drawn with something like chalk, and the white lines stand out quite sharply against the reddish stone even in the pall of smoke and dust. It’s on the tip of my tongue but I can’t actually remember the old man’s name; it is something with S. The way they got him was to arrest him under one of those crazy ‘anti-terror’ laws they had, one of those acronym laws set up by the bunch who were in power earlier which was then refined to its logical extreme by the Orangists. The law meant they could pick up the old guy who, they alleged, was connected to some completely trumped up conspiracy which had its imaginary locus in another part of the country, arrest him despite his failing health, and put him away in jail, resisting all attempts for bail. The others they had picked up for this supposed conspiracy were kept in jail for years, but the priest they could only torment for a few months because his health couldn’t survive the treatment in jail. The guy had Parkinson’s, could barely even write his name, but they called him a ‘flight risk’ and the courts actually went along with this rigmarole. Then they fought tooth and nail — the cops, the jailers and the government lawyers — to deny the old man a cup and a sipper straw. That sipper eventually cost them: it became a graphic symbol of the casual cruelty the Regime was capable of and you can see stencils of it all over the country along with various protest graffiti. In fact, there was a big one sprayed on a decapitated statue of one of the Regime’s historic heroes on one of the nearby roundabouts. There are other pictures too, on other walls — of people murdered more directly by the Regime’s mobs, of girls raped by the Regime’s legislators, and lists scrawled in red paint or black of all the underhand deals, the slaughtered ecologies, the destroyed futures. I walk away from the portrait of the priest and carry on exploring the shell of the gutted building. One has to be careful walking around here, because the piles of rubble are deceptive; there are huge underground parking lots below all the blocks and, sometimes, the shards of steel and masonry give way and send people right down into the lower depths of this hell. Just the other day, two scavengers were apparently buried alive in the railway ministry block. Obviously no emergency services are operational right now, but someone raised the alarm and people helped to pull them out; one of them was dead but they managed to save the other man. For me, the dead man was yet another victim of the Orange Regime, no matter that the deadly rule has been over for some time. This is what people often don’t understand. As things became worse under the Orange Regime, and people began to pray to be released from its disastrous yoke, they imagined that things would immediately become all right once these rulers went. Life just doesn’t work like that. I remember when whatshername was assassinated, her son had justified the revenge pogroms by saying ‘[when] a great tree falls, the surrounding ground is bound to shake.’ Well, when a large cesspit hidden under a thin layer of ground collapses, it will suck in many victims before its action comes to a halt. At the zenith of the Orangistas’ power, many people knew the Regime would leave behind the wreckage of multiple interconnected disasters; they knew the longer the Regime lasted, the greater would be the devastation it left as a parting gift to the people of this country. And here we now are, wandering around the hollowed-out former capital, sending reports and images, trying to tot up what’s completely gone and what one is able to salvage. The carnage and destruction across the land are, of course, far greater, far more widespread, than what laid low this city, but standing here amidst the smouldering ruins of the megalomaniacal dream you can ‘see’ things in a way you perhaps can’t from elsewhere. For instance, it’s a miracle of sorts that the old imperial buildings have survived almost unscathed; the big governor’s palace, the two flanking blocks, and down the ‘royal’ stretch of road the arch and even the untenanted chhatri are all as they were before the more recent building spree began in the middle of the plague ten years ago. The old royal palaces are also intact somehow, partly because of sheer luck. By the time push came to shove, about half the new ministries were already abandoned because of the prevailing circumstances despite some bureaucrats being ordered to ‘hold their positions’ by the demented orders of a rapidly disintegrating political command. As the whole world knew, the city itself had been almost abandoned by the population following the conditions created by ecological and social meltdowns. The Orange Regime had jumped ship, of course, before the environmental disasters and political devastations fully hit home, but not before it ensured these calamities became inevitable. But here in the gutted shells of their monumental hubris you can see the whole trajectory of their rule mapped on the shards of walls and pillars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
