14-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: New Motive||The National Democratic Alliance government has decided to form a new ministry of cooperation with the home minister, Amit Shah, in charge. The formation of a new ministry is not surprising in itself. What has led to speculation is the portfolio and the second most important member of the cabinet being given charge of it. Cooperative institutions under the banner of a cooperative movement had been formed in the 1950s. The movement did not gather any significant momentum as these bodies became hotbeds of local politics, corruption and conflict. The institutions still survive with varying degrees of importance and efficiency. There are agricultural cooperatives, cooperative banks of various types, and cooperative organizations for production and marketing. Cooperatives are a state subject. A few agricultural cooperatives are monitored by the Union ministry of agriculture, while the Reserve Bank of India along with the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development oversees the functioning of the cooperative banking system. Cooperative institutions remain an important source of agricultural credit, but other cooperative organizations for production and marketing rarely function well. The Union government had been indicating that it wanted to give a fillip to the movement by setting up multi-state cooperative institutions with operations going beyond a particular state. The surprise centres around the reason behind the government creating a ministry whose purview is a state subject. There are many possible reasons for this, all of which could yield large political dividends for the ruling party. The first is the sheer size of the cooperative sector measured in monetary terms. According to Nabard’s Annual Report of 2019-20, state cooperative banks had deposits worth Rs 1,35,392 crore and district central cooperative banks had disbursed loans to the tune of Rs 3,00,034 crore. According to the RBI, the urban cooperative banks had a loan book of Rs 3,05,368.27 crore. There are, thus, considerable financial resources to be controlled. Many of these institutions have been the nursery for grooming political leaders, especially in Maharashtra and Gujarat. There is also the opportunity for the Union government to tap these resources to offer lucrative schemes to placate the agitating farmers in northern India, including those in western Uttar Pradesh. Given the strategic importance of poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, this possibility cannot be ruled out. In any case, the ministry of cooperation is likely to engender greater control — and not autonomy of — over cooperatives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
14-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Mansukh Mandaviya trolled for bad English, Euro 2020 and Copa America||Language of disdain Sir — Soon after being appointed as the Union health minister, Mansukh Mandaviya was trolled online for some of his old tweets in incorrect English. Mandaviya, of course, is not the first political leader to be ridiculed on account of his grasp of the English language; Bengal’s chief minister and Lalu Prasad, too, have often been mocked for the same reason. It is high time that elitists realized that it is one’s work and not one’s fluency in English that reveals one’s competency. Criticism is of value only if it is fair. Mandaviya must first be given a chance to prove his worth. Praveen Sharma,Delhi Glorious moment Sir — The end of Copa America did not bring the international football season to a close; football fans had one last treat to savour in the dramatic Euro 2020 final between Italy and England. England’s goal within two minutes of the first whistle set the tone for the game. However, it was Italy that won the day in the end — Leonardo Bonucci became the oldest player to score in a Euro final. England succumbed to a penalty shootout in a major tournament yet again. The post-match period also yielded a host of iconic moments. The simultaneous scenes of jubilation and heartbreak presented a compelling scene — while Leonardo Spinazzola celebrated with his teammates on crutches, having earlier injured an Achilles tendon during the quarter-finals, the England team gathered to console the teenager, Bukayo Saka, who failed to score the final penalty. The nearly empty Wembley stadium when Italy lifted the Cup also revealed a nation’s dejection — England’s 55-year wait for a major trophy could not be ended on this night. However, all is not lost for the Three Lions. Most key players in the squad are still young, and with the lessons learnt from this tournament, they will only come back stronger in the upcoming World Cup. Abhigyan Kar,Calcutta Sir — The Euro 2020 final at Wembley gave us 120 minutes of football at its best, with superb passes and headers, and a thrilling penalty shootout to boot. We were rewarded for forgoing our sleep to watch the match. It was a real cliffhanger before Italy lifted the Cup. It is not that England played poorly on home soil or that Italy played better; it was sheer luck that smiled on Italy to make them the European champions. England suffered the heartbreak of losing the final after controlling the game for long periods and coming tantalizingly close to a win. They could not eventually outsmart a team with incredible defensive skills. The second-minute opening goal by Luke Shaw caught Italy unawares and gave England a dream start. This lead lasted until the 67th minute when Leonardo Bonucci, the eventual Man of the Match, levelled the score, giving Italy a fighting chance. In the course of the penalty shootout, even those of us who had no favourites were overwhelmed by high anticipation and tension. England missed three of its penalty kicks and the goalkeeper, Gianluigi Donnarumma, became Italy’s national hero. It was later learnt that the black players from England who could not convert their penalty kicks faced racist abuse online. As football fans and firm believers in racial equality, we condemn this. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The month-long mesmerizing football bonanza is over with Argentina kissing the Copa America and Italy lifting the Euro Cup, but moments from these two tournaments will linger in the hearts of football fans around the world. The participating nations, football federations and authorities deserve a big applause as the matches were conducted smoothly and safely, especially at a time when the whole world is in the grip of a pandemic. The tournaments brought joy and excitement, and offered a big relief during these difficult times — both young and old stayed up nights, glued to the screens. In Kannur, fans even offered puja in temples to help their favourite team win. The support for players like Lionel Messi, Neymar Jr and Kylian Mbappé made it seem like they were boys next door. But that is the magic of football. The heart-warming hug between Messi and Neymar after the final at the Maracana stadium proved that football has the power to promote brotherhood, peace and unity among lovers of the game. M. Pradyu,Kannur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
14-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: On trial||The issue of bail under any anti-terror law is balanced on a razor’s edge. Stan Swamy died before his challenge to Section 43D(5) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 could be heard in court. This provision ensures that no bail shall be given unless the public prosecutor had been heard or if the court, after a perusal of the case documents, decided there were ‘reasonable’ grounds to believe that the case against the accused was prima facie true. Thus the court’s discretion was crucial, while the State, if so minded, could use the provision to detain the accused for long periods. But detention would be legitimate only when balanced against the right of the accused to a speedy trial. The Supreme Court upheld this right at the hearing of an appeal against the Kerala High Court’s decision to grant bail to a person accused of a crime in 2010. The Supreme Court reportedly said that while courts would appreciate the legislative policy against the grant of bail under the UAPA, the bar against it would ‘melt down’ when there was no likelihood of the trial being completed within a reasonable time and the accused had already spent a substantial portion of his jail time, should he be proven guilty, as an undertrial prisoner. This logic lies behind the recent question raised by the Delhi High Court when it wondered last week what the duration of a UAPA trial should be. The Supreme Court had said in February that the UAPA’s restrictions on bail and the powers of Constitutional courts could be ‘harmonised’ by granting bail when trial was delayed. This emphasis of the courts on the right to speedy trial is especially pertinent when the government of the day is perceived as the power behind incarcerating under the UAPA persons who dissent or are known to campaign for the rights of the underprivileged. In these cases, prolonged detention becomes the penalty, acts as deterrent to the like-minded, and prevents the possible attempts of the accused to organize protests or campaigns. The Delhi High Court’s question and the Supreme Court’s ruling indicate that the relevant section in the UAPA should not be used as the ‘sole metric’ to deny bail; it must be balanced with the right to a speedy trial.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
14-07-2021||Opinion||A different script for Myanmar||India’s Myanmar policy has been China-centric. With the Bharatiya Janata Party’s ascendancy in politics, India’s policymakers have been obsessed with not pushing Myanmar towards Beijing. From Rajiv Gandhi’s open support to the Burmese democracy movement and the government in exile to A.B. Vajpayee’s endorsement of the execution of Arakanese rebel leaders used until then by Indian agencies to Narendra Modi joining China and Russia to water down the United Nations security council’s resolutions on Myanmar after the military takeover in February, it has been a 360-degree turn. It is time to call the bluff on New Delhi’s policy paralysis on Myanmar that was reflected in its abstention from the UN general assembly resolution lambasting the military takeover in Myanmar. The Chinese have run away with clearances for 15 new mega infrastructure projects after the February 1 coup, leveraging their support for the military intervention. In early June, General Min Aung Hlaing and his foreign minister, Wunna Maung Lwin, met the Chinese ambassador, Chen Hai, after which the Chinese embassy’s Facebook statement identified Min Aung Hlaing as the “Leader of Myanmar”. The Tatmadaw does not trust the Chinese, but it values their support. The stock argument that India should not push the military junta into China’s embrace by being critical is hollow because the latter is already in China’s vice-like grip. The Indian army strongly backs engagement with the Tatmadaw. It undertook ‘Operation Sunrise’ against Arakan Army rebels as a quid pro quo for Burmese military action against northeastern insurgents in the jungles of Sagaing province. This will not work any longer because there is evidence to suggest that the Tatmadaw is using Indian insurgents to attack refugees and resistance forces in Sagaing and the Chin Hills. It is unlikely that the Tatmadaw would oblige the Indian army by handing over the rebels to them. The Tatmadaw has struck a tactical ceasefire with the AA, securing its western flank to protect Myanmarese and Chinese interests. The AA is now free to focus on India’s Kaladan Multi-Modal Transit Transport Project, which it has jeopardized by attacking contractors. The AA is willing to deal with Indian diplomats but it does not trust the Indian army. So India is seemingly supporting the Tatmadaw, which cannot protect New Delhi’s interests, and is moving against a rebel group whose predecessors were close to India until the ‘Operational Leech’ betrayal and is now hell-bent on disrupting the Kaladan project. Can India’s military and diplomatic acumen guarantee the completion of this crucial connectivity project if the AA continues to oppose it? Why can’t the chief minister of Mizoram, Zoramthanga, be asked to deal with the AA? The National League for Democracy government used him to ferret out a lawmaker from the AA’s captivity. India’s diplomatic policy is not in sync with the changing dynamics in Myanmar. Is India’s policy establishment aware of the intensification of resistance in Myanmar? Credible reports suggest that more than 800 soldiers have joined the democracy movement. By March end, Myanmar's resistance movement, started by the youth and labour unions, had expanded dramatically to include doctors, nurses, bankers, grocers, railway workers and other professionals. Thousands of healthcare workers have refused to go to work in a country where health workers hold 10 per cent of all government jobs. Most hospitals and medical schools remain shut in spite of the raging pandemic. The national resistance movement is also turning violent with many who lost friends and relatives in peaceful demonstrations rushing to ethnic rebel bases to receive arms training. People across Myanmar are also boycotting products produced by the army and its conglomerates, such as Myanmar beer and the Joox music app, as well as goods imported from China and Singapore, the two top investors in Myanmar neither of which condemned the coup. China itself is rethinking its options after 36 Chinese factories were burnt down in and around Yangon and police guards in a Mandalay offtake station of the Rakhine-Yunnan oil-gas pipeline attacked and killed. The resistance is threatening to blow up the pipeline that carries oil from the Middle East and Burmese natural gas to China. Can the status-quoists in New Delhi afford to alienate the Burmese youth who look upon Indian democracy as a role model? But jumping on to the Western bandwagon would be ill-advised. Sanctions don’t work, except for adversely impacting the poor and the vulnerable. It is, therefore, time for India to undertake a Gandhi Peace Mission to Myanmar that can facilitate a meaningful dialogue among the Tatmadaw, the democratic parties, the government in exile, and the ethnic rebel armies. China and the Asean have lost their credibility with the democracy movement and the rebels, and the Tatmadaw does not trust the West. If New Delhi can work out an honourable exit for Min Aung Hlaing, something that Pranab Mukherjee did for the former Bangladesh army chief, General Moeen U. Ahmed, in 2008, Myanmar’s fledgling democracy could be restored. The Gandhi Peace Mission can then work on a federal solution by kindling a comprehensive dialogue. Zoramthanga is no Gandhian, but in him we surely have someone whose across-the-board connections in Myanmar can help start a meaningful engagement. Acting on Myanmar is the key to the success of India’s Act East policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
14-07-2021||Opinion||The first speakers||Great books, it is said, can change one’s life. In my case, though, it was not so great a book that triggered the change. Neither did it contain any original ideas, nor did it have any stylistic merit, for either of these would have damaged its objective. By design, it had to be drab. It was by R.C. Nigam, giving language data gathered during the 1971 census. It accidentally caught my attention. Two completely faceless words in it sent me on an endless quest. The words were “all others”. They came at the end of a rather long and — I thought at that moment, over four decades ago — uninteresting list of 108 language names. What got me interested in those two words was the fact that the 1961 census list of languages had 1,652 names of languages. So, I thought, some 1,544 languages had disappeared during the 1960s, and had become “all others”. At that time, I had no idea of the intricacies of the census data. I felt pained and agitated by the news of the death of so many hundreds of languages in India in such a short time. The pangs of pain propelled me into doing many things in life, one of which was to carry out a nationwide survey of living languages. When the survey, which identified and described some 780 languages, was completed, mediapersons, friends and young students often asked me if I had noticed, like the legendary Sindbad, any ‘stranger than life’ phenomena worth talking about. Initially, I used to evade that question as a pointless query. But a decade after the People’s Linguistic Survey of India has been completed, I venture to respond. A particular language, officially described as ‘marginal’, spoken in northern Maharashtra, has never ceased to amaze me. It is true that every language is amazing in its own way; but this one, the Nihali language, stands out. Kordev, Jamod, Shantinagar, Sonbardi and Chinchari are the villages in Buldhana district, at a distance of about 250 to 300 kilometres from the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh headquarters in Nagpur as the crow flies, where Nihali is being spoken. The population of those who understand it may now be a little under 2,000. They feel deeply attached to it, though some of them speak Marathi, Hindi and the language of the neighbouring Korku tribe. The day is not too far when their numbers will dwindle and India will never again hear Nihali being spoken. But the dwindling numbers are not what draws attention to it. There are several hundred languages in India that have died during my lifetime, or are on the verge of extinction. That is bad enough; but if it were to happen in the case of Nihali, the future generation of Indians may regret it forever. The reason? While all of the other languages, major or minor, belong to one or the other known language families, Nihali does not fit into the structural framework of any of those families. Linguists describe it as a ‘language isolate’. This indicates exceptional ethnic character and an origin of the language or its speakers that has not yet been explained. One does not know when in the distant past the community moved into the subcontinent. They have little in common with the surrounding communities influenced by the Vedic culture. For instance, consider their idea of divinity. They primarily worship water bodies. Although image worship has entered their cultural space to an extent, their main deities are Kheda and Muthawa, not known in the Vedic pantheon. They measure quantities not in the sequence of 1, 2, and 3 but in multiples, such as once, twice, three times. Gender distinction is mostly absent in their language. Their community self-reference is the term ‘kolta’, which means ‘many human persons’. All these features — particularly the fact that Nihali is not related to the Austro-Asiatic, Dravidian or Indo-Aryan language families — lead one to conclude that Nihali speakers belong to the earliest population that lived in India. And how early is the earliest? Going by all the recent research on ancient human populations and their movements coming from various paleo-sciences and genetics, it would not be unrealistic to postulate that the Nihali language and its first speakers may well have been in India for over the past 35,000 to 40,000 years. One does not know if the ancient cave-dwellers in Bhimbetaka in the Madhya Pradesh cave shelters — about whom we do not know enough — had any contact or relation with the Nihalis. Future research will resolve these mysteries. The superb hunting and gathering skills that the Nihalis possess enhance the probability that they have been around in India at least from times prior to the beginning of the Holocene (some 12,000 years ago). Does it really matter as to who came to India and when? It did not in any past era. But in the current regime, there is an overzealous attempt to prove that all the glory of India in the past rests with the Sanskrit language. The pastoralists of India 10,000 years before our time toiled to explore territories and learn about the diverse land. The first farmers sweated to get wheat and rice growing in our land some 8,000 years ago. City dwellers of pre-historic times slogged to build a whole civilization 4,500 years ago, much before the Sanskrit language was born. It is also true that Sanskrit, as great as it undoubtedly is, had substantial borrowings from the Avesta, a landmark in the evolution of the Indo-Iranian languages. Yet, the myopic cultural nationalism would like to hitch the whole of Indian civilization to the wagon of what it constructs as Vedic-Sanskrit-Hindu. Any student of linguistics can tell us that the name of the river, Sindhu, is ‘u’-ending because the naming of the river owes itself to a Dravidic origin. In spite of the available scientific data coming from research in linguistics, genetics, archaeology, paleo-dentistry, epigraphy and palaeoanthropology and pointing to the fact that all of us in India have mixed ancestry, that human population has existed in the subcontinent for tens of millennia prior to the emergence of Sanskrit, that various non-Vedic philosophies — such as Buddhism and Jainism — had developed outside the Sanskrit fold of knowledge, the RSS’s version of history is unwilling to accept India in terms of its historical, social and cultural reality. The sooner the votaries of Hindutva realize how self-defeating this is, the better for them and for India. There is a Nihali proverb, “madiren kaggo diska” — the one who speaks without knowledge is not to be forgiven. G.N. Devy is a literary critic and cultural activist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
