15-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Unreformed||The Union home minister’s call to make scientific evidence the lynchpin of police investigations in India must be welcomed. This plea was made in the context of reforming — modernizing — such relevant legal segments as the Indian Penal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code and the Indian Evidence Act. Amit Shah has assured that the days of forced confession are over. Furthermore, Mr Shah proposed forensic evidence to be made mandatory for criminal cases that entail penalties of six or more years. The Centre must consider these options with utmost seriousness. The record of the police force when it comes to such transgressions as extracting confessions under duress, trampling upon prisoners’ rights or being implicated in custodial deaths need not inspire confidence. The relevant data are equally depressing. Seventy-six per cent of the deaths in police custody in 2019, the National Campaign Against Torture has alleged, can be attributed to lethal coercion. This, in a country where the law mandates an unbiased, compulsory investigation of every custodial death. It is evident that the scrutiny of custodial demises is compromised. The immunity of the police from accountability, institutional lethargy as well as other deficiencies — the National Crime Record Bureau’s annual reports do not identify the cause of deaths in custody — can be cited as some of the causes of the malaise. The rhetoric of police reform must emphasize the modernization of investigative methods. Unfortunately, that is not always the case. The deployment of science would, however, require more than pledges from the home minister. Financial constraints have, over the years, held up the introduction of state-of-the-art technology in the force. When money is available, the lion’s share is spent on modernizing weaponry, infrastructure, and surveillance, leaving very little funds to upgrade other areas of policing. What must also be borne in mind is that a scientific method need not be free of ethical concerns. In 2010, in a landmark judgment, the Supreme Court had stated that the involuntary administration of narco analysis or lie detector tests — scientific investigation relies on such techniques — can be interpreted as an intrusion of a person’s mental privacy. That personal liberty can be at odds with objectivity — this was the caveat presented by the wise judges — is a grey area that requires greater deliberation from the minders of policy and policing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
15-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Dilip Kumar passes away, over Olympics crowds, black women health||For all time Sir — With the passing of the veteran actor, Dilip Kumar, the Indian film industry has lost a legend (“Kohinoor who pierced hearts”, July 8). Kumar was well-known as the ‘tragedy king’ for his portrayal of numerous serious roles in classics such as Mughal-e-Azam and Devdas. However, he never limited himself to a particular genre and had proven to the public that he was just as good at comedy with Ram aur Shyam. He was the last of the golden troika who transformed Hindi cinema, the other two being Raj Kapoor and Dev Anand. Besides being awarded the Padma Bhushan and the Padma Vibhushan, Kumar was also conferred the prestigious Dadasaheb Phalke award. Notably, in 1998, the Pakistan government presented him the highest civilian award of the country, the Nishan-e-Imtiaz, for his cinematic appeal across the subcontinent. Although Kumar’s illustrious film career is familiar to most, what is less known about the iconic actor is that before pursuing acting, he worked as a canteen owner and dry fruits supplier. With his death, the country has lost one of the first superstars of Indian cinema. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — The death of Dilip Kumar is an immeasurable loss for Indian cinema. Unlike many of his contemporaries, Dilip saab, as he was fondly called, was a measured actor, carving out a niche for himself. He had a powerful screen presence and had influenced several generations of aspiring actors. Although he had largely retreated from the public eye years before his demise, he was still revered among the younger lot as one of the finest actors of all time. His films will continue to set the benchmark of excellence in Indian cinema. R. Sekar,Chennai Sir — Over the last week, people across the world paid tribute to Dilip Kumar after the legendary thespian passed away in Mumbai at the age of 98. He was laid to rest with state honours at the Juhu Kabristan in Santacruz, Mumbai. While Kumar’s most iconic roles were in the 1950s and the 1960s, his method of acting, sartorial style, gait and mannerisms continue to be studied by young actors to this day. He was universally respected for his decency; he stood for a Nehruvian idea of India. While he worked in fewer films than many of his contemporaries, Kumar still made over 60 films in Hindi and Bengali in a career spanning 50 years. He was a versatile artist who played tragedy and comedy with equal ease. His contribution to cinema is unparalleled. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — A recent article by the actor, Naseeruddin Shah, after the demise of Dilip Kumar has revived the question about the legacy of actors and their duties towards the craft as a whole. Shah, while venerating the Kohinoor star, laments that in spite of his enduring legacy, Kumar could have left more of an impact on Indian cinema had he chosen to do so. Shah is right to ponder if Kumar had been guilty of contributing to the star-centric nature of Hindi cinema which has now led to its downfall. Neither did Kumar groom new actors nor, according to Shah, did he pen down his vast knowledge and wealth of experience for future cinephiles. It has been a matter of debate among fans of Hindi cinema if veteran actors like Dev Anand, Sunil Dutt and Manoj Kumar should have taken an active interest in mentoring the next generation of actors beyond blood ties. Had this been done, contemporary Hindi cinema would have looked very different. Meenal Kapur,Mumbai Be cautious Sir — The decision of the Japanese Olympic Committee to hold this year’s Games without spectators in venues in and around the capital is the correct one. Tokyo reported the highest number of new Covid-19 cases in almost six months on Wednesday. This has sparked fear that the caseload might exponentially increase in the upcoming months. It would have been better had the Games been postponed altogether. At the very least, the host country should ensure that safety protocols are followed as much as possible. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — It is worrying that people from all over the world are gathering in Tokyo for the Olympics. One can now only hope for the best. Alaka Sinha,Calcutta  Change needed Sir — A 25-year-long study by Boston University on the health of black women found that the long-term use of lye-based hair straightening products among them was linked to an increased risk of breast cancer in comparison to those women who used the products moderately. This finding is crucial in determining the racial disparities inherent in the diagnosis of breast cancer. Black women are socially pressured to straighten their hair as many offices continue to deem the natural hair type of people of African descent to be ‘unprofessional’. Unless such discriminatory practices are curbed, black women’s health will continue to be endangered. Aratrika Sanyal,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
15-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Little known||Laws alone cannot correct institutionalized gender bias; people must have a genuine desire for justice too. A direction by the Bombay High Court exposed ways in which gender bias functions in implementing the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, or the PoSH Act. A woman appealed to the high court last year against the dismissal of her allegation of sexual harassment by the PoSH Act-mandated internal committee in her workplace. The Act allows for appeals against the internal committee’s decision to an appellate authority, but she found no other authority for her appeal. It was only after this that the Maharashtra government notified as appellate authority 20 industrial courts on March 31 this year. On July 8, the Bombay High Court directed the complainant to the industrial court for the appeal. That the state government had not bothered to notify the appellate authority earlier exposes an indifference to gender justice. The authority became available months after the woman’s complaint although, according to the law, the appeal against an internal committee decision must be filed within 90 days of the recommendation. So the complainant was burdened with the additional stress of a technical hitch. The case also demonstrated the anxious running around that a complainant is made to do while facing the reluctance of the establishment instead of getting its cooperation. A lack of awareness bedevils this law. Employees are often unconscious of it, or ignorant about the internal committee. The system must be made visible and the procedures of the law communicated to all employees, both men and women. Besides, not only is a complainant subjected to various pressures during the inquiry, but members of the internal committee, too, may need protection in a private company, as a public interest litigation claimed in the Bombay High Court in January. The situation is far worse in the unorganized sector. A woman vendor, for example, would be unlikely to know that a law-mandated local committee would hear her complaint of sexual harassment, and that the district collector is the grievance redressal authority. The administration is noticeably casual about the PoSH Act, whether in the organized or unorganized sector, as though the less women know about it the better. But the PoSH Act must be widened too, to include men, and trans and non-binary workers. Nothing will succeed unless attitudes change||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
15-07-2021||Opinion||Self and Other in New India||We have seen very often that the current regime is unable to accept its mistakes. There is instead a ‘strategy’ to blame others and claim credit out of turn. It is important to comprehend why taking responsibility, owning up to mistakes, and course correction are important in and for a democracy. Taking responsibility assumes a certain ‘self’ that is foundational to an open society and a democratic State. Is the absence of such a self in the current leadership a reflection of Indian society or is it an exception? Many political thinkers, from M.K. Gandhi to contemporary critical theorists, have reflected deeply on why the health of a democracy is not merely about ‘politics’ or political in nature but, essentially, about fashioning a certain self that results in the necessary social gestation where social conflicts and complexities can be handled in a manner that results in less suffering and in generating greater shared goals and values. In other words, there should be a willingness to engage with reason, to think and to deliberate. The alternative to this is the replacement of a dialogic and secure inner self with an aggressive, alienated self that is ill-prepared to identify and empathize with others and, thereby, unwilling to take responsibilities. It provokes hysteria and is narcissistic and nihilistic in its imagination. We are witnessing — globally — a retributive self, subsuming the more reasonable and reasoned self. The critical theorist, Axel Honneth, argues that for a fuller sense of self (realization) and recognition, every individual requires self-confidence born out of unconditional love and emotional security. Self-respect ought to be treated with dignity and equality in law, and self-esteem born out of merit and a sense of achievement. All these dimensions are required for a fuller self that is then willing to be reasonable, take responsibility, treat others with respect and dignity and relish the sense of purpose and meaning in life. Those who are denied these remain as a ‘distorted self’, which can then become retributive, aggressive, insulting, abusive and intolerant. This distortion can be a vicious cycle that further enhances the conditions of denying individuals and social groups the basic conditions of recognition and a fuller self. However, it is not easy to fill the vacuum that the self suffers from. Bertrand Russell observes that those who do not get emotional security in their formative years end up seeing the world as one without love and the more they attempt to gain empathy and recognition, the more they end up feeling unloved and unwanted. Many of them remain insecure and anxious even after finding love and emotional security as they fail to feel and experience these. The gap between the inner self and the external world remains, more or less, unbreached. Similarly, those who are not treated as equal in everyday interactions remain suspicious and are incapable of forging collective enterprises while those who suffer from a lack of self-esteem can end up, in spite of the required talent, achieving much less than what they are capable of. It is this inner sense of emptiness that is filled with external aggression manifest in a thirst for power and, in its worst form, unbridled imageries of gory violence. The empty self seeks to find social resonance that is always momentary and without larger meaning. The ‘distorted self’ is produced not merely within dispossessed social groups but also among dominant hegemonies. Individuals and social groups that occupy dominant social positions can also suffer from the lack of self-confidence, self-respect and self-esteem. This can happen either as a result of higher expectations or anxiety concerning the loss of privileges. Much of the political Right has emerged from these social groups that are dominant but suffer from ‘hurt pride’ and wish to overcome it by endorsing existing inequalities and their accompanying stigma. They subvert the language of dignity and equality to produce ‘regressive modernism’. All this, at some level, becomes a mode of coping with the social changes that they witness and cannot keep up with. When practices born out of ‘hurt pride’ enter into an unholy alliance with the victims of social stigma, societies move substantially towards intolerance and become totalitarian. Currently, India is passing through an interregnum where the imageries of a ‘distorted self’ as an authentic self or as an assertive self have taken over. Indifference is being mistaken for atmanirbharta, uncivility for assertion, intolerance for subversion, and anxiety for aspiration. Unless Indian society manages to overcome these distortions, it will be difficult to mobilize legitimate anger against those who wish to govern without taking responsibility and make promises without compassion. Recent protests have invoked the new inner self but whether they manage to evoke the ‘collective conscience’ and the urge for a fuller self-realization still remains to be seen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
15-07-2021||Opinion||More to come||The custodial death of Father Stan Swamy, a physically frail octogenarian social worker, left me thinking, as a citizen, about its larger significance. It is obviously something to be deeply ashamed about. It represents the cruelty, callousness and violence of the State at its worst. Not all Indians will share this same feeling, though. Many will defend it as collateral damage in the fight against terrorism and political violence. Others will remain silent with the plea that it does not concern them. A few will remain significantly silent, signalling a strong endorsement of the event. I thought of splitting my feelings into a number of arguments that lead to rather disturbing conclusions. Such deaths have occurred many times in the past, and will occur again in the future. The Stan Swamy case is only a recent example that can be analysed. My first argument pertains to treating the case as not one of active killing, like in an encounter, but a case of letting someone die consciously, ignoring the cause leading to the death. Philosophers and ethicists do make a distinction between killing and letting die. There could be many ambiguities involved. Since the latter is not an act of agency, it is considered by many — though not all — as being a little more defensible than outright killing, and hence less morally reprehensible. In the process of letting a person die, there could be excuses like forgetfulness, or inability to gauge the seriousness of the cause leading to the death, or even ignorance about the facts and context of the case. However, there are opposite possibilities too. The act of letting a person die could be very cold and calculating, where the person or persons who could have stopped the death have something valuable to gain. The gains could be financial benefits, romantic relationships, power or revenge. Therefore, the context and circumstantial evidence can be quite important in morally judging such an outcome. My second argument is about context. In this case, the context was crystal clear. The incarcerated person was awaiting trial for an inordinately long time, he was ill, he was old. The reason for his being arrested was in connection with a high-profile case of conspiracy and violence. No one in authority, starting from the prison officials, the prosecutors, the investigators, the courts and government officials and ministers could claim ignorance or forgetfulness. Indeed, if anything, there was a denial of access to something as simple as a drinking straw for a man whose hands were no longer strong and stable. Hence, it is well-nigh impossible to believe that no one knew where things were heading. The violence lay in the denial of basic human needs. One may argue that in prisons people are supposed to be deprived of certain privileges that a free citizen enjoys. This would also include the freedom not to be physically coerced. Should all prisoners face the same degree of coercion? If we include children in juvenile homes, women and old people all as a homogeneous crowd that can be meted out the same set of denials, then we are no different from a Nazi Germany or a Stalinist Russia. The issue is about certain human rights no State can deny, especially when the prisoner has not even been tried and found guilty of the charges levied against him. My next argument leads to the question: what if he had actually participated in a conspiracy to create political chaos and murder? Why should he be treated with leniency in jail? This argument is naïve to say the least, vicious at the very worst. A person is not found guilty beyond reasonable doubt unless tried by a court of law. The trial must follow due legal processes. In this case, Stan Swamy was far away from being tried or questioned. The charges against him were not fully framed even months after him being held. Yet it was supposed to be a case of the highest importance and sensitivity. Those who think he was indeed guilty, and some form of extra-legal or divine justice was meted out to him, have no idea of the sanctity of the rule of law in a civilized society. There are many people in our nation who believe in extra-legal justice: the prevalence of lynching, encounter deaths, honour killings and murder are just a few examples. These people have an extraordinary distrust in the legal system: its timely closure of cases, its sense of fairness and its vulnerabilities. It is symptomatic of a malfunctioning democracy. Another ‘argument’ worth noting is the complete absence of any argument: an eerie silence from the vast majority of citizens. Does it not concern them, or does one not want to get involved in matters of statecraft? A silence can signify many things. It can immediately be taken as a sign of ignorance, not knowing all the details of the matter and hence not considering it prudent to voice an opinion. Usually, these people never get fully informed, simply because they do not want to be. The other reason for silence could be a fear of taking sides, or an absence of any concern for other people. These positions invariably help the political establishment: the less noise the better. Finally, there is another reason for silence, and that is a tacit endorsement of what happened. It reflects an extraordinary degree of arrogance: we can do it and nobody cares or dares to say anything against it. It gives the political establishment more confidence to try out similar projects of letting die. Political goals can be achieved more easily with the silence of those who might have raised their voices in opposition. The stifling of dissent, the shying away through special draconian laws from the natural course of justice, direct and indirect violence — all point to a large democratic deficit. New experiments can be carried out and the scale of violence easily escalated if the need arose. The final argument, possibly the most common in contemporary India, is the use of examples from the past, or from other countries: did you see what Mao did? Do you know what Aurangzeb did? Do you know what Indira Gandhi did? Did you protest earlier? These examples are supposed to justify current acts that are similar. However, as a citizen, I live in the here and now. I am not interested in the history of violence when morally judging a contemporary act of cruelty. In any event, historical examples can only be prompts to make us a little more decent and compassionate, not justify brutality. Examples and counter examples, though illustrative on occasions, are never an adequate substitute for an argument. The case of Stan Swamy will be forgotten quite soon, as have been thousands of similar cases of people who have died at the hands of the State, people whose names one never ever heard of. State violence will also remain. However, as citizens, we need to interrogate the stony silence of the powers that be. Otherwise all of us become morally complicit in condoning acts of violence that are increasing rapidly in India. We ought to have the moral courage and human decency to apologize with folded hands to the memory of Father Stan Swamy. But we will not. Does anyone really care?  Anup Sinha is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
