16-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Dual challenge||Exclusion is not uncommon in India’s healthcare system. Worryingly, this kind of exclusion has been exacerbated by the pandemic. A pertinent example to illustrate this point would be the slowing down in India’s efforts to detect and treat tuberculosis and other serious ailments because of the dominance of the coronavirus on healthcare policy and interventions. The first half of 2021 witnessed a 25 per cent fall in the count of new tuberculosis patients in comparison to the same period in 2019; this decline has sparked fears among experts that patients are going undiagnosed because most of the available medical resources are being routed to tackle Covid-19. This, however, is not the only challenge. A report in The Lancet has now revealed that the rate of non-communicable neurological disorders and neurological injuries of the total disease burden — strokes, dementia, epilepsy, cerebral palsy, Parkinson’s disease and so on — has more than doubled between 1990 and 2019. The battle ahead will be tough and twofold. Studies have shown that ‘lifestyle diseases’ claim more lives in India than their infectious counterparts. An ageing population, urban congestion, poor diet and hygiene, lack of exercise as well as climate change are some of the factors that have aggravated the risk. Second, given its evolving, highly-infectious variants, Covid — comorbidities exacerbate its risks — will remain a challenge in spite of the presence of vaccines. The dual threat must be met with robust investments. Dedicated systems of scrutiny and care — disease-specific funding, trained medical personnel, reliable supply chains, efficient care facilities, roping in of private players — must be conceived and implemented. Some of these measures would address the existing paucities in disease surveillance systems and poor access to diagnostic services and insurance. This must be accompanied by an unambiguous signal in favour of changes in lifestyle. The use of bicycles, the taxing of packaged food or introducing nutritious food in dietary preferences need to be contemplated. The edifice of a strong nation does not rest on hollow political signals. It can only be built by safeguarding the health of its citizens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
16-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Jackie Chan wants to join Chinese Communist Party; UP population control bill||New plan Sir — The actor, Jackie Chan, has expressed his desire to join the Chinese Communist Party. While this explains his controversial stance of 2019 when he backed the crackdown in Hong Kong by the Chinese government, many are baffled by this change as Chan had participated in a pro-democracy concert at Tiananmen Square in 1989. It is not that Chan cannot change his opinion; rather being able to change one’s position based on personal agenda or plans seems to have become the mark of a politician, and Chan has just ticked that box. Sudipta Chaki,Calcutta Think again Sir — The draft bill on population control and stabilization released by the Uttar Pradesh government does not inspire confidence in its objective and design (“Unbalanced”, July 13). It is reminiscent of forced family planning, the infamous idea of Sanjay Gandhi, that was implemented on a massive scale during the Emergency. Coercive methods for inculcating family planning like introducing incentivizing or punishing laws are likely to become counterproductive in the long run. The draft bill is lacking in sensitivity, creativity and practicality when it comes to addressing the problem at hand. It must be shelved. The focus on reducing infant mortality rate, women’s emancipation, raising the standards of education and healthcare has effectively brought down the total fertility rates in several southern states. The UP government should take a cue from states like Kerala and Andhra Pradesh and emulate the proven methods of attaining a stable TFR. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — The new population policy released by the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, has stated that it aims to ensure a population balance among communities. Given that the ruling dispensation in the state has always prioritized religious polarization, it is difficult to believe this claim, especially with the state assembly election only months away. The draft bill which has invited public feedback makes it clear that the government prefers to use punishment as a means of population control. Any policy or law that arms governments with unbridled power over citizens is erroneous. In this case, there is another fundamental point to consider — India is not threatened by a ‘population explosion’ at the moment. The success of India’s southern states in containing population growth indicates that economic growth as well as attention to education, health and empowerment of women work better in disincentivizing larger families than punitive measures. A penal population policy also tends to exclude the poor and the marginalized. In order to bring down the fertility rate, the UP government should focus on the education and empowerment of women and respecting their choices. S.S. Paul,Nadia||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
16-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: All the same||The rhetoric of the uniform civil code has had a long history in India. One of the guiding principles pertaining to the UCC is that of equality before law and it is a pity that the code is yet to be implemented. However, uniformity, history shows, can be complicated, not simple. Otherwise India would have progressed some way in formulating the UCC that the Constitution makers had hoped for in Article 44. The Supreme Court brought up the issue more than once, but most recently it was the Delhi High Court that reportedly expressed the need for it. Although Indian law is uniform in many civil matters as in the Sale of Goods Act, Indian Contract Act, Indian Evidence Act and so on, marriage, divorce, adoption and inheritance can be governed by personal laws that differ among faiths. This raises unnecessary difficulties, felt the Delhi High Court, when sitting on a dispute over a divorce petition of a couple belonging to the Meena community of Rajasthan. The court reportedly felt that society was becoming more ‘homogenous’ with the dissipation of barriers between castes, communities and religions, and that young people getting married across such barriers should not be troubled by personal laws. Even beyond the courts, there exist powerful arguments in favour of a UCC not only because a uniform law in marriage or divorce is the mark of a secular, civilized country, but also because such uniformity would provide security and protection for women, who are most vulnerable under personal laws. Yet the issue is complicated. Uniformity must be balanced on India’s diversity. Can ‘homogeneity’ be desirable under a government that pushes a majoritarian agenda? Its thrust for ‘oneness’ appears to turn on divisive strategies that make barriers between castes and religions more visible. It would find helpful the Delhi High Court’s direction that its decision be communicated to the ministry of law and justice for appropriate action, because the UCC was one of the three main promises in the Bharatiya Janata Party’s manifesto. The other two were the Ram temple and the revocation of Article 370. The BJP’s appropriation of the UCC project has unnerved many who would support it otherwise, even women’s groups which are critical of personal laws. Perceived to be Hindutvavadi and patriarchal, the BJP-led government’s formulation of the UCC may alienate sections of society beyond minority communities. To comply with the Delhi High Court’s suggestion, the government must first cultivate the people’s trust in a good cause if it wishes to disarm popular resistance. That seems distant at the moment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
16-07-2021||Opinion||Covid: Go to war armed with data||The death toll in the second wave of the Covid crisis in India has garnered international attention because of its sheer number. In spite of the paucity of Covid-19-related data in India, even a cursory look at the death data shows that people who contracted Covid-19 with comorbidities are more likely to die. The health statistics clearly indicate that India is a country of comorbidities and thus sitting on the volcano of an epidemic. One in six people with diabetes in the world is from India. According to International Diabetes Federation’s Diabetes Atlas, 2019 — a document that provides and projects data on the prevalence of diabetes — about 10.4 per cent of Indians aged between 20 and 79 years are diabetic. The prevalence of diabetes is 11.8 per cent in people aged above 50 years according to a survey released by the ministry of health and family welfare in India. The recent round of National Sample Survey data on health, too, indicates a disturbing trend: about 11.6 per cent people in rural areas and 20.8 per cent in urban areas are ailing with endocrine or metabolic diseases. During both the waves, cities have been the epicentres of the pandemic, and cities are also the sites of high comorbidities. According to the National Family Health Survey-5, about 24.3 per cent of men aged 15 or above in Calcutta have high or very high blood sugar levels; the rate is only slightly less for females. High levels of hypertension inflate the Covid-induced mortality rate; about 23 per cent of men in Mumbai and Calcutta suffer from hypertension; again, women fare a little better than men. With 135 million people, the prevalence of obesity and being overweight have reached alarming proportions. This is inextricably linked to cardiovascular and respiratory diseases. In these broad categories of ailments, according to NSS data, cardiovascular diseases afflict 13.8 per cent people in rural areas and about 21.9 per cent people in urban areas. Similarly, the rate for respiratory diseases hovers at around 10 per cent in both urban and rural areas. These are the deep-rooted causes that led to the extreme death toll in India. If one considers the figures of the first wave of the pandemic in West Bengal, data show that till August at least 2,851 people who had tested positive for Covid-19 died. Comorbidities were present in 2,483 patients, that is around 87 per cent of those who died. With comorbidities accounting for nearly 90 per cent of Covid-19-related deaths in West Bengal, the state government conducted a survey of people with comorbidities such as hypertension, diabetes and cardiac diseases so that the death rate could be reduced with appropriate interventions. Yet, the trend continued during the deadly second wave: of the total deaths till the first week of June 2021, about 70.5 per cent patients had comorbidities. Data further reveal that hypertension tops the list of the most fatal comorbidities, followed by diabetes and cardiac diseases. Almost three out of ten patients had suffered from hypertension, and almost one-fourth were diabetic, with women being ahead of men in both ailments. About one in 10 of those deceased owing to Covid-19 had cardiac diseases; the rate for women was 7.87 per cent in this case. A door-to-door survey by Asha workers on the status of comorbidities in rural areas was conducted across the state; similar work was done in urban areas by health workers. The exercise was useful in identifying the most vulnerable people; real-time data helped reduce the mortality rates. The more or less similar mortality rates in both waves in spite of the data could be explained by the prolonged elections in the state. But the data could be utilized for health interventions in the immediate future as well as to enhance preparedness to thwart the third wave. This approach can also be nationally emulated to chart out public health interventions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
16-07-2021||Opinion||Bengal’s changing caste equations||Three important aspects were in focus during the Bengal elections. First, there was the nature of ‘competitive populism’ spearheaded by the two charismatic leaders of Indian politics, Narendra Modi and Mamata Banerjee. Second, the entry of Hindutva in Bengal’s body politic. Finally, there was the politics of caste that this side of the country had not witnessed before. Two types of caste-based movements have been integral to the spectrum of Indian politics. There are movements and resistance emerging organically from the bottom of the social ladder demanding transformative, redistributive change. Then there is the caste-based discourse superimposed on the political set-up by leaders in a bid to organize their respective campaigns. It would not be wrong to say that the recent caste-based churning in Bengal is an example of the second type.\During the recent assembly elections, political parties were hell-bent on extracting political legitimacy from caste groups, a tendency that was not part of Bengal’s political culture because caste had not been politicized, at least in public. These attempts by the political parties may not have achieved their intended goal but they have, nonetheless, situated caste within Bengal’s political matrix. Caste politics has an unconventional character in the state. This is because it is so enmeshed within the social fabric and day-to-day practices that it becomes nearly invisible. It is for this reason that liberal academia did not accept caste to be a decisive factor in determining political equations in Bengal. The difficulty in comprehending Bengal’s caste dimension can be attributed to two reasons. First, there isn’t a strict separation between the Hindu religion and the religious inclination of Namashudras and Rajbanshis, the two largest weaker social groups in the state. In northern, central and southern India, leaders like Kanshi Ram, Jyoti Rao Phule, B.R. Ambedkar and Periyar, among others, offered a strong critique of Hinduism. Historically, Bengal has lacked such attempts. Secondly, there is no dialogue within oppressed social groups since the leaders of these groups have seldom attempted to create space for an organized movement to counter caste discrimination. Consequently, caste did not become a political concern in a concrete form. The reason behind the Trinamul Congress’s formidable victory can be attributed to the political landscape of a state that remains a party society. Socio-political churns are regulated and controlled by the party machinery. The legitimacy of the party has also led to a concomitant decline in interest in caste. Very little has thus been written on the condition of weaker social groups in the post-Yaas (cyclone) period; there has been minimal evaluation of the merits of election promises of the ruling party concerning outreach programmes towards weaker caste groups. Caste’s tenuous grip on Bengal is thus the result of the absence of queries relevant to caste on a daily basis. There is also the absence of caste leadership; after Jogendranath Mandal, Bengal has hardly had a leader with a pan-Bengal influence. However, with Manoranjan Byapari in the Vidhan Sabha and also the administrative head of the Dalit Sahitya Academy, the future of weaker social groups may get a desirable direction. As for the first challenge — the absence of questions pertaining to caste in everyday life — the Hinduized social space of Bengal needs to be stirred. For this to happen, the Dalit Sahitya Academy must play a crucial role. The institution should branch out in each and every district to make people aware of the deep-rooted discrimination toward lower caste groups by conducting literary and cultural events. These strategies could help politicize Bengal’s social space. In order to achieve greater redistributive justice, the future of caste politics in West Bengal would have to establish a link between the social and the political spheres. Representative caste politics is the first step towards justice and a holistic counter-narrative against caste discrimination could lead to not only material upliftment but also greater respect and dignity for weaker social constituencies. Such a cultural transformation can only be possible with corresponding attitudinal change among the people. This is exactly where the Dalit Sahitya Academy can play a critical role in shaping the future of Bengal’s socio-political space. For the first time in Bengal’s history, the political condition is fertile to launch an assault on the edifice of caste. This is because there is a state government that is, in a way, open and sympathetic toward these ascriptive identities and has put in place a desirable candidate to head the Dalit Sahitya Academy. This is the perfect time to reconcile the social and the political to make caste truly invisible in form and content.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
16-07-2021||Opinion||Devil’s advocates||Ayub Khan, Pakistan’s first military dictator, was once asked by a close associate how he made the error in judgement of approving ‘Operation Gibraltar’ that led to the 1965 war with India and, ultimately, his downfall. Operation Gibraltar was a plan to infiltrate the Kashmir Valley with large numbers of Pakistani troops in the guise of freedom fighters. This would, the expectation was, catalyze an insurrection and popular revolt and end Indian occupation in Kashmir. Ayub Khan was assured by his sycophants and by the foreign ministry (led, at the time, by Z.A. Bhutto) that India would not widen the conflict, which would remain confined to the Kashmir Valley and parts of Jammu. Gibraltar was launched sometime in early August 1965. A month later, Indian forces had crossed the international border in Punjab and were on the outskirts of Lahore. Pakistan, many in the country legitimately felt, had expected to fight for Kashmir but, instead, was battling for its survival. Three assumptions had underwritten the plan: there would be an insurrection in the Valley; India would not launch a counter-attack on Pakistan-occupied Kashmir; and, finally, that it would not launch an offensive across the international border. As it happened, all those assumptions were wrong and were belied. So the question somewhat naturally arose: why did Ayub Khan launch Operation Gibraltar so naively? Many reasons were advanced then and one that gathered traction is that hubris on account of an earlier conflict in Kutch in which Pakistan felt it had gained the upper hand had bred a false overconfidence. Similarly, there was an over-assessment of Indian weakness after the 1962 India-China conflict and this further added to the sense of overconfidence. Hubris certainly plays a major part in all errors in judgment flowing from overconfidence. Yet, this was not entirely convincing to many in Pakistan and, possibly, that is what led to the question being put to Ayub Khan. The answer is revealing. Ayub Khan said, “My error was not to have established a counter syndicate.” A ‘counter syndicate’ is military staff college terminology for having the benefit of a contrarian or opposing point of view. This is an old tradition within the armed forces. When drawing up an operational plan, an opposing group is set up to find weaknesses in the approach being adopted so that it can be defeated. Being alive to these weaknesses leads to modifications and strengthens the original plan. The origins of this possibly lie in military thinkers recognizing the real dangers of groupthink in hierarchical, tightly-disciplined organizations. The risks of groupthink are widely recognized, even if theoretically. Counter syndicates have now evolved, deepened and changed beyond the tactical limits of operational military planning. These now approach the status of a discipline in itself under the rubric of ‘Red Teaming’. The basic idea is to build contrarian thinking, critical approaches and dissenting views into any planning approach or in any system or project development. Their remit is also wider. As opposed to two groups emerging from a similar mindset and shared assumptions, as happens in counter syndicates in military staff colleges, a Red Team methodology is much more radical with every starting point left open for fundamental questioning from a multidisciplinary point of view. In the United States of America, after the 9/11 attacks in particular, Red Teaming became a kind of new mantra especially for security and intelligence organizations. The premise was that a new world had emerged and there should be teams, preferably from outside the system, tasked to think the unthinkable as a critical input into any policy. Notwithstanding this, the US record of intelligence and military failure — Iraq and Afghanistan are examples — remains significant. The point, therefore, is also of decision-making authorities first being willing to encourage critical and contrarian thinking and, then, being open to receiving, incorporating and considering such dissenting inputs. Encouraging contrarian thinking within established hierarchies and mindsets has some interesting historical antecedents. In medieval Europe, the Vatican had an office known as advocatus diaboli — the ‘devil’s advocate’. His mandate was a curious but possibly essential one — to discredit and debunk potential candidates for beatification or sainthood. This meant being sceptical about a candidate’s moral character, looking for flaws in the evidence in favour of sainthood, and debunking miracles attributed to him or her. The office no longer exists but traces of its methodology continue, possibly in a different form. Thus, Christopher Hitchens, a bitter critic of Mother Teresa, was asked by the Vatican to present evidence against her as part of her canonization process. The point simply is that groupthink has a kind of inevitability to it in most organizations and the challenge for policy-makers should be to find ways to evade it. Clearly, this can only happen if policy-makers are prepared to have their assumptions questioned and their favoured positions shaken. It is certainly not easy. Another cocky military dictator in Pakistan, General Pervez Musharraf, had intruded deep across the Line of Control in Kargil in 1999, trapped in his own assumptions that India would negotiate rather than fight to evict the intrusion. It was a fatally flawed assumption. But Musharraf in his own hubris was even more blind than Ayub Khan to the perils of unquestioned assumptions: “Too much analysis tends to paralysis” was a favoured malapropism of his. Groupthink in his set-up extended beyond military matters with consequences that are still there to see. With some justification, one of Pakistan’s most prominent military contrarians, Air Marshal Asghar Khan, had titled a book We have Learnt Nothing from History in 2005. Much, in fact, depends on the policy-makers themselves and, here, traditional wisdom and modern management thinking may converge to a greater extent than expected. Call it ‘Red Teaming’ or by whatever other name, the point is that the absence of informed dissent accelerates the rush to hubris. T.C.A. Raghavan is a former high commissioner to Pakistan and Singapore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
