17-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Forgotten food||Bengalis were torn between salivating and gloating when steaming plates of panta bhaat, alu bhorta and maachh bhaja were served by a contestant of Bangladeshi-origin at the grand finale of MasterChef Australia. There are whispers that while some Bengalis rushed to the kitchen to try out bowls of this proletarian, hence niche, delicacy, some — those with the Bengali version of the stiff upper lip — were left shocked at the decision to push rice gruel, a staple cooked with leftovers in poorer households, under the spotlight. Their derision is suggestive of a fact that cannot be masked by either aroma or flavour: the world of food is a distinctly segregated territory in which some dishes, usually the ones endorsed by rich and powerful nations, culinary cultures and people, have permanent seats at the high table of global cuisine. Thus paella and risotto — panta bhaat’s Spanish and Italian cousins, respectively — have gone chic and are being wolfed down by patrons in Michelin-starred restaurants. Yet, it took the world a while to discover the humbler paterfamilias of the clan. This hierarchy of tastes must be examined in the wider context. Cuisines, integral to culture, are, ironically, reliable mirrors of cultural and ethnic prejudices and fault lines. India — home to a dizzying array of dishes — is a convincing example of food fetishes. While the north chomps on chhole bhature, dal makhani and tandoori chicken, a day in the southern part of the country is incomplete without tucking into dosas and vadas. Meanwhile, the east salivates at fish curry, and the west cannot have enough of theplas and poha. But fetishes are seldom representative; they can be severely exclusionary, rendering invisible local — especially indigenous — food and its history. The market, that iniquitous platform under capitalism, has done its bit to push to the margins already-marginalized food. Fermented rice, celebrated as a health drink and gruel by India’s adivasis, is unlikely to be marketed as a palatable product for the urban, uninformed stomach under the spell of the basmati. A prevailing fallacy among cultural commentators is to view parochialism as being synonymous with regional sentiments. Yet, as Bengal’s panta bhaat has just shown, the provincial can essentially serve as capital to ignite interest — scholarly and mundane — in the vanishing dishes that ought to make up India’s food map. What is getting erased, from plates and public imagination, transcends food. The effacement has serious real-life consequences. Consumption patterns have a bearing on agricultural productivity. A study by the Central Rice Research Institute in Cuttack shows that the rising popularity of basmati is driving towards extinction a mind-boggling 2,00,000 indigenous rice varieties that are far more nutritious than the polished basmati. Owing to their widespread acceptability and export value, specific kinds of rice and wheat are prioritized by the State — be it in the public distribution system, mid-day meals or even scientific research. This has edged out indigenous food items like millet that are packed with benefits. A survey shows that between 1983 and 2011, changing dietary patterns reduced iron intake in India by 21 per cent in rural areas. Then there is the massive, under-reported ecological devastation that is decimating India’s original superfoods. Not just panta bhaat but little-known millets, shoots and other forgotten food must all make it to the high table, which needs to be wider, not higher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
17-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Rishabh Pant tests Covid positive, Modi's praise for Adityanath||Sudden chance Sir — It is really unfortunate that the Indian wicket-keeper and batsman, Rishabh Pant, and a member of the men’s cricket team’s support staff have tested positive for Covid-19 ahead of the five-match Test series against England. However, with Pant not playing, K.L. Rahul would likely get to be the wicket-keeper for India in the practice match against the Combined Counties from July 20. If Rahul plays and scores 50-odd runs and gets some catches, the problem of the opening slot could be solved for India. Rahul and the team deserve the nation’s support during the Test series. N. Mahadevan,Chennai In bad taste Sir — When the prime minister, Narendra Modi, recently applauded the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, for his ‘remarkable’ management of the deadly second wave of Covid-19 in the state, he was trying to pat his own back and forge a positive narrative of his own ‘achievements’ in the handling of the pandemic. By doing so, he made a mockery of the countless deaths witnessed in the state — the disturbing images of corpses of suspected Covid patients floating in the Ganga or buried in the sands of the river’s banks are a testimony. It is well known that Adityanath’s government made a huge mess of the Covid-19 situation in UP. By lauding him for an ‘achievement’ he can lay no claim to, Modi betrayed his own insensitivity to the pain of those who not only lost their loved ones owing to the failure of the state government to provide timely medical care, but were also denied the chance to give their dead a dignified cremation or burial. The disturbing visuals had triggered global outrage at the appalling state of public health infrastructure in UP, where several hospitals reportedly refused to admit patients gasping for breath. Many died waiting for a bed. The prime minister ought to have remembered that his own senior cabinet minister, Santosh Gangwar — he was recently replaced as Union minister of state for labour in the cabinet reshuffle — had written a letter to Adityanath expressing deep concern at the dismal healthcare infrastructure in UP. A sitting minister from UP, too, had shared Gangwar’s concern. By boasting that the UP government has vaccinated the highest number of persons in the country, the prime minister is misleading the nation. He is suppressing the fact that UP’s vaccination record has been one of the lowest in the country in terms of population. One would expect the prime minister of India to be more honest on matters concerning citizens’ lives and deaths. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Sir — It was both laughable and frightening to witness Narendra Modi lavish praise on Yogi Adityanath’s handling of the Covid-19 situation in Uttar Pradesh, especially when the state government not only allowed thousands of patients to die from the lack of medical care and oxygen but also cracked down on ordinary citizens trying to seek help online. Perhaps that is the ‘handling’ of the situation that Modi admires? After all, brutality and the hiding of the truth are common in Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states. Radhika Seshan,Delhi Sir — Narendra Modi’s praise of Yogi Adityanath ought not to be taken seriously. The latter is unlikely to take ‘stepmotherly’ treatment from the prime minister lying down. When he was summoned to Delhi recently to meet Modi, it must have become clear to the latter that, unlike L.K. Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, Adityanath is not a pushover. As such, Modi is handling him with kid gloves. Perhaps a mutual scratching of backs has been agreed upon? Radheshyam Sharma,Calcutta Sir — One wonders if Narendra Modi based his high opinion of Yogi Adityanath’s Covid-19 interventions in UP upon a panoramic, aerial view of the state through rose-tinted goggles. Murtaza Ahmad,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
17-07-2021||Opinion||Time for celebrations: Fourth of July||The United States of America celebrated its 246th Independence Day this July 4. It was one of the first major holidays and nationwide celebrations since the easing of Covid restrictions. More than half the country’s adults are fully vaccinated and were busy planning and attending firework-viewing parties and cookouts — something that was sorely missed last year. The White House celebrated Fourth of July, and also marked the country’s progress on the fight against the virus. It was one of the largest events hosted since the pandemic. “Today, all across this nation, we can say with confidence: America is coming back together,” the president, Joe Biden, remarked outside the White House. “Two hundred and forty-five years ago, we declared our independence from a distant king. Today, we’re closer than ever to declaring our independence from a deadly virus.” Around 1,000 people attended the event hosted on the South Lawn, including military families and families of essential workers. Boston, Philadelphia and New York City are the top attractions for visitors during the celebrations. NYC’s Macy’s fireworks show is the largest in the country, often viewed from the Brooklyn Bridge. The famous July 4 Nathan’s Hot Dog Eating Contest also took place with the winner, the 37-year-old Joey Chestnut, eating 76 hot dogs in 10 minutes. He beat his previous year’s record by one hot dog. The stadium was packed with around 5,000 people all eagerly watching him wolf down the dogs. A tasty affair Grubhub, the popular food delivery app, just released its third annual report of trending foods after analysing and studying customer orders from the past six months. It reports an overall increase in plant-based food requests with plant-based sausage wrap trending at the top. Its popularity has increased 549 per cent. Bubble milk tea, an Asian drink with tapioca pearls, came second with over 500 per cent increase. On its heels were Birria tacos — a Mexican adobo flavoured goat or beef stew, not unlike the Bengali mangshor jhol. The report also dives into favourite food by city. For example, app requests and trends show that NYC craves a toasted Monte Cristo panini, on the top of the list in Washington, DC is jumbo lump crab cake, Los Angeles enjoys its beef barbacoa taco while Chicago, the home of the deep dish pizza, saw nearly 700 per cent increase in demand for thin crust pizza. The forecast expects this summer to see a rise in the popularity of loaded chicken nachos, barbecue pork quesadilla and watermelon slushies. The reports are based on studying millions of online food orders. Another food trending now, although less research-based, is pasta chips, which made its way to the top on TikTok. It became famous through a food blogger, whose post garnered two million views and, ever since, videos under #PastaChips have over 361 million views. You boil farfalle pasta, add grated Parmesan, olive oil, garlic and onion powder to the bowl, then air-fry until the contents crisp up into chips. Proud moment New York City is opening up a museum to be dedicated to the LGBTQIA+ community and its history. The museum, named The American LGBTQ+ Museum, is formed as an expansion of the New-York Historical Society museum and library and is scheduled to start programmes and hire an executive director sometime soon. The idea was conceptualized in 2017 and approved in 2018 by the New York City Council. The website describes a study conducted with 3,200 people from the LGBTQ+ community, including historians, students, academics, and the general public across different demographics. It also says that the mission of the museum is “to advance LGBTQ+ equality through the lens of social justice movements, including, but not limited to, race, gender, class, immigration, and disability” through its exhibits and events. The museum focuses on highlighting the community’s experiences through the intersection of different identities. The museum will have a “core” section while everything else will be dynamic to avoid an exclusionary view of history. This section will highlight the history of NYC and some key moments in LGBTQ+ history. This is the first museum of its kind in the city. The Leslie-Lohman Museum of Art in SoHo also highlights LGBTQ+ voices, but it focuses only on art.Stay out Airbnb, the popular “home away from home” vacation rental app, has expanded in its unique and creative offerings during Covid and continued to do so even as travel restrictions were lifted. Just recently, it partnered with New York Mets’ Citi Field stadium where you can stay overnight at the VIP suite created at the stadium itself and watch two back-to-back games on July 28. Guests who are lucky enough to get a booking also get unlimited classic stadium park food such as hot dogs, sodas and Cracker Jack popcorn. To top it all, guests will get a signed baseball from the team players. Just last week the Airbnb co-founder and CEO, Brian Chesky, was appointed to the United States Travel and Tourism Board. According to Airbnb’s site, from July to September last year, there was a 128 per cent increase in guest reviews mentioning “relocation”, “relocate”, “remote work” and “trying a new neighborhood” compared to the same time the previous year. People have been looking for more rural, larger spaces, and trying to move out of cities, with provisions to work remotely. Airbnb reports that Park City (Utah), Steamboat Springs (Colorado) and Durham (North Carolina) are among the top trending destinations for remote work. In terms of vacations, stays like cabins and cottages crack the top five space types for 2021 trips, replacing villas and townhouses from 2020. Footnote Considering that dating is hard, the popular dating app, Bumble, is opening a restaurant in NYC’s Nolita neighbourhood called Bumble Brew. It will start with breakfast service and soon move to dinner and lunch. The decor reflects the app’s yellow and black theme and includes music by female artists. Now it does not seem far-fetched to think that once a pair agrees on a date the app would suggest its own date spot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
17-07-2021||Opinion||Second assassination||I first visited Ahmedabad in 1979, and in the following decade went back often for both professional and personal reasons. Then I began research on Gandhi, and my attachment to the city deepened even more. In the summer of 2002, on my first trip back after the horrific riots that had taken place earlier that year, I naturally went to the Sabarmati Ashram, where I spent some time talking to one of the Trustees, a quiet, self-effacing man who had spent thirty years in the service of Gandhi. In the course of our conversation, he told me that the Gujarat riots of 2002 were “the second assassination of Mahatma Gandhi”. The person under whose watch those riots took place, the then chief minister, Narendra Modi, was entirely educated by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, an organization whose sectarian, xenophobic ideology is utterly at odds with the capacious and open-minded worldview of Gandhi himself. Modi grew up venerating the sarsanghchalak of the RSS, M.S. Golwalkar, whose detestation of Gandhi is a matter of public record. In a speech in December 1947, Golwalkar remarked: “Mahatma Gandhi could not mislead them any longer. We have the means whereby such men can be immediately silenced, but it is our tradition not to be inimical to Hindus. If we are compelled, we will have to resort to that course too.” For Modi, Golwalkar was ‘Pujniya Shri Guruji’, most revered Teacher and Master. Through much of his career, he held Golwalkar in enormous regard while scarcely sparing a thought for Gandhi. In his years as chief minister, Narendra Modi visited Sabarmati Ashram infrequently. However, after he became prime minister, he developed a keen interest in the place. He has personally escorted to Gandhi’s ashram, among others, the prime ministers of Japan and Israel and the presidents of China and the United States of America. Several of the Ashram’s Trustees have a deep knowledge of Gandhi’s life, as do members of the staff. But instead of asking one of these experts to show the foreign dignitary around, Modi — a man trained in the school of Gandhi-baiters and Gandhi-haters — insisted on doing so himself. The cameraperson was instructed to have only the Indian prime minister and the visiting head of state in the frame, the better to show Modi gesturing with his hands towards various landmarks in the Ashram — the hut where Gandhi stayed, the ground where he prayed, his spinning wheel — while talking with apparent authority on the Mahatma, his life, and his message. How does one explain the prime minister’s new-found desire to publicly associate with Gandhi? It appears that Modi’s desire for personal glory has superseded old political loyalties and ideological affiliations. The RSS remains deeply ambivalent about Gandhi. Modi bhakts on social media are nakedly hostile to Gandhi. But Modi himself knows that Gandhi remains, to use the contemporary argot, the Indian ‘brand’ most visible and most appreciated around the world. So, whether it be Japan, China, Israel or France, or America or Russia or Germany, if Modi wants to make an impression he must cynically, instrumentally, have Gandhi by his side. For all his interest in the Sabarmati Ashram since he became prime minister, the moral and ideological distance between Gandhi and Modi may be forever unbridgeable. A prime minister whose party cannot number a single Muslim among its 300-odd Lok Sabha MPs, and whose government passes a raft of discriminatory legislations stigmatizing Muslims, practises a politics that Gandhi, the prophet of inter-faith harmony, abhorred and opposed all his life. A man who has so extravagantly embroidered his personal history, whose regime systematically doctors statistics with regard to economics, health and all else, is worlds removed from the person who proclaimed ‘Satyameva Jayate’, truth shall prevail. In fact, so ubiquitous has been this regime’s lying and dissembling that a writer I know says that the Bharatiya Janata Party’s motto should be ‘Asatyameva Jayate’ — through falsehood we shall triumph. Truth, transparency, and religious pluralism, that was Gandhi. Deceit, secrecy, and majoritarianism — that is Modi. How then can the latter claim any kinship with the former? Logic and morality suggest that he cannot, but power and ambition mandate that he must. That is why, in the latest and most egregious attempt to whitewash Modi’s dark record by association with Gandhi’s name, we now have on the anvil a lavishly-funded, State-directed project to radically reshape the Sabarmati Ashram on the pretext of making it a ‘world-class memorial’ to the Mahatma. My life is my message, said Gandhi. Unlike Modi, he did not need a stadium named after himself, or capitals redesigned to obliterate the image of past rulers and superimpose his own, to assure himself a place in history. The Sabarmati Ashram as it stands today is a perfectly adequate memorial to Gandhi and what he stood for. The charming low buildings existing still from Gandhi’s time, the trees and the birds, the open ingress and lack of guards or of an entry fee, the absence of policemen in khaki carrying rifles or even batons, the view of the river — all these give the place a special, welcoming character absent in every other monument or museum in India today. Of the five ashrams that Gandhi established, two in South Africa and three in India, Sabarmati is unquestionably the most significant. Millions of people from all over India, and across the world, have visited this ashram over the years. No one comes away without being moved by the beauty and simplicity of the surroundings as much as by the historic associations they carry. When a regime known for its aesthetic barbarism and its worship of monumentalism uses the word, ‘world-class’, in connection with the Sabarmati Ashram, it sends shivers down the spine. That the chosen instrument of this ‘upgradation’ is the architect, Bimal Patel, makes one more nervous still. Patel’s work is undistinguished. His cold, concrete structures are cut of a cloth very different from that which marks the homes and dwellings in Gandhi’s ashrams in Sabarmati and Sevagram. Bimal Patel is apparently the only architect the prime minister has heard of. As with other sarkari projects in Delhi, Varanasi, and Ahmedabad, here too Patel has been assigned the makeover of the Sabarmati Ashram almost automatically. Modi has also deputed, to work on the project, some Gujarat civil servants whom he likewise personally trusts. The plan for ‘redevelopment’ was drafted by Modi’s inner circle with no inputs from architects knowledgeable about conservation and heritage, and without consulting Gandhians or scholars either. Even the Trustees of the Ashram were kept entirely in the dark about the plan and its contents. The Modi plan for Sabarmati is steeped in secrecy and characterized by cronyism. It is in striking contrast to an earlier (and admirably modest) intervention that dates to the 1960s. When the then Trustees decided that the Ashram needed a small museum, they chose not a fellow Gujarati but Charles Correa from Bombay. That the architect was from a different religion and a different part of India were in keeping with Gandhi’s own lack of parochialism. Besides, he was an architect whose work was widely admired. Built on the human scale, with spacious corridors open to the elements and trees all around it, the museum designed by Charles Correa blends quite beautifully with the structures of Gandhi’s own time. An Amdavadi colleague jokes that while we may fortunately never have One Nation, One Party, we are heading in the direction of One Nation, One Architect. Now, if a billionaire wishes to have the same man (or woman) design his beach house, his town house, his mountain house, and his desert house, paying for them all with his personal funds, there can be no moral objection. But if a single architect gets awarded all prestigious State projects, paid for by the taxpayer, then there is indeed a problem. It is only in authoritarian States that particular architects have come to be associated with particular leaders and their cults of personality. That the same person can be seen as uniquely qualified to re-design an ancient temple city, a modern capital, and Gandhi’s ashram is a commentary on the nepotism and cronyism of the Modi regime. Indian architecture, and India itself, deserve better. In a better or braver world, Modi and his cronies would not be able to get away with their vandalism. Sadly, the Trust that runs the Sabarmati Ashram today is composed of ageing men and women, who all live in Gujarat, and thus cannot speak out for fear that they or their families will be victimized by a government known for its vindictiveness. So the plans as forged by Modi and his cronies will go ahead. Knowing the man as we do, there will be nothing in them that is not self-interested. Modi is not ‘redeveloping’ Sabarmati out of love or regard for the Mahatma, but to seek to burnish his own image and rewrite his past. The ongoing despoilation of New Delhi’s Central Vista has been widely criticized. However, from an ethical point of view, the proposed despoilation of the Sabarmati Ashram is even more worrisome. As an elected prime minister, Modi has some legitimacy in erecting structures — however ugly and costly — on public land in the capital. The case of Sabarmati is altogether different. The Sabarmati Ashram and Gandhi belong not to Ahmedabad, not to Gujarat, not even to India, but to every human being born or unborn. A politician whose entire life’s work has been antithetical to Gandhi’s, and an architect whose prime qualification is proximity to that politician, have no right to mess around with the most hallowed of all the places associated with the Mahatma. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
