18-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Kanwar Yatra a dangerous move||Sir — Some 3.5 crore devotees participated in the Kanwar Yatra in 2019. Last year, the yatra was cancelled because of the pandemic. This year, the Centre and the Uttarakhand government opposed the yatra in the apex court hearing, but the Uttar Pradesh government had stated that only vaccinated people will be allowed to take part in the ritual. But the court was not impressed; it has ordered the Uttar Pradesh government to cancel the yatra (“SC to Yogi: Ban Kanwar Yatra or we will do it”, July 17). Large sections of Indians are religious and opposed to a scientific approach. Even the prime minister recently urged citizens to develop a scientific mind. I am myself a religious person, but with a scientific mind. I will never put my religious beliefs above the safety of other people. The pandemic has already created havoc in the country; a third wave is anticipated any time now. In such a situation, it will be near-suicidal to allow a large congregation of people over a long period of time. While the Uttar Pradesh government may face some backlash owing to the cancellation of the yatra, nothing can be more important than saving human lives. We have to keep pace with the times instead of becoming dogmatic. The Uttar Pradesh government should keep this in mind while planning its next course of action. Perhaps a virtual yatra can be arranged for the ‘bhakts’. Ashok Kumar Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — It is unthinkable that the Uttar Pradesh government is bent on allowing the Kanwar Yatra. So much so that the Supreme Court had to issue an ultimatum to the state government to call off the event. This sort of adamance is against the welfare of the nation and its people. Did the government learn nothing from the monumental blunder of Kumbh? This is all the more outrageous at a time when the third wave is knocking on our doors. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam Sir — It seems that the Uttarakhand government has learnt its lesson from the Kumbh fiasco as they suspended the Char Dham Yatra and now the Kanwar Yatra. Given the shocking images of tourists flouting Covid norms in places like Mussoorie, Manali, Shimla and so on, this is a welcome move. What is shocking, though, is that neighbouring Uttar Pradesh refuses to suspend the yatra. There is no way it can ensure either RT-PCR tests or full vaccination for such a large number of people. It should follow Uttarakhand’s example rather than flirting with danger. Uttar Pradesh may have political compulsions as elections are a few months away, but can anything be more important than the lives of thousands of people? We all have seen miserable times during the second wave; there is no need to invite danger again. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — The prime minister claims to share his ‘Mann ki Baat’, but there is a world of difference between what he says and what he wants and what he ends up doing. He talks of the need for social distancing and following rules, but when the Uttar Pradesh government wants to go ahead with the Kanwar Yatra, it is not the prime minister but the top court that takes the initiative to stop it. There is no one in the world to compete with the prime minister in words; he reminds the chief ministers to focus on the ‘four Ts’ — test, track, treat and tika. But where are the vaccines? As usual, there are no answers. Jang Bahadur Singh,Jamshedpur Sir — The Simpsons has done it again. The show had predicted Richard Branson’s space sojourn in 2014. It had previously predicted the Trump presidency, the discovery of the Higgs boson particle, 9/11 and Disney’s takeover of Fox. But there is no crystal ball in The Simpsons’s writers’ room. One only has to turn to the concept of “the law of truly large numbers”. Harvard mathematicians, Frederick Mosteller and Persi Diaconis, claimed in the 1980s in a paper titled “Methods for Studying Coincidences” that with a large enough sample, a number of outrageous things are bound to come true. S. Banerjee, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
18-07-2021||Opinion||How Ravi Shankar Prasad is recovering from after-shock||The Union cabinet reshuffle ranked quite high on the Richter scale. But Ravi Shankar Prasad, formerly in charge of the law and justice, information technology and communication ministries, appears to be slowly recovering from the shock of being removed from the council of ministers. An articulate lawyer, with age still on his side, it is possible that Prasad may have considered himself indispensable, and thus the blow at the cabinet reshuffle. After the untimely death of Arun Jaitley, Prasad was seen as an asset for the party as well as the government. His Twitter handle, which had suddenly turned inactive, is back in action, albeit tentatively, re-tweeting the prime minister’s tweets and congratulating other colleagues. He was also in his constituency, Patna Sahib, and posted a tweet with pictures of his meeting with party workers. He said that with the “energy and affection” of the workers, the country’s development will continue under the leadership of the prime minister, Narendra Modi. It seemed to some like he was trying to convey that the party workers of his constituency were angry over his sacking. An experienced leader, Prasad is expected to know that such tactics do not work with the current regime of the party. The members of the Bihar legislative assembly are clearly taking their cues from the CM. They should have been working 24x7 to provide relief to the poor who suffer the most in such situations. But in this hour of need most of the legislators hailing from the flood-affected areas have flocked together in Patna. They are not even pretending to go to their constituencies in spite of repeated calls from their voters. When somebody asked a Bharatiya Janata Party MLA about why he was staying put in the state capital instead of carrying out relief work in his marooned constituency, he narrated how he escaped being thrashed by angry flood victims. A legislator from the Janata Dal (United) — led by the chief minister, Nitish Kumar — revealed how hundreds of unemployed, hungry people assemble with their kids outside his house daily during the deluge for food, something that he cannot tackle with his limited resources. Another MLA from the Opposition, the Rashtriya Janata Dal, pointed out that the failure of the state government in providing proper relief has led to a situation where he has to bear the brunt of angry and frustrated people who shoot abuses at him on sight. So these legislators choose to idle away in safer environs of Patna to wait out the floods. But many people find it difficult to understand why they are not even making noises or taking long-distance measures to ensure speedier delivery of ample relief to the flood-hit. The BJP-led Assam government exhibited its resolve to protect the cow through its annual budget proposals to boost the dairy sector, days after tabling a bill for the preservation of cattle. The budget presented by the state’s first woman finance minister — Ajanta Neog — spelt out in detail how the government plans to raise the number of cows through sex-sorted insemination technology to boost milk yield. What the budget left unsaid was said by the CM, Himanta Biswa Sarma. The cow boom will reduce the number of bulls, usually sold for their meat or discarded after a couple of years, a practice the government wants to strictly regulate through the proposed bill which also plans to set up gaushalas for the protection and preservation of cattle. The proposed bill has borrowed heavily from Uttar Pradesh, a state where the cow has emerged as the reigning deity under the Yogi Adityanath government. But for a state aspiring to figure among the country’s top five states in the next five years, UP may not be the right model to follow considering its floundering efforts to protect the cow, those opposed to the bill assert. From all accounts, their views will fall on deaf ears given the belligerence with which the ruling BJP is pushing its agenda — within and outside the House. It appears that the days when southern film personalities commanded influence over politics are over. Rajinikanth trashed his political ambitions and dissolved his Rajini Makkal Mandram just when his fans thought he would grab the baton passed down by MG Ramachandran, M Karunanidhi, NT Rama Rao and J Jayalalithaa. With his friend, Kamal Haasan, too, down and out with the recent Tamil Nadu state polls, it is now up to the Kannada film star, Sudeep, to test the electoral waters. Ever since Sudeep flirted with the BJP in the 2018 state election, he has been highly ambitious about kicking off his political career. But with Rajinikanth backing off, will Sudeep dare to take the plunge?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
18-07-2021||Opinion||A matter of disaffection||The trial of Bal Gangadhar Tilak in 1897 was not the first sedition case in British India. It was the second. But as Bombay High Court advocate S.S. Setlur observes in the introduction to A Full and Authentic Report of the trial of The Hon’ble Mr. Bal Gangadhar Tilak published that year: “Men associated with the High Court for more than thirty years tell us that in their life they never knew any case that created as much stir…” Mind you, those days sedition was a relatively new offence; Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code had been added in 1870. The charge levelled at Tilak was that he had published two pieces in his Marathi paper, Kesari --- one was a report on the Shivaji festival and the other a poem titled Shivaji’s Utterances --- and through them he had “excited feelings of disaffection to the Government”. Actually, on June 22, 1897, W.C. Rand, the assistant collector of Satara district and plague commissioner of Poona, and Lieutenant Ayerst had been assassinated. The European community panicked. Tilak’s Kesari was printed in Poona and had a circulation of around 6,000. A case was crafted. Later, the advocate general argued: “I do not say that the murder was actually caused by the inuendos of the articles. I have no evidence… but I think we are all of opinion that an article of this kind, published at a time when there is a considerable amount of excitement owing to the plague at Poona and also to the famine, and read by those who suffered from the famine and plague operations of the Government… is extremely likely to cause men to do an act like that which caused the deaths…” The trial lasted a week. It hinged on Justice Strachey’s interpretation of the term “disaffection”. Amrita Bazaar Patrika reported that Justice Strachey said in the same breath that disaffection means “want of affection as well as disloyalty”. The Gujarati, critiqued him saying, “He has not borne in mind that there… is a large interval to be traversed between the existence of some bad feeling and what is punishable as disaffection in the Penal Code”. The jury comprised six Europeans and three Indians. The Europeans did not know Marathi. Setlur writes that even if the translations were good, they were unlikely to have captured the spirit of the Shivaji poem. He asks, “And, if not the spirit of a passage, what else is there to determine its seditious or innocent character?” The Europeans in the jury pronounced Tilak guilty. Back then, The Hindu ran a poem by one Ram Dass which read thus: “O! Mourn for the patriot prisoner, /In clanking chains, the man whose only wrong/ It was he loved his country well, and dared/ Speak Ind’as (sic) glory past, her happy state…” More than a 100 years later, sedition cases in India are on the rise. Do we still need the law, the Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana asked the government. The government's top lawyer, attorney general K.K. Venugopal argued that it should be retained with “guidelines”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
18-07-2021||Opinion||Operator needs a ministry of operation||Please understand. You don’t? Consider yourself in trouble. BigBoss NumberToo. He’s here. That one, the one that serves Saheb. And does everything that Saheb requires done. Saheb: the very mention of it. Has a ring to it, the ring of a ring leader. What the leader wishes, his ring has to accomplish, and having a ring to Saheb helps. Ring. Ring. Pause. Then again. Ring. Ring. Get the line, He may be on the other side of it, and he will not take kindly to someone not getting the line when he is the one ringing. He will know who picked the call, who did not. He has an Operator. The Operator puts the calls through. And now the Operator has a whole office that will help him operate the lines. Ring. Ring. Ringleader speaking, we are in operation now, please operate, this is the Ministry of Operation. This is the Operator. You see how the calls are being put through, we believe in transparency. You can see the instrument we use, there, look at the picture carefully. Have a problem recognising it? Never seen it? Perhaps. We employ old ways. Trusted ways. Or is it that what you see is not in proper focus? That too. That’s part of the idea. We are transparent but we give you that much and no more. Guess what that thing is. No? Well, that is partly how we want this thing to be. But some of you may recognise the thing, blurred and in poor repair though it is. Telephone. Hello! Hello! That could be greeting. That could be guillotine. Hello! Never underestimate how many things a word could mean. I mean go to the Dictionary, of course. But go often to the Thesaurus. Synonyms. And don’t forget the antonyms. Hello, are you well? That could well mean Hello, are you still alive? Be warned. Be wary. This thing you see, this denuded, old fashioned thing, it could still be the end of you. It’s an outdated and old thing, you say, tooti-phooti si koi cheez. Perhaps. It dials. Chosen numbers. Ever considered a stiletto? Another outdated and old thing. But it can kill, it can kill like a cat walks, soundlessly. What’s a modern gun? It makes a racket. And this thing? Unmatched encryption. Not on the web, dark or otherwise, not on the virtual highways, not anywhere it is now possible to look. Calls untraceable. Outdated technology, unmatched efficacy. Nobody knows who’s calling. And the calls get through. Ring. Ring. He’s calling, NumberToo. He has the Operator on assistance, he wants you to operate. To do his bidding. Operate. Or else. Wring. Wring. Protest not, give up this trade Get a move on, stop to slumber Be alarmed and be afraid TheBoss, he now has your number.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
18-07-2021||Opinion||History’s muse||Some anniversaries wait uneasily to be reached in the calendar. November 30, more than three months away, is one such. As the date when Romila Thapar turns ninety, it asks to be celebrated ahead of its click. Described as the ‘pre-eminent historian of ancient India’, she is exactly that. Just as Amartya Sen is the pre-eminent exponent of development and welfare economics. ‘Left-leaning’ would be another description of her — and, of course, of him — in a journalistically apt sense. But as a summary of their intellectual resources and energies, it amounts to a flat cliché. Both those descriptions show how the accurate can be incomplete and the correct, inadequate. Master of history’s faded scrolls and eras dullened grey-green by the patina of time, her mind wears an exploratory helmet that is all her own. To it has been fastened a head lamp lit by batteries, again, of her own ‘charge’. This instrumentation, if it may be so called, has sharpened the outer details of all the images she is examining and has vivified their inner lives. Asoka was written about extensively and engagingly from much before Romila Thapar, and will doubtless continue to be the subject of enlightening scholarship in the future as well. Professors of Ancient Indian History, Upinder Singh and Nayanjot Lahiri, have, for instance, made outstanding contributions to recent understanding of the great Mauryan. H.G. Wells’s glowing and lyrical description of Asoka as one who “shines and shines almost alone, a star” has entered the crannies of every school-child’s memory of the ‘Asoka class’.  But in her masterpiece on Asoka, Romila Thapar corroborates what every reader of the edicts cannot but notice but might not say, out of respect for the man, that the remorseful and morally-ignited ruler was not without his own style of vanity! The self-praise in his edicts reveals a mind that can be profoundly driven by an ethical voltage but not without an ego of its own. From the time in school that I first came across Asoka’s description in his Edict XIII of the Kalinga War, I wondered what might have become of the one hundred and fifty thousand captives who were carried away from Kalinga. Thapar says, with her reasoning explained, that it is likely that they were used for clearing forests or put to other forms of arduous labour on land for which the empire may have lacked manpower or means. Her inter-connected use of materials from within the world of Asoka’s Edicts and from outside, as from Sri Lankan sources, has lit up the story with fresh insights and clarifying knowledge. And to this collating, she has added penetrative analyses that go beyond the ruler himself to the state of society in his times. If personalities from Asoka’s times come stunningly to life in her narration, it is not because she uses the arts of dramatization but because she interfolds the seams of possibility and probability with corroborative evidence to differential effect. Her work on Ancient India balances the country’s north with its south in a way that is chastening for any reader prone, by placement and practice, to take an ‘upper Indian’ view of our longitudinally-mapped mental cartography. “What,” a student in a class I was giving on the Indus Valley Civilization’s entrancing story, asked me “was happening to our south when Harappa and Mohenjodaro were thriving?” Periyar E.V. Ramasamy would have applauded the querist. “Do not the great drains in Mohenjodaro suggest the presence of a class of scavengers?” asked another. Dr Ambedkar would have seen the point to that question. Romila Thapar’s works make valuable suggestions about these and similar questions, not from a vaunted finality but a persuasive setting out of evidence, invariably crossed with alternatives and opposites. Our east and the west also slide with ease into her narrative, making the peoplehood of India matter. If traditional history-writing and teaching have been about dates trying to bring the past to life, her books are about lives that bring dates and places from the past alive. Human society, with its coarse and its fine, is the large and living backdrop for the procession of events as unfolded by her, not a slim and snippable margin. But apart from what one learns from Romila Thapar, there is that one unlearns. And this is where perhaps her greatest contribution lies. She tells us that history-writing and history-learning in and about India brim with prejudices and pre-dispositions, which make of our past a pair of ever-widening scissor blades between the country’s Hindu and Muslim populations. Sparing neither of the blades for their divisive intent, she shows through an acute study of facts that if Turko-Persian and Sanskrit-Jaina texts can describe, Rashomon-like, the same happening with totally different viewpoints, the truth has to lie elsewhere than in their depictions. Her Somanatha, The Many Voices of a History is a focused account of how showing the story of medieval and modern India as a story of two antagonisms is a-historical and fraught. And this achievement of Romila Thapar’s places her beyond the accurate description of ‘pre-eminent historian of ancient India’ to a space where history and civilization intersect. Master of the play of time that she is, Romila Thapar is strangely unbrushed by time herself. This, of course, has something to do with the fact that she makes for a stunning presence. When Romila Thapar gets to a place somewhere, anywhere, she does not just ‘land up’. She arrives. The room may be crowded, the hall full, the lawn a-jostle, the airport lounge a flurry of bags and tags but if Romila has entered it, as quietly as she might, she is not to be missed. And this is not just about Broad Forehead, Groomed Head, Starkly Startling Jewellery. It is about the totality of her being — strong, sure and an example of what in Tamil English is called ‘a Don’t Care Master’. I first met her at Peradeniya University, Kandy, Sri Lanka, in 1978 where she had come for an academic engagement, staying on that campus’s stunning guesthouse. She admired it hugely, she said, “But the people there put some durian in my room... I can’t stand that fruit... Its smell is disgusting.” That snatch of a conversation I have not forgotten. Though only fifteen years or so younger than her, I could not summon up the guts to say to her that the fruit may smell how it does but it tastes divine. Romila Thapar the historian has Euclidian objectivity. Romila Thapar the person has, I think, strong likes and dislikes and she makes no secret of them. The Empress of Ancient Indian Studies will not, in the Ninth Decadal Year of her rich life, mind such an observation!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
18-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Still hidden shapes||Robots with artistic sensibilities have been around for a while. Computers powered by artificial intelligence can not only respond like human beings under specific circumstances — the test Alan Turing set years ago — but they have also been composing music, writing poetry and painting pictures. “For the Bristlecone Snag”, an AI-produced poem — no, it is not “Jabberwocky” — was born of a 2011 program for auto-generated poetry. It passed the Turing test with flying colours by being published in a literary journal. Christie’s auction house sold an AI-made artwork in New York City at $432,000 in 2018, and the first solo painting exhibition by an AI-powered robot named Ai-Da was held in Oxford in 2019. Her human-like features and slightly disconcerting conversation may have suggested that the line between machines and humankind was being gradually obliterated — however eerily — but now AI-powered robots that make sculptures have taken this blurring in another direction. That is happening in Italy. Its Carrara marble, used in Renaissance and neoclassical sculptures, fell out of favour with later artists partly because of the time it takes for chisel and hammer to discover the shape hidden in the marble that Michelangelo sought. But it is back again, thanks to AI-powered robotic arms — with engineers in the background — that have given a fillip to the country’s most valued export. The founders and employees of the robot-producing company are convinced that Italy’s art exports need this technological boost. Well-known artists are commissioning the robots to execute the hard work of giving their design shape, to which human hands will give the finishing touches. What once took a sculptor years is being accomplished in days by ABB2 or Quantek2. Is this any different from the artist’s workshop in Renaissance times that had apprentices and artisans toiling away at the artist’s design while the master bestowed it with his unique touches and, ultimately, his name? Technology seems to be repeating history more efficiently and more lucratively all round. But is it repetition? The old workshops produced great artists from among their apprentices; will the robots become creators independent of their programmers? AI raises challenging questions about imagination, creativity and the humanness of art. Old issues are being thrashed out again: the relationship between perceiving and imagining, for example, or what creativity implies. Definitions may evolve, but can art be produced without intentionality? Or is the AI-powered robot carving the leaves of a cabbage with its diamond-coated finger itself the most beautiful creation, as one engineer remarked? Whatever the future holds, the experience of artists today suggests that the artistically inclined robot can be an excellent collaborator — with practical benefits for sculptors, apparently — while opening up new horizons of freedom and experimentation for the musician or painter. Maybe the collaborative aspiration, in the words of “For the Bristlecone Snag”, is towards “a sweet-smelling diamond architecture/ that does not know why it grows.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
