19-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Photojournalist Danish Siddiqui killed in Kandahar, Sulekha ink stages a comeback||Last picture Sir — The killing of the Reuters photographer, Danish Siddiqui, has led to an immense loss for Indian journalism. His versatility and news sense — he was always around to capture poignant moments, be it during a humanitarian crisis like that faced by Rohingya refugees or a natural calamity — won him a Pulitzer. He played a crucial role in presenting the true picture of Covid-19 in India to the world. His bold and detached style must be studied by future generations. The photographs from his last project, of an extraction mission by the Afghan special forces, are spine-chilling. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly Sir — It is shocking that Danish Siddiqui was killed in Kandahar, Afghanistan, while covering clashes between Afghan forces and the Taliban. Passionate about his art, his portrayals of crises were always layered. Amidst the pandemic, when the government was busy praising itself, Siddiqui’s photos revealed the harsh truth. The only tribute to the hero who captured reality through the lenses can be our commitment to truth. Sandeep Rawat,Chandigarh Sir — The sudden, unfortunate demise of the 2018 Pulitzer recipient, Danish Siddiqui, has left a huge void in the field of journalism. But the politics over his corpse takes away the focus from the mortal peril looming over other journalists like him. While we demand a free press, the ones who have to venture out in search of the truth are, in reality, unsure of whether they will live to see the next day. I have seen this anxiety afflict members of my peer group. But in his death, Siddiqui has reminded us how to brave the horrors of war and politics. Whether we want to turn a blind eye to the perilous life of journalists is up to us. Uddipta Banerjee,Calcutta Leave a mark Sir — The mechanical click-clack of the keyboard will not impart the joy that the smell of ink on paper does. People are rediscovering the joy of writing, allowing a Swadeshi-era ink company to make a comeback. Sulekha ink — named by Tagore and used by Gandhi — is all the rage online. But Gen-Z is weighing this charm against the imprints that ink-smudged fingers may leave on fancy smartphones.Jhinuk Sen,Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
19-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: New challenge||As the Taliban forces march across Afghanistan — they may have the capital, Kabul, in their sights soon enough — the reverberations are being felt across the world, including in New Delhi. Speaking at a recent meeting of foreign ministers at the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, S. Jaishankar, the Indian representative, articulated New Delhi’s concern by saying that the future of Afghanistan cannot be premised on its past. New Delhi’s anxiety is not unwarranted. Unlike several other countries — China and Russia being the principal examples — India has not been able to make much headway in its deliberations with a resurgent Taliban. Part of this failure can be attributed to the frosty ties that New Delhi has shared with the Taliban over the years. India’s opposition to the Taliban — Pakistan has, historically, been their patron — is based on both geopolitical security and moral imperatives. But India’s misreading of the commitment of the United States of America to stay put on slippery Afghan territory cannot be discounted when it comes to India’s Afghan headache. The pundits in New Delhi should have opened backchannel engagements with the Islamic force much earlier. Now, an emboldened Taliban, with tacit encouragement from India’s western neighbour, could well play a part in heating up India’s northern border. That cannot be reassuring amidst reports of Chinese troops infiltrating Ladakh. The Union home minister has lauded the prime minister for drafting independent India’s first comprehensive security policy, notwithstanding these red flags. New Delhi must persist in re-engaging with the Taliban. Afghanistan, in a manner of speaking, is an important theatre of the Great Game and India cannot afford to watch the play unfold from the sidelines. It must use the two aces it holds to augment its bargaining in Afghanistan. The first is a long history of public goodwill. Second — this is interconnected with the first factor — is a push to bilateral trade whose volume stands at around $1.3 billion at present. The Indian presence in improving such sectors as Afghanistan’s healthcare, education, transportation, power, communication and so on could give New Delhi an additional leverage to press its case. The Taliban, if they are serious about shedding the stigma of medievalism, must also respond in kind. Cooperation with regional and international players could be one way of legitimizing their claim of being the leading domestic political force in Afghanistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
19-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Thin red line||India’s democratic framework is balanced on the separation of powers. The Supreme Court reiterated this in its hearing of the Uttar Pradesh government’s plea against the Allahabad High Court. The latter had given the state government numerous instructions for pandemic management and made uncomplimentary observations in this regard. The Supreme Court bench sitting on this case reportedly ruled that constitutional courts should be restrained regarding policy decisions. These are the executive’s domain and honouring the principle of separation of powers meant that the judiciary should not step into the executive’s territory. The Supreme Court, however, emphasized that the high court’s intention was not in question. The question was whether judicial interference was needed at all at the time of a crisis which the government and experts were supposed to handle. This is a crucial question. In India, challenges such as the pandemic or those brought about by abuses of power have repeatedly blurred the demarcation between jurisdictions, often leading to complaints of judicial overreach from the executive. But the executive’s abdication of duty or its failures that affect citizens’ rights sometimes compel the judiciary to comment on policy. The Allahabad High Court was not the only court to rule on medical necessities. Although the Supreme Court said that high courts should not give orders that cannot be implemented, it had upheld against challenges certain orders of the high courts of Delhi, Gujarat, Calcutta and others regarding pandemic management. The ‘irrationality’ of the Centre’s vaccine policy had prompted the Supreme Court itself to address the issue because it infringed on the people’s right to health and equality. The Supreme Court judge, D.Y. Chandrachud, reportedly said in one context that if executive decisions on the pandemic infringe on the constitutional rights of the people, then the policy is amenable to judicial review. Perhaps this lies behind the Supreme Court’s reported advice to the UP government to cancel the Kanwar Yatra or to expect the court’s order. Even religious sentiments must be subservient to the health of citizens and their right to life: these hold primacy among the fundamental rights in the Constitution. That the Supreme Court took suo motu cognizance of the issue suggests that to maintain the separation of powers, each arm of democracy must execute its duty conscientiously and with full regard to the Constitution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
19-07-2021||Opinion||Reach for the horizon||What I miss the most during the lockdown are the little trips that would take me away from Calcutta for a day. Yes, I would love to stand before the Himalayas again and meditate on my littleness, or to go to New Zealand, just to know how it feels to have someone like Jacinda Ardern heading the state. But the journeys in local trains to visit a district town or a village are what I am longing for the most now. Because they still seem within the realm of the possible (although they may not be), and create inside my head a sense of space which is being crushed every moment every day by the four walls of my room. One such journey stands out in my mind. Three years ago, two of my dearest friends and I had set out for Santipur in Nadia after Kali Puja to see the bisarjan ceremony. The closest can be the most unfamiliar, and I am not going to quote Tagore here, but just mention that “unheimlich”, the “un-homely”, the uncanny, is a favourite word of one of the two aforementioned friends. In Santipur, the goddess, Kali, looks very different from the way she does in Calcutta. Her idols are huge, even double in their dimensions than the average Calcutta idol. Gigantic, dark, fierce, powerful and beautiful, they seemed to remind us of a past that the city has either forgotten or been made to forget, maybe with the ‘civilizing’ by its former colonial masters. In any case, after a long train journey, a large, paralyzing Bengali goat meat lunch at a Krishnanagar hotel and a bus journey that rattled every bone in my body, we reached Santipur a few hours before sunset. Getting down at the bus stop, I immediately realized that everything had gone haywire inside me. My shoulders were almost frozen, I had a shattering headache, I needed to go to the toilet and I felt immobilized with pain and discomfort. My other friend carries a large tote bag, which I knew contained magic, but I was not aware of the particular items. From its depths first emerged the iconic Amrutanjan, for my headache. Then a Pee Safe spray. Then a tube of Volini, the contents of which were squeezed out and shared equally by my friends. One of them pulled the neck of my kurta down to expose my shoulder and began to apply it vigorously on the naked patch. Now both my friends had been assigned the male gender at birth and bore traces of it, more or less, and I was assigned the female one at birth, and bear strong traces of it, and we must have presented an arresting sight. But I was too far gone to notice and the massage was life-giving. I began to feel like myself in a few minutes. Next I was given some Digene. I presented my final problem: a very disturbing chunk of meat had remained stuck between my teeth since lunch. My friend dug into the bag again and out came a pack of dental floss. In a moment, I spat out the offending meat into the drain. At this point a fruit seller, who had been watching us intently, asked us: “Apnara kotha theke eshechhen? (Where are you from?)” It was not a question but an admonition. I think we had “transgressed” our gender roles — and had used our class to do it. “Calcutta,” we replied and took a Toto to leave for the bisarjan procession. As the sun set, the giant Kali idols began to loom on the dark horizon. Again I felt that they had emerged from another time, their dimensions incompatible with our times, their power savage and benign and unknown. Their shapes, though dazzlingly lit atop vehicles, seemed to roll out from the dark sky itself, dreamlike, and deeply moving. The humans walked below in an almost silent procession. I felt that the horizons had opened up. And that feeling is mixed up in my mind with the generosity of my friends — and of the bag.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
19-07-2021||Opinion||The radical Raja||On April 27, 1832, in a letter to an English friend, Rammohun Roy spoke of the ethical relevance of political and religious reform. What he wrote is worth quoting: “The struggles are not merely between the reformers and anti-reformers, but between liberty and oppression throughout the world; between justice and injustice, and between right and wrong… From a reflection on the past events of history, we clearly perceive that liberal principles in politics and religion have long been gradually but steadily gaining ground…” In his letter, Roy alluded to some of the reforms that were then being introduced in India and in Britain. It offers a glimpse into Roy’s cosmopolitan outlook and his firm commitment to the idea of freedom. Today, Rammohun Roy is remembered primarily for his successful campaign against sati — the immolation of widows on their husbands’ funeral pyres — and for his pivotal role in the inception of the Brahmo Samaj, a reformist religious group.  What we need, however, is a broader and deeper understanding of his persistent insistence on the importance of intellectual, social and political freedom. This year, his 249th birthday, which fell on May 22, passed largely unnoticed. Now that the 250th year has begun, a serious effort should be made to revive his legacy through a re-evaluation of the remarkable life he lived. A confluence of diverse cultural influences shaped Roy’s thoroughly unconventional worldview. He learnt not just Bengali, his mother tongue, but also Sanskrit, Persian, Arabic, English, Greek and Hebrew. His exposure to Persian education and, subsequently, his encounter with Christianity and modern Western thought deeply influenced his mode of thinking and reasoning. Roy’s proficiency in several languages and his in-depth understanding of Hindu scriptures, Buddhism, Islam and Christianity enabled him to cultivate a rare comparative perspective on religious issues. In Tuhfat-ul-Muwahhidin (1804), a treatise written in Persian, Roy spoke out against superstition and dogma in all established religions. A thinker and a doer, Roy had the courage to interrogate age-old ideas and practices within a social milieu that was largely unwilling to tolerate deviations from conventionality. Not surprisingly, his arguments provoked angry responses from representatives of orthodox religious groups. Although Roy could not envision an immediate dissolution of colonial rule, he certainly felt that the colonized nation needed to prepare itself for empowerment and progress. He felt that it could rejuvenate itself by rejecting irrational or unethical traditions such as sati. Nevertheless, his effort to envisage a reformed religious outlook remained rooted in his country’s spiritual inheritance. What Roy advocated was obviously not the creation of a new religion but a return to the spirituality of the Vedanta. In order to translate his ideas into praxis, he established the Atmiya Sabha in 1815 and the Brahmo Sabha in 1828. Through these efforts, Roy initiated a movement that later culminated in the emergence of the Brahmo Samaj as an important reformist organization. Few of us remember that Roy played a key role in the rise of a culture of criticism and protest in colonial India. In 1822, it was he who argued against the law that deprived women of their right to inherit property. He protested when in 1823 the colonial government attempted to curb the freedom of the press.  Later, he actively participated in the movement against the infamous Jury Act that had a discriminatory bias against non-Christians. As he pointed out, the government “ought to treat the various classes of its subjects… as one great family, without showing any invidious preference to any particular tribe or sect…” Again, in 1831, he spoke out against the exploitation of the peasants by the landowners and the colonial government. Roy’s political thinking did not, however, remain confined to debates related to India. He could easily traverse political and cultural boundaries and align himself with many of the political movements that were taking place in other parts of the world. In a letter written on August 11, 1821, Roy emphatically remarked that “enemies to liberty and friends of despotism have never been, and never will be ultimately successful”. In that letter, he was responding to the news of political unrest in Naples, which was then a part of a kingdom in southern Italy. A decade later, he whole-heartedly supported the Reform Bill (1832) that gave English middle-class men the right to vote. Roy argued in favour of international cooperation and fraternity in an era when travelling overseas was a taboo in his country. In a remarkable letter written to the French foreign minister in 1832, he envisaged “all mankind” as “one great family”. Within the framework of his spiritual thinking, Roy rejected narrow sectarianism and chauvinism by articulating his universalist idea of a single formless god who could be worshipped by all irrespective of race and creed. In 1830, he drew up a trust deed where he outlined the purposes of the Brahmo Sabha. The trust deed explicitly prohibited religious intolerance and, in fact, insisted that one of the purposes of the Sabha was to establish harmony among diverse religious communities. Not surprisingly, Roy has been hailed as the originator of a renaissance in modern India. While it is true that the tendency to posit a single origin or originator can be based on a reductive interpretation of history, it is nevertheless important to acknowledge that he played a pivotal role in ushering in a rational and ethical perspective on a range of culturally and politically significant issues. Moreover, Roy does not just belong to a past that is dead or obsolete. He can still be a source of inspiration for those who seek to defend and uphold principles like unity, inclusivity and freedom. The remarkable history of his crusade against superstition and oppression remains relevant in today’s world where the clash between liberal values and illiberal ideologies continues unabated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
19-07-2021||Opinion||Against the tide||Powerful internet intermediaries began filing “compliance reports” this month, caving in to the pressure from the Government of India. The reports were in response to the new rules announced in February pertaining to the existing Information Technology Act, 2000. In the intervening months, analysts had demonstrated that the rules were going beyond the scope of the law itself. Some aspects of them may be challenged yet by these big players. Although WhatsApp has gone to court and Twitter had tried bucking orders to set up a local bureaucracy to implement the government’s orders, Google, Facebook and Twitter and the social media entities they own have essentially bowed to pressure. The larger spectacle is one of toeing the line because business is at stake. Their numbers in India are huge. At 530 million users, this is WhatsApp’s biggest market. Facebook has 410 million subscribers; Instagram 210 million users; and Twitter, 17.5 million users in the country, according to government data from earlier this year. The IT rules also seek to cover the digital (OTT) entertainment sector as well as digital news media. The former has begun to fall in line, and the government cites figures to show that so has a large section of the latter. It is a process of regulatory overreach that began in 2018 which, along with aggressive use of sedition, anti-terrorism, and defamation laws, threatens to engulf the professional and creative freedoms that have endured so far as we approach the country’s 75th year of Independence. At this point, halfway through 2021, one can see that commercial sectors are capitulating, but one can also spot two distinct groupings that are gearing for a pushback. Both hinge on challenges that will be heard in the courts this year and are hugely important for citizens. Revisiting what began in 2018 helps one understand how governments work when they set out to change the rules of the game. Smriti Irani, as minister for information and broadcasting, floated the idea of regulation for online media in the first quarter of that year. Until then, there were no rules or codes of conduct that governed media on the internet. She constituted a committee to suggest a framework for this category of media, including news aggregators. It was to have several secretaries of ministries and other government representatives and representation from the existing broadcast media associations as well as the Press Council of India. No representation was to be invited, it seemed, from the online media. The move was met with consternation, to put it mildly. She had earlier tried to tackle fake news by decreeing that accredited correspondents would lose their accreditation if they were found guilty of putting out fake news. Shortly after, in May that year, she was moved from the ministry. Later that year, reports emerged that the content regulation committee she had floated was disbanded and the ministry of electronics and information technology will set up a committee on national investment in critical national infrastructure and digital broadcasting. Three years down the line, an IT minister has pushed through regulation in those areas by deciding to use not new legislation but changed rules. Again, when vocal opposition emerges, the minister goes. But the changes are being operationalized.  There has been no legal pushback from the OTT entertainment sector that is putting self-regulation in place. Going beyond online entertainment to film, the year has already seen creeping control there with the Film Certification Appellate Tribunal, which was a court of appeal for film-makers, being scrapped. News is now emerging about moves to revisit film certification, once granted. But the two points of pushback building up come from individuals challenging the sedition law, including two journalists jailed for sedition, and from news organizations seeking to challenge the IT Act rules, which seek to govern them. A retired major general, a celebrated musician, and individual journalists arrested for sedition have gone to court over the government’s use of sedition, counterterrorism and defamation laws. The former Union minister, Arun Shourie, also moved the Supreme Court last week challenging the constitutional validity of the sedition law. With the rising public discourse on its use, the Chief Justice of India was moved to ask the government last week why it still felt the need for this law. More and more news organizations, including the news agency, Press Trust of India, are challenging the application of the IT rules to their websites. Earlier this month, a two judge bench of the Delhi High Court declined to grant protection from coercive action to digital media portals as it adjourned their challenge to the new IT rules after being informed that a plea has been moved by the Centre to transfer them to the Supreme Court. The pleas were by The Wire, Quint Digital Media Ltd and Pravda Media Foundation, which runs Alt News. The petition by Quint Digital Media Ltd has challenged the constitutional validity of the IT rules under the provisions of IT Act 2000 for seeking to apply these to publishers of news and current affairs content as part of digital media. The petition says that the rules impose government oversight and a code of ethics, which stipulates such vague conditions as ‘good taste’, ‘decency’ and ‘prohibition of half-truths’. The PTI, the country’s largest news agency, has moved the Delhi High Court, arguing that the proposed changes would bring in an era of surveillance and fear. The News Broadcasters Association, which represents several news channels, has also petitioned the Kerala High Court, arguing that the rules give the government excessive powers to restrict free expression. The court ordered the Centre not to take any coercive action and issued notice to the Centre asking for its stand on the petition. It is early days yet. Government coercion cannot be fought without the courts. Judicial pushbacks are increasingly evident on matters of civil liberties. One should pray for more! Sevanti Ninan is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
