20-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Chosen few||Can the bahujan — ‘majority’ — coexist peacefully with the sarvajan — ‘everyone’? This has been one of the most enduring dilemmas confronting the Bahujan Samaj Party. The BSP has, undoubtedly, been one of the principal champions of political representation and empowerment of Dalits, which, as per the census of 2011, comprised a little over 20 per cent of Uttar Pradesh’s population. Yet — this point cannot be underemphasized — the BSP’s high noon in 2007, when it went on to win power in UP on its own, was made possible by its eagerness to forge a broader, rainbow alliance with Brahmins and Dalits willing to join hands in an unprecedented show of solidarity. Mayawati, the BSP’s undisputed leader, seems to be of the opinion that the time is now ripe for a similar experiment in reverse social engineering. She recently declared that the party would launch a campaign under the stewardship of Satish Mishra to attract Brahmins back to the BSP’s fold. Political calculations, obviously, lie at the heart of this outreach. Ms Mayawati’s belief is that the present chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, and the Bharatiya Janata Party have ended up alienating Brahmins on account of their patronage of Kshatriyas — Mr Adityanath belongs to this caste group. A sarvajan alliance, instead of mobilizing Dalits alone, could, Ms Mayawati hopes, brighten the chances of an electoral resurgence. Yet, this strategy is not without its own pitfalls. One of the reasons behind the BSP’s political eclipse since 2012 has been the competitive aspirations of Brahmins and Dalits. Achieving an enduring balance between the historically conflicting interests of these two social groupings could pose a steep challenge even for a seasoned politician. Ms Mayawati’s hold on her core support group may need to be re-examined too. Dalit perceptions of the BJP seem to have undergone a subtle transformation — for the better — especially among non-Jatavs, fracturing the BSP’s arc of influence even among its traditional voters. It remains to be seen whether Ms Mayawati retains the ability to regain the ground that she had ceded to the BJP, given that the word on the street is that she no longer can afford to be adversarial to the ruling regime in Delhi. Political considerations apart, Ms Mayawati’s appeal conveys a deeper tragedy about Indian democracy. Even after seven decades of Independence, the fulcrum of politics continues to revolve on the appeasement of ascriptive social formations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
20-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Olympics Covid threat, Kanwar Yatra finally cancelled ||No surprise Sir — At least three athletes and around 50 other people associated with the Olympics have tested positive for Covid-19 days before the Games are scheduled to take place. With tens of thousands of participants from over 200 countries gathering in Tokyo, this was inevitable. If the infection, especially the Delta variant, spreads among the general public — Japan has a low vaccination rate — the country will witness a devastating Covid wave. Aparajita Saha,Calcutta About time Sir — It was a relief to read that the Kanwar Yatra has been called off by the Uttar Pradesh government in view of Covid-19 a day after the Supreme Court directed the state to cancel the event. Earlier, the state government had argued that only those who were fully vaccinated or could produce a negative RT-PCR test report would be allowed to undertake the journey. But in reality, it would have been impossible to monitor the health status of all devotees. It would have been a disaster to hold a physical Kanwar Yatra when the third wave of the coronavirus is knocking at our doors. The UP government has now announced that it will go ahead with a pared-down, symbolic version of the Kanwar Yatra. This may bring a sense of comfort to the thousands of devotees who would have otherwise made the journey on foot. The apex court was right to point out that religious sentiments are subservient to the fundamental right to life and health. It was absolutely necessary for the Supreme Court to step in and make the UP government cancel the event. Had the Kanwar Yatra taken place this year, the country would have, once again, witnessed the devastating scenes that marked the second wave of the pandemic. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — It is mind-boggling how the Uttar Pradesh government could have insisted on holding the Kanwar Yatra this year. It was not long ago that scenes of bodies floating in the Ganga or mass cremations along the river’s banks during the second wave of the pandemic flashed on our TV screens. While it is good news that the yatra has finally been cancelled, the Supreme Court should not have had to intervene in the first place. Amar K. Sharma,Gwalior||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
20-07-2021||Opinion|| Editorial: Minor matter||Flaunting the power of the majority is not a mark of civilization. At a hearing of two petitions against the state government’s ban on slaughterhouses in Hardwar district, the Uttarakhand High Court reportedly said that democracy meant the protection of minorities. This perception has keen relevance at a time when numbers alone seem to form the basis of power. The aspiration to equality, certain rights identified as fundamental in the Constitution and the freedoms that define a democracy are felt to be fading away. But according to the high court, democracy was not only rule by the majority — a principle that is far from the philosophy of the ruling regime. Not only did the high court bring up the protection of minorities in this context but it also made the treatment of minorities the sole yardstick by which to judge the greatness of a civilization. In the era of attempts by Narendra Modi’s government to establish India’s Vishwaguru status, such a notion should cause discomfort and self-reflection. But such a response is unlikely. That the subject of a ban on slaughterhouses should bring up the issue of minority protection indicates how obvious discrimination has become. The question raised by the high court in this context has implications for all citizens, not just one segment among them. Can the State decide a citizen’s diet? In 2015, refusing to uphold Maharashtra’s temporary ban on the sale of meat for a religious festival, the Supreme Court had reportedly said that a ban could not be forced down anyone’s throat. Any prohibition should take into account the spirit of tolerance and the sensibilities of the people. It is only possible for a Bharatiya Janata Party government to sabotage the intention of the latter principle by turning it inside out. Thus Assam now has a bill in the assembly that proposes to ban the slaughter of cattle and the sale of beef in areas where Hindus, Jains and Sikhs are a majority or within a five-kilometre radius of a temple or satra. The area-specific aspect of the bill, more than statewide bans or restrictions on cattle slaughter elsewhere, emphasizes discrimination on religious grounds. It is such casual frankness about discriminatory policy that makes the Uttarakhand High Court’s remark about the treatment of minorities so necessary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
20-07-2021||Opinion||Seeds of trouble||A quiet, reverse transformation is happening in the countryside, and it is disconcerting. This sowing season, growing numbers of farmers are falling back on their bullocks as fuel prices are piercing the roof. The tractor, the symbol of modern farming, is becoming a luxury in the literal sense. The conventional ploughing equipment tied to bullocks costs only a trifle compared to the rates of tractors. This is happening in relatively better off states where tractors had largely replaced bullocks over the last two or three decades. But in places where, and for those people for whom, draught power is not an option, rising fuel prices have increased production costs on tractor-hiring. The demand for bullocks has thus gone up. Those who eke out a living using a tractor — for sowing, mulching and harvesting — are struggling as small peasants can no longer afford to hire tractors for farm operations. On an average, across India, the cost of hiring a tractor has gone up by 20-30 per cent — roughly Rs 300 an hour from Rs 700 to Rs 1,000 an hour. For an acre, for instance, paddy farmers in central India are paying Rs 3,000 more than they did last year for sowing operations. It is the same for wheat, cotton or soybean. This has serious consequences for actual farm incomes. They would drop significantly. In one paddy-dominated village in rural Nagpur, this writer found a new barter system evolving this year. Tractor owners are saying: “Pay fuel costs now to hire the machine. Pay the driver’s wages in the form of rice at the time of harvest. But don’t make us keep our tractors parked. Give us work.” Fallow land That is just one problem. Rural India, battered badly by the second wave of Covid-19 in the summer, is mired in other mounting worries too, apart from the looming spectre of a third wave. Take crop credit outlay: it is yet to pick up in most states this season. A sluggish credit disbursal affects sowing operations. Informal credit is hard to come by, as farm-input dealers — people who sell their inputs to farmers on credit — and other private lenders are not offering credit lines to the peasantry. The reason: the possibility of a third wave and a liquidity crunch. No one wants to take the risk. Last year, the agriculture sector supported the migrants who went back home in the middle of the first, hurriedly implemented lockdown. This year, though, a combination of factors is hurting them immensely. Take another way in which they are suffering. There seems to be a drop in land-leasing. How much? We shall know later this year. Millions of marginal and small farmers who, apart from tilling their small plots also cultivate the farm land on lease, are either reluctant or have no liquidity to lease land this year. Indications, therefore, are that India might see a sharp drop in the cultivated land area this year as the otherwise leased-lands may stay fallow. More problems Then, there are problems with regard to payments for the crops sold last year. Deferred and delayed payments meant that small and mostly sustenance farmers had no money in hand, and the second wave of the coronavirus crippled the markets and normal life ahead of the kharif sowings. Another problem: Maharashtra, indeed much of India, is seeing a decline in crop insurance figures. The deadline to buy the fasal bima (crop insurance) for the ongoing kharif season has passed, but farmers are not opting for it because, one, doing so has not helped in the past and, two, nationalized and cooperative banks are slow in disbursing crop loans, with which the crop insurance comes compulsorily tagged in many states. That the online process remains cumbersome has not helped either, in spite of tall claims to the contrary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
20-07-2021||Opinion||The dawn of Quantum computing||Investments in quantum technologies are growing because of their tremendous potential to revolutionize humankind, both in terms of aiding science and the business at large. With the world increasingly being challenged by ever more complex problems to solve, quantum computing is likely to give us solutions that classical computing cannot. For example, we are currently trying to ascertain ways to deactivate the functioning of the coronavirus, which is less than 100 nanometres in size, by exploring computer-generated models of the spike-proteins of the virus. Another example of a complex issue is the exponential increase in the energy consumption rate with human population inflation. Both problems have an exponential number of variables, which cannot be solved by classical computers or even supercomputers within a practical amount of time. Situations like the above show that problems that are exponential in nature demand exponential computational power. Here’s where quantum computers can be of help. A quantum computer imbibes nonlinear properties of nature and uses quantum mechanics as its foundation. It aims to solve extremely complex problems. Quantum computers are not just faster versions of classical computers; they represent a fundamentally different computing paradigm. Classical computers work with bits, the basic elements of information that store either a ‘zero’ or a ‘one’ as value. Quantum computers work with interdependent and nonlinear structures called qubit (quantum bit), which is the unit of quantum information. From a usage standpoint, we can see quantum computing accelerating some of the most challenging problems in chemistry, optimization, and machine learning. In machine learning, quantum computing can be applied to train and run machine-learning algorithms that can allow us to solve complex problems quickly, improving applications like disease diagnosis, fraud detection, and efficient energy management. In the field of chemistry, material sciences and high-energy physics, the application of quantum computing is more on the simulation of the quantum mechanical system. Scientists at Mitsubishi Chemical are using quantum computers to better understand chemical reactions to help develop more efficient batteries. Optimization also opens up a vast variety of use cases like portfolio optimization, financial risk analysis and route optimization in supply chain areas. From a time when quantum computing was mostly pursued by academics and theorists, it has reached a point where enterprises are beginning to explore its uses across industries. According to a survey by Gartner, 44 per cent of enterprises expect quantum technology to have a substantial impact on businesses in the next 3-5 years. Around the world, we are seeing a rise in investments in quantum research and development. Governments and industries see the vast potential of this technology in disrupting established business models and redefining entire industries. What that means is that several enterprises are now looking to hire developers who can programme and run quantum algorithms using the company’s data on real quantum hardware. Developers who demonstrate fundamental knowledge of quantum computing concepts and can use the various quantum software development kits like Qiskit are now in demand. Today, there are multiple offerings from industries that provide a path for developers with various backgrounds to earn a certification in programming, allowing them to leverage their quantum coding skills to address various use cases for the industry. A survey from Burning Glass Technologies notes that the skill areas projected to grow the fastest include Quantum Computing and Connected Technologies, with forecasted growth rates of 135 per cent and 104 per cent, respectively. We can expect that enterprises will look to hire those who have the necessary knowledge and skill sets in this new field. The work to build future-ready quantum skills is already underway. In 2020 and 2021, several universities like the Indian Statistical Institute, Calcutta, the University of Calcutta, the Indian Institute of Technology Madras, IIT Kharagpur and the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore started courses for students to accelerate advanced training and research in quantum computing. For those who want to understand the basics of quantum computing, the free online course, ‘Introduction to Quantum Computing and Quantum Hardware’ by Qiskit includes labs and hands-on sessions. There are also other free and paid online courses available today on several online learning platforms. It is very easy for someone with basic understanding of linear algebra and Python skills to get started on quantum computing, now accessible via Cloud, and write algorithms in Python and run them on an actual quantum computer. There is a need to have a strong industry-academia-government collaboration to build an ecosystem that can further quantum adoption in India. For example, IBM has collaborated with India’s leading universities to accelerate advanced training and research in quantum computing. This collaboration will allow access to IBM quantum systems, quantum learning resources and quantum tools over IBM Cloud for education purposes. This will also allow one to work on actual quantum computers and programme them using the Qiskit open-source framework. Quantum computing is on the verge of bringing about a paradigm shift. Even though universal quantum computing has not yet reached mainstream commercialization, we believe that specific applications such as chemical modelling, scenario simulation, optimization, and artificial intelligence/ machine learning could be a significant competitive advantage. Advances like these could also open the door to new scientific discoveries, life-saving drugs, and improvements in supply chains, logistics and the modelling of financial data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
20-07-2021||Opinion||Thirty years on||This month marks the 30th anniversary of the 1991 reforms in India. There is intense commemoration of what is considered to have been a paradigm shift in Indian economic policies. Thirty years are rarely a marker for any honour, though; silver, golden, platinum and centenary anniversaries are the usual choice. So what is the reason for the popular recall of  the 1991 reforms at the 30-year mark? The main cause for this is growth pessimism. Gloom and doubts have arisen that nothing, neither reforms nor policies, is working. There is bewilderment about what exactly the growth strategy or framework is; there is a lack of clarity about the prolonged slowdown and investment stagnation. Alarm is increasing over protective tariffs, selective targeting of industries/products and other such policies hinting at a reversal of the liberalization course adopted in 1991. Hence, there is a yearning for something dramatic to change the status quo and break the economic stalemate, as had happened in 1991. Then, exchange rate devaluation and industrial delicensing changed aggregate relative prices and investment incentives to trigger resource shifts. Most other reforms happened in subsequent years, through engagement with stakeholders and institutions, consensus and adaptation to Indian conditions. In fact, the memory of 1991 was revived much earlier — at least two years ago — as some members of industry urged the government to recreate the ‘1991 moment’. The memory sharpened with Covid-19, with many advocating the conversion of the crisis into an opportunity, as was done in 1991, following a balance of payments crisis. The growth pessimism is now omnipresent, but an incipient creep appeared some years ago. In hindsight, this perhaps began when the bonanza of the collapse of oil prices tapered off and lifted the covers off India’s growth drivers: the deficiency in private investment demand persisted; replacing its shortfall with public capital expenditures, which was supported by godsends — fuel tax revenues — was becoming a fiscal struggle; it became evident that consumer demand could not pull the gross domestic product ahead for longer. Demonetization in 2016-17 dealt a negative blow to aggregate output and employment. The demand for some of the factor and product market reforms, which were pending owing to the lack of political will and consensus in previous coalition governments, then gained force. The need for these reforms was universally agreed upon after the 2012 economic slowdown; it was felt that structural changes could potentially alter India’s growth trajectory in the difficult world environment after the 2008 crisis. In fact, this constituted the backdrop for electing a majority government in 2014 to clear the path for revisiting the unaddressed reforms. The present government, then in its first tenure, responded by introducing the goods and services tax in July 2017; it followed inflation-targeting, a fundamental change to the monetary policy framework in 2015. In 2016 came the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, a resolution mechanism for the large pile-up of bad loans holding back the banking and corporate sectors. The Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, and the recapitalization, consolidation and merger of public banks were announced. Foreign direct investment was continuously liberalized, leaving no sector impermissible except for security purposes. Yet, GDP growth fell in succession for the next two years in 2018 and 2019, by 6.8 per cent and 6.5 per cent. Voices in favour of reforms like those in 1991 first appeared at the time from the private sector. By mid-2019, in surprising coincidence with a resounding re-election of the government in power, growth pessimism had only increased. The feeling of a growth crisis, that India had lost its momentum or its mojo, was obvious and manifest in appeals for a spectacular shift in course. Reforms were not yielding the expected dividend, public investment was failing to attract business spending; so, what could be the source of growth? The government reacted swiftly by axing corporate taxes in September 2019 to induce private investment, among numerous other measures in a series of weekly announcements during that period. But in adverse parallel to 2012, GDP growth slipped below 5 per cent in a series of shocking slides — to 4.6 per cent in July-September 2019, 3.3 per cent in October-December 2019 and 3 per cent in the March 2020 quarter. When the severity of the national lockdown broke the economy’s back last year, the mass growth pessimism morphed into calls for converting the fresh crisis into an opportunity. The crisis backdrop of the 1991 reforms has long engendered belief that India does not reform itself otherwise; therefore, reforms can be expected in a growth crisis of similar magnitude, as was thought in 2012. The government did bite some difficult bullets. It brought in sweeping changes to labour and farm laws, as well as a production-linked incentive scheme to stimulate manufacturing output and employment, to name some of the steps in the Atmanirbhar series. The second change is still a work-in-progress, while the backlash against the planned changes to agriculture markets and institutions is still playing out, so it is difficult to predict future gains. The point is that none of the above reforms have prevented a resurgence of the 1991 nostalgia. People are looking back. There is a lot of introspection about the design, sequencing and timing of reforms. There is lengthy deliberation over what needs to be done further; it is pointed out that the next spheres of fundamental change are health, education, the judiciary, the police and so on; the need for Centre-state cooperation and resources required is underlined, among other factors. However, there is a certain disconnect between this discourse and the present context. The elephant in the room is that reforms have stopped working in India. Macroeconomic stimulation, too, has been failing to inspire growth and investments in a deeply underinvested country. Can more reforms uplift growth pessimism when the root of its deepening pervasion is that neither reforms nor helpful policies are succeeding in revival? This awareness was brewing for some years; it has become all-encompassing now. After a long time — let us say since 1991 — the feeling that India can grow at, or get back to, the 8 per cent path has all but evaporated. What lies ahead? Some economists argue that growth does not immediately follow after reforms but with a lag; that the high growth witnessed after 2003 was owing to the previous decade’s reforms. This may well be true. By now, though, it is known that India’s potential growth — the growth rate that can be sustained in the medium-term without creating excess inflation — has fallen because of the decade-long investment deficit. Post-pandemic, this has likely lowered further because of the permanent damages, to around 5 per cent or even less. In that case, incremental gains from structural reforms will not yield corresponding high growth rates of the go-go years of 2004-2010. It seems that growth pessimism or the sense of having lost momentum may persist for a long time. Remembering 1991 is unlikely to change that. Renu Kohli is a macroeconomist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
