21-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Stan Swamy's custodial death, India's environmental goals||Take a stand Sir — Anup Sinha must be lauded for his article, “More to come” (July 15). Sinha has rightly noted an eerie silence from the vast majority of the citizens regarding the cruel detention and tragic death of Father Stan Swamy, a humanitarian, and asked if this episode does not concern them or if they do not want to get involved in matters of statecraft. In spite of the torment suffered by the octogenarian ailing from Parkinson’s disease, a majority of the population, barring a few individuals, activists and groups, preferred to look the other way and remain engrossed in petty pursuits. This sent out the clear message that society at large has no time for the lives of activists, especially those who are not in the good books of the government. This indifferent attitude is providing a massive boost to the audacity of the government, enabling it to go all-out against the so-called ‘urban Naxals’ who dare to raise questions about the vested interests of the State by taking up the cudgel on behalf of the deprived, marginalized and exploited sections of the population. There is a remark attributed to Albert Einstein which says that the world will not be destroyed by those who do evil, but by those who watch them without doing anything. This seems to ring true in the present context. But people should also remember the poem by Martin Niemöller and know that if they do not speak up for others, then one day there would be no one left to speak up for them. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta Sir — My heart sank as I read the article, “More to come”, by Anup Sinha. Many arguments are put forth by people supporting the custodial death of Stan Swamy. We had also heard many such arguments when Graham Staines was burnt alive along with his two minor sons. The country is facing so many problems at the moment and so frequently that people are failing to figure out which problem they should prioritize. Large-scale unemployment coupled with retrenchment during the pandemic, the destruction of the economy caused by policies like demonetization, huge increase in the price of oil in the country at a time when global oil prices are falling, countless deaths of Covid patients on account of the lack of hospital beds and oxygen are just some of their concerns. So the eerie silence of the vast majority of citizens does not necessarily mean that people are accepting the cruelty of the State. It will take pages to list the economic and institutional lapses under the current regime. Social activists are being put behind bars by invoking the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The sedition law, which originated in England, has been abolished there but continues to be implemented in India. As such, there is only one satisfaction that we can derive: history will be witness that at least one section of the people protested against the atrocities of the present government. Somak Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — In his article, Anup Sinha highlights the disturbing implications of the custodial death of Stan Swamy. It would not be out of context to mention another death which shook the conscience of the world: the murder of George Floyd. The police officer, Derek Chauvin, who murdered Floyd was arrested four days after the incident and was sentenced to 22.5 years in prison following his conviction within 13 months of the murder. The way American democracy responded to the murder of Floyd showed its strength. How Indian democracy responds after the tragic death of the elderly undertrial is yet to be seen. There is a high chance that the death of Swamy will end in another cover-up, with no convictions. This incident, however, must not be forgotten. In his death, Swamy might leave a larger impact on society than many living people do. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — One must thank Anup Sinha for expressing his concern for and pointing out the consequences of the custodial death of Stan Swamy. It must be agreed that this was a death ‘allowed’ by the State if one must differentiate between ‘killing’ and ‘letting die’. We must register our protest in some form, so that political leaders in question do not mistake our silence for endorsement of such brutalities. Syamal Dana,Calcutta Sir — Anup Sinha’s article provides a clear analysis of the discouraging mindset of society at present. Stan Swamy’s death must be remembered so that other undertrials do not suffer the same fate. Sandhya Pande,Howrah  Look deeper Sir — The Indian government has made a big deal out of its reported progress in meeting its environmental goals. But a recent report revealed that only half of the 53 gigawatt solar power projects tendered in India are being actualized. The primary reason for this is that state electricity distribution companies are unwilling to sign power-sharing agreements with intermediary procurers owing to falling clean-energy tariffs. This goes to show that simply sanctioning projects — or talking them up — is not enough; proper incentives are needed to overcome challenges posed by market forces. Subhro Mahato,Howrah||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
21-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Budget woes||Nearly half of India’s children attend private schools — this fact is central to policy and discourse on education in this country. What, however, is often left unsaid is that nearly 70 per cent of them go to ‘budget private schools’ and 45.5 per cent private school-goers attend institutions with fees less than Rs 500. Much has been written about how the pandemic has crippled education and institutions of learning by unveiling newer challenges: the exclusion of poor students from online classes is just one example of the latter. But the plight of certain schools — low-fee private schools — seems to have slipped through the cracks unseen. This is alarming given the vast constituency of students that they serve. The ability to pay even the meagre tuition fees charged by BPSs has dwindled with parents — daily wagers, small shop owners and cab drivers, among others — rendered unemployed or earning reduced incomes. Confusing directives from state governments to parents to stop paying fees to private schools when they are shut while, simultaneously, forcing managements to continue paying the salaries of teachers and staff has not helped the cause of BPSs. What have added to the financial burden of BPSs are requirements related to infrastructure — playground, library, classrooms, student-teacher ratio — that are mandated by policy formulated with the elite private schools in mind. Additionally, the National Independent Schools Alliance reports that the government has failed to reimburse “lakhs of crores” in fees for learners, adding to the woes of these lower-middle-rung schools. Unrealistic regulations often force BPSs to operate without due recognition, not only raising their risks of closure but also compromising the quality of education imparted. Students are the losers in both instances. Strangely, policy remains blind to these issues. The National Education Policy makes no reference to BPSs; in fact, it scarcely acknowledges private schools except to say that parents need protection from commercialization and exploitation. Tarring all private schools with the same brush is problematic. The NEP also remains silent about the gaps in the Right to Education Act — low fee ceilings and infrastructure norms set by states — that weigh down these institutions. Dedicated structural reforms recognizing BPSs as a niche category ought to be the way forward. Is the new minister for education listening?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
21-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Sceptre games||Navjot Singh Sidhu’s elevation to the post of state presidentship in poll-bound Punjab has been interpreted, not without reason, as a possible blunder. This is because Amarinder Singh, the party’s tallest leader and serving chief minister in the state, is unlikely to view Mr Sidhu’s rise kindly. The two have a history of animosity. Mr Sidhu had quit Mr Singh’s cabinet four years ago after a series of acrimonious disagreements: worse, he has not minced words since, and the chief minister has been the target of his acerbic comments. The Congress is notorious for internecine conflicts. Personal ambition has, more often than not, trumped party interests, leading to defections and even the fall of Congress governments. Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, where the Congress lost power, are cases in points. There is concern that the squabble in Punjab could cost the party dear in an election that should have otherwise gone in the Congress’s favour. The simmering anger of Punjab’s agrarian community against the three agricultural laws passed by the Centre has effectively snuffed out the chances of the Bharatiya Janata Party. The Shiromani Akali Dal, usually a contender for power, has borne the brunt of collateral damage because of its association with the BJP, propelling the Aam Aadmi Party, another outfit with electoral ambitions, as the principal adversary against the Congress. Now, it seems that the Congress would have to contend with challengers outside and within. That cannot be reassuring for either the high command or the state unit. Yet, could it be that there is a method in the madness? A cursory scan of developments within the Congress would reveal that the high command is, unlike in the past, no longer averse to regional, combative, vociferous leaders. Some of them — Mr Sidhu or, say, Nana Patole in Maharashtra — have even had stints outside the party. This, in turn, is perhaps indicative of two things. The weakness of the high command — the absence of a full-time president is one manifestation — is making it more reliant on regional leaders. The patronage for the latter also mirrors a broader turn in India’s political rhetoric. Politics is increasingly turning shrill, expanding the scope of leaders who believe in hurling fire and brimstone instead of reposing their faith in dignified, nuanced dialogue. The demise of the quiet, persuasive politician may be one of the consequences of Indian politics being enamoured of the cult of personality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
21-07-2021||Opinion||Right intent, wrong model||Uttar Pradesh’s draft population bill may be a step in the right direction but some of its provisions, such as ‘disqualification from contesting elections’, merit concern. Section 9 (1) of the draft bill bars an individual with more than two children from contesting local elections. This provision fails the test of Article 14 of the Constitution because of its discriminatory implications for backward classes and women. The discriminatory nature of such a provision would become apparent if we were to look at the statistics of disqualification in states that have adopted such a measure. One study on the election disincentive programme revealed that out of 111 people who were disqualified from contesting elections on account of their failure to abide by procreation norms, 40 belonged to the scheduled castes, five were from the scheduled tribes and 44 hailed from the other backward classes. Roughly 50 per cent of the respondents were estimated to have an annual income of less than Rs 20,000. Furthermore, as per the data collected in 2004, in Madhya Pradesh, out of the total number of disqualified people, 72 per cent belonged to SC, ST and OBC communities. The reason for such a disproportionate presence of socially disadvantaged groups is that the provision can be easily circumvented by powerful classes and castes that have money as well as access to medical facilities, which permit pre-natal sex determination and illegal abortions. Furthermore, this provision can widen the already existing gender gap in electoral politics. Electoral disincentives are more likely to be prejudicial towards women willing to contest elections. A survey found that in Rajasthan 25 per cent among 450 people disadvantaged by procreation norms were women. This figure presents a problem because the number of women contesting elections is much lower than that of men. The UP government seems to be excited about the new population policy even though in India’s patriarchal set-up, women have very little say in such matters as the size of the family. So why penalize them? It would also be comparatively easy for men contesting polls to desert their spouses in order to get around the disqualification clause. Making such a rule mandatory would adversely affect the social and economic conditions of women. Measures such as these have been declared valid by the Supreme Court. For instance, the apex court had upheld Haryana’s law on population control by observing that the disqualification norm does not contravene any fundamental right, and that it has been devised in the national interest. This reasoning is flawed. The court’s judgment was premised on its belief that burgeoning population is one of the major hindrances to the country’s progress. It would be interesting to examine this assumption in the light of evidence. With a population of 220 million, UP has been suffering from low development indices for years. Yet, the population growth is declining in the state. The fertility rate came down to 2.7 in 2016 from 4.82 in 1993 and is estimated to fall to 2.1 by 2025. The Supreme Court had relied on Five Year Plans in order to support the system of disincentives for population control. It is important to note that the highest court referred to the first seven Five Year Plans (1951 to 1990). During that time, the implications of such punitive measures were not well-known. Since then, there has been a substantial departure from the policy of adopting disincentives as a means of controlling population. The Cairo Conference held in 1994 — it encouraged governments to focus on the objectives of population and development through education and voluntary campaigns instead of undertaking schemes involving incentives and disincentives — was a case in point. Again, the judgment does not discuss the implications of such measures on rights and socio-economic conditions of women. There is an abundance of scholarly material that point towards the discriminatory impact of such deterrents on women and backward sections. The Yogi Adityanath government seems to have completely discounted the possibility that these penal provisions would heighten women’s vulnerabilities to illegal abortion and desertion and subject the disadvantaged sections to newer discriminations. The policy should, instead, be framed to address such needs as a better healthcare system, improve the literacy rate and enhance women’s empowerment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
21-07-2021||Opinion||Je Récuse||"J’Accuse”, Émile Zola’s searing open letter to the French president, Félix Faure, on the injustices by the French State in the Dreyfus affair contained a litany of charges against leading members of the establishment. Zola was tried for defamation in a sham trial and sentenced to a year in prison. Its repercussions were felt long after, leading to a radical ideological reorientation in French politics. In comparison, the decision by Justice Kausik Chanda of the Calcutta High Court to recuse himself from hearing the election petition filed by Mamata Banerjee against Suvendu Adhikari may appear trifling. This is hardly the stuff of headlines, let alone something that can hold a candle to an open letter that shook the foundations of the French republic. The obvious semantic similarity apart, there is a more fundamental reason for making this comparison — if the Dreyfus affair is anything to go by, the Justice Chanda recusal episode is a bellwether of how the impression of the courts being political hastens the demise of trust in the State. There were two reasons put forward to seek the recusal of the judge —first, that he was a political appointee having earlier represented the Bharatiya Janata Party which was directly interested in the outcome of this case; second, that the chief minister, the petitioner in this case, had opposed his confirmation as a permanent judge. Till date, Justice Chanda has not been confirmed. While both these arguments appear attractive, on deeper consideration, they are devoid of justification. Who a judge may have represented in his career as a lawyer should certainly be a yardstick for his/her appointment as a judge in the first place. But once appointed, it ceases to have any relevance in deciding whether the judge should hear particular cases or not. A successful lawyer who is elevated as a judge may have had thousands of clients. Several government lawyers who would have held their government’s brief in court on a daily basis are routinely appointed as judges. Opening up such a ground for recusal will lead to a minefield that will make lawyering less about the law and more about sleuthing into the past lives of judges. Justice Chanda was right to repel this contention. To the further claim that he was not only a lawyer for the BJP but also a member of its legal cell (and purportedly a member of the party as well), if Justice Chanda’s past political record wasn’t a disqualification for him to hold office, it cannot be held against him when hearing any particular matter. After all, Justices Krishna Iyer and Chelameswar, both independent-minded judges of the Supreme Court, had overt political affiliations and did not let that get in the way of their judicial duties. Other, less politically connected, judges have had more questionable records. Justice Chanda’s past political affiliation is a red herring. Regarding the argument that Justice Chanda’s confirmation proceedings were pending and the chief minister had expressed her dissent to him being confirmed, this is a dangerous ground for seeking recusal. As the order rightly points out, the chief minister is a party to all appointees to the high court. This cannot by itself mean that a judge who is confirmed with the assent of the chief minister will be biased in her favour and those whom she has opposed will be adversarial. Upholding such a proposition would also mean that the constitutional protections for the independence of the judiciary — guaranteed tenure till retirement and no reduction of salary while in service — are meaningless and loyalty to the appointing authority will always win the day. Such an argument makes judges look like serfs of governments and is ordinarily best not made. Despite the flimsy legal basis for the recusal application, one cannot summarily dismiss the fact that two senior members of the Bar urged the judge to recuse himself. This begs the more fundamental question — why was such a politically sensitive election petition assigned to a junior additional judge with a prior history that was likely to create controversy? In this matter, the role of the acting chief justice of the Calcutta High Court must be closely examined. First, it is surprising that at the time election results were announced in early May, election petitions were not specifically assigned to any judge in the roster. Assigning a judge would have likely avoided this controversy altogether, although to be fair to the acting chief justice, it was the summer vacation of the court at the time with limited benches sitting. Second, when the matter was first mentioned before Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya who could, according to the roster, hear “other civil matters”, he agreed to hear it in due course. But instead, the matter was re-assigned to Justice Chanda. This can only lead to the conclusion that a conscious decision was taken to re-assign the matter. If the acting chief justice, as a relatively new addition to the Calcutta High Court, did so ignorant of Justice Chanda’s past association and the controversy that it was likely to create, howsoever unjustified that may be, then it is an unfortunate failure of his office to inform him of relevant facts. If he did it knowingly, his decision has sullied the image of a proud high court — its Bar, bench and everyone associated with it. Particularly and unnecessarily affected is the reputation of Justice Chanda who was put in a no-win situation. Despite manoeuvring deftly for the most part, his imposition of a cost (it appears like a penalty for contempt of court) of five lakh rupees to be paid by Mamata Banerjee for the “psychological offensives and vilification adopted” to ensure his recusal was unfortunate. Whether indeed a few stray tweets and statements by her party members amount to vilification is a question of perception, as is the potential deterrent impact of a five lakh rupees penalty in an election on which presumably crores were spent. Irrespective of how one perceives it, for a judge to act on such a perception and impose a monetary penalty in a politically sensitive matter has the effect of making the judge a participant in a political dogfight. A symbolic statement might have been a more appropriate antidote. Zola’s trial and the proceedings in the Dreyfus affair had brought considerable disrepute to the French courts. Military witnesses were only allowed to testify if they toed the military line and judges did not allow free cross-examination. The overtly political courts, which refused to speak truth to power, were key signs of a crumbling French establishment that could no longer command the respect of the people. Indian courts have not plumbed these depths. But the Justice Chanda recusal episode leaves one with the distinct impression that the image of the Indian higher judiciary as a political institution is taking root and the judiciary itself missed an opportunity to dispel it. Everyone who is a well-wisher of the Calcutta High Court and the Indian judiciary would do well to remember that when the courts of law appear political to the public, it is only a matter of time before the rule of law becomes an empty promise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
