22-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Navjot Singh Sidhu becomes Punjab Congress chief, men’s spending patterns cause more emissions than women||Wrong choice Sir — With less than a year to go for the Punjab assembly elections, the Congress has appointed the former minister, Navjot Singh Sidhu, as its state unit chief in spite of reservations expressed by the chief minister, Amarinder Singh (“Sceptre games”, July 21). It would help to remember that Sidhu had spent 13 years in the Bharatiya Janata Party before joining the Congress four years ago and had also flirted with the idea of joining the Aam Aadmi Party in between. Sidhu joined the Congress ahead of the 2017 assembly elections. He was given a cabinet berth in the state government but fell out with the chief minister soon enough. Singh did not approve of Sidhu’s visits to Pakistan and was also opposed to providing a ticket to the latter’s wife for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Moreover, Sidhu has scant support among party workers, with many arguing that his elevation is a result of his association with the Gandhis. On the other hand, Singh commands the respect of the people. Whether Sidhu’s appointment as state president is harmful for the government and the party will be clear in the upcoming months. It will be a significant challenge for Sidhu to garner the support of the old guard, particularly the long-time loyalists of the chief minister. As of now, it seems that the crisis within the Punjab Congress has come to an end. But the forced and uneasy truce is fragile. In the run-up to the assembly elections, the nomination of party candidates and other critical decisions might trigger another round of friction, hampering the party’s poll prospects. Sidhu must bury the hatchet with Singh; they must work together for the 2022 assembly elections. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — For now, Navjot Singh Sidhu, as the state unit president, might have his way and prevail over Amarinder Singh, but it does not augur well for the Congress. The Punjab assembly elections are a few months away and it is one of the only states where the Congress can still hope to win. It is an open secret that the Congress won the 2017 elections simply because of the goodwill and reach of Singh amongst the voters. Alienating the chief minister who, unlike Sidhu, is a mass leader, is not a wise move. The Gandhis should have thought things through before taking this controversial decision. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — Since Navjot Singh Sidhu is close to the Gandhi family, it was a foregone conclusion that he would get a vital post in the Punjab Congress Committee. Thus, his elevation to the position of state unit chief is not surprising. This, however, will now pose problems for the chief minister, Amarinder Singh. Sidhu and Singh have been at loggerheads with each other for a while. This animosity will certainly reflect in the crucial decisions — including the selection of candidates — that need to be taken for the 2022 polls. One can only hope that the two will work out their differences before the party’s electoral prospects are irreparably damaged. N. Mahadevan,Chennai Sir — The Congress high command has made a blunder by appointing Navjot Singh Sidhu as state unit chief. The repercussions of going against the wishes of Amarinder Singh, a strong regional leader, will be felt in the upcoming polls. As chief minister, Singh has tackled crises well and has further endeared himself to the people. On the other hand, Sidhu is mostly in the news for his constant barrage of criticism against the chief minister. The common people in Punjab will not look at this development favourably. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh  Take note Sir — A comparative analysis between single men and women in Sweden found that men’s spending patterns cause 16 per cent more emissions than women. This disparity is primarily a result of men spending on fuel for their cars. An earlier study found that in families with only one car, men used the vehicle more often to go to work while women opted for public transport. The European Union’s Green Deal has been criticized for failing to take into account the intersection of gender and environment. Policymakers must understand that gender is a crucial factor in the battle against climate change. Rishita Chakraborty,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
22-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Civilly solved||Mediation in disputes before going to court is not entirely new in India. Speaking at the India-Singapore Mediation Summit, the chief justice of India, N.V. Ramana, referred to a number of laws relating to commerce, industry and real estate that have provisions for compulsory pretrial mediation. The CJI expressed the need for a parliamentary enactment, an ‘omnibus’ law, to make mediation mandatory before a case comes to court. Mediation or conciliation and arbitration through an alternative dispute resolution system would not only lessen the pressure on courts but would also help citizens by reducing expense and time. Also, it would allow them to participate as ‘insiders’ with some control over the outcome of the process. The CJI reportedly saw ADR or mediation as a tool of social justice because it could provide ‘solace’ to litigants from the ‘middle or poorer’ sections of society. Alluding to the success of the ADR facility in Telangana and of Lok Adalats, the CJI felt that India should go into mission mode to ensure pretrial mediation before trial. The omnibus law is needed to ensure its legitimacy and enforcement. There can be no doubt about the importance of mediation as the CJI seems to envision it. The ideal, however, may not always inform the real. The CJI reportedly referred to India’s tradition of mediation — the archetypal mediator being Krishna — conducted by chieftains or elders of the community, or merchant bodies in the case of merchants before the establishment of the ‘adversarial’ legal system of the British. But the tradition has continued in perverse — and illegitimate — ways, through khap panchayats and local shalishi bodies. Dominant interests of gender, caste, community and wealth are alive and kicking in their ‘decisions’, making nonsense of social justice ideals. Clearly, it is not just what the CJI calls ‘luxurious litigation’ by richer parties with vested interests which frustrate justice. Therefore, any provision for mandatory mediation will have to be enacted with especial care. Community bodies such as panchayats ‘mediate’ — they are not supposed to — in complaints of rape, for example. Surely the law on mandatory mediation would include only civil disputes? The enactment of such a law must define its limits precisely and ensure that gender, caste, religious and other biases that afflict Indian society are eliminated from the process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
22-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Big brothers||Surveillance, real or imagined, is emblematic of both absolute power as well as its corruption. The United States of America and its allies recently accused China of being the patron of a global espionage ring. The relationship between totalitarian polities and the principle of civil liberties is, admittedly, fraught. But this is not to say that democratic regimes have an unenviable record in this respect. There are reports that the cell phones of several members of the French government, including that of the president, were among the potential targets of sophisticated surveillance by the spyware, Pegasus, that is manufactured by an Israeli firm which, it is believed, makes its product accessible to government agencies only. Pegasus’s tentacles, a media collective has asserted, have breached the frontiers of several countries and India, worryingly, is among them. The word — it needs to be corroborated with forensic and other evidence — is that snooping operations were conducted against leaders of the Opposition, journalists, human rights activists, lawyers and even some members of the government. The persistence of such charges against the Narendra Modi government — similar accusations had been hurled two years ago — is a matter of concern. Of course, such eavesdropping is not unprecedented. The Watergate scandal in the US is reminiscent of a similar blot in the history of a nation that prides itself as a torchbearer of freedom. Mass domestic surveillance of citizens by the US’s National Security Agency is well-documented. This only goes to show that the minders of national security — undoubtedly a crucial component in statecraft — can often share testy ties with institutions that claim to be defendants of democracy. It would be instructive to examine whether the nations accused of surreptitiously watching its own citizens are also the ones with the poorest rankings in international registers of press freedom. Technological surveillance will continue to be a reality in polities irrespective of the nature of governance. This calls for two simultaneous interventions. First, those with stakes in protecting the democratic ethos — the judiciary, media, civil society — must forge a compact and create checks and balances against this intrusion. Watergate cost an American president his seat only because of such collaboration. The second would be to sensitize data protection laws to ward off this threat. India’s data protection bill is yet to see the light of day and, even more worryingly, it includes the provision of exemption to State agencies invoking the clause of national security. There is a need to re-examine this kind of indemnity in the light of the Pegasus controversy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
22-07-2021||Opinion||Trying hard to make some gains||In the recent reshuffle of the Union council of ministers, three more candidates from the Northeast were inducted as ministers, bringing up the region’s total to five. Two among them are of cabinet rank — Kiren Rijiju from Arunachal Pradesh, who was already minister of state (independent charge) for youth affairs and sports, has been elevated to Union minister for law and justice, while the former chief minister of Assam, Sarbananda Sonowal, was made Union minister  of Ayush as well as of ports, shipping and waterways. The latter deal is obviously part of the settlement for Sonowal being made to forgo claims to continue as the chief minister of Assam after the state assembly elections in April in order to make way for the Bharatiya Janata Party’s blue-eyed boy in the state, Himanta Biswa Sarma. The other three from the Northeast are Tripura’s Pratima Bhoumik (social justice and empowerment); Assam’s Rameswar Teli, who gets the petroleum and natural gas portfolio; and Manipur’s Rajkumar Ranjan Singh (foreign affairs and education). All are ministers of state without independent charge. Much has already been written about the possible reasons for this mid-term reshuffle, but in the Northeast, the excluded states rather than the included seem to indicate a more interesting story of the BJP’s anxiety about its future prospect in the region. Of the seven northeastern states (excluding Sikkim), four are BJP-ruled and all the five ministers named are from these states. This is understandable. The three excluded states — Nagaland, Meghalaya and Mizoram — are predominantly tribal and Christian states, and the signs seem to indicate that the BJP is giving up hope of ever becoming the dominant party here. This is in spite of the fact that the BJP is currently piggyback riding on state parties to share power in Nagaland and Meghalaya. In Nagaland, the party has 12 legislative assembly members in the House of 60, but this was possible only because of the seat-sharing arrangement with the Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party of the chief minister, Neiphiu Rio. In Meghalaya, the BJP has two MLAs, but is in the ruling coalition headed by the National People’s Party led by the chief minister, Conrad Sangma. In Mizoram, now ruled by the Mizo National Front under the leadership of Zoramthanga, the BJP managed to win only one seat. If this is the BJP’s Northeast anxiety, the message in the recent ministerial reshuffle seems to be that it is looking to consolidate its base in the three states in which it feels its ideology of Hindutva can take root. In the Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh and Assam assemblies, the party is a little sure-footed. Manipur is where it is likely to face some uncertainty. In the last assembly election in February 2017, it won only 21 seats, behind the Congress’s 28 in the House of 60. Yet it could form the government through means fair and foul, and with liberal help from the governor, Najma Heptulla. The party at that time also had to give away eight cabinet berths to partners to secure their support, leaving only four, including that of the chief minister, for those who won on BJP tickets to share, causing a lot of heartburn in the party. Now that the next elections are due in seven months, the party obviously feels the need to create fresh goodwill amongst the electorate and confidence among its putative candidates. The inclusion of a member of parliament from the state in the Union ministry would partly be a strategy towards this. Judging by the general euphoria generated, the strategy does seem to be having the desired effect for now. The choice of Ranjan would also be to address other concerns. As an MoS without independent charge, he would only be handling specific tasks within the two ministries he is placed in. He is a seasoned academic who specialized in geography and had served as registrar of Manipur University before retirement. He is also known for his interest in issues related to the India-Myanmar border. As MoS for foreign affairs, he could be asked to handle Indo-Myanmar cooperation in border affairs, including counter-insurgency measures. Considering the nature of insurgency in the Northeast — in Manipur above all — this can be a daunting and sensitive mission. Before him, another MP from the state, Meijinlung Kamson, had been made MoS for home affairs during 1995-1996, while Rajesh Pilot was the Union minister for internal security, and it is significant that it was during this period that the legwork for the ceasefire with the Naga insurgent group, the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah), which commenced in 1997, was initiated. It is reasonable to anticipate then that  with Ranjan in charge, the Centre may be hoping for such breakthroughs with regard to some or all Manipur insurgent groups still at large. As MoS for education, Ranjan is likely to be asked to explore the possibilities of upgrading the presence of northeastern history in the national school and college syllabi. This, too, is unlikely to be a cake-walk, considering the entangled nature of much of the region’s history. The recent controversies over the National Register of Citizens, and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act as well as the many claims of exclusive ethnic identities, lands and homelands, are some indicators of the likely roadblocks ahead. Pradip Phanjoubam is editor, Imphal Review of Arts and Politics||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
22-07-2021||Opinion||A common tune||In its initial phase, the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic left a trail of devastation across India, leading to the Narendra Modi government being at the receiving end of international media outrage and charges that the authorities had taken their eye off the ball. However, the discomfiture proved remarkably short-lived. Starting with the mass vaccination programme that was initiated in mid-June, the government regained its old sense of purposefulness and this paid handsome political dividends in the district body elections in Uttar Pradesh — interpreted in some political circles as an important pointer to the state assembly elections next year. The confidence of the Modi government was on full display in the Rajya Sabha debate on Wednesday on the state of pandemic management in India. While there was all-round concern that the much-awaited third wave would hit India, it was also tempered by the optimism that the hiccups witnessed during the initial stages of the second wave wouldn’t be repeated. Compared to, say, the United Kingdom, where there are alarmist suggestions that the Covid-19 tally in the third wave would be as high as 200,000 new infections each day, the official reaction in India was one of quiet confidence — an approach that shouldn’t be equated with denial. The confidence appears to be based primarily on the progress of the vaccination programme that began in mid-June. According to official figures released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the total number of people vaccinated (by either a single jab or both) was 41.18 crore as of July 20, with more than 50 lakh people being added each day. Without necessarily falling back on Boris Johnson’s evocative imagery of vaccines being the “cavalry over the hill”, it would seem that India, too, is confident that the third wave will be met by a human wall of the vaccinated. Certainly, without specifying a date by which India could be declared safe from the killer effects of a constantly mutating coronavirus, the new minister, Mansukh L. Mandaviya, reeled off data to suggest that India’s vaccine production capacity would be able to considerably narrow the existing gap between supply and demand. The Modi government is also understandably proud of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package that provides free basic rations of five kilogrammes of wheat or rice and a kilo of pulses to nearly 80 crore individuals or nearly two-thirds of India’s population. In addition, there have been direct cash transfers of varying amounts to farmers, women with Jan Dhan bank accounts, senior citizens and the disabled. The comprehensive relief package of Rs 1.70 lakh crore has certainly been a significant welfare cushion for large numbers of people who have seen their lives adversely affected by the pandemic and the enforced restrictions on normal life. Although criticized by some economists and Opposition parties for not favouring more cash transfers that can accommodate individual priorities, the Garib Kalyan package can be said to broadly correspond to an observation by the economist, Abhijit Banerjee, that: “The goal of social policy, in these times of change and anxiety, is to help people absorb the shocks that affect them without allowing those shocks to affect their view of themselves.” The government’s ability to hold a nation’s nerve is likely to be of some importance in the coming days. With the second wave having spread to rural India — nearly 50 per cent of all new cases are being reported from villages — and vaccine hesitancy being the most pronounced outside urban clusters, there is concern over what form the third wave will take in India. Additionally, the long-term after-effects of Covid on the health of individuals may pose problems for the overall health of the country. All in all, there is a growing concern that a virulent third wave could have a more serious effect on the country’s health and economy than the previous two waves of the pandemic. As the virus tries to keep a few steps ahead of the human determination to survive, the projection among Western optimists that post-vaccination, “Covid-19 has been downgraded as a nasty bug which is now no more lethal than viruses such as influenza” may not necessarily be applicable in the Orient. All this is in the realm of conjecture since clarity on the third wave hasn’t been forthcoming. This makes it imperative that in the political sphere at least, India bolsters its defences and irons out the rough edges that have either plagued the political class elsewhere or been exposed at different times since the big lockdown of March 2020. A prescriptive approach involves incorporating three principles of governance. The first is flexibility and open-mindedness, particularly in the realm of health policy. In theory, all governments claim to be guided by the advice of scientists and other domain experts. The first lockdown, for example, was dictated by the need to ‘flatten the curve’ by trying to minimize interaction between people. It was meant as a short, sharp, shock treatment and was part of an international trend stretching from Europe to China. The results were mixed, although in the case of India, the national freeze provided the breathing space for upgrading medical facilities and developing capacities in basic medical equipment. However, there was never any unanimity among the experts, and this discord extended to the treatment of Covid patients and the choice of vaccines. Since medical science itself evolved rapidly and often in conflicting directions, policymakers had to be open-minded and guided by flexibility. Certitudes ran the risk of travelling in a completely wrong direction. Secondly, the management of a pandemic has involved revitalizing the State and putting it at the forefront of social and political interventions. The efficiency and integrity of the public distribution system and public health bodies have been tested and, of course, need further improvements. At the heart of the matter is the need to enhance public trust in the State. The two principles that should determine the way forward are transparency and fairness. The pandemic holds out big challenges to the entire political class. The integrity of public reporting has been imperfectly established. Only too often, particularly in the initial days of the pandemic, Covid deaths were seriously under-reported. Again, in the management of containment measures, there has been a tendency to be discriminatory and even use provisions of the Disaster Management Act to settle political scores. There have been accusations, not least in West Bengal, of people being excluded from the vaccination programme on account of their political preferences. Partisan conduct affects the standing of the State for fairness and, ultimately, affects public trust in the State and its institutions. This needs to change. Finally, the Constitution has stipulated that health is a state subject. However, it has always been clear that state governments with limited monetary and human resources were never going to be successful in meeting the Covid-19 challenge by upholding regional autonomy. The insistence of, say, the West Bengal government to purchase vaccines globally turned out to be an empty boast and had to be quickly abandoned. The challenge has necessitated a growing dependence on the Centre. Yet, the shift has been grudging and even graceless. Consequently, the absence of coordination and mutual reliance has been evident. The seriousness of the threat confronting the nation and, indeed, all of humankind means that petty one-upmanship must be eschewed — at least until this war on the virus lasts — and replaced by an inclination to march to a common tune. This again demands a mindset transformation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
