23-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Pegasus snoopgate, Prithvi Shaw should stay focussed, death by lightning||Grave threat Sir — The term, ‘Pegasus’, is gaining wide currency in India’s political discourse (“Big brothers”, July 23). The latest startling revelation that Pegasus, a penetrative, powerful and sophisticated software developed by Israel’s NSO Group, was allegedly used to snoop on people for questionable reasons shows that the Narendra Modi government does not believe that spying on citizens is unethical or antithetical to democratic practice. The government’s rebuttal that the allegation of hacking by the private company is without substance is belied by forensic evidence of Pegasus infections. The government is now trying to hide behind the all-too-familiar ‘international conspiracy’ theory. The statement of the Union home minister, Amit Shah, that the complaint was being brought about by ‘disruptors’ to show India in a bad light and to derail the country’s development trajectory was unconvincing. India is ‘defamed’ on the international stage more by the act of snooping than by its disclosure. In this digital era, hacking smartphones and other devices for political ends is nothing short of weaponizing technology. Illegal snooping or surveillance is a cybercrime; it invades privacy, infringes on civil liberties and threatens personal security. It can also give undue advantage to the ruling party in the electoral game. The question of utmost importance is whether the prime minister, Narendra Modi, was aware of this large-scale snooping. He owes the nation an honest answer, and is expected to take steps to get to the bottom of the ‘snoopgate’ controversy rocking the country. Modi needs to do more than just hit out at the Congress. He should accede to the demand for a probe by a joint parliamentary committee or a sitting Supreme Court judge. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — While accusations of cybercrimes are looming large against China in the international sphere, another frightening news afloat is that an Israeli spyware, Pegasus, is being used to snoop on journalists, politicians, activists and even students across over 50 countries. The findings of a consortium of 16 media organizations reportedly bolster accusations that not just autocratic regimes but democratic governments, including India, have used this spyware. Science and technology, meant to improve the lives of people and provide them with a peaceful life, are misused by the powers that be for selfish objectives. It is an attack on the democratic foundation of the country. Nations must come together to defeat the evil designs of cyber criminals. Seetharam Basaani,Hanamkonda Sir — Hitting the headlines, the Pegasus case has rocked Parliament proceedings. It is now being insinuated that the fall of the Janata Dal (Secular)-Congress government in Karnataka was made possible by tapping the phones of important leaders. This is a matter of concern. Surveillance, to some degree, may appear to have  become a necessary evil, especially in the aftermath of the 9/11 attack, in order to prevent terrorism. But its misuse by most governments to spy their opponents must be condemned. This is an infringement of the privacy of an individual, and a transgression of the rights to privacy and to personal liberty guaranteed under the Constitution. In the present case, phones of journalists and activists were reportedly tapped. This raises questions about whether existing laws offer protection or redressal to those whose privacy has been invaded, and if these laws need a revisit. Sravana Ramachandran,Chennai Stay focused Sir — The opener of the Indian men’s cricket team sent to Sri Lanka, Prithvi Shaw, has earned praise from the former Australian cricketer, Greg Chappell, for his form. This is good news. But Shaw should not get carried away with these accolades. As the coach of the national team, Chappell was reportedly full of praise for Irfan Pathan’s batting. The latter eventually lost the edge in his bowling and went on to lose his place in the national team. Likewise, after scoring a six off the first ball he faced in a one-day international, Ishan Kishan boasted that he had told everyone that he would hit his first ball for a six. Had the ball come from someone like Lasith Malinga or Mitchell Starc, he could have been bowled out for a golden duck. He was able to score a half-century only because of several dropped catches by inexperienced Sri Lankan players. Young players should therefore keep their heads down and play according to the merit of each ball. N.V. Krishnan,Chennai  Bolt from the blue Sir — Death by lightning has become more frequent than ever. A recent study has found that the number of lightning strikes in India between April 2020 and March 2021 increased by 34 per cent compared to previous years. Experts found a link between this spike and climate change. This is not a bolt from the blue. Scientists have been warning about this for a while. A 2015 study by California University had said that a global rise in temperature by 1 degree Celsius would increase the frequency of lightning strikes by at least 12 per cent. Perhaps getting struck by lightning will finally alert people about the perils of climate change. Radhika Gupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
23-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Game on||Another game, after the one in Bengal in which the Trinamul Congress trounced the Bharatiya Janata Party, is now afoot. This one has the nation — not Bengal — as the turf. In the course of her Martyrs’ Day address, Mamata Banerjee — several leaders of the Opposition were all ears — reiterated the need for forging unity among like-minded parties to take the battle to the BJP in the forthcoming general elections. Ms Banerjee’s appeal is based on practical, not ideological, considerations. Individual parties in the Opposition — the Congress is an example — have failed to take Narendra Modi and his party to task notwithstanding their numerous policy failures. Ms Banerjee believes that there is strength in numbers: a United Opposition can, she hopes, pose a more potent political threat to the BJP that is well-entrenched electorally. The other point about a concerted effort is equally pragmatic. Ms Banerjee is aware that the biggest danger to Opposition unity is the contradictory pulls and pressures within its ranks. That calls for a planned, coordinated approach. Yet, stitching up a national alliance is easier said than done. This is because the Opposition, a fragmented coalition of parties with pockets of influence, is confronted with several problems. Parliamentary elections are increasingly turning personality-oriented. The Opposition must, therefore, find a leader of stature to take on Mr Modi who, in spite of his blunders, commands a formidable following. It will be interesting to see whether the Opposition can cobble up such a consensus candidate. Ms Banerjee, interestingly, desisted from throwing her hat into the ring. The dilemma about mutual, state-level antipathy between many of the partners of the alliance, if there were to be one, needs to be addressed too. Would the electorate be accommodating of a coalition of proverbial strange bedfellows? The BJP would undoubtedly exploit these chinks in the Opposition armour. A possible counter-strategy would be for the Opposition to highlight bread and butter issues that affect the lives of the people. An unchecked pandemic, a devastated economy, encroachment on India’s territorial sovereignty, spiralling prices of fuel and other essentials — each of these issues would have been enough to corner any elected government. Mr Modi is blessed to have an Opposition that has not been able to capitalize on these thus far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
23-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Tax whip||These are rather taxing times for the media fraternity. As if thinning revenue streams on account of a faltering economy lashed by the pandemic are not enough, media companies are having to contend with another contagion: the tax man. Tax raids, to cite one example, have taken place on the media group, Dainik Bhaskar, that has been accused of evading taxes. No institution, including media companies, can be immune to the law of the land. The accusations against Dainik Bhaskar must be investigated fairly and in a transparent manner to establish the truth. What is worrying, however, is a broader pattern that has been synonymous with the political ascendancy of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Those opposed to the policies of the Narendra Modi dispensation, be they leaders of the Opposition, media organizations, dissenters or activists, seem to be particularly vulnerable to visitations from the income tax department. This has raised the apprehension of the Centre using the IT department as a stick to beat the media — a critical media — with. There are whispers that Dainik Bhaskar’s coverage of the Centre’s mismanagement of the Covid-19 crisis may have made it visible on the tax radar. If the allegation of such targeted discrimination is true, it would torpedo the Centre’s periodic homilies on its commitment to uphold the freedom of the press. There is evidence to suggest that the pledge may, indeed, be hollow. Under Mr Modi’s watch, India has witnessed a precipitous slide on the World Press Freedom Index: it ranked a lowly142 among 180 countries this year. The reasons are not far to seek. The BJP has a formidable arsenal to tame the media. In spite of the Supreme Court’s observation that members of the fourth estate are entitled to protection against sedition, this archaic legal provision — a relic of colonial law — has often been weaponized to intimidate those who retain the courage to speak truth to power. Physical attacks against journalists are not new either; Mr Modi’s India now has the dubious distinction of being one of the most dangerous places for journalists to work in, according to Reporters Without Borders. Perhaps the most potent among these gags to stifle the media with is pressure — covert or overt — on public and corporate advertisers to choke revenue, the lifeline of the media. At the heart of the problem lies the regime’s barely concealed condescension for contrarian — independent — opinion. Unfortunately for Mr Modi, pliant institutions — the media included — only dull the sheen of Indian democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
23-07-2021||Opinion||Green gold||We keep buying smarter phones or better laptops, but what happens to our scrapped devices? Well, when the top athletes of the world contest in Tokyo, they would essentially be fighting for some recycled mobile phone or laptop. The organizing committee conducted the Tokyo 2020 Medal Project to collect small electronic devices from all over Japan to produce the Olympic and Paralympic medals. Under the theme, “Be better, together — for the planet and the people”, the Tokyo Olympics are set to be the most sustainable and environment-friendly Games ever. About 32 kilogrammes of gold, 3,500 kg of silver and 2,200 kg of bronze, the metals required to manufacture the approximately 5,000 gold, silver and bronze medals, have been extracted from 78,985 tonnes of used devices collected between April 2017 and March 2019 from wards, cities, towns, villages and 6.21 million used mobile phones collected by NTT DoCoMo shops across Japan, all contributed by people. Efforts towards sustainability, which will be part of the legacy of the pandemic-hit Tokyo Games, do not stop there. Uniforms for the Olympic torch relay were partially produced from recycled plastic bottles, and the victory ceremony podiums are being made from recycled household and marine plastic waste — around 45 tonnes of household plastic was contributed to create the 100 podiums. But how serious is the problem of electronic waste. Waste from equipment like general consumer electronics, computers, laptops, tablets, mobile phones, white goods and industrial grade electronics is hazardous owing to the presence of deadly chemicals and metals; long-term exposure to these substances causes serious health risks. How big is the threat? According to a report by the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India, 44.7 million metric tonnes of e-waste was generated worldwide in 2016; the amount is expected to grow at a 3.15 per cent compound annual growth rate. The United Nations University compared the weight of 2016’s e-waste to “nine Great Pyramids of Giza” or “4,500 Eiffel Towers”. It is estimated that by 2021, global e-waste will have risen to 52.2 MMT. The increased digital dependence owing to the pandemic would result in more e-waste. India, China, the United States of America, Japan, and Germany are the top five e-waste generating countries. India’s e-waste was estimated to increase to 5.2 MMT by 2020 from 2 MMT in 2016, mostly because of economic growth and changing consumption patterns. Computer equipment account for almost 70 per cent of this e-waste, followed by phones (12 per cent), electrical equipment (8 per cent), medical equipment (7 per cent), and household items. China, Peru, Ghana, Nigeria, India, and Pakistan are also the biggest recipients of e-waste from industrialized countries. However, a meagre 1.5 per cent of the total e-waste generated in India is recycled through an institutional process, and most of the e-waste gets channelized into the unorganized sector where low-cost, rudimentary methods are used to recover valuable material. The remaining parts are thrown into rivers and drains, or disposed of in solid waste dumps. Burning of e-waste generates toxic fumes, while its disposal in water bodies degrades soil and water quality. Development and implementation of low-cost and environment-friendly recycling and disposal infrastructure are a must. In 2017, scientists at IIT Madras came up with a novel technique where e-waste can be used as a resource not only to treat waste water but also to generate electricity simultaneously. The world’s first microfactory for converting e-waste into reusable materials has been opened in Australia. South Korea managed to recycle 21 per cent of its 0.8 MMT of e-waste. Effective collaboration with the industry is needed. One needs more and more innovative ideas. But for the time being, Japan gets a gold medal for sustainability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
23-07-2021||Opinion||Fiction over fact||A moment of crisis is often seen as a call to realism, a summons to the moment of truth. But crisis in recent times has been more a pretext for fictions, a strengthening of stereotypes. The first site for such fictions, which serve as quick myths, is the Indian State. In this Olympiad of death we call Covid, the Indian State was portrayed as reasonably competent. Between lockdown as legend and the myth of statistics, it was seen as a functioning, not as a failed, State. Its ignorance of the tragedy of the informal economy was totally ignored. The fact that Covid created the second biggest migration after the Partition is hardly cited. The fact that these migrants became non-citizens and companions in narrative to the Rohingya refugee was rarely recognized. In fact, the dualism of formal and informal economies has become one of the great tragedies of this decade, creating a genocide whose memory is erased. Whether it is State, media or academia, they all cling to the idea that they are catering to the middle class. The margins, the nomads and the migrants disappear in these narratives. What we are fed is the happy narrative, that Narendra Modi is in power and ‘all’s right with the world’. Within this world, classifications become the legitimations for genocide and indifference. But what is more intriguing beyond the taken for granted of policy and sociology is the active fictions that a section of the media tries to create. This Pollyanna class always looks for the happy story as the human interest story. It tries to use the narrative of media icing to create more seductive fictions. One of the most successful of these has been the construct one labels the ‘Post Truth Family’. The Post Truth Family is a new, saccharine construct built on old dualisms. Modern industrialism is basically built on the three oppositions of the informal/formal, public/private, office/home. In a gendered sense, men generally went to work and the housewife stayed at home. Covid has frozen certain dualisms. While it ignored the informal economy and its travails, it played up the hyphenation of office and home. The home became a place for office work and breathed a certain conviviality. Years ago, Nirad C. Chaudhuri observed acutely that Indian couples are divorced and don’t know it. Consigning the acuteness of Chaudhuri to the dustbin, the media invented a new sociological simulacrum. A simulacrum in communication theory is an imitation of the real which feels more real than the real. There is something seductive about it as a construct. The Post Truth Family is a classic example. The narrative begins with two quick tactical steps. In the first, the migrant family in its nomadic temporary state is swept aside. Citizenship and respectability belong to the middle-class office goer. The newspaper supplements literally create a new leisure class around this phenomenon. Husband and wife work happily to create and share leisure time. In a reversal of the old home science, husband and wife cook together as a recipe for conviviality. The Covid city brings the two genders together by bridging office and home and by creating leisure as a cultural way of being together. The impersonality of work is wished away at leisure as children join parents in rediscovering the family. To the home as play, one adds a spell of tourism to express the joy of togetherness. What advertising does as a construct, Bollywood has to replay as a more convincing myth. Bollywood replays the Covid crisis as being resolved by conspicuous consumption and conspicuous sexuality. The film star’s body is emblematic of that as young couples play out the myth of Maldives. But mere romance is not enough. It is an expected icing to domesticity. One sees relationships which would normally be frowned upon than being given legitimacy. The independent woman provides a resilience to this aspect of sexuality. Whether it is Disha Patani or Malaika Arora, the new woman comes out strongly. A touch of liberty and liberation is provided by these narratives to the Sunday supplement. This Post Truth Family in private space creates conviviality which as togetherness, an intimacy, is the opposite of the official policy of social distancing. It is claimed that the successful Indian State glues families together in such a way that no Covid crisis can tear them apart. Advertisements add a final touch. The amount of property advertisements, the epidemic dream of the ideal dream house, erases any sense of the homeless migrant. The sense of paradise is intensified with Bollywood stars buying new homes, serving as a model for the aspirational class. In fact, Covid has now become a form of urban cleansing, setting the stage for Modi’s aspirational era. To add a sinister touch, the old are now constructed not as a family cycle but as a dispensable part of the family. In the industrial lingo of today, they are obsolescent. When one hears about the varieties of anxiety, one realizes the need for an oral history project of its own. We substitute social science as management and talk overtly of spiritual techniques and hand books of anxiety management. Social science, like the State, has stopped listening, or even understanding, that silence speaks in many voices and has to be listened to. Whole domains of life have been silenced, the varieties of violence inside the family have been ignored, because of cost benefit models of violence. Once you flatten the family and the State, it is easy to capture the intermediate spaces. Amit Shah is set up as exhibit A to add machismo to the cooperatives. Cooperatives will be treated like cadre and lose the nuances of work they created. Cooperatives are a unique blend of family and work. Everyone is involved in different ways. Children learn to work as they grow up. In that sense, the cooperative hinges on a different kind of pedagogy. To treat it as industry destroys the diversity of work. All this is done in the name of normalcy, rechristened as the new normalcy. There is nothing more Orwellian than the word, normal, in this regime. It allows a moral imperative which permits you to ignore dissent, suffering, distress. New normal is the language of policy whitewash signalling everything is fine. The sadness is that as a middle class we believe in such fictions. Shiv Visvanathan is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
