24-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Meenakshi Lekhi calls farmers 'hooligans', mandatory mediation law in India, National Cousins’ Day||Bad choice Sir — It was quite shameful to hear the junior foreign minister, Meenakshi Lekhi, use the word, ‘hooligans’, in connection with the farmers who have been protesting for months against the unjust agriculture reform laws that were passed by the Union government (“Farm parliament meets amid ‘hooligans’ row”, July 23). She was speaking at a press conference when she made the comment on the alleged attack on a mediaperson during the ‘farmers’ parliament’ at Jantar Mantar. Even though she apologized later and claimed that her comments were misinterpreted, it would not be hard to believe that the Bharatiya Janata Party minister harbours frosty feelings towards the farmers who have refused thus far to allow the Centre to bulldoze them into compliance. Moreover, using objectionable language against dissenters and Opposition leaders has become a part of India’s steadily degrading political discourse; BJP ministers have a dubious record in this regard. It is entirely likely that Lekhi let her true feelings towards the farmers, who have been a thorn in the BJP’s side, show. After all, the BJP has been unable to crush their fight for their rights. Maitreyi Krishnan,Chennai Sir — Exasperated by the tenacity of the farmers in spite of all the efforts of the BJP government and sections of the media to silence them, Meenakshi Lekhi called them hooligans, thereby making a grave error. She may have apologized later, but the damage has been done and it is bound to cost the BJP and the Central government a lot of goodwill. What has been said, especially by those holding positions of power, cannot be unsaid. Anthony Henriques,Mumbai First step Sir — While speaking at the India-Singapore Mediation Summit, the Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, rightly expressed the need for Parliament to enact an ‘omnibus’ law to make mediation mandatory before a case goes to court (“Civilly solved”, July 22). Doing so would ease the pressure on an already overburdened judiciary, which has several decades’ worth of a backlog of cases to handle alongside new litigation being filed every day. Mediation or arbitration through alternative dispute resolution, on the other hand, will help citizens, especially those belonging to middle-class or poorer backgrounds, by reducing their expenses and the time to be spent on the cases. Citizens go to court because they believe that the rule of law will be followed. They trust that their complaints will be heard with strict impartiality, free from political or other influences, and that they will receive a fair trial. However, unjust and violent means are often used in mediation in India. This is evident in the decision-making of khap panchayats and shalishi bodies which make a mockery of social justice. As such, a law on mandatory mediation, especially in the case of civil disputes, should have adequate limitations, keeping biases of gender, caste, religion and so on outside its scope. Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — A mandatory mediation law in India would be welcome if law-makers can frame it comprehensively enough to prevent its misuse. Mediations in cases where obvious power asymmetries exist should not be to the detriment of the less-powerful party. Aranya Gupta,Calcutta  Perfect mix Sir — As a person who grew up in a joint family and was surrounded by cousins, I was pleasantly surprised to learn that there is a day commemorating this unique relationship as well. Today is National Cousins’ Day, and is an apt occasion for different generations to reflect on their bonds with their cousins. For people like me, cousins are no less than one’s own siblings, as we grew up together. Younger generations who grew up in nuclear families would likely have had a different experience. It would be good for young people to consider nurturing their relationships with their cousins — it is a bond that can be a perfect mix of friendship and familial support. Subhalakshmi Basu,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
24-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Fair games||Will the Tokyo Olympics — it began on Friday — witness the breaking of the glass ceiling as well as of records? The International Olympic Committee seems to think so. On Women’s Day this year, it announced that the tournament would be the “first ever gender-balanced Olympic Games in history” with almost 49 per cent of the total number of athletes being women. Indeed, five major participating countries, including Russia, China and the United States of America, are sending more women athletes to the competition than men. The contingent from the US will have 329 women and 284 men. China’s representation of women is more than double of that of its men — 298 to 133. The push towards making the Olympics more gender-inclusive is welcome. The issue must, however, be examined beyond the lens of numbers alone. Representation and even performance in international events do not necessarily guarantee equal treatment for women athletes. The gender pay gap in sports remains staggering, with even the most successful football team in the world since 1991 — the US women’s soccer team — not making nearly as much as their male counterparts. The asymmetry is evident in the importance accorded to women sportspersons by the media as well; studies have shown that women’s sports receive the same amount of coverage now as they did in the 1980s. These disparities are even more acute in India, which has traditionally frowned upon women participating in professions considered to be the domains of men. India is sending only 56 women to the Tokyo Olympics as opposed to 71 men. This is a pity, because India’s medal tally had seen significant contributions from women in the Asiad and the Commonwealth Games. Ironically, in 2021, an Olympic year, the Union government slashed the sports budget by Rs 230.78 crore. This is likely to further reduce women sportspersons’ share of resources related to equipment, training and sponsorship. Other obstacles faced by women — social discrimination, unethical treatment, the policing of their bodies — run deep in sport and often remain unidentified. Even laws governing sports bodies and tournaments can be prejudicial. In 2014, the Indian sprinter, Dutee Chand, had her gender questioned and had to fight a ban for having high testosterone levels. These prejudices must be actively rooted out through mechanisms — inclusive, sensitized laws, parity in payment, awareness programmes to address social conservatism and so on — that enable women to shatter the gender glass ceiling. The Olympics — one of the premier sporting competitions in the world — treating women equitably could provide a momentum for broader transformations. It must be remembered that the Games are taking place during an unprecedented global health crisis. The staging of the competition, therefore, is a testament to the ferocity of the human spirit. What is needed, however, is for the fierceness of spirit to be matched with the forces of humanitarianism and empathy. If global sporting culture were to be imbued with these salutary values, the day that women athletes break the glass ceiling would, hopefully, not be far away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
24-07-2021||Opinion||Poignant pictures by Derry Moore||My favourite photograph of Satyajit Ray, surrounded by books and newspapers, was taken at his residence in Calcutta in 1980. What I hadn’t realized was that this evocative black-and-white image was taken by the British photographer, Derry Moore. Born in 1937 into an Anglo-Irish aristocratic family and educated at Eton and Trinity College, Cambridge, the 12th Earl of Drogheda tells me he has never wanted to “trade” on his title. When I meet Moore at his home in Notting Hill, he reveals he is planning an exhibition of his equestrian photographs, including horses from the Indian presidential guard taken in 2015. That was also when he photographed Pranab Mukherjee in the Rashtrapati Bhavan. In 1976, the first of his 20 trips to India, he photographed Indira Gandhi. He met Ray in Lucknow in 1977 when the director was shooting The Chess Players. But it was not until their third meeting that Moore was satisfied with his photograph. “His films influenced me tremendously — visually.” In 1982, Moore photographed Soumitra Chatterjee in his green room in north Calcutta when the actor was doing an adaptation of Ivan Turgenev’s A Poor Gentleman — “it was the best production of the Russian play I’ve ever seen.” Taken by The Autobiography of an Unknown Indian, Moore asked to photograph Nirad C Chaudhuri in Oxford in 1988 — “I’ve just finished rereading Thy Hand, Great Anarch!” “I was rather disappointed that he wasn’t in Bengali clothes,” recalls Moore, who was rebuked “slightly” for not using his title. “The Bengali shawl creates a wonderful pediment for the head. One of the things that makes me so mad is the way people in India have abandoned Indian clothes. Now, people dress in the way that they dress all over the world — jeans and tee shirts and things.” Important lessons Amartya Sen’s memoir, Home in the World, which he told me he was thinking of writing perhaps 10 years ago, is easily the most accessible of all his books. I remember he showed me around Trinity College, Cambridge, after taking over as Master in 1998 and took me to lunch at Hall where I noted mango chutney and poppadum were available. I am especially enjoying the account of his early period in Cambridge after he arrived as an undergraduate in 1953. He had to come by sea because his family couldn’t afford the BOAC fare from Calcutta. He was due to come to the United Kingdom from the United States of America next month to speak about the book but tells me he has had to postpone the trip until October because of the pandemic. He writes about his earliest memories of Burma and how people he remembers as gentle have been turned by persistent propaganda into “violent haters” of the Rohingyas. “There is a lesson here which is peculiarly important today in formerly secular India: the religious extremists have been very dedicated — even through governmental policy — in undermining inter-community relations and in threatening the human rights of Muslim minorities.” Incidentally, his favourite dishes include tagliolini con vongole, Szechuan duck, and “of course ilish mach” — but the latter “has to be cooked in proper Dhaka style with ground mustard”. Differently served My first post-lockdown lunch at Ziani, an Italian restaurant in Chelsea, was with Theo Woodham-Smith, who does a wonderful job of promoting the arts and was the one to alert me to Derry Moore. The book she has been reading sounded so intriguing that I immediately ordered it — Garlic and Sapphires by Ruth Reichl. As the food critic of The New York Times, Reichl felt she had to be anonymous and so took to turning up in a variety of disguises, including Molly Hollis, the retired high school teacher, Chloe, the seductress, and Brenda, the downtown earth mother. Some outraged restaurant owners sought to get her fired. Her reviews revealed that she received cosseted treatment as herself and the worst table and poor service as a non-celebrity. Technological challenge One has to listen to Sam Pitroda, the tech guru to Rajiv Gandhi and Manmohan Singh, when he insists India’s EVMs can be hacked. How? “Very simple. I’ll tell you my view as a technocrat... it is not just about the equipment. It’s the entire process — the logistics of shipping the equipment, storing the equipment, handling the equipment, upgrading the equipment. This technology is 15 years old and 15-year-old technology in my field is like 100-year-old technology. If this technology is not modified every two years it is obsolete.” Sam is in Chicago, his home for 55 years, but Zoom makes it possible to talk to him about his new book, Redesign the World: A Global Call to Action. His method of testing an EVM would be drastic: “I would give it to the global hacker community and say, ‘Here it is. Hack it.’ No point in saying, ‘Oh, we did this five years ago, and nobody could hack it.’ I want it done now.” After the polls in West Bengal he is also scathing about the Election Commission: “Tell me which state has eight phases of elections? What was the need for it?” Footnote It is well known that Bill Clinton likes spicy Indian food, especially “butter chicken, sheekh kebab and Malabar fish curry”. Now there is further confirmation in Downing Street documents released by the National Archives at Kew. When he came to the UK as the US president in May 1997, he politely turned down taking tea with the Queen and dinner with the PM, Tony Blair, at Chequers. Instead, he and Hillary wanted to try out an Indian restaurant. But Blair more or less forced Clinton to have dinner at the French restaurant, Le Pont de la Tour, near Tower Bridge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
24-07-2021||Opinion||Riding high||The Pegasus scandal appears to be another milestone in the country’s descent into authoritarianism. The breadth of surveillance that has been uncovered touches almost every institution of India: Opposition parties, the media, non-governmental organizations, the judiciary and the Election Commission. Equally unsettling is its depth. Through this malware, the government gains a level of access to the private lives of citizens that would be beyond the wildest dreams of totalitarian regimes of the 20th century. Taking the reasonable assumption that the government or its agencies are involved as only the government can access the spyware, the issue at hand goes beyond a violation of privacy. A surveillance regime of this kind undermines every substantive aspect of democracy: the rule of law, free and fair elections, freedom of expression and institutional autonomy. Given the seriousness of the charges it faces, one might have expected to see a tarnished and tottering government à la the Nixon regime in the midst of Watergate. Yet, the government has reasons to be confident of surviving the scandal with minimal political damage. The Opposition has two routes towards cornering the government on this issue, both of them riddled with difficulties. The first is forging a coalition of elites to take on the government. Since all segments of the power elite, including the media, businessmen and the judiciary, have been perversely affected by the surveillance, they have the motive to actively unite behind demands for accountability and redress. It must also be remembered that the list of names released is probably only the tip of the iceberg — one leaked list, in one time period, pertaining to one surveillance tool. The actual surveillance net likely ensnares a wider cross-section of elites. However, this coalition of elites would be difficult to assemble in practice. The Supreme Court would unquestionably be interested in the name of an SC judge popping up among the list of the surveillance targets. However, if the Supreme Court decides to order a high-profile judicial enquiry, it would become embroiled in some difficult questions of its own. One of the most important stories that came out of the leaks is the snooping on the woman (and her relatives) who accused the former Chief Justice of India, Ranjan Gogoi, of sexual harassment. Perhaps more importantly, a judicial enquiry into the matter might set the Supreme Court up towards the sort of frontal conflict with the political executive that it has repeatedly shown it wishes to avoid. The media and business leaders might also be loath to confront the government. In one respect, what the Pegasus leaks represent is the portrait of an all-powerful State. The sense of fear that partly accounts for the self-censorship of the media and compliance of business houses would, therefore, only become more potent with the leaks. There would have conceivably been countless journalists, civil servants, activists and businessmen wondering over the past few days whether they too have been hacked. This paranoia has the potential to weaken more spines than it stiffens into action. In some respects, fear is an effective instrument for maintaining conformance. It has its limitations, though, as would be explained later in the article. A second route for the Opposition entails building popular support against government surveillance. This course is an even steeper climb. The political messaging against government surveillance comes up against two barriers. One, people aren’t sure how government surveillance affects their lives. As any activist flagging the surveillance potential of Aadhar or the proliferation of CCTVs in public spaces would attest to, privacy issues have little purchase among the broader public. Further, the supposed target of surveillance in this case is not even them but the elites. The second barrier is the overweening cynicism that since this is the practice common to all governments, there is nothing important in any new revelation. This cynicism is, moreover, not without basis. An RTI application filed during the UPA years revealed that, on an average, permission for 7,500 to 9,000 phone interceptions were issued every month by the home ministry under the Indian Telegraph Act. Despite the continuities with previous surveillance regimes, the Pegasus scandal is still unprecedented in some sense. This is not just because of the sweeping and high-tech nature of the surveillance, the unloading of an imported ‘cyber-weapon’ by a government against its own citizens. It is also because the ends of surveillance are purely partisan — aimed almost exclusively at opponents of the government or journalists working on stories damaging to the Bharatiya Janata Party — with little relation to any conception of national security. It is also not clear if the surveillance even passes the minimum test of formal legality since there is no legal provision allowing hacking by State agencies. However, since most political parties have been complicit in State surveillance of some sort when in power, they have trouble surmounting the question of credibility when in Opposition. The nuances of different surveillance regimes do not translate neatly into political rhetoric. A deeper malaise is the failure of the political system to nurture any intellectual tradition or political discourse connecting surveillance with the curtailment of civic and political freedoms. This is why allegations of surveillance have rarely led to any political accountability. There are two exceptions to this rule. One, the resignation of the former Karnataka chief minister, Ramakrishna Hegde, owing to charges of spying on the calls of his political adversaries. And, two, the fall of the Chandra Shekhar government after a controversy involving police surveillance of Rajiv Gandhi. But even in these cases, the fallout owed more to political machinations rather than public disgust. In the case of Hegde, the spying scandal was merely an axe used by his party rivals, such as Chandra Shekhar and Deve Gowda, to oust him from office. Likewise, the presence of two plainclothes constables outside Rajiv Gandhi’s residence was a patently absurd pretext used by the Congress to pull the plug on the Chandra Shekhar government. Therefore, the Narendra Modi government might well feel emboldened to believe that this latest scandal would soon blow over notwithstanding the usual domestic criticism and international embarrassment. However, the Pegasus scandal reveals a deeper vulnerability of the Modi government, common to many regimes with an authoritarian bent. It is the over-reliance on fear and coercion as a mechanism for ensuring the support of the elites. When Modi came to power, he had managed to generate considerable enthusiasm among large parts of the media, business, and even intellectual elites. Meanwhile, the BJP and the RSS had also for decades cultivated influential members of the Indian elite, making inroads into the constituency through the politics of persuasion. The political imagination of the BJP leadership is now restricted to electoral success underpinned by an extraordinary electoral machine. As long as the party can hold on to its popular support on the basis of majoritarian ideology and the personality cult of Modi, the elites can be bent to the leadership’s will using the fearsome power of the State. However, the reliance on fear to the exclusion of the give-and-take of politics has its limitations. The brazen use of investigative agencies against Opposition parties has not prevented the loss of key allies such as the Shiv Sena and the Shiromani Akali Dal in recent years. The remarkable centralization of the party, coupled with demands of unquestioning loyalty, has also weakened party structures. That the coercive strategy of the top leadership extends to the party itself was made starkly clear from the Pegasus leaks as BJP leaders and their aides were also the alleged targets of surveillance. The rumblings of the elites under the surface could be seen during the second wave of the pandemic. As Modi’s popular support witnessed an ebbing, institutions such as the media and the judiciary asserted their independence and took the government to task. However, the reflex of the top leadership to any political insecurity is to double down on the coercion, its primary language of governance, thus creating even more underlying resentment. This is not a recipe for long-term dominance, which requires a degree of co-option of the elite based on loyalty and common interest. As the monsoon session runs its course, the really damaging punches to the government are likely to be made over its failures on the issues of price rise, pandemic and farmers, not the issue of surveillance. Yet, it is the growing authoritarianism of the government, highlighted by the Pegasus scandal, that is at the root of what afflicts the country. Asim Ali is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
