25-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Indirect taxes are blind to inequalities||Sir — Manoj Jha, the Rashtriya Janata Dal member of the Rajya Sabha, should be lauded for highlighting in the upper House the irony of India following an indirect tax regime in spite of having one of the largest number of people living in poverty (“Maafinama in a bereaved republic”, July 22). He rightly asked why a poor man is not as much a taxpayer as industrialists like Adani and Ambani when the former, too, pays a host of indirect taxes while buying a myriad products of daily use. Indeed, indirect taxes are blind to inequalities. This is the reason why in most modern welfare states, unlike India, direct taxes constitute the lion’s share of the total tax collection. In India, however, the poorest of the poor have to cough up the same substantial amount of indirect tax as the rich while buying anything from salt to slippers and from food to medicine. While direct taxes depend on the taxpayers’ ability to pay, indirect taxes are blind to the economic status of the taxpayers. Unsurprisingly, the latter hit the poor the hardest. Given the huge income disparity among Indians, India should rely more on direct taxes which are an equitable way to fill the State’s coffers. Sujit De,Calcutta Sir — What was more heartening than the content of Manoj Jha’s ‘maafinama’ was the fact that the tradition of debate and dialogue seems to be making a slow but sure recovery in Indian Parliament. Jha made a solid speech, which, while being scathing of the ruling dispensation, was civilized and invigorating. Mahua Moitra is another politician whose fiery speeches — always backed by solid facts — have garnered both attention and praise. Oratory is central to Brand Modi — the prime minister, Narendra Modi, is the only politician in India to use presidential teleprompters to make speeches. His second-in-command, the home minister, Amit Shah, too, is quite a rabble-rouser. One of the reasons that Mamata Banerjee trumped the two men so successfully in Bengal is that she can make good speeches that hold the public captive. It is very important for Opposition leaders to focus on their oratorial skills. Simply presenting truths to the public is not enough as the last general elections have shown. Good oratory — even when it is based on falsehoods — clearly holds more sway over the public irrespective of the content. This is the reason why the speeches of Jha and Moitra are so encouraging. They combine oratory skills with the truth — the only skill that holds out some hope for saving India’s democracy. Tarun Banerjee,Calcutta Sir — The decision of Ben & Jerry’s to not do business in the West Bank has caused a meltdown disproportionate to the effect the company will actually have. With Israel threatening legal action based on anti-Boycott, Divestment, Sanctions laws in the United States of America, the Jewish-Israeli consensus on settlements is set to shock American Jews who are generally opposed to settlements and more willing to see them evacuated than their Israeli counterparts. How disenchanted American Jews are will be revealed earlier than many thought — and we have Ben & Jerry’s to thank for that. C. Bhattacharjee, Calcutta Sir — While announcing the higher secondary results, the president of the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education, Mahua Das, mentioned that this year, a Muslim girl, Rumana Sultana, got the first rank in the board examinations. This is shocking. A student is a student; there is absolutely no logic in identifying a student’s religious background. Das’s remark provided political parties with an opportunity to communalize the issue; this has already started. Never has such a gross act of communalization happened at the school level in our state. Our secular values have been compromised. Das, perhaps unwittingly, has provided fodder to peddlers of communal narrative. Her faux pas is unpardonable. She should apologize; the state should ask her for an explanation. S. Sarkar, Berhampore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
25-07-2021||Opinion||In my eye does it all lie||What do you see, may I ask, if you see anything at all? There is that problem these days, you know, and it is a rather pervasive one. Folks cannot see. In truth or in chicanery I cannot yet tell, but a lot many folks cannot see. Obvious things. So obvious they should be able to see them with their eyes closed. Simple things, daily things, things like the prices of oils, all sorts of oils. How risen they are, like flood levels in high spate, rising inch after inch. Like hair after hair oiling. No? Or oxygen. We cannot see. We are told there is much oxygen, too much oxygen, employ both nostrils, what has God given you two for? So much oxygen, but you can’t see oxygen? But of course you cannot see oxygen because do you not know oxygen is colourless and colourless things you cannot see? Folks cannot see; they cannot see how many folks are no longer there and they go on blaming oxygen, which they cannot see either. Can you see anything in the picture you see? The picture that is encroaching upon this workspace, gobbling the words away as if words, as if you know, words are all they can have. Words are being gobbled even as words are being written; and this picture is doing the gobbling. Can you see the picture now? Perhaps you cannot. And perhaps you cannot be blamed. You cannot see what is there to be seen, how is one to expect you to see what there is not to be seen. Right, there is no picture. As in, there is nothing in the picture. There is a frame and there is a space within that frame but that space has nothing in it. Perhaps it was taken away, wiped out. There is just the frame and the possibility of a picture, a picture past or a picture future. But the present, it is blank. Or smudged. It is not possible to see what was meant to be seen. But try. You need to see things, you need to make sense of what you see. There was an image here but it is no longer there. That is because you are being robbed of the opportunity of seeing it, and making sense of it and then comprehending things in a way that you are being prevented from doing. The picture was there. The frame came later. Understand? Look for the picture and see it for what it is. It has been removed but you may be able to find it. If only you’d end the illusion of seeing and open your eyes. The picture is there, it has just been removed. What you cannot see also exists, or may. I am here Gone nowhere So my dear Please look and take good care.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
25-07-2021||Opinion||All is fair in Olympics and war||Game is actually war with the fangs tucked in. The Olympic Games are no exception. Its Latin motto Citius, Altius, Fortius, meaning faster, higher and stronger, sounds less peace missive and more war cry. Politics is today’s battlefield, and politics is all pervasive, which basically means a sporting event of the scale of Olympics is a benign projection of actual political score-keeping. Buzz is that apart from International Olympic Committee (IOC) protocol, and notwithstanding the potential health hazard, Japan’s LDP government did not pull out of the Games with an eye on two important elections and a little matter about making a statement to the rest of South Asia. So what’s new? Adolf Hitler used the 1936 Games — under advisement of Dear Goebbels — as a propaganda event for himself and his version of an Aryan Germany. Of course, the Berlin games is credited with introducing the Olympic relay, but did you also know that that year all Jewish players — except one — were dropped? And that the first Olympic torch was made by Krupp, a German steel company that supported the Nazi regime? And when the 18 African-American members of the US contingent harvested medals aplenty, Hitler said: “The Americans ought to be ashamed of themselves for letting their medals be won by Negroes… I myself would never shake hands with one of them.” In 1948, Germany and Japan were dropped from the London Olympics given their role in World War II. One would think Britain played no part in the war. And the Soviet Union and the US played out their Cold War in the 1952 Helsinki Games. In 1948, the Communist Party Central Committee released a decree that said its objective was to “help Soviet sportsmen win world supremacy in the major sports in the immediate future”. China didn’t participate in the 1956 Melbourne Games when Taiwan was recognised by the IOC — Taiwan competed under the Formosa name. And in 2008, Taiwan threatened to boycott the Beijing Games if the Tibet situation worsened. But perhaps to date, the biggest Olympic tragedy was the killing of 11 Israeli athletes by Palestinian terrorists at the 1972 Munich Games. Police psychologist Dr Georg Sieber had predicted 26 scenarios for the Games organisers and what happened on September 5 was Scenario 21. So why was nothing done? Because the theme that year was "Carefree Games" and therefore little scope of stringent security. The murdered athletes were remembered during the opening ceremony of the Tokyo Olympics last Friday with a moment of silence, the first time in 49 years. The theme of these Games happens to be --- “Moving Forward”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
25-07-2021||Opinion||Monstrous nations||When politically mobilized majorities (or politicians acting in their name) single out minorities for oppression, writers reach for historically loaded comparisons. Marine Le Pen, Viktor Orbán, Vladimir Putin, Jair Bolsonaro, Recep Erdogan, Aung San Suu Kyi, Xi Jinping, Mahinda Rajapaksa, Bashar al-Assad, Narendra Modi, Benjamin Netanyahu have all been called fascist and this is not an exhaustive list. The appropriateness of this label is complicated by two considerations. One, can a political tendency so closely associated with the histories of Germany, Italy and Japan between the World Wars be usefully generalized to describe other polities removed in both time and space? Two, is it accurate to describe right-wing governments in internally democratic and externally peaceful countries as fascist when the signature trait of historic fascisms like Germany’s and Japan’s was genocidal, warmongering violence? To the extent that political parties call themselves fascist or admire historically fascist figures, it is reasonable to call them fascist in the same way as Mao’s (or Stalin’s) followers can be called communists. But this doesn’t really answer the first question, which asks whether a particular historical conjuncture can be usefully abstracted into a definitive template. Nor does it answer the second question, because many governments or parties that have an ideological family resemblance to Mussolini’s Fascists or Hitler’s Nazis might not slide into mass violence. When Viktor Orbán is described as fascist on account of his anti-Semitism or his hostility to homosexuality or his opposition to immigration, the term does double duty: it’s both a pejorative description and a prediction. Orbán is called a fascist because he shares the anti-minority prejudices of historic fascists; implicit in this characterization is the fear that his politics might devolve into a welter of genocidal violence. Is Orbán fascist if the violence doesn’t happen? Is fascism the institutionalization of a particular form of majoritarian bigotry or does the accuracy of that characterization depend on specific violent outcomes? Must all real fascism lead to concentration camps, ethnic cleansing or genocide or can fascism achieve a stable equilibrium in a functioning democracy? To describe a currently non-genocidal majoritarian party that plays by the rules of an electoral democracy as fascist generally implies a sequence of meanings: i. The party described as fascist has succeeded in making the persecution of minorities the basis of that country’s nationalism. ii. The democratic system that the party currently inhabits is likely to be set aside or hollowed out in the way that the National Socialists subverted the Weimar Republic. iii. If unchecked, this process will culminate in the formal isolation, disenfranchisement, even the expulsion or murder of minority citizens. Ironically, it was during the transition to civilian rule between 2012 and 2017 that Myanmar became a purely majoritarian polity through ethnic cleansing and by formally excluding Rohingyas in particular and Muslims generally from every democratic process and institution. In the run-up to elections in 2015, the military junta excluded Rohingyas from the new electoral rolls, an ironic instance of disenfranchisement as a function of democratization. Once this formal exclusion was complete, the Rohingya were corralled into internment camps. The rest is history. History teaches us that disenfranchisement and internment are often preliminaries to violent expulsion if the location and demographic distribution of the stigmatized minority permit such a purging. In the case of the Rohingya, they conspired to allow the government to do precisely that. Does this make Myanmar a fascist State? Some expert observers don’t think it does. They cite the history of Rohingya separatism and the role of the British in encouraging Rohingya settlement during colonial rule as sound historical reasons for their outsider status and the refusal of the independent Burmese State to grant them full citizenship. The fact that Rakhine Buddhists, themselves persecuted by the Burmese State, loathed the Rohingya as encroaching outsiders is sometimes offered as proof that the marginality of the Rohingya wasn’t a function of majoritarian loathing, but the reality of who they were: Bengali Muslims masquerading under a made-up name. The fact that Myanmar’s many insurgent minorities refused to make common cause with the Rohingya in their struggle against the centralizing Burmese State is also adduced as evidence of their incorrigible otherness. China’s treatment of the Uighur in Xinjiang shares some features with Myanmar’s dealings with the Rohingya. Both the Rohingya and the Uighur are demographically concentrated Muslim communities in a border region adjacent to Muslim majority nation states; Bangladesh, in the case of the Rohingya and Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan in the case of the Uighur. Their contiguity with a larger Muslim world is one reason why these Muslim minorities are seen by their nation states as a threat to their political unity. This ‘Muslim’ hinterland is seen as the source of both secessionist feeling and jihadi violence. Unlike the communal bigotry stoked and led by the monks of the Buddhist sangha that drives Myanmar’s hostility towards the Rohingya, China’s campaign to dissolve Uighur identity into a Han mainstream is powered by a secular majoritarianism, a cousin of France’s State-sponsored laicité. China, like France, wants an Islam supervised by the nation state, insulated from the extraterritorial influence of foreign Muslims. China hasn’t expelled the Uighur in the way that Myanmar brutally purged the Rohingya, but it has tried to sever their connection with their homeland in three ways: it has corralled more than a million of them in ‘re-education camps’, systematically suppressed their language and their religious institutions, and forcibly relocated and dispersed working-age Uighur to other parts of China. Is violent ethnic cleansing on a massive scale a more clear-cut symptom of fascism than mass internment, mass surveillance, the systematic stifling of religious practice, the sterilization of Uighur women, the razing of mosques and the official suppression of the Uighur’s Turkic mother tongue? This is not a question about which form of persecution is more wicked; that’s a question for people at the receiving end of State-sponsored terror to answer and they are rarely allowed to compare notes. It asks, which of these anti-minority policies suggests a nation tipping over into fascism? If fascism requires a civil society consensus that stigmatizes the minority that the State deems alien, Burma fits the bill. The non-Muslims of Rakhine, Burma’s Buddhist majority more generally, the country’s liberal intelligentsia, even its non-Buddhist minorities seem united in their indifference to, if not active distaste for, the Rohingya. This dislike might have had pre-colonial roots, but it is colonial modernity and then the modern Burmese nation state that weaponized it through constitutional exclusion (the Rohingya were not recognized as a national community in the first national Constitution), enumeration (they aren’t counted in censuses nor given the identity cards given to recognized communities) and formal disenfranchisement (when the first election was held under the new Constitution in 2015, the Rohingya were excluded from either voting or standing for elected office). If majoritarian State violence that subordinates and destroys a minority community through genocide or expulsion, without significant protest from civil society, is fascist, then Myanmar is a functionally fascist country. In the Chinese case, there is no evidence of mass killing or large-scale expulsion. The ‘domestication’ of the Uighur is remarkable for being an optional piece of social engineering. The Uighur pose no existential threat to the Chinese nation. This orchestrated atomization of a people is justified as pre-emption, as a form of abundant caution. Xinjiang is a behavioural laboratory; the Uighur are test subjects in a massive Pavlovian experiment. They are disciplined and punished and monitored in real time and in extreme close-up. Digital surveillance, internment and the political omniscience of a party State have combined to turn the Uighur into lab rats in a glass-walled habitat. Xinjiang puts the total into totalitarianism; it is 1984 read as a blueprint, not a warning. Does China’s achievement in materially transforming the lives of the majority of its people balance out Xinjiang? Where does India’s majoritarian savagery rank (if it figures at all) in this survey of actually existing fascism? How immune are Western democracies to this plague? Good questions for another day. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
25-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: In mourning ||Politicians nowadays seldom regard humility as a virtue. Donald Trump could not have eaten humble pie in his worst nightmares. But if he is an extreme case, it is still the rare politician who does not baulk at apologizing to the people. It was quite routine that the prime minister of Australia, Scott Morrison, should defend his vaccine policy when criticized. But then, as infections soared, Mr Morrison had enough humility to say that he was sorry about the slow rollout of the vaccine. The political atmosphere in India has deteriorated to such an extent that such a pronouncement by the Indian prime minister is now simply unimaginable. Yet around the same time as that of Mr Morrison’s apology, an Opposition member of parliament spoke movingly, out of his own pain as he said, in apology to the citizens whose deaths the government had not even acknowledged. Manoj Jha, a Rashtriya Janata Dal member of the Rajya Sabha, used the first person plural, identifying himself as part of the government, offering no excuse as the Opposition unlike the ruling party that aggressively and habitually distinguishes itself from the Opposition at the drop of a hat. Mr Jha gave expression to the humility, decency, compassion and empathy that people hope for from the government at times of crisis, referring to those whose bodies floated down the Ganga which the government dismissed and those who in their passing left behind a living document of the government’s failures. It was a bleak irony in Mr Jha’s ‘bereaved republic’ that the Narendra Modi-led treasury benches in the Lok Sabha were in that period busy shielding themselves from accusations regarding deaths caused by inadequate oxygen supplies. The ruling party denied that the states had ‘specifically’ mentioned such deaths while asserting that health was a state subject. The incredible insensitivity that the ruling regime showed by its refusal to accept responsibility for or share in the nationwide pain that Mr Jha spoke of was again displayed in the huge billboards thanking the prime minister for free vaccines. Apart from being a manipulation of the truth — the states had been giving free vaccines to all age groups before the Centre was forced into it — this was a shameful exhibition in a ‘welfare state’, as Mr Jha’s apology suggested. The welfare state has a commitment — it cannot ‘dwarf’ its citizens by announcing free treatment or vaccines. These are not gifts from a benevolent ruler. By accepting that the government failed its citizens, Mr Jha’s apology stood out at a time when Indians expect only hubris from the ruling dispensation. It reminded Indians that arrogance, the silencing of dissent and criticism, deafening praise of the ruler, and vigilante violence are not the only features of a government. But it is too much to hope that the present government will accept its failures and mourn with the people as a first step towards humane governance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
25-07-2021||Opinion||Even AAP insiders are questioning Kejriwal's selective outrage||This past week, the Aam Aadmi Party veered away from its play-safe policy with the Delhi chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, slamming the Centre for the income tax raids on the media outlets, Dainik Bhaskar and Bharat Samachar. After the AAP received a drubbing in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Kejriwal steered clear of direct verbal attacks on the prime minister, Narendra Modi, and gradually reinvented himself as a benign urban Hindu leader of the Hindi belt. Kejriwal and most of his party have confined themselves to speaking out on issues of immediate concern in Delhi, or in states where they wish to expand. Even when the Delhi-based website, Newsclick, and its executives were raided for five days in February, the AAP kept mum. The new-found voice, said a party source, was an indication of the level of quid pro quo the party has with Dainik Bhaskar — the world’s third largest, and India’s most circulated, newspaper. The source said, “Bhaskar carried our ads as well as content, unlike Newsclick that is mostly critical of us and gives little space to our leaders.” The AAP’s selective outrage has raised uncomfortable questions even within its fold. Questions are being asked on how different the anti-corruption party is from its competitors on civil liberties, especially free speech. Rahul Gandhi’s office has always lived under the fear of illegal surveillance, much before the world heard of the Pegasus spyware. This suspicion of being perpetually snooped on was based on two factors: one, substantive inputs from intelligence officials who were loyal to the Congress and, two, the warning by Gujarat leaders who had briefed the party’s central leadership on the alleged style of functioning of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. Congress leaders from Gujarat gave specific inputs about businessmen being warned within hours of conversation with them. They said it was almost impossible to escape the elaborate spying networks in Gujarat. Rahul Gandhi and his close aides always preferred to talk on landlines and, if approached by any important caller on the mobile, promptly advised them to use landlines. Some of them asked for communication over email instead of text messages. There was an unwritten rule in the office to change passwords as frequently as possible, preferably every evening. Some of them often wondered why the government was more interested in the political operations in the Opposition camp than in the activities of nefarious outfits. Apart from information about political strategies, special focus was put on finding out which businessman was in touch with the Congress. Now that the Pegasus scandal has exploded, the party hopes that it will be taken to its logical conclusion through judicial intervention. But nobody has any hope of permanent relief from the problem. Nagaland was witness to a significant, if debatable, political development on Monday — the principal Opposition party, the Naga People’s Front, unanimously endorsed the ‘concept of an Opposition-less government’ and decided to become a part of the ruling People’s Democratic Alliance in the ‘larger interest of the Naga people’. This interest includes facilitating an early, amicable and inclusive solution to the stalled Naga peace process. The PDA comprises the Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party and the Bharatiya Janata Party which defeated the NPF in the last assembly polls which were held in 2018. This is the second time since 2015 that the state will be having an Opposition-less assembly. The NPF headed the state government in Nagaland after eight members of the legislative assembly from the Congress switched sides. Although a formal decision by the PDA is yet to be taken, the development has drawn criticism from the Congress which does not have a single MLA in the 60-member assembly. Questions are being raised about the progress made during the first time there was an Opposition-less assembly or whether such a practice was good for a healthy democracy. But the NPF dropped another surprise when it dubbed the PDA government’s July 17 directive — it made vaccination compulsory for its employees — ‘unreasonable and dictatorial’ in nature. It is not clear whether the criticism was a pressure tactic to elicit a positive response from the PDA or a means to convey the importance of an Opposition in a democracy, but the NPF’s stand left many flummoxed. On a fine day recently, Jagadanand Singh, the Bihar unit president of Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal, resigned, plunging the party into a crisis. The former minister and parliamentarian was apparently piqued because a greenhorn MLA sat in his chair at the party headquarters in Patna, that too while he was present. The incident allegedly had the support of Lalu’s eldest son, the legislator, Tej Pratap Yadav, who dislikes the veteran leader. To make matters worse, Lalu, known to be a doting father, did not chastise his son. However, all senior leaders accused Jagadanand of making a mountain out of a molehill. They reminded him of the days when Lalu would be constantly chewing paan, zarda and khaini and spitting everywhere, with drops of his spit landing on the clothes of senior leaders and IAS officers, but none of them would say anything. “Has [Jagadanand] forgotten everything and the party culture? One has to tolerate several things to remain relevant in the RJD. He has also tolerated many things,” a senior party leader said. Last heard, Lalu had not accepted the resignation. Collective leadership is the call in the Karnataka Congress with two heavyweights — the state unit chief, DK Shivakumar, and the leader of the Opposition, PC Siddaramaiah — pulling in different directions. The differences took the two leaders to Delhi where Rahul Gandhi urged them to work towards the 2023 state elections as a team. But the crux of the matter is Shivakumar’s ambition to become CM, since there is a feeling that the party stands a decent chance in the next election if internal differences in the BJP fester on. As the principal troubleshooter of the party, Shivakumar carries a lot of weight even in the high command.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
