26-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: TMC Martyrs' Day programme, Chennai  effort to prevent defacing of city walls, marriage proposals at Olympics||New fulcrum Sir — The enthusiastic participation of representatives of Opposition parties in the special function organized by the Trinamul Congress on Martyrs’ Day was a significant political development. The chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee, made an impassioned plea to all Opposition parties to put the country’s long-term interest above their personal political calculations and form a united front against the Bharatiya Janata Party without delay. In her inimitable way, Banerjee said that the BJP has ‘a high viral load’ — this is especially apt given the virulent religious nationalism of the saffron outfit — and compared the Opposition parties to doctors facing an emergency. By taking the ‘Khela Hobe’ pitch to the national stage, Banerjee has become the rallying point for Opposition unity. Banerjee can become the fulcrum of an alternative to the Narendra Modi regime. The country is in great need of someone exactly like her who has the potential to change the dynamics of national politics and win voters over. More and more people are now realizing that their embrace of the Hindu right-wing in 2014 has turned out to be far from rewarding. Looked at objectively, seven years of Modi rule have brought only misery and ruin to the country. In contrast, West Bengal is making strides in economic progress and achieving social cohesion, thereby proving to be a model state for the rest of the nation. The crises that are plaguing the country reveal the need for better leadership. If the Opposition parties unite against the BJP and dislodge it from power and instal a pro-people government in 2024, they will have done India a good service. They can unite behind India’s foundational values and common minimum policies and programmes. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Hurting history Sir — It is great that in order to discourage those who continue to deface city walls with posters, scribbles and etchings, the Greater Chennai Corporation has decided to paint artwork across the city walls. In this context, it must be pointed out that city walls often bear posters and drawings of political parties and politicians. This, too, should be actively discouraged. Offenders who deface walls should be taken to task and penalized heavily. N. Mahadevan,Chennai Sir — City walls are not the only things that Indians deface. Most of us want to leave a mark on the pages of history. But some people go about doing this the wrong way. Scribbling and etching names, symbols, slogans, curses on our historical monuments is not the way to etch our names on the pages of history. People who do such things are not only inflicting serious harm on the monuments but also on India’s culture and heritage. They are maligning India’s image as a civilized land in front of the world. It pains us when we see our beautiful monuments being carved out to write names and draw obscenities. People also spit paan and gutkha juice on the walls of these edifices. This shows that we do not deserve these beautiful monuments, which are like little doors to our past. The legends of history whose robes brushed against these walls are now battered and stained by the irresponsibility of their successors. I urge the Government of India, the Archaeological Survey of India and the ministry of culture to take stern action against people who deface ancient monuments and book them under Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958, which says that if someone destroys, removes, injures, alters, defaces, imperils or misuses a protected monument s/he shall be punishable with imprisonment for up to three months and/or a fine of up to Rs 5,000. But just laws, rules or government action cannot save our monuments. Education and realization of the worth of tangible history can bring true change. Noopur Baruah,Tezpur Sir — What makes the GCC think that people who have scant regard for the heritage monuments of the country will be discouraged from defacing walls because of the artwork on them? The only trick that seems to have a limited amount of success in India is putting up images of gods and goddesses on walls. But this will only communalize our public spaces further. Could there be a case for setting up designated spaces where advertisements can be put up? That way other walls can be spared and people would know where to look for things being advertised. Tania Chakraborty,Calcutta  Forced hand Sir — In many ways, the Olympics are a bit like relationships. Highs, lows, outlandish risks, heady rewards, and mostly shorter than one expects them to last. But that is no excuse to make public proposals that put athletes on the spot. No less than five marriage proposals were made at the Rio Olympics. Time will tell how many proposals are made in Tokyo. Public proposals are, at heart, acts of intense coercion and humiliation, made by those who are too insecure to ask their loved ones to spend the rest of their lives with them without a baying mob complicit in the weird sting operation. Marriages are serious business. Surely an agreement on this should entail more careful thinking than a public podium provides scope for. Kaveri Raj,Ernakulam Parting shot Sir — Atanu Biswas’s article, “Green gold”(July 23), was invigorating; it provided valuable insight into the e-waste situation worldwide and suggested possible solutions to tackle the menace. The estimated amount of global e-waste is gargantuan — 52.2 million metric tonnes. The answer lies in recycling. But the percentage of e-waste properly recycled in India is low — only 1.5 per cent. The Indian Institute of Technology Madras has shown us the way with its innovative venture to reuse e-waste as a resource material to treat the waste water and convert the same to generate electricity. The earlier the ministry of renewable energy takes up the issue, the better for the country. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
26-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Deeper crisis||That inequality lies at the root of the ill health of a population is not new; this fact has only been thrown into sharper focus by the Covid-19 pandemic. The findings of the Oxfam report, Inequality Report 2021: India’s Unequal Healthcare Story, which documents the existence of sharp inequalities across caste, class, gender and religion-based categories on several health indicators, are a testament to the prevailing challenge. India’s reduced health budget, persistent under-funding of its public healthcare systems and its focus on encouraging private — but often unaffordable — healthcare entities have led to the deepening of disparities in people’s access to medical services. The data are suggestive of a discernible advantage enjoyed by affluent constituencies over those belonging to socially disadvantaged groups such as scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. Other kinds of binaries are also at play. Hindus have greater healthcare capital than Muslims, as do men over women and urban populations over their rural brethren. Data bear out the anomalies. As much as 12.6 per cent more children are stunted in SC households than those in general category homes; 8 per cent less children are immunized in Muslim households; a woman from the general category lives, on an average, 15 years longer than a Dalit woman. Worryingly, these crevices afflicting the welfare model have only been widened by Covid-19. The implications of social discrimination in a country that has five beds and 8.6 doctors for every 10,000 people and where the rural population, comprising 70 per cent of the national population, has access to barely 40 per cent of the beds can only be troubling. Significantly, not only do those in lower income brackets face more visits to hospitals and Covid centres on account of compromised personal health than the rich, but are also subject to five times more discrimination upon testing positive. The absence of universal health coverage has had a debilitating impact on citizens’ finances; out-of-pocket expenses are known to be a cause for penury in India. Insured citizens are not immune to financial challenges either. After the massive spike in cases during the second wave, 50 per cent of insurance claims got rejected while those that get processed yield only 60 per cent of the amount. Greater public health allocations — Telangana and Himachal Pradesh have undertaken such a measure — have had a positive effect on health outcomes during the pandemic. There are also lessons to be learnt from Kerala’s multi-layered pandemic health system — offering basic services at the community level, an expanded primary healthcare coverage, more hospital beds and doctors — outlined by the report. Can Kerala’s approach to the health crisis serve as a model to be emulated by other states?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
26-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Thoughtful||Draconian legislations are an integral, albeit worrying, feature of the judicial architecture of democracies. This is because in spite of their allegedly overarching reach and the history of patent misapplication, the imperatives of national security make it difficult for the judiciary to get rid of these laws. There is thus a need to achieve a fine balance so that the rhetoric of security perfected by the State does not end up crushing civil liberties. This illuminating position was arrived at by several legal luminaries — four former judges of the Supreme Court as well as one former judge of the Patna High Court — in the course of a webinar organized by the Centre for Judicial Accountability and Reform. The recourse suggested by these wise minds merits attention. Justice Madan B. Lokur, for example, reiterated the principle of accountability, more specifically financial accountability, from law-keepers. This is an important suggestion, given the fact that wrongful application of legal instruments — it is not, by any means, unprecedented in India — can be addressed, only partially, by demanding financial compensation for the victim’s loss of liberties. The Supreme Court, incidentally, has sought Manipur to respond to a plea of compensation by an activist who was incarcerated for a seemingly benign post on social media. But the thrust, as was agreed by the learned judges, should be on the examination of the constitutional validity of these restrictive laws. The result of this enquiry could be instructive given the State’s enthusiasm for these laws. Data indicate that the rate of conviction, in spite of a discernible spike in the application of the sedition law or, say, that of the equally severe Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, remains quite low. Of equal concern is the fact that the executive and the judiciary seem to be pulling in different directions on the matter. The Delhi police have now been empowered to apprehend citizens by applying the National Security Act. The progressive views of the judiciary, in contrast to the hawkish stance taken by the State, must be acted upon to sharpen the public engagement on a philosophy that seeks to view civil liberties and security as conflicting binaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
26-07-2021||Opinion||Deadly Gamble: Covid in the UK||“Let the bodies pile high in their thousands,” expostulated Boris Johnson in his private office, but the door was open and a number of witnesses reportedly heard him. This was last October, when the second wave of Covid-19 was gaining speed but the British prime minister was determined not to reimpose restrictions like masks and self-isolation on the public. The bodies did pile quite high — into the tens of thousands, in fact. In the five months from November 2020 to March 2021, Covid killed 86,049 British citizens, most of whom would have probably lived had Johnson’s government taken a less capricious approach to lockdowns. Undaunted, he’s at it again. Earlier this month, with new Covid cases zooming past 50,000 a day and currently doubling in almost every two weeks, Johnson announced the end of all pandemic restrictions. Go where you want, wear a mask or not as you like, crowd six deep at the bar, hug people or even sneeze at them if you feel like it, indoors, outdoors, everywhere, any time. Other governments look on, aghast but fascinated. It would be really interesting to know how many deaths it takes to achieve ‘herd immunity’ in a population that has already been heavily vaccinated, and here’s a mug who’s willing to roll the dice with his own people. Watch closely and take notes. The British population does pretty much lead the way in vaccinations: 88 per cent of adults have had their first jab and 68 per cent have had both doses. Maybe they’re already on the brink of herd immunity, which was generally believed to kick in around 60 per cent of the population vaccinated for the original version of the Covid virus, but maybe 80 per cent or higher for more recent, more infectious variants. Or maybe the recent variants are so infectious that herd immunity is entirely unattainable for any vaccination programme. It would be nice to know, but not at the risk of spreading death among our own people. But look! Here comes Johnson, and he’s willing to use the British people as guinea pigs. One can easily imagine such thoughts going through the minds of French or American or Indian leaders, but it’s quite unlikely that they passed through Johnson’s own mind. He’s not a detail man, and it’s more likely that he just wandered into this position through inattention and wishful thinking. First, back in February, when the vaccines were taking hold and things were looking up, he promised that ‘freedom day’, when all restrictions would be cancelled, would be in mid-June. Then the Delta variant appeared and caused havoc in India. In mid-April, Johnson closed the gates to Indian travellers, and postponed ‘freedom day’ for a month. But he has stuck grimly to that date even though he had the horrible example of the Netherlands before him — it ended all restrictions in late June, then reimposed them earlier in July when new infections ran wild. And now ‘freedom day’ has arrived. Britain’s new health secretary, Sajid Javid (who has just caught Covid), blithely predicts that there might be 1,00,000 new infections a day within a couple of weeks. However, not to worry because ‘the link between infection and hospitalization or death has been broken’. No, it hasn’t, although that link is clearly much weakened by the level of vaccinations in the UK. No vaccine confers complete immunity, and if daily infections climb into six digits, even a one-in-a-thousand rate of hospitalization can mean hundreds a day. Johnson is gambling with people’s lives, although it’s not clear if he really understands the risk. On the other hand, maybe he’ll get away with it. The very nature of experiments is that you don’t know the outcome in advance, and this is a big, important one. If the British level of vaccinations really lets a country open up completely, despite the worst that new variants can do, that’s good news for everybody. And if that turns out not to be the case, it’s only British people who have to die.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
26-07-2021||Opinion||Mind games||A speaker in a television debate was deploring the paucity of hospital beds. A simple soul would have gone on to say, ‘We need more beds.’ This philosopher astutely stressed another logical possibility: ‘There are too many people.’ He was defending the moves in certain states to penalize those with more than two children. As an exercise in theoretical dialectics, his stand was impeccable, but it lacked context. He overlooked the fact that India’s total public expenditure on health is under 2 per cent of GDP, the Centre’s share being 25 per cent of this. Roughly two-thirds of hospital beds are utilized by the one-third of our population who can pay commercial rates, sometimes by pauperizing themselves. A new government scheme of Rs 50,000 crore for hospital expansion consists entirely of credit guarantees to private players, further skewing the ratio. Our new Union health minister is rightly concerned that across India, people are queuing fruitlessly for Covid shots. Again, the simple-minded would infer a shortage of vaccines, but the minister knows it’s owing to mismanagement by state governments. In that case, a shortage at point A should be balanced by a glut at point B. Yet the latter seems the case only at private hospitals. The simple-minded would conclude that few people can afford market rates, and the 25 per cent commercial quota needs reducing. At least two chief ministers have said as much, to no avail. In an India-sized country, any statistic can seem huge, even if dwarfed by others left uncited. The allotment of x lakh vaccines for a state is acclaimed, concealing that the demand runs into crores. The minister’s early tweets, besides reviling the Opposition, stated the projected supply of vaccines per month. That means nothing unless set against the amount required, the amount manufactured or imported, and the long-term immunization schedule. One-off statistics cannot buttress a rational plan. I would not dream of calling our rulers irrational. Rather, their sagacity tells them that their trusting subjects can be fobbed off with impressive noises in default of fact and logic. Towering numbers can be as mesmerizing as giant statues and bullet trains, and vastly easier to supply. Another favourite ploy with numbers is to confuse the trail. A budget increase of 137 per cent was claimed for the novel head of ‘health and well-being’ this Covid year. In fact, the health ministry received 10 per cent less than last year’s revised budget. Besides Rs 35,000 crore earmarked for vaccines, the increase was owing to a 28 per cent hike for the Ayush ministry and a generous (and welcome) allocation for drinking water and sanitation to the ministry of public health. Such juggling of heads makes it impossible to compare one year with another. It also allows multiple citing of the same grant, as the jackal in the folk tale showed the crocodile his sole surviving offspring over and over. Covid relief packages have employed similar tactics. They included items repeated from earlier budgets, items — like private participation in space projects — of doubtful relevance to Covid, and many items that were not grants but loans or mere guarantees for loans. A cow, a horse and a camel do not add up to three elephants. Neither in intent nor in function was this an integrated programme of Covid rehabilitation. In fact, it bore the dual label of an Atmanirbhar package. A not dissimilar ploy argues how little the Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista project will actually cost: for the present, allegedly, just Rs 1,300 crore. In fact, that is the upfront commitment for just two components in the first two months of the financial year — ignoring other construction likely to start this year, like the prime minister’s residential complex and other buildings elsewhere to house the ministries temporarily. That modest 1,300 crore is contrasted with the obviously larger budget for vaccines — with no heed to countless other demands, mostly unmet, resulting from the pandemic. Government pronouncements have come to resemble publicity exercises. There is hardly a pretence at dispassionate furnishing of data or grounded justification of policy. Instead, we encounter a barrage of mental bludgeoning: stray misleading factoids, statistics without source or context, rhetorical claims defying logic. They are offences to the intelligence, purveyed by our wise rulers because they consider us gullible. The practice has spread to sectors of society that stake their authority on learning and judgment. When the maximum gap between Covishield doses was increased to 16 weeks, one argument was that everyone may not have taken their second dose by 12 weeks. This could only be due to personal problems or shortage of vaccines: neither is a medical argument. More basically, we were told the gap was extended on the best medical evidence. Laymen were puzzled when leading doctors denied knowledge of such research. The confusion could have been avoided had the official announcement cited its sources. That is what distinguishes scientific method from practices that concoct their own trials, reports and certification. This was instanced in the ‘trial’ of a herbal nostrum administered in a southern state to Covid patients in no serious danger. Its champion was jubilant: “Many patients died in the allopathic hospitals, but all ours recovered.” In other words, the potion did not kill off those who would have survived anyway: a less than total proof of efficacy. One wonders at the pressures that induced a state government to pander to such fallacies. Where even medical science proves malleable, the law obviously provides rich material. In some new-age legislation (like the original version of one of the contentious farm laws), the terms exclude recourse to the courts. Again, we laymen can only wonder. Can there be laws not subject to the courts — laws beyond the law? Going still farther, Father Stan Swamy is the latest prey to laws that, on crucial issues like evidence and personal liberty, operate unlike all other laws — indeed outside the normal parameters of jurisprudence and, some lawyers say, constitutionality. We laymen cannot tell; but in the Supreme Court’s words, it makes everyone scared. One may well be terrified if one’s fate is effectively determined by the mere charge of wrongdoing rather than the evidence. The fear is so total and visceral as to divert all attention from the moral and intellectual bankruptcy underlying such laws. In Shakespeare’s Measure for Measure, a magistrate questions a bawd about the latter’s occupation: “Is it a lawful trade?” The answer comes: “If the law would allow it, sir.” Such seamless logic heralds a fearsome reign of misrule and unreason where the State can nonetheless say, ‘Whatever is done is in accord with the law.’ Let us look to our times. Sukanta Chaudhuri is Professor Emeritus, Jadavpur University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
