27-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Equally just||Power operates in multiple ways. That is why the independence of the judiciary at all levels is of primary importance in the administration of justice. While hearing a plea that indicated how political connections and money may create pressure on a trial court, the Supreme Court emphasized that the lower courts provided the first line of defence for the civil liberties of the accused, the wronged and of civil society. As the initial interface between citizens and the law, their independence was crucial to the integrity of the entire system as well as in preserving the public’s faith in the judiciary. The reported pronouncements of the Supreme Court articulated one of the most troubling issues afflicting justice delivery in India. The ‘colonial mindset’ regarding the district judiciary that the Supreme Court referred to affected the people too: they seldom laid store by judgments of the lower courts, as though taking for granted that they would have to pursue justice up the ladder to higher courts, perhaps to the highest one. This loss of trust was the result of a duality underlying the system; the Supreme Court put it incisively in its reported statement that there could not be one system of justice for the rich and resourceful and another for those without resources. The Supreme Court’s description of the ‘appalling conditions’ under which trial judges work included the lack of infrastructure as well as the lack of protection that made them targets when they stood up for what was right. Their independence was contingent on their freedom from political pressure and other considerations; the fact that high courts decided on transfers and postings was one such. In effect, the Supreme Court was deploring the hierarchy within the system besides external pressures. This rounded perception of the hurdles lower courts faced in delivering justice freely must be honoured. To make it meaningful, the entire justice machinery, including the law enforcers, must commit to a change of attitude and function. Equally important would be an environment conducive to fearless adherence to the Constitution and the principles of justice and civil liberties, including practices of arrest, detention and bail. For the district judiciary to function independently and impartially, the higher courts, too, would have to ensure that none of their rulings impinged on civil liberties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
27-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: First ever gender-balanced Olympic Games in history, nutrition and Covid-19||Towards fairness Sir — In a welcome move, the International Olympic Committee announced on Women’s Day earlier this year that the Tokyo Olympics would be the “first ever gender-balanced Olympic Games in history” with almost 49 per cent of the total athletes being women (“Fair games”, July 24). This push was extended to the opening ceremony last Friday, where a rule change allowed countries to select both a male and a female flagbearer to share the honour of carrying their nation’s colours. The Games have come a long way since 1900 when 22 women participated in the event in Paris for the first time. Since then, many efforts have been made to achieve gender balance at the Olympics. London 2012 marked the first time when all national Olympic committees managed to include at least one female athlete in their delegation in the history of the Games. Finally, the Youth Olympic Games 2018 in Buenos Aires became the first fully gender-balanced Olympic event ever held. Several important decisions had recently been taken to create a more gender-balanced event programme and athlete quotas for Tokyo 2020. It is hoped that these actions will lead to full gender equality for all upcoming Olympic Games. Incidentally, India fell short of sending a gender-balanced contingent to Tokyo with 56 women as opposed to 71 men. A sobering truth is that in spite of being the second-most populous nation in the world, India performs poorly in multi-event competitions. This should act as a reminder to the sports ministry that there is an urgent need to improve infrastructure for both genders in India. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — While it is good to know that the Olympic committee is actively trying to bridge the inequities between men and women in sporting events, the reality remains that female athletes all over the world have access to lesser resources than men. It will need the active effort of all countries to truly make a change. Abhra Ganguly,Calcutta  Eat right Sir — Since the outbreak of Covid-19, medical experts have urged people to pay attention to their nutrition so that their immunity is not compromised. A recent study has found that a Japanese fermented soybean dish, natto, may inhibit the ability of the coronavirus to infect cells. While natto may not be easy to include in the Indian diet, we must consider eating more fermented food — rich in probiotic bacteria — to enhance the immune system. Aparajita Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
27-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: One for none||Unity in diversity is one of the many wisdoms that India has gifted to the world. Indeed, the comity of nations has, over the years, acknowledged pluralism to be almost synonymous with the Indian republic. It is thus curious that the prime minister has felt the need to reiterate the importance of unity to Indians. In the course of his recent Mann ki Baat address, Narendra Modi entreated citizens to lead a ‘Bharat Jodo Andolan’. Unity, indeed, is a desirable goal and citizens must always strive towards meeting it. In a democracy, the government — elected by the people — is also mandated to protect the social fabric of the nation. It will be instructive to examine Mr Modi’s record in this respect. There is general consensus that India’s inclusive body politic has come under unprecedented strain with the political ascendancy of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Violence and vilification of and discrimination against minorities have become part of New India’s everyday experience. Lynchings and communal conflagrations are some of the more visible dimensions of this engineered polarization. The world, too, has taken note of the deterioration. For instance, India was one of the 10 nations that the United States Commission for International Religious Freedom, a quasi-judicial, Congressional entity, recommended to be redesignated as a ‘country of particular concern’. India’s enfeebled commitment to secularism under Mr Modi’s watch may have been a factor in this troubling inference. The reason for the invigoration of faith-based fault lines is not far to seek. Its lip service to fraternity notwithstanding, the ideological framework of India’s ruling dispensation has no place for the spirit of accommodation among religious communities. Spurred by a seemingly majoritarian impulse, it seeks to impose a narrow vision that goes against the wisdom, humaneness and expansiveness of the values enshrined in the Constitution. What must also be acknowledged is that there is considerable public support for Mr Modi’s allegedly divisive agenda. The recent Pew report on the waning culture of religious tolerance assumes significance in this context. Could it be that Mr Modi’s call for unity is, in fact, an indirect admission that India’s faltering unity needs to be rectified? The prime minister’s critics would be hoping that citizens are not being goaded to embrace a homogenous unitariness in the name of unity on an auspicious, imminent occasion. For that would be the final nail in the coffin of Indian unity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
27-07-2021||Opinion||Search for the truth||For the past few days, an audio clip has been circulating on WhatsApp, alerting residents of Calcutta about an armed gang operating in the dead of night. The speaker does not introduce himself; he refers to a “most respectable family” that he knows, living at Mukundapur on the southern fringes, and narrates its plight. It is 2 in the night when the doorbell rings, waking the family from its slumber. It rings persistently, arousing both dread and a sense of helplessness. When the gentleman goes up to the first floor balcony and looks out, he spies a team of uniformed policemen, armed and vociferous, at his gate. When he asks them what the matter is, they say they are questioning the neighbourhood on an unoccupied building in the vicinity. Smelling a rat, he tells the “policemen” that he will answer their queries from the balcony, to which the posse replies that the men needed to enter the house as some documentation was necessary. Fortunately, better sense prevails and the gentleman replies if that was the case they should return during the day. The message mentions that “they” (there is no clarifying who that might be) tried to garner data and identified police stations like Mukundapur, Rajpur and Baruipur in South 24 Parganas. When I checked, the Calcutta police ruled out its authenticity, although the clip has gone viral. The credibility is not questioned by those sharing this message because, as the clip itself points out, the pandemic has not only rendered thousands in the city jobless, but also spawned criminal networks. Women accompanied by young children seeking alms are a common sight in the lanes and bylanes during the afternoon, as are men looking for odd jobs to eke out a living. Most localities have elderly residents living alone, their children having settled in other cities or abroad. When they are sent messages like these, they panic. Relatives and friends forward the clips in order to “alert” their senior citizen acquaintances, without stopping to verify the contents. This reminds one of the ancient Greek philosopher, Socrates, who always insisted on a ‘triple filter test’ to verify the authenticity of what was being said, canards included. “The first filter is truth. Have you made absolutely sure that what you are about to tell me is true?” he would ask. If we were to apply this principle to the narrator of the message, should he not have checked with the police first before alarming all the recipients so convincingly? Or added the phone number of the local police station to the message? Socrates’s second test was that of goodness. “Is what you are about to tell me something good?” he would query. “You want to tell me something that may be bad, even though you’re not certain it’s true?” To those forwarding this clip without a second thought, this is precisely the checkpoint. What is the necessity of triggering alarm if the facts have not been authenticated by a proper source, in this case the police? The final filter of the Greek philosopher was that of usefulness. This is the only one that may be touted by those taking social media by storm. But while they may consider the piece of information to be of use to potential victims about criminals on the prowl, they need to apply a set of parameters that ensures constructive communication. Most citizens are already in a state of anxiety given the unprecedented pandemic. When social media “alerts” trigger hysteria that cannot be assuaged without remedial measures, those who proffer such sage advice should coordinate with the law-keepers. Or accept that the onus of safeguarding mental health, the likeliest casualty in the circumstances, is on them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
27-07-2021||Opinion||Far from sustainable||The 70th general assembly of the United Nations called on countries “to ensure that all people have the same opportunities to live a better life without compromising our planet” as part of its 2030 agenda and called them Sustainable Development Goals. The process of development is sustainable only if it is sustained environmentally, socially, and economically. Economic growth would be environmentally sustainable when the issues of climate change, water conservation and investment in renewable energies are addressed. Development is socially sustainable when it facilitates the growth of various marginal communities and cultures and when growth is fairly distributed in terms of quality of life, healthcare and education. Development is economically sustainable when growth generates “wealth for all without harming the environment”. Seventeen Goals were agreed upon by the UN to achieve the objective by 2030. As per the latest report (2021), India with a score of 60.1 ranks 120th amongst the listed 165 nations. India’s rank corresponds to its per capita rank in GDP (122nd as per the latest report of the International Monetary Fund estimated on purchasing power parity basis). Hunger, poor public healthcare facilities, limited access to clean water and sanitation, increased economic inequality are some of the significant challenges that brought down India to such a low rank. Following in the footsteps of the UN, the Niti Aayog developed an index of SDGs based on 14 goals and classified the states and the Union territories based on that index. The recent report of the Niti Aayog (2020-21) indicates a clear divide in India in terms of accomplishing SDGs: whereas the states in southern, western and northern India are above the all-India average, those in central and eastern India are lagging behind. Kerala, with a score of 75, tops the country whereas Bihar (52) continues to be at the bottom. Bengal (62) comes in between, 10th amongst the 18 major states. Bengal’s relatively poor score can be attributed to the lack of civic amenities amongst the urban poor, stunted growth of children, anaemia amongst adolescents and pregnant women, lower wage for female employees, lower percentage of holdings operated by women as well as a lower percentage of renewable energy in terms of total installed capacity. The plight of the urban poor is the single most important criterion that brought down the overall score of Bengal. The slums in Calcutta, Howrah and other congested towns have long been ignored as they matter less in vote bank politics when compared to people belonging to similar social strata living in rural areas. The percentage of urban households living in kutcha houses and the proportion of urban houses without drainage facilities in Bengal are much higher compared to the all-India average. Bengal is far below the national average in terms of the number of toilets constructed for the urban poor and in terms of installed sewage treatment capacity as a percentage of overall urban sewage generated. Other than Calcutta, its surrounding agglomeration and Siliguri, Bengal hardly has any city worth naming. That only two airports are functional in a populous state is indicative of poor infrastructure. Bengal needs to introspect on why the prevalence of anaemia is high among children, young adults and pregnant women. The difference with other performing states may be marginal but in a state where the mid-day meal scheme for school-going children is taken seriously, where anganwadi schemes aimed at extending basic healthcare to pre-school children, adolescents and married women is so deeply entrenched, the high incidence of anaemia is counter-intuitive. The fight against malnutrition, anaemia and stunted growth needs attention to make development socially sustainable. The lower wage of female employees vis-à-vis their male counterparts in Bengal is an indicator of the pressure on land for livelihood. The workforce available in the agrarian sector is far above the optimal requirement because of the high population density in Bengal. It is this pressure on land that explains the lower percentage of land holdings operated by women. There will be no solution to this problem till the time the surplus rural labour force is redeployed to the secondary sector. Bengal needs to concentrate on small and medium scale industries and on manufacturing units in rural and semi-urban areas. So far as environmental issues are concerned, Bengal is below the national average on account of the percentage of renewable energy out of total installed-generating capacity and in terms of carbon dioxide saved from LED bulbs. The Niti Aayog wants to promote competitive federalism amongst states to accomplish the SDGs. However, this is unlikely to work considering the pathetic financial condition of most of the states. The Centre needs to come up with state-specific schemes and act as a facilitator in states progressing to realize their SDGs within a reasonable time frame.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
27-07-2021||Opinion||Past and present||The name of Jean-Luc Godard is bandied about a lot when people discuss serious cinema. Godard as a self-indulgent director of a whole bunch of unwatchable, plotless films, or as a master, the Picasso of cinema, who smashed cinematic language and put together a new syntax that radically changed the way we make and look at films. The irascible 90-year-old recluse skulking around in his Swiss village would probably shrug at both descriptions; and neither opinion should come in the way of a re-examination of a complex and varied body of work. I myself have always loved Godard, if always with a certain Godardian irreverence, and I recently found myself clicking on a link to view an old favourite, Masculin Féminin. JLG burst upon the international scene with Breathless in 1960. Over the next decade, he gunned out something like twenty films. The early films, from Breathless to Week-end in 1967, are broadly accepted as being JLG’s great first period and M/F is the eleventh, made at the height of what we could now call Godard v.1.0. Most of the films from this phase were in black and white, centred around Paris or some other Gallic city, made almost on the fly, often coming pretty close to a documentary shoot, the camera often hand-held, with a small cast and crew. As in many other films of this first phase, a lot of the action in M/F takes place in small apartments, cafes, bars, amusement arcades and, of course, the streets. From all reports, the ‘script’, such as it was, consisted of notes and drawings Godard made in his notebooks, sometimes even on the night before the next day’s shoot. The filming was done in the winter of ’65-’66. Masculin Féminin — 15 faits précis (Masculine Feminine — 15 precise events), to give it its full title, starts by pretending it’s a love story. However, this is Godard, the master of narrative feints, and within five minutes the film starts pulling the rug from under the romantic tale and from you, the viewer. A young man, Paul (played by the luminously pale Jean-Pierre Léaud) sits in a cafe, awkwardly chatting up a beautiful young woman, Madeleine (Chantal Goya). They discuss jobs, labour (“the worker isn’t his own man anymore”), and the magazine where Madeleine works while she tries to make it as a pop singer. Madeleine asks a question. There’s a cut. The soundtrack is taken over by a nasty argument from an adjacent table where we see a couple sitting with a small boy. The man grabs the child and walks out of the cafe. The woman screams in helplessness as she tries to stop him. She runs to their table, fumbles in her purse and comes running back to the exit. She opens the door, small gun in her hand, and shoots the man. For the rest of the film, we follow Paul and Madeleine but with filmic detours. From different angles we explore ideas of love, of relationships between men and women, of marriage and cohabitation, all in the context of a deeply alienating environment, with the ongoing war in Vietnam as one inescapable backdrop, with dynamics of race as another, with the atomizing, dehumanizing nature of technology as a third. If the first scene encapsulates the whole arc of a love story, from the first fumbling courtship to the terminally violent end of a partnership, the remainder of the film expands and explores various aspects of masculinity and femininity in a modern context. As with any work that is more than half-a-century old, some aspects will appear more dated than others. Watching the mini-dramas of this group of twenty-somethings play out in the bleak, wintertime Paris of the mid-60s, what is startling is how much of the ‘story’ is still relevant today, and how utterly fresh the form of this grainy black-and-white film still feels. When Paul goes into a booth and records a beseeching message for Madeleine on a vinyl disc, it presages the inarticulate frustrations, the cringe-making banalities we now trip into with text and voice messages. When a character says to another, “In the near future, each citizen could well be wearing an electrical apparatus designed to stimulate pleasure and sexual gratification,” or, “[g]ive us this day, a TV and car, but deliver us from freedom”. We realize we are watching one of the earliest allusions to realities and ways of thinking that are commonplace today. For all its postmodernist elan, there are quaint details you can’t help notice; for instance, lovers addressing each other with a formal ‘vous’ (aap) as opposed to ‘tu’ (tu/tum) even in the most intimate situations. With the intervening decades helping you to pull back, you also see the macro view: Godard and the French New Wave of the late 50s and 60s are totally embedded in a particular historic moment. This kind of film-making was only possible in western Europe for a short period of time, during a time and a situation of abundance at multiple levels, where a producer would back a director like Godard to go ahead and make what he wanted, how he wanted; the plenitude involved was not just financial but also intellectual, where the freedom to explore form was consistently extended to various maverick auteurs, almost like a publisher providing an advance for an experimental book that might well fail. M/F could only have been made when it was made and where it was made. And, yet, in its prescience and pessimism, the film depicts some things that seem unchanging, as when an activist friend asks Paul to sign a letter saying, “the undersigned are deeply concerned at the imprisonment of eight members of the world of arts and letters in Rio de Janeiro for expressing their disagreement with official policy, and protest against this violation of freedom of thought in Brazil and demand the liberation of the eight prisoners.” Paul signs and asks, “Last week it was Madrid. What next?” “Athens, Baghdad, Lisbon...” comes the reply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
