28-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Mirabai Chanu wins silver at Olympics, deteriorating condition of the Great Barrier Reef||Moment of glory Sir — India has reasons to be elated because for the first time in its history, the country has won an Olympic medal on the very first day of the event (“Chanu lifts India out of bronze age”, July 25). For Mirabai Chanu, who failed at all her three attempts in the clean and jerk section at Rio de Janeiro five years back, winning a silver medal in Tokyo was nothing less than redemption and a show of grit. Not only did she have to literally lift weight, but she also had to bear the weight of the hopes of the millions; and she did not disappoint. Chanu’s silver will hopefully encourage many youngsters to pick this sport as a career. May this be the first of many medals India wins in this edition. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — Mirabai Chanu must be congratulated for ending India’s two-decade long wait for a medal in weight-lifting at the Olympics by winning silver this time. Her historic triumph is the fruit of five years of hard work, after her failure at the Rio Olympics. That Chanu won a silver on the opening day should help boost the morale of the entire contingent and motivate other athletes to win medals this time. It is also encouraging that the Indian Olympic Association has decided to reward her coach, Vijay Shankar. But Rs 10 lakh seems to be a pittance; the association should increase the amounts to Rs 20 lakh for a gold medal, Rs 15 lakh for silver and Rs 10 lakh for bronze for the winners’ coaches. Janaki Mahadevan,Chennai Sir — Congratulations to Mirabai Chanu for creating history at the Tokyo Olympics by winning the first silver medal for India in weight-lifting. Interestingly, this is also the first time that India has won a medal on the opening day in any Olympics edition. With this win, Chanu buried the ghosts of the 2016 Games at Rio de Janeiro where she finished without any successful lifts. As a 13-year old girl from a low-income family living in a nondescript village in Imphal, Chanu was tenacious and uncompromising with her dream of earning fame as a sportsperson. Her efforts — years of rigorous workouts, travelling 22 kilometres by bus every day in the early morning for training — have finally borne fruit. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — The first day of the Tokyo Olympics was marked by Mirabai Chanu winning a silver medal. Clearly, Indian women prove their mettle in every field. One must also acknowledge the efforts of the sports ministry for initiatives such as ‘Khelo India’, which has been a boon for sports enthusiasts. This has encouraged especially those from rural backgrounds to display their talents. These days, several athletes from rural areas take interest in sports. More youngsters from both rural and urban parts of the country should select sport as a career. The sports ministry should open sports universities in all Indian cities and districts and help sports lovers acquire basic education in the field. The future of Indian sports looks bright and one expects that in the days to come Indians will dominate the world of sports at the international level. Syed Nissar,Hyderabad Sir — Mirabai Chanu must be lauded for winning the silver medal. The good start to the prestigious global sports event with over 200 participating countries is encouraging for the country. With proper planning and focus on its demography, India can reap rich dividends with regard to competitive sports and improve its records in the field. Young sportspersons in the country are shining in spite of all odds. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — The star weightlifter, Mirabai Chanu, deserves to be congratulated for winning silver in the women’s 49 kilogrammes category. Undoubtedly, this stunning achievement of the ace sportswoman would boost the confidence of all other Indian players who are participating in this edition and one hopes this helps them clinch more medals for our country. Sourish Misra,Calcutta  Wrong list Sir — Given the deteriorating condition of the Great Barrier Reef, the Unesco had rightly decided to downgrade its World Heritage status. But Australia has managed to defer this move, asking for more time to work on conservation measures. This is a poor excuse; the government was issued a warning as early as 2014. The ‘in danger’ list could have protected the Great Barrier Reef to some extent. But, clearly, it is more important for the government to protect its reputation. One hopes that the country wakes up to the threat of climate change before it is too late. Sraddha Mehta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
28-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Hard lesson||Indians tend to display a misplaced and mistimed optimism. The end of last year offered enough evidence to suggest that school-leaving examinations were unlikely to take place in 2021 — the experience of 2020 was a warning. Alternative plans of grading at the school level and admission strategies for colleges or universities could have been formulated without haste. Since all-India and state boards all have different methods of marking and testing, early planning could have ensured equivalence. Apparently, hope sprang almost eternal among decision-makers until examinations were cancelled because of the pandemic and formulae for assessment had to be hurriedly worked out. Predictably, high marks in general and the high percentages of successful candidates recorded in the Class X and Class XII results have not guaranteed happiness all round. While an overall sense of relief may be evident, a number of candidates with high marks have regretted the absence of in-person examinations. Mathematics results, for example, have disappointed Indian School Certificate students and left them worried about their future options. Grading or marking that relies wholly on averaging scores of earlier examinations and internal assessments tends to be unfair to the potential of the best candidates; also, the consistency offered by a board examination cannot be replicated perfectly when the results are computed from the marking of individual schools. Results for Class XII are crucial for the students’ futures. The high percentage of successful candidates is causing worry about the adequacy of college and university seats, while students who failed, as some did under the West Bengal higher secondary board, protested, occasionally with violence, since they felt that without an examination either everyone passes or everyone fails. This logic must have touched their board, for a review has found 90 per cent among them successful. A happier end, but no less confusing. Further, undergraduate admissions would depend largely on Class XII results without admission tests or interviews, possibly leading to numerous applicants against each decimal point. Besides, the best candidates under boards with stricter marking would be likely to fall behind those in systems more generous with marks. This is a hard lesson about purely examination-based assessments that should have been reviewed years ago. It is the greatest pity that the short-sightedness of policymakers should affect most the aspiring young.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
28-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Southern spice||Politics can turn the seemingly indispensable into the expendable. The present fate of B.S. Yediyurappa, the former chief minister of Karnataka who has had to relinquish his chair ‘sans coercion’, is a case in point. Mr Yediyurappa had been the architect of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s meteoric rise in Karnataka, the first southern state to fall into its kitty. His ouster has led to considerable speculation about the probable causes. His advanced years and the persistent charges of corruption — Mr Yediyurappa had been ‘sacked’, leading to a split in the BJP some years ago — are factors that may have gone against him. But these, at best, are partial explanations. In Kerala, the BJP had chosen an octogenarian as the chief ministerial candidate; so Mr Yediyurappa’s age is unlikely to have been a formidable obstacle. The real reason lies in the transformation that the BJP has undergone under the watch of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. There is a perceptible shift in favour of centralization within the party, with the leadership in New Delhi frowning upon ambitious or independent regional leaders. Mr Yediyurappa is both. He carved out his own path to political glory by cobbling together an ingenuous coalition along the lines of caste and community to bring the BJP to power. His ambiguity towards Hindutva may not have gone down too well with a leadership that is known to be hawkish ideologically. For a party that is accustomed to poking fun at the Congress for its reverence to the ‘high command culture’, the BJP is, arguably, doing a splendid task of imitating the top-heavy architecture of its principal adversary. The shadow of corruption may limit Mr Yediyurappa’s ability to manoeuvre but the Lingayats — they form 17 per cent of Karnataka’s population — including the influential seers of mutts, have rallied behind the deposed chief minister. With Mr Yediyurappa’s exit, the broader social coalition that he had stitched to propel the BJP may unravel. If this were to happen, the party is likely to incur political costs in the next assembly elections. Mr Yediyurappa has, so far, pledged fealty to his bosses but the word is that the BJP’s immediate future in Karnataka could well hinge upon the fact whether Mr Yediyurappa retains the stomach for taking the fight to the BJP. The southern pot, evidently, will be on the boil for a while.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
28-07-2021||Opinion||The man who cries wolf||Whatever your views on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, you’ve got to credit his government for the consistency and predictability of its response when faced with a political crisis. Whether it’s criticism of its human rights record or a global investigation revealing the use of Israeli spyware against those it views as opponents, you know Modi’s team will argue it’s a conspiracy to defame the prime minister and — since Modi to them is synonymous with India — the country. It’s a strategy that works when most people don’t know better. But like the boy who cried wolf, there’s only so many times it works before even those who want to believe you start wondering if they’re being played. And for the Modi government, the problem is particularly serious: a prime minister who has long craved global validation now finds himself exposed before the world, thanks to back-to-back crises that have resonated internationally. Over the past few days, an international collaboration of media organizations has uncovered extensive spying and hacking of phones across dozens of countries using the spyware named Pegasus. Globally, the targets for spying and hacking identified by the Pegasus Project include the French president, Emmanuel Macron, Morocco’s king, Mohammed VI, the South African president, Cyril Ramaphosa, the former Mexican president, Felipe Calderón, Emirati princesses, judges, journalists and more. In India, the list ranges from the Congress leader, Rahul Gandhi — who changes his device frequently but still couldn’t evade the Pegasus spyware — and a set of journalists and activists to even a Supreme Court employee who had accused a former Chief Justice of India of sexual harassment. The response from the government and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party has been unsurprising — even if contradictory at times. The junior foreign minister, Meenakshi Lekhi, called the reports on spying “fake”, claiming that Amnesty International, which procured the list of Pegasus targets, has denied the existence of such a catalogue of names (it has, in fact, said that it stands by the investigation). Assam’s chief minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, also from the BJP, has asked the Central government to act against Amnesty for trying to taint Modi’s image. Not to be left behind, the home minister, Amit Shah, has blamed the revelations on “disruptors” that he describes as “global organizations which do not like India to progress”. And the former information and technology minister, Ravi Shankar Prasad, has insinuated a conspiracy by falsely claiming that India was being selectively questioned from among the dozens of countries believed to have used Pegasus. Yet, the government has refused to clearly deny that it has purchased Pegasus. Independent forensics analysis on several of the phones in the target list, including those of several journalists, has shown that they were indeed infected by the spyware. NSO, the Israeli group that owns Pegasus, insists that it only licenses the product to governments. So if the Indian government isn’t the one hacking — and potentially manipulating content on — the phones of political opponents, journalists, activists and others, is a foreign power behind the use of the spyware? And if that’s the case, why isn’t the Modi government, which, otherwise, likes to tom-tom its national security credentials, at all alarmed? It’s hardly the first time that the Modi government has been caught with its hand in the cookie jar. And whether it’s the overnight revocation of Kashmir’s autonomy, the ill-advised step of demonetization or the government’s systematic erosion of India’s democratic institutions, much has been written in the international press in the past that’s critical of Team Modi. But the global scale of the Pegasus hacking makes the Modi administration’s assault on Indian democracy a part of a wider international story that people around the world can relate to. And these revelations come close after the government’s monumental failures in preparing for the second wave of Covid-19 that made India the headline story the world over for the wrong reasons. Unlike Kashmir and demonetization, the pandemic is a shared experience for people across the planet. So when they see images of unclaimed bodies floating down the Ganga, it hits home — everywhere. To be sure, other governments — whether in the United States of America or Europe — aren’t genuinely concerned about civil liberties. As long as they see India as a valuable strategic partner, especially in countering China, they would like to ignore the wounds Modi is inflicting on this country. But in mature democracies, ruling dispensations must at least appear to heed the views of their people. If most ordinary Americans and Europeans start pushing back against a business-as-usual relationship with the Modi government, just as they have when it comes to ties with another strategically vital ally, Saudi Arabia, it becomes hard for elected leaders in Washington, Brussels and elsewhere to ignore those concerns. Put simply, Modi’s global reputation is today at its lowest ebb since he came to power in 2014. And crying wolf once again won’t fix it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
28-07-2021||Opinion||Hide and seek||Did an Unidentified Flying Object land in the vicinity of Patparganj, East Delhi, on a rainy, deliciously pleasant night earlier this month? A wide-eyed visitor, returning and rediscovering Delhi after an eight-year absence, certainly thought so upon sighting, from a distance, an incandescent dome, with blades of light splitting open a sable night sky. But then UFOs are notoriously elusive beings; a closer, clearer view from atop Barapullah, the flyover that snakes its way towards Patparganj, identified the object to be the mausoleum of a sleeping emperor. That night, Humayun’s tomb, restored magnificently through a public-private partnership involving various arms of the government, the Archaeological Survey of India, the Aga Khan Trust for Culture and the Sir Dorabji Tata Trust, materialized as a wondrous, regal and — strangely — potent symbol; as if it was, still is, a repository of power. The seat of political power of the Republic, the Sansad Bhavan, appeared in an inexplicable light the following morning. Almost obscured by a thick haze of dust arising from a mangled Rajpath — the mutilation bearing evidence of the impending, monstrous Central Vista, allegedly a vanity project of a modern emperor — the edifice of Parliament is likely to strike an observer of the Republic and its goings-on to be markedly limpid, as if the vitality of democracy is being sapped from its veins. This strange inversion — an ancient mausoleum appearing to be living and livelier than the chamber of a modern, sovereign institution —  assumes significance in the light of what is argued about the relationship among architecture, power and principal cities in Power and Architecture: The Construction of Capitals and the Politics of Space (edited by Michael Minkenberg). The Introduction notes that “… architecture and urban design are… a manifestation… of space in a politicized sense, that is… public space manipulated by political interests.” This process of politicization is intense and, hence, most discernible in capital cities which, “in the age of the nation-state” are invested with the primary responsibility of linking — integrating — the national imagination with urban spatiality through architecture. But the integration, Minkenberg concedes, can be problematic: “In reality, underlying power struggles and tensions… obscure the message of [orchestrated?] national harmony…” Receptivity to this stubborn, subterranean tension can be the key to comprehending — and appreciating — history and historiography and their complex relationship with urban landscapes and their transformations. The sentient, metaphorical equivalent of history’s seductions, especially those of history on the street, may, arguably, be that of an itch, an irritation that is meant not to lull but awaken the senses to alternative possibilities. Consider the many soothing tree-lined boulevards in India’s capital. To the untrained eye, they may simply be spaces of shade and repose, especially in a city that gets roasted by a relentless sun well into July. Yet, history can nudge you awake from this uninformed siesta. In a report titled “Planning Policy and Landscape Architecture: Street Design in Theory and Practice”, Sylvia Nieves Leon Guerrero demonstrates, quite convincingly, that interventions in urban design and development are seldom innocent; each is a calculated response to a dilemma — usually a threat — that could be political, philosophical, or both. For instance, in post-revolutionary France, as Paris was being transformed under the watchful eyes of Georges-Eugène Haussmann, the ‘Baron’ insisted on the incorporation of the boulevard as a bulwark against the chaos symbolized by revolution and poverty. Even the street — or the marg, if you are a Delhiwallah — evolved as an element integral to the notion of orderliness, which, in turn, is an idea that is as aesthetic as it is political. Little wonder then that the street remains the turf of enduring battles between the State and the krantikaris — be they farmers, dissenters, activists or the dispossessed. Leon Guerrero also notes, cheekily, that the barricade, ubiquitous during bandobasts and public demonstrations in the metropolis, made its maiden appearance during the French Revolution as a means — symbolic and literal — to assert State control over the street. History’s rap on the knuckles of urban design is especially hard in capital cities that, the architect, Amos Rapoport, argues, “provide a particular stage for political and cultural spectacle, drama, and rituals, and… communicate high-level meanings to… citizens”. Walking around Alimuddin Street in Calcutta, a former capital now stripped of its imperial charms, a sharp-eyed pedestrian, with some luck, may yet be able to spot the escutcheon of the city’s municipal corporation bearing the figure of the vanished hadgila, the Great Adjutant Stork, serving as a testament to the long history of localized extinctions that have been inflicted on Calcutta’s indigenous and unique ecology. The sunny, bustling town square of distant Edinburgh, another capital, gets swallowed by a labyrinthine chamber of eerie, interconnected, underground passages with street history exposing, quite literally, the city’s former underbelly of horrors such as bonded labour and crime, chronicled brilliantly by Jan-Andrew Henderson in The Town Below the Ground. The bustle of commerce and consumption around Tokyo’s Nihonbashi Bridge can, suddenly, give way to the quietness and the aroma of incense that are distinct to old shrines that dot Japan’s cities. Provincial capitals are not immune to history’s predations on the senses. Neither is history’s prick always benign. Some hours along a glistening road from Ahmedabad will lead you to the fallen minaret of a mosque near the village of Delol, a stark reminder of a recent, scarring past. History’s hide-and-seek on streets can open up intriguing lines of conjecture. Are acts of commemoration through the problematic instrument of urban redesign — the dotting of space with memorials, the renaming of vistas, the bullish push in favour of ‘national’ monuments — ahistorical in character? This is not implausible, since many of these spatial interventions are meant to function as anti-mnemonic measures, targeted to erase epochs that do not resonate with the ideology of political dispensations. Again, History’s Wars, it is often imagined, take place within secret chambers peopled by ill-informed ideologues lopping off passages from textbooks. This is not always the case. The battles within, and against, history are public, even playful, episodes, unfolding in familiar neighbourhoods, nooks and corners, turning them — such as Delhi’s Rajpath — unrecognizable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
