29-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Watch them||Migrant workers have become symbols of all that is not well with the Indian economy and society. Covid-19 brought their precarious living conditions to light. They have low wages, live in spaces far away from home, and have no job security and little access to government welfare schemes or healthcare facilities; even their identities as citizens are not always documented properly. The Centre had been stalling addressing this problem for a long time. Now, pushed by the Supreme Court, the nation has been promised a comprehensive database of migrant workers in the coming months. The data will enable the set of entitled benefits to flow to the targeted beneficiaries. The database could serve as the beginning of a more comprehensive social safety net for millions of migrant workers. It could also serve as data with which to target specific sets of workers who, presumably, have dubious identities or are involved in criminal activities. For instance, the Tamil Nadu government has recently decided to create a state-level database of migrants who come from other states. This, according to the state government, will help weed out illegal immigrants who allegedly are not Indian nationals or are criminals. It seems that the objective of data collation is not to enable a deprived constituency but, rather, intimidate it. Indeed, given the climate of social exclusion in India, there is no guarantee that the national database, once created, will not be abused too. This is not to suggest that illegal immigration or crime is to be condoned. However, there are other ways and means available to governments to tackle these issues. Therefore, creating a database of migrants cannot be a justifiable objective. There is another complex issue at stake here. It pertains to the treatment of workers as migrants. They are citizens of India — certainly the overwhelming majority of them — who legitimately travel from their homes to other states to seek employment. The set of people referred to — derisively? — as migrants are poor, vulnerable citizens who ought to be able to access welfare benefits and be provided with security in accordance with labour laws and unemployment support. Much would depend though on how technology is used to give them legitimacy in the era of digital surveillance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
29-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Simone Biles withdraws from Tokyo Olympics, B.S. Yediyurappa resigns||Mind over matter Sir — The decision of the American gymnast, Simone Biles, to withdraw from the Tokyo Olympics during the artistic gymnastics team final took the world by surprise. Although it was initially reported that she had quit because of an injury, it was later clarified that Biles pulled out because of mental health concerns. The precedent for such an important move was recently set by the tennis star, Naomi Osaka, who withdrew from the French Open to prioritize her mental health. It takes incredible courage, especially for female athletes, to voluntarily withdraw from or sit out big competitions on grounds of mental health, primarily because of the criticism they inevitably receive, as Osaka did. They are, however, setting an important example for other sportspersons to follow. Rashika Gupta,Calcutta End of an era Sir — After prolonged suspense, B.S. Yediyurappa resigned from his post as the chief minister of Karnataka during a function celebrating the second anniversary of his government (“Southern spice”, July 28). The change in leadership did not come as a surprise; it was preceded by months of speculation. However, the claim that Yediyurappa stepped down voluntarily on health grounds is not true. To anyone paying attention to his outgoing speech, it was obvious that Yediyurappa was reluctant to step away from his position. Although Yediyurappa thanked Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, he also mentioned that he was not allowed to form the cabinet for a month and a half after the elections in spite of Karnataka being devastated by floods and rain. This hints at his glacial relations with the central leadership. The septuagenarian has sent out a clear message to his political detractors and the party high command that he is not among those who will join the margdarshak mandal, considered a ‘retirement home’ for party leaders who have crossed the age of 75. He has also made it clear that he will remain active in state politics and will not accept any assignment outside Karnataka. It is not yet known what the political calculations might have been for the ouster of the Lingayat strongman who is single-handedly responsible for building the presence of the Bharatiya Janata Party in the southern state. It remains to be seen how the BJP attempts to placate the Lingayat community which is miffed over the removal of its tallest leader. The claim that the BJP is ‘a party with a difference’ has been proved false by such an unceremonious change of guard. The saffron party is clearly blighted by factionalism, tussles for power and the practice of cutting regional leaders to size. In the light of all this, will the BJP be able to win the 2023 assembly elections and retain power in the state? G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The resignation of B.S. Yediyurappa has shifted the political dynamics in Karnataka. Basavaraj Bommai has now taken oath as the 23rd chief minister of the state. With the assembly elections just two years away, it would be important for the new chief minister to show that he is committed to honest and transparent leadership, unlike Yediyurappa, whose tenures were plagued by accusations of corruption. Although it is more than clear that the BJP is trying to pacify the Lingayat community with Bommai, Yediyurappa continues to be their most prominent leader, with the community’s seers rallying behind him. There is no doubt that the BJP in Karnataka will witness an intense power struggle in the coming months. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — Strong regional leaders have always worried the central command of major political parties in India. The emergence of regional leaders in the Congress after the demise of Indira Gandhi had caused much consternation among the party high command. Now it seems that the same worry might be plaguing BJP leaders. Since coming to power in 2014, the BJP has attempted to concentrate power in just a few hands. However, certain leaders, like B.S. Yediyurappa in Karnataka, had always commanded respect among the common people. It is clear that Yediyurappa had become too powerful; the BJP wanted to take him down a peg or two. While Yogi Adityanath is similarly powerful in Uttar Pradesh, he is far more committed to the Hindutva doctrine, thus endearing him to the high command. The removal of Yediyurappa from a position of power does not bode well for the BJP. As the most popular party leader in Karnataka, he has the potential to determine the results of the next assembly polls. R. Narayanan, Navi Mumbai Sir — The saffron party has often publicly accused the Congress leadership of being subservient to the whims of the Gandhis. But is the BJP under Narendra Modi and Amit Shah any different? B.S. Yediyurappa may have said that the decision to step down as chief minister was voluntary, but this is far from the truth. His speech was indicative of his less-than-friendly relations with the BJP high command. The current situation in Karnataka is quite volatile. The Lingayat community will be sure to make its displeasure known in the next elections. Ravichandran Iyer,Chennai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
29-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Fault lines||Restive borders are usually associated with international boundaries. That may not be the case always. The shocking violence — it spilled blood — that erupted when security personnel of Assam and Mizoram clashed on the inter-state border is a reminder of the urgent need to address fault lines pertaining to contestations over domestic territory. Incidentally, these clashes are not unprecedented. Northeastern states — Assam and Nagaland, Nagaland and Manipur, Assam and Arunachal Pradesh — have witnessed periodic conflagrations over strips of land. The history of most of these disagreements can be traced back to the colonial era when commercial and political interests of the raj influenced cartographic interventions. It is a pity that neither the exercise of state reorganization, in which language was prioritized over all other imperatives, nor successive elected dispensations have succeeded in dousing these simmering fires. It would be naïve to assume that it is only the Northeast that is vulnerable to this phenomenon. The Union home ministry has identified cases of ‘boundary wars’ involving Maharashtra and Karnataka, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh and so on. The prize for these battles need not be land. Riverine boundaries and the sharing of water have also sparked contests: Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have an uneasy relationship over the claims on the Cauvery. A resolution of these festering crises requires patient, consultative engagements. It is unfortunate that the chief ministers of Assam and Mizoram, Himanta Biswa Sarma and Zoramthanga, respectively, chose to up the ante instead. Mr Sarma’s attribution of the bloodshed to ‘non-State’ actors in Mizoram is unfortunate and is unlikely to soothe frayed nerves. The fracas is a source of embarrassment for the National Democratic Alliance government in Delhi. It took place a couple of days after the home minister’s meeting with representatives of the region to — the irony is glaring — find a solution to conflicting territorial claims. That the Mizo National Front is also a partner in the Bharatiya Janata Party-led North East Democratic Alliance does not speak much about the NEDA’s credibility as a platform of dialogue. The Constitution provides instruments to address such problems. They must be complemented by judicial wisdom and, most importantly, public representation if a dispute resolution engagement is to succeed. The domestic flames must be put out at a time when India’s international border with a giant neighbour — China — remains piping hot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
29-07-2021||Opinion||Do not extinguish the light||Noor, a name that literally means light. Noor, a young woman full of light. Noor, a kind soul who was taken away by a murder so gruesome that it has shaken Pakistan. Noor, whose parents are going through the worst trauma, the kind that no parent should ever have to go through. Noor, a woman who was tortured before her brutal murder. Noor, your death has left us in darkness. It has shown us that there is no light at the end of the tunnel. Noor, your murder has made all of us women cry in horror. It has made us scream in agony. Noor, we have failed you and your parents. We cannot apologize enough. We cannot, we just cannot express in words what we are feeling. Noor Mukadam was beheaded by Zahir Zakir Jaffer in Islamabad last week during the Eid holidays. According to the journalist, Salman Masood, Noor’s killer “is a man she knew for more than a decade”. Zahir, the son of an influential businessman, held Noor captive for almost a couple of days at his house before murdering her. Noor’s father has demanded justice for his 27-year-old daughter. A couple of weeks before Noor’s murder, a harrowing video went viral on social media in which a man, Usman Mirza, was seen beating up and harassing a young couple and stripping them naked in front of several male accomplices at a private property in Islamabad. He also subjected them to sexual assault. Mirza was arrested along with his accomplices. He has a history of harassing and blackmailing women. When the video went viral, we wondered if anything could be worse than this. But we heard many other stories that were even more traumatizing. A 30-year-old woman, Naseem Bibi, was raped in front of her 14-month-old son just a few days ago. Both were stabbed by the rapist and murderer. Both mother and child succumbed to their injuries. Earlier this month, a woman was shot dead by her husband in front of their children; they were also injured. This month, a mother of four was tortured and killed by her husband in Hyderabad. Her name was Quratulain. And then there was Noor; her death has shattered us all. But this vicious cycle never ends. Every day we see a new hashtag on social media demanding justice for a child and/or a woman. An editorial in The News rightly calls violence against women an epidemic. It is an epidemic that seems to have no end in sight. In 2016, a young law student, Khadija Siddiqi, was stabbed 23 times by Shah Hussain, who was later convicted. But Hussain has been granted an early release from jail. Khadija says the Punjab government has granted him an extraordinary remission of 1.5 years. “State to be blamed,” tweeted Khadija. Such is the sorry state of affairs in a country where violence against women is on the rise. It seems that nobody cares about the safety and security of women, be it the State or society. Fingers are pointed at women in most, if not all, cases. What was she wearing? Why did she go there? Why didn’t she speak up? Why didn’t she tell anyone? Why... why... why? Questions, only for women, only for the victims and survivors, only for their families. No questions for the perpetrators of these heinous crimes. No questions for the rapists, the murderers, the harassers, the attackers. Questions are reserved for the vulnerable, always. When women speak up, hardly anyone believes them. When women tell their stories, they face an ugly backlash and pushback from society. Being a woman in a patriarchal society is exhausting. Sometimes we get angry, but mostly, we are just tired of being angry. We have had enough of rape apologies, we have had enough of being questioned for our every move, we have had enough of toxic masculinity, we have had enough of being told how to sit, how to talk, how to dress, when to go out — we have had enough. Period. Women are not safe in their own homes, on the roads, in their friends’ homes, at workplaces. Women are just not safe anywhere. And most importantly, women are on their own. Will we ever feel safe? At the moment, there is not much hope. But maybe, just maybe, one day we will be able to live our lives without any fear. For now, we have to keep raising our voices for all the Noors, Saimas, Quratulains, Naseems and countless others. We hope that they all find justice, for themselves and for us. Mehmal Sarfraz is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
29-07-2021||Opinion||Other voices||As both rage and outrage continue to build over the Pegasus surveillance scandal; as connections are made between the unauthorized hacking of phones and the insertion of malware into the laptops of those accused and arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case; as the death of Father Stan Swamy raises vital questions about the intent and (mis)use of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act; as the studied indifference of the Central government towards the ongoing farmers’ protest (now in its 10th month) becomes a matter of scandal and shame for any right-thinking individual who professes faith in democracy — in short, as the fates of those who refuse to toe the line so sedulously being propagated by our rulers become a matter of daily headlines, one thing becomes increasingly clear: our present government at the Centre is perhaps the most intolerant of any we have seen when it comes to dealing with any form of dissent. Such intolerance appears in many avatars, ranging from mockery and boorish abuse to incarceration and what is now being labelled ‘soft torture’. As the sangh parivar single-mindedly pursues its agenda of Hindu-Hindi-Hindustan, one can see a clear articulation, in the discourse of culture and society, no less than in the discourse of politics, of a straightforward division of the bewilderingly complex reality of India into the neat binary of ‘Us’ versus ‘Them’, or, if one prefers, ‘Self’ versus ‘Other’. This simple, some might say simplistic, dichotomy enables the ruling dispensation to club together activists, academics, journalists, members of Opposition political parties and a host of others who may  hold very diverse views on a range of issues, into a near-monolithic category of anti-national, unpatriotic trouble-makers who are hell-bent on derailing the triumphant march of India that is Bharat to the status of a global superpower, a vishwaguru (world-teacher/leader) that lesser nations would do well to emulate. At just such a juncture, it may be instructive to look at Indian history through the prism of dissent; to examine how those who have rejected officially-sanctioned manners and mores have shaped and made us who and what we are today. In the Prologue — titled “Is Dissent Necessary?” — to her recent monograph, Voices of Dissent: An Essay, Romila Thapar reminds us that “[t]here should always be, invariably, in every modern society, the right of the citizen to dissent as part of the right to free speech... However much we may wish otherwise, Indian society — as indeed every other society — has not been a seamless harmonious entity, with little or no contradictions... Dissenting voices have been many, and have had a much wider articulation in the past than we are willing to concede.” The makers of independent India clearly recognized this, and made the right to dissent, in the words of a distinguished former Supreme Court judge, “the biggest right and... the most important right granted by the Constitution.” The Preamble to our Constitution grants to all Indian citizens “LIBERTY of thought, expression, belief, faith and worship.” The “Right to Freedom”, under the section on Fundamental Rights, grants all citizens the right “to freedom of speech and expression; to assemble peaceably and without arms; to form associations or unions or co-operative societies”, among others. Taken together, these rights allow, one might even say encourage, the expression of dissent, not at the level of the individual, but through collective, organized means. Of course, dissenters, no matter how influential they may later turn out to be, are seldom welcomed by the powers that be. Here is Thapar again: “Those in authority generally see themselves as the established Self, and they are the ones who set up the dichotomous identity of the Self vis-à-vis the Other. Generally, it is the one who questions the Self that is described as the Other. This binary determines Otherness, helps crystallize status and power, and distances those without either.” Despite such opposition, dissent has been around since at least Vedic times, with the figure of the “the Dasi-putra Brahmana, the Brahmana Who Is the Son of a Dasi” appearing two millennia before the birth of Christ (another influential dissenter, albeit from another culture). In later years, dissenting beliefs/opinions became crystallized, and given names and designations such as Buddhism, Jainism, Bhakti, Sufi, or, nearer our times, what Thapar calls “Samajist Hinduism” (think of the Arya Samaj or the Brahmo Samaj). Our freedom movement was predicated on dissent, with its leaders willing to serve jail terms as the price for dissenting with prevailing laws and practices. But that was at a time when we were under foreign domination, and any opposition to colonial rule can quite rightly be seen as a species of dissent. What of dissent in a free and, at least notionally, democratic society? Dissent is not the same thing as disagreement, or a difference of opinion. In his Foreword to T.M. Krishna’s recently-published The Spirit of Enquiry: Notes of Dissent, Pratap Bhanu Mehta makes the pertinent, but oft-neglected, point that “[t]he antonym of dissent is not agreement, it is consent.” He goes on to add, in the context of Krishna’s “notes of dissent”, that genuine dissent must exhibit two qualities — it must be undertaken “in the name of a ‘higher rule’” and should not be motivated by “a grammar of anarchy or the hubris of individualism, or rebelliousness for its own sake”; and, second, it must be “motivated by a consistent political and social outlook”. When the dissenter withholds consent, she/he does so not for her/his own sake, but for something beyond mere individual gain. The civil rights movement in the United States of America or the anti-apartheid movement in South Africa displayed such traits, and it is no coincidence that the leaders of both looked to Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi — perhaps the most influential dissenter of the last century — as their inspiration. Dissent necessarily needs an ethics, even if it is one that evolves in the course of a (dissenting) movement, and it also needs to point towards alternatives to the position, or positions, to which it does not give consent. This is what makes dissent so threatening to established authority. In course of time, dissenters may even be co-opted into the pantheon of the establishment (think of how the Buddha was made into an avatar of Vishnu). In our own times, dissent is either bought off or sought to be minimized and dismissed as mere difference of opinion. When neither of these tactics is successful, you simply lock up the dissenter and throw away the key. But in doing so, you miss out on the opportunity of engaging in dialogue, which is perhaps the only way in which a true, working democracy can sustain and renew itself. Samantak Das is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
