30-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Yusra Mardini's Olympics success, former judges about on anti-terrorism and sedition laws||Success story Sir — Success comes in many forms. The story of Yusra Mardini, the Syrian swimmer competing in the Tokyo Olympics, is not just one of success but also that of hope. Herself a refugee, Mardini and her sister once swam in the sea for three hours to push a sinking boat from Turkey to Lesbos, saving the lives of 18 passengers on the boat. No medal in the world would be enough to reward such grit and courage. Ayesha Datta,Howrah Law and disorder Sir — Last Saturday, four former Supreme Court judges raised concerns about the misuse of anti-terrorism laws in India (“Thoughtful”, July 26). The judge, Deepak Gupta, said that the courts should intervene and lay down guidelines on the use of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. He also noted that Manipur activist, Erendro Leichombam, was arrested on charges of sedition for speaking out against cow urine being promoted as a cure for Covid-19. It is no wonder that he asked if we were living in a “police state”. Leichombam and the journalist, Kishorchandra Wangkhem, were arrested for their comments on May 13. On May 17, an Imphal court granted them bail, but before they could be released, the government invoked the National Security Act. They were granted bail this week with different courts observing that their continued detention was in violation of the right to life and personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. The 84-year-old activist, Stan Swamy, who died in custody on July 5, was jailed under the UAPA and repeatedly denied bail in spite of his deteriorating health. The conduct of the National Investigation Agency and the jail authorities, which denied him a sipper to drink, should also be scrutinized to stop the misuse of the UAPA. It is ironic that even after 73 years of independence, governments in India do not realize what the meanings of sedition and terrorism are. The Centre continues to divert its attention from the actual 3 per cent of terrorism cases by focusing on dissent. Further, Section 48(d) of the UAPA limits the power of judges to order a judicial review. How can a law that takes away the authority of constitutional courts to grant bail be anything but unconstitutional? S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — The remarks of the former judges about the anti-terrorism and sedition laws are highly significant given the Centre’s propensity to misuse both in order to silence dissent. Sitting judges should take their comments into account. Pratima Bhattacharya,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
30-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: New classes||Differentiation among groups of people along the lines of caste, religion, gender, race and age has been an integral feature of modern societies. The Marxist school of thought has long viewed these entrenched divisions in terms of class privilege and its resultant deprivation. Significantly, newer forms of stratification are emerging in a post-pandemic world; the new ‘haves’ and ‘have-nots’, in a sense, are those who have been inoculated against the virus and those who are yet to be vaccinated. This chasm, of course, is linked to the template of an older discrimination: data suggest that by August 2020, richer countries had struck deals to buy more than two billion vaccine doses, thereby undermining efforts by low- and middle-income countries to acquire vaccines. Prejudice, too, is contributing to this new form of inequality, with minority communities around the world bearing the brunt of the skewed distribution of medical resources. For instance, in the United States of America, of the 58 per cent of recipients whose racial or ethnic backgrounds are known and who have received at least one vaccine dose, Black, Hispanic and Asian communities comprise 9 per cent, 16 per cent and 6 per cent, respectively. In India, 854 women have been given the vaccine for every 1,000 men, while African nations have succeeded in inoculating less than 1 per cent fully. These disparities, the result of old and new iniquities, seem to be fuelling other kinds of exclusion. France has approved a contested legislation that allows public access to certain indoor venues only upon the production of vaccination certificates. The chief of staff of the German chancellor has warned that unvaccinated citizens might be barred from entering recreational spaces. The European Union’s decision to enforce a ‘green pass’ to allow travel within its member states had initially recognized neither of India’s vaccines. Restrictions on ‘vaccine passports’ would put populations from developing nations and large parts of the global south at a significant disadvantage in terms of mobility. Two specific kinds of intervention must be expedited. First, the pace of vaccination among the marginalized — people and nations — must improve. The second challenge lies in removing the impediments to vaccine distribution. Global and regional blocks, such as the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue and the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, ought to be looked upon as pressure groups to remove these structural and social bottlenecks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
30-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Give freely||Donation normally assumes willingness. But institutions in India often ignore the voluntary aspect, assuming that employees and subordinates will not only donate when told to do so but will also donate the amount fixed beforehand. Responding to a petition filed by the teachers of a university in West Bengal, the Calcutta High Court ruled that university authorities had the right to donate funds for relief, but they could not force employees to contribute. The teachers had petitioned against the vice-chancellor’s decision to deduct one day’s pay from the salaries of all employees without their consent for Amphan relief. The principle of consent, however, is pertinent to all institutional donations. Employees may decide on a shared amount to give for a cause, or collect funds from those who are willing. Even discussions between authorities and employees preceding fixed donations honour the principle of consent. Decisions enforced from the top are different, whether in educational institutions, government bodies or any other organization. They violate the notion of donations in spirit. Protests against the steamrolling of consent can come from the most unexpected quarters. The three armed forces donated Rs 203.67 crore to the PM-Cares fund for Covid relief ‘on a voluntary basis’, according to the defence secretary, after the proposal for donating a day’s salary had been ‘approved’ by the defence minister. But in 2018, more than 1,200 army officers refused to donate a day’s salary for flood relief, saying that the government had not first obtained the concurrence of all donors. The role of consent, however, has predictably been waning. The pandemic led to large donations to the PM-Cares fund, and public sector undertakings, public sector banks and academic institutions donated amounts made up of a day’s cut from staff salaries. In April 2020, a finance ministry circular stated that employees of government organizations were being ‘appealed to’ for one day’s salary for each month until March 2021 as a ‘voluntary’ donation. But the deductions were made directly from salaries: the circular stated that those opting out would have to notify the relevant authority in writing. Certain universities also took this stand. Identifying the unwilling was built into the ‘appeal’. The growing practice of coerced donation laced with the possibility of repercussions needs an immediate corrective through an assertion of the right to consent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
30-07-2021||Opinion||Future tense||Standing amidst the 360-degree devastation wrought by Cyclone Yaas, Bankim Mondal, from Kumirmari in the Sunderbans, echoed what Barack Obama, the former US president, said years back: “[w]hen disaster strikes, it tears the curtain away from the festering problems that we have beneath them”. But such a ‘tearing’ hardly helps the Sunderbans as governments across political lines replace the torn curtains with fresh ones (read committees and consultations) and continue to keep the problems under wraps. Post Yaas, the trend continues with the formation of several well-publicized committees. Consider Ghoramara and Mousuni, two highly vulnerable islands in western Sunderbans. More than half of the Ghoramara and two-thirds of the Mousuni riverbanks still lack effective embankments. Forget an Amphan or Yaas, even routine high tides inundate the sea-adjacent villages, putting thousands into the doldrums of daily disaster. Do we need committees and consultations to know that Ghoramara and Mousuni need effective embankments? For an effective embankment prescription, we perhaps need not look beyond the Sunderbans. After Aila struck in 2009 — a warning bell that the island with nearly five million people and unparalleled biodiversity was turning into a hotbed of climate change related activities like high intensity cyclones and rising sea level — the cry for concrete embankments became louder. The Aila embankment, a marriage of mud, brick and concrete, was cleared by a specialized task force. A decade later, 84 kilometres of Aila embankments stood strong both in the face of Amphan and Yaas, while mud embankments of over 3,000 km were breached at numerous points. Ironically, around 80 per cent of the Rs 5,000 crore cleared by the Manmohan Singh government to build 778 km of Aila embankments was returned to the Union government as the state irrigation department failed to build more Aila embankments, citing people’s refusal to give their land as the reason. The claim does not add up. Out of the 6,000 acres required for building the 778 km of Aila embankments, around 2,000 acres were acquired — close to two-third of the acquired land has not been utilized so far. While finding answers to what happened to the acquired unused land is important, the bigger question to grapple with is why the successful Aila embankment model was not replicated elsewhere in the Sunderbans, especially in areas being repeatedly impacted. No surprise that the demand for concrete embankments has resurfaced after Yaas. On countering disasters, setting effective mechanisms in place needs closer deadlines. We need to pursue holistic but pragmatic steps, rather than brainstorm on long-term, big-ticket, difficult-to-implement options. The need to study and plan for the long-term sustainability of the Sunderbans is important, but saving lives and livelihoods immediately is urgent. Many thousands have collapsed houses and have suffered livelihood losses at least three times over the last 18 months; they need to be protected now. Some experts claim that the Sunderbans do not qualify to be a human habitat, others recommend mass resettlement of millions. Academically valid discourses, but of little relevance to present reality. The physical and socio-economic resilience of the area needs to be enhanced. The disasters will increase but people should be better prepared to counter them. Can we not think of building at least one raised pucca room per family with a concrete roof, or setting up intensive water transport instead of costly bridges and legally permissible industries using local bio resources so that local people get jobs, or introducing insurance to protect lives and livelihoods, or modifying types of crops and harvesting patterns so that they adapt better with changing climatic factors? The list is long. Resurrecting the Sunderbans is difficult but not impossible if the government and experts put their heads together. Let us fix 2030, even 2025 if possible, as the deadline to have actions on ground to save the Sunderbans; the future beyond that can wait.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
30-07-2021||Opinion||The forked tongue||Two news reports appeared recently in a leading national daily. In one, the chief of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, Mohan Bhagwat, waxed eloquent on India’s rich ethos of accommodation and tolerance. In a stunningly secular message, he emphasized that the DNA of all Indians is the same irrespective of religion; that the unifying factor was nationalism; that those who lynch others are working against Hindutva. The second story was a dissonant and unsentimental contradiction of Bhagwat’s homily. Speaking at a mahapanchayat in Pataudi, Gurgaon, to discuss religious conversion, love jihad and a law to control population, the spokesperson of the Bharatiya Janata Party in Haryana and Karni Sena president, Suraj Pal Amu, called for Muslims to be thrown out of this country and even launched an execrable attack on the Pataudis, accusing them of being standard-bearers of love jihad. The Indian citizen was thus confronted with two divergent versions of the philosophy of Hindutva on the same day — Bhagwat’s veneer of tolerance contrasted with Amu’s crude but candid outburst against Muslims. A leading Muslim public intellectual was quick to shower Bhagwat with encomiums for “trying to change the Sangh’s attitude towards Muslims”. He called Bhagwat a beacon of hope for Hindu-Muslim relations for his consistent stance that in our democracy, there can neither be dominance of Hindus nor of Muslims. Yet, one is tempted to ask the obvious question: why then are India’s Muslims living amidst the drumbeats of love jihad, lynching, arbitrary incarceration and hatred? Much has been made of Bhagwat’s unequivocal condemnation of mob lynching. But then, the timing of words is everything. Where were such sanctimonious voices when Mohammed Akhlaque, Hafiz Abdul Khalid, Pehlu Khan and others were being lynched in the name of cow protection? There was only complicit silence. If Bhagwat was articulating his genuine belief in Hindu-Muslim brotherhood and that Muslims are equal citizens of this country, he can — significantly — be accused of digressing from the fundamental tenets of Hindutva as conceived by V.D. Savarkar, a forceful ideologue of political Hinduism. Savarkar’s conception of the Hindu Rashtra hinged on an implacable, adversarial relationship with Muslims. In 1937, even before the Muslim League resolved to have a separate homeland for India’s Muslims, Savarkar propounded the two-nation theory on the grounds of “centuries of cultural, religious and national antagonism between the Hindus and Muslims... there are two nations in the main — the Hindus and the Muslims — in India”. Ashis Nandy, the renowned social scientist, ascribed the BJP’s runaway victory in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections to the spread of supremacist, ethnocentric Hindutva through a furtive but relentless RSS machinery that has captured the collective consciousness of the majority community. For those who believe that Bhagwat is leading an ideological transformation — a veritable perestroika — let’s survey what has happened in the last seven years when Bhagwat has been among the most influential voices in the country. Apart from the lynching of Muslims, India has become a Hindutva laboratory that has harnessed anti-conversion laws, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, and the politics of hate against the minority community. No change in heart or in thinking in the Hindutva fold is visible but, of late, a change in tactics is discernible. There has been a perceptible climb-down by a regime, which, uncaring of history, past precedent and humanitarian concern, abrogated Article 370, upheld the iniquitous CAA, used draconian laws to quell dissent, curbed the freedom of expression, and encouraged state governments to pass divisive anti-conversion laws. But things have changed dramatically in the last few months. A methodically planned Chinese aggression has already cost us considerable stretches of territory. The criminal mishandling of the pandemic has turned us into a global pariah. International agencies questioning our human rights record and the fetters on freedom of expression has put us on a sticky wicket. The body blow to the regime’s arrogance was delivered by the feisty Mamata Banerjee. All of a sudden, we have an ingratiating Centre holding talks with the Gupkar Alliance which, not long ago, had been branded ‘anti-national’ by the government. The home minister has written a lead article in a national daily extolling the virtues of democracy. Should Bhagwat’s views on communal harmony then be seen as part of these unconvincing reconciliation efforts? Mathew John is a former civil servant||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
30-07-2021||Opinion||Picture perfect||The vaccination certificate that erupted from the printer had the prime minister’s face on it. It had sundry other things as well: it said I had been vaccinated twice with the same brand of vaccine; it gave the dates of vaccination; it said I was a female of somewhat advanced age. It also spelt my name correctly. But it was the face that struck me first. I had absorbed with a kind of strained inattention the fact that Narendra Modi’s picture had been put on vaccine certificates and that the Opposition was irate, but its impact was completely unexpected. I would now have it permanently in my home, inhabiting the drawer of a table I love, ensconced among documents I must seize to take with me in case of earthquake or fire for they tell the State who I am in the State’s terms. I almost wondered if the image rode on an invisible winged horse, but I pulled myself up. No one had said they had bought the horse, had they? Just as nobody had intruded into our borders last year or has been there since. Of course, I had no choice in the matter. Words such as ‘choice’, ‘reason’ or ‘humour’ are now meaningless collections of letters scattered out of lexicons like the counters of a defeated Scrabble player. Meanwhile, the objections to Modi’s picture on vaccine certificates ran roughly thus: the vaccines did not emanate from the prime minister, scientists sweated and raced to relieve the world of suffering and loss; the government was promoting the Modi cult; it was using a devastating pandemic to its own advantage; vaccination was part of the government’s job, not a favour to its citizens — and so on. Eddies spread from the central plop in the pool, beginning with the Trinamul Congress’s complaint to the Election Commission that the model code of conduct was being violated before the assembly elections. The face was digitally masked, to be unmasked again after the results. But when states had to buy vaccines for the 18-44 age group, these certificates began to carry pictures of the chief ministers of Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and West Bengal in their respective states. They were paying. A TMC leader responded to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s outcry by stating that if the BJP had not done it first they would not have done it either. But the prime minister, questioned by the Supreme Court, announced that the Centre would procure the vaccines for the 18-44 age group from June 21. So his face was back in its old place. And in their protest against Modi’s ownership of the vaccination drive through the picture-changing game, the Opposition-led governments had willy-nilly accepted the logic of ‘S/He who pays, displays’. The people pay — in every case. The inappropriateness of putting the prime minister’s image on flexes celebrating the biggest vaccination drive in the world when the drive is flagging because of vaccine shortage, or on hoardings screaming that vaccination is free as though it is a special prize for being Indian, has been emphatically pointed out. But that does not deter the government, for the party in power wishes to underline, with equal emphasis, its message of appropriation. But the prime minister’s portrait has its own meaning. It is neither misleading nor even — heaven forbid — a falsehood, but a kind of non-speech act, a term I use with profuse apologies to J.L. Austin and John Searle. The image acts, in the sense that it seems to externalize the informing presence of the spirit that moves all things Indian; the message it is pasted on, however gung-ho, is ultimately secondary. All images of ministers on notices of public sector projects or schemes for aid suggest ownership and are advertisements of the government run by the leader’s party. This can spill into the sphere of government-sponsored cultural events. The practice is not new; Indian politicians have always played on the people’s love of icons to stamp their presence, or that of their past leaders, on any programme associated with their party-led government. Pictures of past leaders were common earlier, but politicians in power have now taken over the icon-space. That may expand. During the pandemic in April 2020, bags of relief material stamped with the image of the Congress chief minister of Punjab evoked protests from the Opposition, and over 13,000 school bags stamped with the images of E.K. Palaniswami, then the Tamil Nadu chief minister, and of the late J. Jayalalithaa were packed away by the rival party just before the 2021 state elections. Accused of megalomania, Mayawati declared that her own statues of bronze, cement and marble put up during her rule in Uttar Pradesh were expressions of the people’s will, while the statues of elephants were architectural designs, not representations of her party’s symbol. Even if not so basic as Mayawati’s statues, the pictures of the prime minister continue a familiar tradition, although refined into something rich and strange. In spite of the various messages clinging to its imaginary coat-tails, the image itself refers to nothing, it just is. Its performance lies in an imagined silence, for its presence alone is transformative. This is best understood by the numerous billboards that have sprouted across Delhi showing Modi with a slightly diminutive Yogi Adityanath. These are paeans to UP as No.1 in developing smart cities and in providing employment. The prime minister’s portrait transforms a regime known for violence, oppression, joblessness, sewerage-less smart cities and, most recently, for the tragic mismanagement of the pandemic into a model for the country, while touching its chief minister with the same non-referential glory. The older tradition looks a bit silly in comparison, possessing neither such alchemy nor perhaps the inclination to spend, for instance, reportedly Rs 1.95 crore of taxpayers’ money daily on advertisements, as happened in 2019-20. The last little material detail aside, what must be acknowledged is that the BJP led by Modi has brought into our lives a new aesthetic of surreal wonder (‘is this really happening?’), a dizzying transcendence of the mundane plane where truth and falsity are almost recognizable notions. Far from the creations of Plato’s artist in the Republic, the ‘copies’ produced by this new artistry exude as much truth as the Original.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
