31-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: German women’s gymnastics team opt for full-body suits, India engaging all Afghan stakeholders||Right step Sir — It was inspiring to witness the German women’s gymnastics team opt for full-body suits in the qualification round at the Tokyo Olympics in a move to promote freedom of choice and to encourage women to play in what makes them feel comfortable. This step was necessary after the Norwegian women’s beach handball team was fined for refusing to wear bikini bottoms during a game in the Euro 2021 tournament — they wore thigh-length elastic shorts instead. Why are women athletes not allowed to compete in clothing they find comfortable, especially when it does not affect their performance in the least? The same restrictions, curiously, are never put on men. Ronodeep Ray,Calcutta Trouble ahead Sir — India might be engaging all stakeholders in Afghanistan, including parts of the Taliban, as part of a ‘multi-track’ strategy, but it cannot be forgotten that the Taliban are allergic to peace. The increased violence and the rapid territorial gains made by the militant group in Afghanistan since the United States of America began withdrawing its troops show that the former have no intention of bringing political stability to the war-ravaged country. For India, this is cause for great concern. First, if the Taliban capture the Afghan government by force then there is a great likelihood of insurgents from the outfit being used by terror groups in Pakistan to target India. Second, even though the Afghan defence forces have largely succeeded in maintaining peace in Kabul and its adjoining regions, it is likely that the Taliban will disrupt development projects and destroy infrastructure in the countryside, which they have already seized. The US and Nato have promised to give Afghanistan $4 billion annually for countering the Taliban. New Delhi must use this as an opportunity to salvage its investment of $3 billion in several infrastructure and trade projects in Afghanistan. Negotiations with the Taliban may be inevitable, but India must be prepared for an unfavourable outcome. Tushar Anand,Patna Sir — As the prospect of the Taliban fighting their way back into Kabul becomes more likely with the withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan, there is a growing perception in India that the situation holds no glad tidings or even a silver lining for our country. There are several concerns — if the Taliban regain power, not only will India lose its influence, but the battle-hardened militants may also turn their attention to Kashmir. The return of the Taliban will be terrible for the people of Afghanistan; moreover, they will try to pose the same kind of threat to India as they did in the 1990s. Even then, the Taliban’s hostility towards India was found to be driven more by the agenda of Pakistan’s military-jihadi complex than anything else. In recent times, its adversarial position towards India has been in response to India’s support for the Afghan government. Now, there may be greater threats to India from the Taliban — supported by Pakistan — in Kashmir. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — Evil often prevails in this world because people in positions of power choose to engage with those who perpetuate crime and terror. At this time, Afghanistan is reeling under the brutal activities of the Taliban. Amid such a situation, Russia allowed a visit by a Taliban ‘delegation’ earlier this month. Then, a ‘delegation’ led by the Taliban co-founder, Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, went on a sudden visit to China and held talks with the Chinese foreign minister, Wang Yi. In what capacity are the members of the terrorist group being allowed to go on such diplomatic missions? Are they representatives of the Afghan government? Have these ‘delegations’ been sent by the Afghan president, Ashraf Ghani? If that is not the case, then why did the Russian and Chinese governments allow the ‘delegations’ made up of militants to visit their major cities? If political leaders keep affording such legitimacy to extremists in this manner, then it is highly unlikely that terrorism will ever be eradicated. While there may not be any permanent enmities or friendships in politics, extremism must be opposed at all costs. Jang Bahadur Singh,Jamshedpur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
31-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Hemmed in||The wisdom of the adage, “Mens sana in corpore sano”, can be understood as the need for the mind and the body to be conjoined, figuratively speaking, as a healthy unit. It may be the twenty-first year of the twenty-first century but the unhealthy practice of the policing of the bodies and minds of women, including athletes, continues to thrive. The Norwegian women’s beach handball team has been locked in a battle with the sport’s governing bodies to wear less-revealing uniforms for some time now. After repeated complaints about the mandatory bikini bottoms were reportedly ignored by the administration, the team wore shorts — the standard outfit when it comes to the men’s team — during a recent game in protest. They were fined 150 euros per player for this ‘transgression’. Ironically, puritanism can also lead to reverse shaming. For instance, the ace tennis player, Serena Williams, has often faced criticism for her ‘revealing’ outfits. These contradictory pulls and pressures of a dated morality reveal the strange intersections of — a tussle between? — the male gaze and morality. The manifestation, inevitably, is the institutional regulation of women’s sartorial choices. In 2012, the Badminton World Federation tried to force female players to wear skirts in order for them to “look feminine and have a nice presentation”. This camouflaging of the male gaze — it is perhaps most discernible in fields like cinema and sports that put the spotlight on women’s bodies — in an aesthetic argument reeks of hypocrisy. Cutting the cloth either way makes little sense when it comes to women: whether they are asked to reveal or cover skin, the visibility of their bodies renders their skills — the ideal criterion of sporting performance — invisible. Female athletes, hearteningly, are pushing back in a bid to sensitize sporting federations into acknowledging the agency and autonomy of women players. In the ongoing Tokyo Olympics, German gymnasts decided to take a stand against the sexualization of their bodies by donning full-body suits. More such ‘transgressions’ would be welcome, but are they enough to set right the distorted priorities? Ensuring a gender representative turf would require an assault on entrenched sexism at multiple levels. This should include addressing a whole range of anomalies, from discriminatory pay scales between men and women players — the top two female tennis players together earned around $30 million less than the highest-paid male tennis player — to enforced dress codes and the unapologetic objectification of the body by mass culture. That still leaves the scars of the mind. The pressure — coercion — to adhere to the codes of sexism puts women performers under unprecedented psychological stress. There is not only expectation to excel but also excel while ticking the boxes of allurement, consumption and vicarious gratification — each element being integral to the fate of women’s sport being a profitable enterprise. Is it any wonder then that Simone Biles withdrew from the Olympics and Naomi Osaka from the Roland-Garros and the Wimbledon? These courageous decisions — putting body and mind over all else — only go to show that both these spheres remain sites of larger contestations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
31-07-2021||Opinion||Beat the heat: Ice cream and pool parties||Even though there has been a recent spike in Covid cases and hospitalization, people are still trying to make the most of summer this year. As much as people enjoy the summer heat, they also look for ways to cool off after, and the options this year did not disappoint. In Union Square, New York, guests could stay overnight inside an ice cream truck on National Ice Cream Day on July 18 for the price of $7.18. The stay was organized through Booking.com, a popular national one-stop shop for those looking to book accommodations. The truck was converted into a mini apartment but also included a fridge stocked with milkshakes and all-you-can-eat toppings. The guests would also get an ice cream shop walking tour in downtown Manhattan as well as tickets to the Museum of Ice Cream. Summer also means folks wanting to jump into a pool or lay on the beach. However, not many are blessed with a pool at home. Now there is a solution to that — Swimply. This is like an Airbnb for pools existing all over the country where you can rent someone’s private pool and pay by the hour. So far 13,000 pool owners have signed up and the costs range from $35 to $65 per hour. The site also indicates the upcoming launch of a new section of amenities allowing you to rent basketball courts, home gyms and home studios. Who would have thought that your backyard can bring in so much revenue? Keep it clean A giant bottle of soap is presently travelling around the United States of America to raise awareness about the importance of hygiene. The world’s biggest bottle of soap, created by the beauty company, Soapbox, is doing a city tour to raise awareness and money for global hand hygiene. They aim to donate 147,900 personal care kits over the course of the tour, which will be in 16 different cities. This metal and fibre glass soap bottle is 21 feet tall, 8.5 feet in diameter and weighs 2,500 pounds. The tour kicked off in Times Square, New York on July 15, which is also National Clean Beauty Day and National Give Something Away Day. This giant soap bottle has since travelled to Boston, Manchester, Buffalo, Chicago, Bentonville, Dallas and Austin. It will end in Pittsburgh on August 4. Shoppers and passers-by are expected to stop to take pictures and help in assembling the kits to be donated to their local community. The company itself has a charitable business model. For every product sold it donates a bar of soap. During this tour, its goal was to earn a world record for most hygiene products donated in a week. So far Soapbox, which was founded in 2010, has donated 22 million bars of soaps worldwide. Its products are sold in leading retail chains like Walgreens and Rite Aid as well as on Amazon. Within a week of launching the tour, it was indeed awarded the Guinness World Record for donating the most hygiene products in one week. The master visits For those who made plans to visit Italy to check out some art, but had plans fall through owing to the pandemic, they may be in luck. Michelangelo’s famous Sistine Chapel, inside the Vatican, will be replicated and brought to New York City later this fall and is already in many other US cities. The Sistine Chapel is one of the most famous and highly regarded artworks in the world and brings in about five million people per year to view it. “Michelangelo’s Sistine Chapel: The Exhibition” will be about an hour to an hour-and-a-half walk-through with ticket prices at $19.20 per adult visitor. The exact location has not yet been disclosed. The original artwork has been replicated using a special printing technology that brings an extremely close likeness to the look and feel of the original frescoes. However, visitors will get a chance to see the paintings up close, and observe every brushstroke in detail — something that is impossible to do in the actual Sistine Chapel, since the art is on the ceiling and hundreds of tourists are hovering next to the walls. The exhibition is coming to Boston, Detroit, Los Angeles, Miami and other major US cities. Tickets are currently available in Chicago, Charleston, Charlotte, San Antonio and San Francisco. This is not, however, New York City’s first brush with the Sistine Chapel. Back in 2017 there was an exhibition at the Oculus, World Trade Center, called “Up Close: Michelangelo’s Sistine Chapel” which displayed 34 replicas of the frescos spread out across the space. Get the jab So far, just under half the US’s adult population is fully vaccinated. Yet, on account of the spread of the new ‘Delta’ variant of the coronavirus, every US state has reported an increase in Covid cases. While talk of a third vaccine booster is in the air, vaccine incentives, including cash, lotteries, free beer and even guns, are being pushed to get those vaccination numbers up. Joe Biden is stepping up the vaccine awareness campaign, and what better way to do that than to bring in a number one chart-topping pop icon? Eighteen-year-old singer, Olivia Rodrigo, was invited to the White House to meet with President Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris and Anthony Fauci and give a pro-vaccination message through a video. Rodrigo also gave a statement in the press room full of reporters about the importance of vaccinations, even for those who are young and not at risk. Her involvement is part of the White House’s larger campaign targeting young Americans to go get the vaccine. Fauci is also helping and has paired up with social media influencers and celebrities, including Jennifer Garner, to connect with the younger population. Even Harris has hosted virtual gatherings with celebrities such as Camila Cabello, Kim Kardashian, Joe Jonas and others. According to NPR, only 42 per cent of people in the age group of 18-24 are fully vaccinated. The government is using celebrities, influencers and TikTok to get its message across and stop the spread of disinformation. Footnote The Willis Tower in Chicago is launching a museum exhibition all about colour called the Color Factory. Located in the second tallest building in North America, it will feature installations and interactive elements inspired by the colour wheel. It debuted in San Francisco in 2017 and stopped by in Houston where a neon sign would illuminate when people held hands. More details are to be announced, but the San Francisco exhibition had a scratch-and-sniff wall, a confetti room and shimmering disco balls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
31-07-2021||Opinion||In praise of YouTube||It was a serious road accident that led me — accidentally, as it were — to the musical riches of YouTube. I had broken an ankle and dislocated a shoulder, and was laid up in bed for weeks on end. I couldn’t read a book, but I could open my laptop and check my emails (and, if required, answer them briefly, typing with the fingers of one hand). The accident occurred in the spring of 2012. For some years previously, I had been one of the several hundred lucky beneficiaries of regular postings from the music scholar and Malayalam writer, S. Gopalakrishnan. Two or three times a week, Gopal would send us all a piece of classical music, with a few sentences about its meaning or significance. The recommendation would arrive at the crack of dawn; and we were free to listen to it at any time at all. Before the accident, my mornings were hectic, so I rarely listened to Gopal’s postings as they came. Sometimes, a pile would accumulate, and then I would listen to them all at once. I found my friend’s suggestions particularly handy when transcribing research notes into my computer, our shastriya sangeet playing soothingly in the background. Now, with my ankle in plaster and my shoulder all strapped up, my mood when I woke up was invariably glum. The day stretched endlessly before me, with no prospect of cheering myself up with a walk through Cubbon Park. I learned to pick myself up in the mornings with music instead. Opening the computer, I would go first to the mail from Gopal, read his text, click on the link and listen to it. As I began doing this regularly, I discovered something that had eluded me before — that the screen was inviting me to listen to other compositions after the one presently playing had finished. Previously, I had listened to Gopal’s recommendations one by one, without looking at the screen after I had opened the link. Now, as I sat in bed with my ankle numb and my shoulder aching, the algorithm of YouTube was inviting me to forget my pain by partaking of more of its pleasures. It was one particular recommendation of S. Gopalakrishnan’s that set me off on my first YouTube binge. That morning, he had linked a recording of “Krishna ni begane baro”, as sung by the great Carnatic vocalist, M.L. Vasanthakumari. This song is a particular favourite of mine, so after I had listened to M.L.V. render it, I saw a link to a version by the well-known contemporary vocalist, Bombay Jayashree. So I heard her sing the song too. As I listened, I recalled reading about an incident involving this particular song and the Carnatic vocalist of American heritage, Jon Higgins. On a visit to the town of Udupi, Higgins was denied admission to its Krishna temple because of the colour of his skin. So he stood on the street outside singing “Krishna ni begane baro”, shaming the priests to let him in. Higgins was deliberately — and very movingly — invoking an ancient story associated with the temple, which had denied the 16th-century Kannada poet, Kanakadasa, entry because of his low caste. Then, too, the devotee, stigmatized by the priests, sang his praises to Krishna in response, whereupon (so the story goes) an idol of Krishna itself turned around, broke the temple wall, and revealed itself to this true seeker. Remembering this tale, I now asked YouTube to let me hear Higgins sing “Krishna ni begane baro”, followed by a request (met with as quickly) for a rendition by that other fine vocalist born in a Christian home, K.J. Yesudas. By these means I passed the morning utterly enchanted, the pain in my limbs forgotten. Before I discovered YouTube, I drew most of my musical sustenance from the large collection of CDs and cassettes of National Programme recordings that I had accumulated over the years. These came in especially handy on long, trans-continental flights, when the hours would pass most pleasurably listening to Ali Akbar Khan, Nikhil Banerjee, Ravi Shankar, Vilayat Khan, N. Rajam and Bismillah Khan if I was in the mood for instrumental music; and to Bhimsen Joshi, Kumar Gandharva, Mallikarjun Mansur, Malini Rajurkar, Kishori Amonkar and Basavaraj Rajguru if I wanted to listen to vocal music instead. Now, after my accident and the world it had opened for me, I began to supplement my private archive with periodic raids into this vast treasure trove of publicly available resources as well. A YouTube binge I recall with particular fondness occurred in the second half of January 2018. It was inspired by my hearing of the death of the great sarodiya, Buddhadev Dasgupta. As a student in Calcutta in the 1980s, I had often heard Dasgupta play live. It was mostly in that city that he performed, for as a full-time engineering professional he could not work the all-India and trans-Western concert circuit in the manner of his contemporaries Ali Akbar Khan and Amjad Ali Khan. I retained enchanted memories of those concerts of my youth, so when Buddhadevbabu came to play in Bangalore in or about the year 2010, I took my son to hear him. By now the maestro was visibly ageing, and knew it, beginning the concert by telling the audience at the Chowdiah Memorial Hall, “This is not the Buddhadev Dasgupta you once knew, but when the invitation came from Bangalore I could not refuse it”. Buddhadev Dasgupta died on January 15, 2018, a few weeks short of his 85th birthday. On hearing of his passing, I went at once to my iPod to hear his recordings of Gorakh Kalyan and Jaijaiwanti. Then, rummaging through my cassettes, I found I had with me a National Programme of the 1980s, with him playing — most magically — a Kedar. I listened to what I had several times, before remembering YouTube. This had some rare recordings of private concerts already; in the weeks following his death, more were uploaded by his admirers. Among them was a quite beautiful Chaya Bihag, an hour-long elaboration of a rarely-performed raga which I have since listened to again and again. A particular song, “Krishna ni begane baro”, was the vehicle of my first YouTube binge; a particular musician, Buddhadev Dasgupta, the vehicle of my second. Ever since the pandemic broke out, I have kept myself going through a series of YouTube binges. Some have been cricketing — I would particularly recommend a wonderful conversation between Shane Warne and Michael Atherton — while some have been literary — here I single out a conversation between C.L.R. James and Stuart Hall. However, the majority have been musical. It is through YouTube that I have begun to — very slowly and haltingly — warm to the glories of Western classical music; and it is through YouTube again that I have gone beyond the generational attachment to the vocalists I revered in my youth, and begun to enjoy the music of contemporary singers such as Venkatesh Kumar, Kalapini Komkali, Ashwini Bhide Deshpande and Priya Purushothaman. My most recent discovery on YouTube was a recording of the legendary Kirana gharana singer, Roshan Ara Begum. A direct student of Ustad Abdul Karim Khan, after Partition she moved to Lahore, performing there until her death in 1982. In 2009, finding myself in Lahore, I went searching for Roshan Ara’s music in Anarkali Bazar, finding a few cassettes which included a fabulous rendition of Shankara, which I have listened to countless times since. Now, last week, I chanced upon a recording of a concert in Delhi, probably from the late 1950s, whose centrepiece was that rare raga, Noorani. A special joy was to have the music interspersed with the voice of Surajit Sen saying: “This is All India Radio. Tonight, in the National Programme of Music, you shall hear a vocal recital by Roshan Ara Begum of Pakistan.” Over the years, as I have listened more to music on YouTube, I have come to greatly appreciate those who so selflessly share their own collections for others to listen to and love. I would like to acknowledge them by name, except that I don’t want them to be harassed by narrow-minded monopolists and their greedy lawyers. Anyone who, like me, goes to YouTube for their musical needs knows whom all I mean, and will share my feelings of gratitude and indebtedness. In a world riven by hatred and discord, jealousy and rivalry, pride and prejudice, those who put their painstakingly garnered musical treasures on a public platform are the true jewels of the human race. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
