01-07-2020||Even as plasma therapy||Let ICMR decide||Rather than follow the ICMR suggestion of keeping systems in place for the remedy, Delhi has shown undue haste and gone a step ahead. At this stage, it would have sufficed to be armed with a list of potential plasma donors (the nearly 52,000 persons who have successfully fought the disease in the state) and their blood type ready for use. Already under fire for its mismanagement of the situation and letting it explode in the state, this step may backfire. With a specific cure for Covid still elusive, Maharashtra, grappling with the maximum cases in the country, has also relied on this therapy, but in a different way. It has launched the largest plasma therapy trial in a bid to create a robust data and infrastructure for treatment.Pending a medicine or vaccine, the pandemic calls for a methodic and centralised approach. Concerted efforts must be made to ensure a uniform way of functioning. Contrary stands only compound the problem for the already hassled patients and their attendants. That suspected and confirmed patients are still having to run from hospital to hospital to get a bed or a test done speaks poorly of the orderliness in our preparation for tackling the disease. No wonder people are inclined more to hear out a dying patient (in Hyderabad) accusing the hospital of removing his ventilator than the doctors contesting the charge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/let-icmr-decide-106959
01-07-2020||Citing concerns over national security and citizens’ privacy||App ban not enough||According to a recent study conducted by one of the country’s leading ratings and research agencies, India can significantly reduce its trade deficit with China by rationalising 25 per cent of its imports in sectors where it has well-established manufacturing capabilities. These sectors include chemicals, drug formulations, cosmetics, bicycle parts and electronic goods. India is already on the right track, though it has a long way to go. During 2019-20, the annual trade deficit with China dropped below $50 billion for the first time in five years. In the past two financial years, bilateral trade has declined by 2-6 per cent.China was India’s largest trade partner until the US went ahead in 2018-19. Still, the former firmly occupies the number two spot. In contrast, India is among China’s minor trade partners, figuring not even in the top 10. This imbalance can’t be erased in a hurry. It will take much more than kneejerk reactions and stop-gap measures to do that. With India caught in the throes of Covid-19 and China gradually recovering from the pandemic, it will be a huge challenge for the Indian economy to sustain the domestic push and reduce dependence on the neighbour famed for high productivity and availability of skilled workforce. ‘Vocal for local’ must become a strategic policy, not just another high-sounding slogan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/app-ban-not-enough-106960
