04-07-2020||In grave disregard for people’s lives||Below-par sanitisers||The government authorities have been proactively addressing various aspects of the pandemic. As the urgency of ramping up production of hand sanitisers to meet the ballooning demand became clear early this year, sensing a business opportunity — and, in some instances, of making a quick buck — many companies queued up for grant of licence, including those in the industrial belt of Baddi in Himachal Pradesh. While their applications were fast-tracked, masks and sanitisers were brought under the purview of the Essential Commodities Act to prevent their hoarding and regulate their prices.But the presence of large-scale substandard or adulterated sanitisers in the market exposes the laxity of the government’s control-and-check mechanisms. Playing with the lives of people during a public health crisis warrants quick and stringent punishment to the culprits. Aghast, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has taken suo motu notice of the matter. Meanwhile, educating the public on how to pick FDA-approved standard sanitisers is essential to prevent further damage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/below-par-sanitisers-108247
04-07-2020||WITH over 6 lakh Covid-19 cases each so far||Russia on board||Russia, which enjoys good relations with China as well as India, can’t be expected to take sides openly. Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Igor Morgulov has made it clear that his country is not keen on acting as a mediator to resolve India-China differences, fearing that any intervention could ‘seriously hurt the efforts Beijing and New Delhi are independently making to find a way out of this situation.’ However, a prolonged standoff can impact trilateral interests and force Moscow to choose its friend. Russia’s keenness to improve cooperation with India can send a subtle message to Beijing. What Russia does behind the scenes could help India in building international consensus against Chinese transgressions.PM Modi’s surprise visit to Ladakh on Friday, which came hours after his chat with Putin, has signalled his intent to confront the hostile neighbour head-on. Along with enhancing military firepower and reducing economic dependence on China, India needs diplomatic heft in the global arena to turn the tide. A nationwide vote in favour of constitutional amendments has cleared the decks for Putin to stay in power till 2036. Deeper ties with Russia’s undisputed leader can pay dividends to India both in the short and long terms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/russia-on-board-108246
