09-07-2020||Covid-19 has not only devastated lives and livelihoods across the globe||Failing students||The US State Department claims that this ‘temporary accommodation’ provides greater flexibility to foreign students, but it’s actually a coercive step that severely limits their choices and forces them to ‘take it or leave it’. The rash decision will particularly hit Indian and Chinese nationals as the two countries together account for about half of the over 11 lakh international students in the US. With India’s Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla promptly expressing concern over the development, the US is likely to find itself under increasing diplomatic pressure to do a rethink sooner than later.The Trump administration has chosen to play the ‘us versus they’ card months before the presidential elections. The divisive order, which has been challenged in a federal court by Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), could prove to be counterproductive in more ways than one. Slamming the door on a large group of foreigners would deprive America of a major money-spinner at a time when its economy is in the doldrums. With no sign of a let-up in the Covid crisis, US universities and colleges are justified in switching to the online mode, albeit as an ad hoc, stop-gap measure. Maintaining the standards of education matters; so does the safety of students and teachers. The challenge lies in striking a balance between the two considerations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/failing-students-110399
09-07-2020||Even before Punjab could get to the bottom of the registration of fake construction workers to pocket Rs 3||Criminal rip-off||The Covid crisis has become a fertile ground for scamsters as they brazenly dig into schemes envisaged to deal with the health emergency and its emerging economic consequences. The fishy activities that have the unmistakable stamp of the complicity of officials/politicians and middlemen leave an unbearable stink. For, they reek of a criminal rip-off of those in most need of honest deals during a public health calamity: patients, healthcare staff and millions of poor workers reeling under the crippling financial blow wrecked by the lockdown. Unmoved by the plight of the sick or the poverty-stricken, the charlatans don’t seem to leave any opportunity of making money that this time of grave adversity has thrown their way. The substandard PPE kits of Punjab, the overpriced hand sanitisers and face masks scam of Himachal Pradesh that took the scalp of the state BJP chief, or the purchase of dysfunctional ventilators, all leave a whiff of illegitimate profiteering and underhand deals.Even as citizens, moved by the plight of the Covid-hit, have been generously donating towards initiatives such as PM Cares, it is a pity that government funds are being usurped by some unscrupulous few. The swindlers must be brought to book and given exemplary punishment at the earliest. Quick dispensation of justice is the key to every legitimate person duly benefiting from government schemes and to checking further malpractices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/criminal-rip-off-110397
