11-07-2020||Nothing better exemplifies the collapse of rule of law in India than the daylight murder of gangster Vikas Dubey in Uttar Pradesh on Friday morning. The entire Vikas Dubey episode beginning with the ambush and massacre of eight cops||Rule of lawlessness||In the last one week, five of Dubey’s accomplices were shot dead, of which at least one was caught and then killed as he attempted to snatch a cop’s weapon when the vehicle stalled with a flat tyre. According to the same script, Dubey tried to snatch a gun when the vehicle he was travelling in overturned, leading to his custodial killing. But there are gaping holes in this story: news reports suggest that the police stopped TV crews following the convoy shortly before the shootout and more curiously, Dubey seemed to have been shifted from one vehicle to another according to CCTV footage from a toll plaza. The arrest from Ujjain itself was staged for all to see. Or else, how could a scheming, cop-killing gangster suddenly appear alone and unarmed, after crossing four state borders, to be so easily ‘overpowered’ by two temple guards?Dubey and his key associates have been silenced. Now, it is difficult to prove who tipped him off about the raiding party headed by DSP Mishra, or at whose behest he mowed down the cops, or who offered him political patronage to remain at large despite 60-odd cases, including murder. More importantly, we will never know all that Dubey did for his political masters. The UP model justice delivery system is instant and foolproof: the real criminals in khaki and khadi never get caught. The UP Government is a metaphor for all that is wrong with this country’s governance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/rule-of-lawlessness-111333
11-07-2020||Its tourism-dependent economy battered by the pandemic||For Himachal’s sake||Opinion remains divided within the hill state on opening up the tourism sector, as the Covid-19 count explodes. ‘Livelihood Matters’ is a powerful catchphrase to latch on to the argument that closing down is no longer an option. It isn’t. The losses have far exceeded the sustenance threshold. What, however, must be duly acknowledged is that those defying their own demons of fear and anxiety to open hotels and resorts expect basic courtesy and responsibility by the guests. The trust once broken is difficult to redeem. Like the hills deserve respect, so do the dwellers — the hosts. It is incumbent on the want-to-break-free itinerants, as also the routine travellers, to make sure that their presence is not unwelcome. The law will take its course, but such brash behaviour is helping no one, not the guests, not the hosts. The High Court has already sought replies on a petition demanding withdrawal of the July 2 notification allowing tourists.Improper documentation is testing the nerves of the overstretched staff. The steps involved for entering are simple: get yourself registered for a tourist pass, get tested for the virus within 72 hours prior to entry, and have a confirmed booking for at least five days. Follow these rules. If you cannot, stay at home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/for-himachals-sake-111281
