15-07-2020||Blackmail and brinkmanship are bad strategy in politics. Even in a corporate environment||Pilot crash-lands||From the beginning, Sachin Pilot’s attempt seemingly has been to bait the BJP with the prospect of toppling the Ashok Gehlot government; and then with the BJP apparently biting his bait, he was bargaining with his own leadership. All he wanted was the Chief Minister’s post with no ideological or issue-based battle with the incumbent. This naked greed for power with no political façade was something new even for the Grand Old Party, which has always been a coalition of factions.Sachin was really in the pilot’s seat and there was absolutely no need for a crash-landing. At 42, he was a strong satrap holding the reins of the government and the party organisation in a state which keeps trying out the BJP and the Congress every five years. Even with Gehlot as CM, Sachin was second to none and had only to engage with the masses and display his proficiency in governance to be in the reckoning not just in the state, but even at the Centre. Yet, he was in such a hurry that he had to destabilise his own government, issuing threats and conditions to his leadership, showing complete contempt towards the organisational hierarchy. No self-respecting leadership could have acceded to his demands for the post of Chief Minister, Home and Finance portfolios and ministerial berths for his lackeys. Now, the Rajasthan Government is surviving by the skin of its teeth, and if it fails the floor test, the blame will fall squarely on the Sonia-Rahul leadership. Hence, it is important for the mother-son duo to get a grip on the organisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/pilot-crash-lands-112986
15-07-2020||Days after PM Narendra Modi rolled out the red carpet for global investors and clarified that Atmanirbhar Bharat was not about being closed to the world||Digital dividend||The country’s digital drive has gathered momentum amid the restrictions imposed to contain the spread of the virus. The lockdown has spurred online payments, with more and more people going the relatively safe e-way to avail of goods and services — right from groceries to clothes and electronic items. The cashless, phone-activated mode, which rules out any contact with currency notes, has even caught the fancy of roadside vendors. The welcome trend has continued during the unlocking phase.Google’s initiative to digitally empower India in fields such as healthcare, education and agriculture can encourage other major companies to follow suit. The Indian connection may come in handy here. According to a top US-based Indian diaspora organisation, a group of 50-odd Indian-origin executives — heading companies in the US, Canada, Singapore and other countries — together employ more than 36 lakh people and account for $1 trillion in revenue. The Indiaspora Business Leaders’ List is topped by Pichai, followed by Satya Nadella (Microsoft) and Arvind Krishna (IBM). Digital India, the NDA government’s flagship programme that has completed five years, still has a long way to go as far as bridging the digital divide is concerned. Creating a favourable environment for Google and other international heavyweights to make their presence felt should be the way forward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/digital-dividend-112988
