17-07-2020||The first tranche of the $10-billion fund announced by Google to ostensibly drive the Digital India programme has gone into the kitty of Reliance Industries’ digital unit||A digital bridge||The Google-Jio tie-up could prove to be a win-win situation for both companies as they will collaborate to build an Android-based operating system for a low-cost 4G/5G smartphone that will be tailor-made for Indian users. Around 35 crore users — nearly one-fourth of the country’s population — still have a 2G feature phone, which lacks the advanced functionality of a smartphone. The key question is: will the partnership turn out to be just another mutually beneficial arrangement or will it play a key role in bridging the divide between the digital haves and have-nots?The benefits of an ambitious collaboration ought to percolate down to the lowest stratum of society, enabling even the poorest of the poor to access digital services provided by the government as well as the private sector. The pact also has to be dovetailed with Atmanirbhar Bharat so that ample employment opportunities are generated to spur self-reliance. The government can move closer towards realising its vision of ‘transforming India into a digitally empowered society and knowledge economy’ by facilitating the creation of dynamic entrepreneurs, not software ‘coolies’. It’s imperative to accord priority to research & development as well as innovation so that India comes up with global products which transform people’s lives. What the powers that be need to ensure is a level playing field, not letting a behemoth sweep the board.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/a-digital-bridge-114047
17-07-2020||Of late||Evolving Covid care||Pending a vaccine, the past five months have seen the medical fraternity experimenting and trying to combat Covid-19 by focusing on treating the symptoms in the best possible manner so as to give supportive relief to the patients and reduce their hospital stay and mortality rate. The scenario is evolving rapidly as hundreds of clinical trials and studies — none of which as of today stands 100 per cent scrutiny— are being conducted the world over. This dynamic situation has warranted that the medical bodies monitoring the situation regularly send out clear guidelines on the mandatory procedure for treatment based on the latest developments in the field, to the states and nodal hospitals, which pass on the protocol down to the district levels.In a change of strategy in May, the ICMR directed that asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms and no comorbidity did not need hospitalisation as they could be treated at home. In hospitals, the use of ventilators has also seen a downward revision for the not so critical patients, for whom the preferred the mode of oxygen supply is now non-invasive. Doctors have also wised up to the benefits of proning and recommend it early on. Medication suggested includes hydroxychloroquine and plasma therapy, depending on the patient’s condition. Indeed, the healthcare workers need to be on their toes and keep themselves abreast of any breakthroughs till the scientists’ quest for the magic bullet yields result.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/evolving-covid-care-114006
