20-07-2020||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh made a significant admission on Friday while addressing the troops in Ladakh that there is no guarantee that the ongoing talks between India and China would help resolve the border dispute. This is the first time a senior Indian leader||Welcome candour||Rajnath Singh has indeed assured the troops, and the Indian public at large, that no power in the world can grab even an inch of Indian territory; at the same time, by being realistic about the complete breach in relationship, he has made the government, the troops and the people realise and respond to the continuing Chinese treachery. After the Chinese incursion, the Indian and Chinese corps commanders had first met and agreed on disengagement on June 6, but on the night of June 15, the Chinese bludgeoned and killed 20 Indian soldiers, including the Commanding Officer. Since then, there have been three more meetings of the military leaders, and also that of the special representatives on the boundary question, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, on July 5.Meanwhile, credible strategic thinkers have pointed out that the Line of Actual Control could have got shifted westwards into the Indian territory by about a kilometre. The fear of incursion at Depsang aimed at threatening the Daulat Beg Oldie airstrip is getting more and more real in these circumstances. While the nation reposes its faith in the government, there ought to be greater clarity for the people to be prepared for resolute action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/welcome-candour-115281
20-07-2020||In an attempt to contain the Covid-19 outbreak by decongesting prisons||Decongesting prisons||There is no disagreement that the authorities ought to be circumspect about releasing inmates charged with rape or murder. But, leniency towards petty offenders, older and medically vulnerable undertrials charged with non-violent offences, and even political prisoners, is worth serious deliberation. Grant of bail is the rule, its refusal the exception. When securing the presence of the accused at the trial is the primary objective, which can be well served by letting him or her out of prison as a temporary measure. Those entrusted with taking that decision do not have it easy though. The number of Covid-positive cases in Guwahati Central Jail, for instance, is touching 200. The instinctive reaction would be to avoid risking the health of the inmates, as also the jail staff. But what if some decide to jump bail, and leave no trace?The model worked out by Maharashtra, hit hard by Covid-19, merits a look. The state’s high-powered panel has already decided to release half of the total inmates, with stringent conditions. The Bombay High Court recently refused to admit a plea to allow prisoners, released on temporary bail, to appear before the jurisdictional SHO through video calls as it would be difficult to ascertain their location. Undertrials could be out initially for 45 days by furnishing personal bonds. They would be required to report to a police station once every 30 days. The pandemic demands a pragmatic and considerate outlook.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/decongesting-prisons-115280
