21-07-2020||The seizure on Sunday of almost 65 kg of heroin floating in the Ravi is yet another reminder of how drugs are pushed from Pakistan into India. In June last year||Cross-border narco-terror||Pakistan is already on the grey list of the terror financing watchdog, Financial Action Task Force (FATF). It is just a step away from being publicly censured like North Korea and Iran. FATF has left itself open to criticism by focusing on a narrow interpretation of terrorism, and its rather bureaucratic interpretation of the steps needed for a nation to comply with its requirements that primarily centre on plugging the holes in terror financing, along with activities of UN-designated terrorists.The narco-terror nexus is an old one. There have been enough instances when it has been proved that the activities of active terrorist groups in Kashmir, and the rest of the country, received money from the proceeds of the sale of narcotics brought across the border. In fact, aiding, abetting and pushing drugs into India serve not only to weaken the border states, where their availability feeds addiction, but also in opening conduits that are used for smuggling weapons and even sending terrorists across the border. There is a need to resist the tendency to treat such seizures as merely a law and order issue. Each such attempt is a breach of national security. The non-state and state actors across the border must be identified, and such seizures must be used to demonstrate the nefarious terrorist activities of our western neighbour. Our diplomats must fully brief FATF and other international fora, and international pressure must be brought to bear on the regime that allows, rather facilitates, narco-terror on this horrific scale.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/cross-border-narco-terror-115807
21-07-2020||The statistics are disquieting. Despite various courts across Haryana remaining unconvinced by the police contention that they had overheard the accused plotting a dacoity — for no one is likely to hatch a conspiracy within earshot of anybody — the number of people facing trial in such cases continues to be high||Not within earshot||No innocent should have to fall prey to the police’s questionable philosophy of ‘controlling’ crime that seems to undergird such a quasi-legal measure. It only reinforces the common man’s lack of trust in the force’s ability to catch the real culprits and bring them to book through effective prosecution. With only small fry continuing to bear the brunt of the lathi and the big sharks escaping the police net, it is not surprising that the crime rate has not been arrested.Haryana would do well to emulate Punjab that has realised the limitations of the competence of its police force in taking on the criminals. In a credible and creditable step that will bear fruit, it may soon become the first state in the country to invigorate its force by infusing in it plainclothes professionals from fields such as information and digital technology, forensics and accounting to assist the cops in tackling new-age offenders. Ever since it hired a detective agency to check female foeticide in 2018, the health department has got critical support in conducting sting operations on erring doctors. Haryana, too, needs to restructure its system and adopt a scientific approach to crime detection, prevention and prosecution. It will empower the cops with the cutting edge needed to outwit the planners and plotters of dacoity and other crimes. Catching a criminal in the act can even dilute political influence, if any.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/not-within-earshot-115808
