24-07-2020||Uttar Pradesh has given the country the most number of Prime Ministers||Gangs of Uttar Pradesh||Coincidentally, the Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered the constitution of a commission of inquiry to probe the killing of eight cops by gangster Vikas Dubey in Kanpur and also his death in a dubious police encounter. A Bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde has given a time-limit of two months and ordered the commission to specially look into the circumstances that led to Dubey getting bail or parole despite facing prosecution in 64 criminal cases. ‘We consider it to be the single most important factor,’ pointed out the Bench.Here is a great opportunity to clean up the Augean stables of UP’s justice delivery system, if Yogi is sincere about putting down the outlaws. Dubey could not have got bail or parole without politicians, the police, the prosecution and even certain elements of the lower judiciary being complicit. Similarly, Joshi could not have got killed had the police promptly acted on his complaint. Yogi should train his guns at the bent cops to succeed in ridding the state of its worst criminal elements and the climate of impunity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/gangs-of-uttar-pradesh-117198
24-07-2020||The disquiet among the healthcare workers about inadequate facilities provided to them even as the pandemic rages unabated is a matter of concern. In the latest instance||Dissatisfied Covid soldiers||The protest is not in isolation, for similar incidents have been reported from other parts of the country also, where health workers deployed on Covid duty complained of low pay, inadequate accommodation and of being overworked and understaffed. At the PGIMER in Chandigarh, health workers have blamed the hospital administration for not being attentive to their well-being. In Delhi, in fact, the High Court had to step in and ask the state government to pay salaries to resident doctors in some of its hospitals. The Supreme Court had earlier asked the Centre to direct the states to pay the doctors and other health workers their salaries, provide them with proper accommodation and implement the quarantine guidelines uniformly among the medical staffers, without making a distinction between those in high-risk areas and others. The court had also asked that non-compliance be made an offence under the Disaster Management Act, saying there cannot be ‘dissatisfied soldiers in a war.’Subsequently, the quarantine norms were watered down, with the government stipulating that the 14-day period was now non-mandatory. The onus was put on hospitals for implementing infection control and fixing the final responsibility with healthcare workers for protecting themselves. While it has been slightly easier for the private hospitals, given their high rates, not so for the government hospitals, which routinely lack resources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/dissatisfied-covid-soldiers-117157
