25-07-2020||The Rajasthan political crisis has once again exposed the worst malaise afflicting Indian democracy||Defection is not dissent||In the Kihoto Hollohan case (1991), the Supreme Court upheld its validity. The law brought sanity to the political scene marred by the ‘Aaya Ram, Gaya Ram’ phenomenon. But the court’s comment in the Rajasthan case that the voice of dissent within the party cannot be suppressed has complicated the issue. ‘It seems party members cannot raise their voice against their own party. Voice of dissent cannot be shut. They have all been elected by the people. Can they not express their dissent,’ the court observed. There is a difference between defection and dissent. A dissenting voice can always be raised by legislators at party forums. Asking their own government to face a floor test and allegedly hobnobbing with the Opposition can’t be termed dissent. Going by the SC verdict in the Ravi Naik case (1994), their conduct would clearly fall under the category of defection. ‘Even in the absence of a formal resignation, an inference can be drawn from the conduct of a member that he has voluntarily given up his membership of the party to which he belongs,’ the court had ruled.Politics bereft of ethics is nothing but a vulgar dash for power. Inducing lawmakers to switch sides to cook up a majority for a party voted out by the electorate cannot be approved of. As the guardian of constitutional morality, the judiciary needs to check it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/defection-is-not-dissent-117601
25-07-2020||When it comes to empowering women||Haryana’s quota for women||The ruling BJP-JJP government in the state will have to make its intent clear, through its actions, how it intends to achieve the welfare of women, especially with political activity ceasing since the enforcement of the lockdown. It will also have to be determined whether the present one-third quota has been implemented properly, that it has worked well, as also the deficiencies that came to the fore. The Centre has laid a renewed thrust on the development of rural areas after its model village scheme failed to take off, earmarking sundry schemes for housing, building roads, providing healthcare, making agriculture profitable and a fresh focus on MGNREGA to take care of livelihood through employment. There is also emphasis on transforming the villages by bridging the digital divide, providing services at the doorstep and creating entrepreneurs. With migration taking place from cities to villages in the wake of the pandemic, the government envisions action in rural areas.Haryana will have to first make sure it is prepared. For political empowerment, women will have to be made independent through literacy and economic empowerment. It will also mean breaking free from the stranglehold of caste-based entities, a tall order in the rural milieu. The inability to do so leads to wielding of power by proxy. PM Modi once scoffed at it as ‘Sarpanch Pati Raj’. It would be a travesty of the democratic process if it were to be allowed to happen again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/haryanas-quota-for-women-117600
