27-07-2020||The Covid-19 count is continuing to mount rapidly in India. More than 32||Decoding Covid curve||Though these statistics are grim, cutting across the bleak curve is a potent bright side. Even as thousands of men, women and children are catching the contagion in India, the fear of the virus has considerably waned. This is largely attributed to the significant downward curve in the Covid fatality rate as also the high recoveries. Hope stems from the fact that hordes of patients are getting away with mild symptoms and even some octogenarians are defeating the insidious bug. At nearly 2.3 per cent, India’s death rate, which has witnessed a continuous fall, is much lower than the global average of 4 per cent. And, with an increasing number of patients recuperating every day, the recovery rate has climbed to over 63 per cent.No doubt, these positives are a product of the cumulative efforts to preempt, cure and contain the spread of the disease. The test-track-treat strategy and precautionary measures such as social distancing have put the fight against the pandemic on the right track. A ramping up of these measures is necessary to prevent the health infrastructure from being overwhelmed by the rising caseload. Lockdowns that shattered lives and livelihoods should be resisted as these have proved to be futile in the combat. Nahan in HP remained sealed for three days from July 18, yet there was no let-up in Covid cases. Likewise, the three-day lockdown in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh industrial hub will only cause impediments to business.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/decoding-covid-curve-118433
27-07-2020||It’s a sign of the desperate times we are living in that the news that IPL 2020 will be held in the UAE in September-November is being welcomed with relief and joy. Remember||IPL in the UAE||Desperate times cause a readjustment of principles — even critics of cricket being held in the cities of the UAE now accept that ‘cricket must go on’. With Covid-19 cases on the rise, there is no possibility of cricket returning to India’s grounds any time soon. It must be said, too, that corruptors in cricket are not deterred by geographical limitations, and that T20 leagues held in India are not immune to corruption. So, if only to cheer up fans thirsting for live sport — and to mop up hundreds of crores in revenue which would otherwise be lost — cricket must go on, even if it is in Sharjah, Dubai and Abu Dhabi.However, a most difficult task confronts the organisers — ferrying over 200 cricketers to the UAE, apart from support staff, broadcaster’s personnel and equipment. Housing and transporting them all in a bio-secure bubble in the UAE will be a huge challenge, and the organisers would do well to follow the blueprint for the England-West Indies series currently on in England. The IPL franchisees are worried about the cricketers being rusty and below peak fitness. However, this being T20 cricket, the quality of cricket would matter less than the tamasha around it, and the symbolism of a popular tournament being played during Covid-19, even if it’s in the UAE.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/ipl-in-the-uae-118428
