31-07-2020||The new National Education Policy approved by the Union Cabinet promises a transformational shift||A new beginning||Mother tongue would be the medium of instruction till Class 5. While this would address any misgivings over imposition of Hindi in some parts of the country, if the adherence is limited to state education boards, the others’ English medium advantage would only widen the divide. Board exams, under the revised policy, would test core concepts and application of knowledge, instead of rote learning. Report cards are meant to be an analysis of skills and capabilities, and not just marks. A four-year undergraduate programme will have multiple exit options. A convincing roadmap overall, but implementation would be a humungous exercise.To make higher education focused and research-oriented, a single regulator will look after institutions that have 3,000 or more students, barring medical and law colleges. A target has been set to almost double the gross enrolment ratio to 50 per cent by 2035, and ensure that all higher education institutions become multidisciplinary in another five years. A game-changer could be the decision to allow the top 100 foreign universities to set up campuses. Quality education, innovative methodologies and the time-tested models that demand a freshness of ideas and approach would give a huge impetus to ‘Make for India’ and ‘Make in India’ projects. Keeping a check on the fee structure would present a challenge. A welcome chapter of the policy is the emphasis on moving towards convergence of science and arts, and therefore, holistic education. The HRD Ministry is now the Education Ministry. It has its task cut out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/a-new-beginning-120210
31-07-2020||The further easing of restrictions under Unlock 3.0 will come as a relief for the people wilting under the severity of the lockdown. Ever since the shutdown came into effect towards the end of March to contain the spread of the virus||Phased unlocking||The lifting of the night curfew will stand out, and so will the decision to hold Independence Day functions while following the necessary preventive measures. While inter-state travel has been permitted, international air travel, dependent on other countries, is to be resumed only in a calibrated manner, affecting related sectors of the economy. And not before the Metro rail begins its service again in Delhi and other cities will transport service in the country be deemed to have returned to normal. The announcement this time was noticeable for the manner in which it was done without the usual video conferences with the CMs.The MHA guidelines have come with a rider though, as restrictions will continue in containment zones till August 31. Containment zones are aimed at checking people-to-people contact to break the chain of transmission. States have used their own discretion in mapping out the vulnerable areas, some preferring weekend lockdowns, others going in for full curbs, preventing uniformity in application and adding to the difficulties. While that may be needed, there are still other areas that need to be opened up for the economy to pick up pace, and for that it is important to improve the situation in the containment zones. As the unlocking continues, the responsibility will also lie with the people for taking precautions to keep Covid at bay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/phased-unlocking-120209
