01-09-2021||HAVING fought the 1971 war followed by major post-war action during May 1972 in Lipa Valley (J&K)||Failing to get the drift||In infantry, particularly while on operational deployment, it is routine to get an ‘all OK’ report, a summary of the day’s operational and administrative activities, from the sub-units, and then pass the consolidated report to the Commanding Officer (CO).This perhaps was the most difficult part as it invariably used to be an admonishing session from the CO. But one evening, barely had I finished the ritual, he again came on the line and in an unbelievably milder tone, asked me to arrange some driftwood.In excitement, I ignored the abstruse prefix ‘drift’ and perceived that he actually meant just a few logs of wood, presumably required for the ongoing construction of defence works in the battalion headquarters.Like a true soldier, having completed the task in just two days, I informed him that the logs of wood were ready. My exuberance was short-lived. He taunted me for my state of English. This was followed by a monologue in chaste vernacular for my mistake.The next few days were spent wading through the high-altitude streams in sub-zero waters, not fishing for trout, but trying to harpoon driftwood. The rigour not only ensured that the word was indelibly recorded in my memory, but also gave me intermittent hallucinations in subsequent years.History repeated itself after two decades in 1991. The battalion, under my command, moved to the Valley and was deployed along the LoC. As the CO, the routine was tough with continuous visits to forward posts. It was during one such visit, that the enigmatic word, cerebrally dormant for two decades, resurfaced, and I decided, why not collect some driftwood!I took upon myself to handle this operation. In due course, I made a good collection and the tranche of chiselled selected pieces was sent to the administrative base for safe custody.The 1991 winters were exceptionally severe with record snowfall. A few days later, I happened to visit the administrative base. During the conversation, Havildar Budh Ram, a daredevil Jat from Jhunjhunu district in Rajasthan, my frontline fighter during our IPKF operations in Sri Lanka, narrated that despite being devoid of adequate fuel and firewood, how his team had combated the climatic vagaries.Pointing towards an almost empty sack, he said, ‘Saab, ab to is lakdi se guzara kiya.’Shell-shocked, I found that the driftwood was used as oblation to please the fire god. With nothing to retrieve, there was no option but to reconcile. At last, ‘Operation Driftwood,’ once conceived in the frozen streams, had reached its apogee while cosying up to the boys in equally chilling conditions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/failing-to-get-the-drift-304722
