11-09-2021||IT was a familiar turf. I had been an enthusiastic gymmer all my life||Huffing & puffing on road to fitness||Gym was a safe bet, I argued with myself. One had the luxury to keep to oneself and do a fruitful workout. Social distancing was easy, as everyone would be strutting around in their own happy world. The headphones were interestingly a symbol of 'do not disturb'. I had nothing to prove, besides shaking off a few ounces and settling my groaning metabolism.Steeling my resolve to become stronger, I reached the altar of the drill zone, hoping to lift my sagging muscles and also my spirits. I was greeted at the door with blaring music and heavy deodorants emanating from the hallway. Well, the music had always been loud, but it was hard to enjoy, because the peace of the work-from-home atmosphere had rubbed in on my ears. Ignoring the high decibel sounds, I stepped on to the weighing scale. The needle shot up. I wished some of the shares in the stock market did that.In my effort to overcome my anxiety, I quickly turned to the huge mirror to examine myself. That was equally disconcerting as I saw a shapely figure working out in the background. I wondered if the gyms in the new normal had thought of improvising, in reducing the size of the mirrors, that were good to show only one person at a time. What with the fit-bodied souls, rubbing shoulders with the ones like me, coming out of a pandemic, the picture was sadly askew. Perhaps they could start with a separate section for the pleasantly healthy ones.My first session on the treadmill was not very flattering. Within the first 10 minutes, I huffed like a runner who had just finished his race. The machines were actually the mean machines, for they made me realise that I had grown old by a couple of years. I was quickly reminded by my trainer ‘no pain, no gain’. Well, I knew the pain would come later, when I would wake up with cramps in the morning, and waddle my way around.The gusto with which I had gone was fast waning, and it was tough to keep up the tempo. Nevertheless, I duly deposited a long membership fee for the blood, sweat and tears that I would be shedding there. Perhaps giving away money would make me sit up and make my money worthwhile.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/huffing-puffing-on-road-to-fitness-309383
11-09-2021||Androgenetic alopecia or baldness is a normal ageing process||Missing the crowning glory||As life passes, the acceptance of baldness passes through phases. It can be a style or just a thrill during the young days, as was evident when we were still under training at the NDA over half a century ago. The flash points for the baldness style were two — first was Yul Brynner, a Russo-American actor who shaved off his head for the movie ‘King and I’. His transformed look struck the box office and made him a heart-throb. The second was the ‘Gong Man’, the opening trademark of Rank Films, which depicted a muscular man striking a huge gong producing a deep resonant sound. Gong men were especially selected, like the famous former heavyweight champion, ‘Bombardier’ Billy Wells. However, during our times, it was Ken Richmond, an Olympic bronze medallist at Helsinki in 1952. Their macho images endured with us.Once a term, each battalion displayed their entertainment skills. It was keenly contested and the opening act had to be impressive. One such enactment was reminiscent of the Yul Brynner-Gong Man look. The NDA gong man was a head shaved Cadet Thapar, winner of the coveted Mister NDA title.Shaving off the head to acquire a smooth pate then became in vogue. The campus was flooded with Yul Brynners, until it was banned and the fashion saw an immediate end. The crew cut returned and remained till our commissioning. Everyone wanted a well-groomed hairstyle, till nature stepped in and hair droppings took over. Many didn’t relish the idea of stepping into the bald category and ventured to hide their pate. The easiest was to let the hair on the side grow and then comb them across to camouflage the growing baldness.Friends with a keen eye and a continued good crop of hair and Sikhs (well-covered hair with the turban or patka) had a field day, pulling the legs of the not-so-lucky ones.Gradually, most reconciled to reality, but a few tried hair transplantation, not very successfully though. Life takes a turn and the current pandemic has laid many hidden heads bare. We friends decided to meet over Skype every evening for a general chat. Dress was casual and we Sikhs turned up sans turbans and patkas. Reality dawned as our non-Sikh friends had a good laugh but as good course-mates, we decided that, “Heads that shine are ‘oh so fine,’ no hair to fly when wind is high…no brushes or pocket combs and many ladies, I’ve heard it said, are fond of the old chrome dome!”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/missing-the-crowning-glory-308952
