21-09-2021||Around midnight||Different leaders from a different time||During my college days, when I was travelling by a city bus, a gentleman in crumpled khaddar got in and sat by my side gingerly. I did not pay much attention to him. As I got down from the bus, my friend who joined me from another bus, asked ‘Did you know who was your seat mate?’ I shook my head. ‘That was Kakkan, ex-minister. A simple man, did you know after he vacated the government quarters, he had to look for a rented house that he could afford? He didn’t even own one.’When I was flying by the national carrier to Bengaluru, a woman with a sleeping child was at the window seat, the small airlines pillow giving comfort. Before take-off, a flustered air hostess asked her, ‘Ma’am, can you give me the pillow, please. We have only this on board. A Central minister in executive class wants one. She will throw a tantrum and make a big scene if I don’t give it to her!’ I bristled with indignation, ‘What rubbish! It is a 40-minute flight. Can’t the honourable woman minister travel without a pillow under her neck?’ ‘Please,’ said the air hostess, folding her hands. Surprisingly, the woman with the child removed the pillow gently and gave it to her, with an icy stare.The crowded morning flight from Kolkata to Delhi had boarded but it did not take off at the scheduled time. Periodic announcements said it was delayed due to ‘technical reasons’. Regular travellers knew it was conveniently used as a euphemism for the late arrival of a VIP. It was proved right. A dignitary breezed in with his nose in the air, his two aides in the vanguard. Many passengers crowded the entrance and the aisle and shouted they would not allow him inside. The captain came out and pleaded to resolve the matter. ‘No, all of us came beating chaotic Kolkata traffic, but he comes one hour late, though he will have a siren blaring pilot ahead to clear the traffic. And because of him, 300 people here should suffer? No way.’Ultimately, the flight took off without the brow-beaten VIP who had to backtrack. Indeed, a few VIPs make unobtrusive trips, but for many others, it is an ego trip.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/different-leaders-from-a-different-time-313930
