28-09-2021||The festival season is around the corner. With the change of season||Every daughter is exceptional||Navratri in India is celebrated with zeal to honour the divine feminine. During the festival, Goddess Durga is worshipped. Probably this is the only time when we pay reverence to feminine power and celebrate the goddess who battled evil and had a glorious victory.The last two days are devoted to Kanjak Pujan, a ritual to honour small girls. Apart from the festivities, wearing vibrant clothes and paying reverence to womanhood during this particular time of the year, we need to celebrate the real virtues of a woman — patience, tolerance and benevolence.A woman, at every stage in her life, has a new challenge to deal with and still put on a smile to camouflage her pain. The problems in a woman’s life persist from womb to tomb. Even as more and more women are getting educated, they are becoming more vulnerable to domestic violence. The menace of domestic violence is like an iceberg and what is seen is just the tip while a massive portion remains submerged. Then there are issues like dowry and discrimination within the family and in society as well.As we celebrate Daughter’s Day, the point to be highlighted is the still existing plight of daughters and daughters-in-law. It is the right of every human to live with dignity and women are no exception. There could be more to offer amidst the festivities by generating awareness among women regarding their rights and laws that could protect their entitlement. Problems such as dowry and domestic violence are dealt with suitably by comprehensive laws. In cases of violence and disputes, women and their kin can approach family courts established under the Family Courts Act. Issues like economic violence — denial of resources and shelter — and other restrictions also need to be dealt with. The laws concerning these matters are not against men, but favour women.Let’s celebrate occasions like Daughter’s Day and Navratri by honouring the virtues of every daughter because every daughter is beautiful and exceptionally special.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/every-daughter-is-exceptional-317108
