29-09-2021||A worrying situation confronted me as I left the passport office recently. Having left my cell phone in the car||Just a phone call away||Beginning with telling-off for giving me a scare, I soon discovered the reason for my friend’s happiness and lack of sobriety — he had finally decided to get married, and had vowed not to sleep before sharing the good news with me. Waiting for me to return his call and impatient to celebrate the news of his marriage, he had resorted to the company of our old mutual friend — a bottle of red wine.Over the last year, every call from near and dear ones has brought with it moments of anxiety, leaving one to the mercy of the Almighty during the few seconds before one answers the call. This has been exacerbated by the second Covid wave. So, it was natural for me to get worried, but this call from a tipsy friend was a welcome change and left me euphoric.Interestingly, I received a call from another close friend just a fortnight later from Vancouver. Still not used to receiving overseas calls when I expected people in the western world to be asleep, I answered the call post-haste, only to find him laughing inexplicably. He explained how he had finally secured a job with one of the most coveted employers in the world and had thought of me after downing some hard stuff. Expressing his appreciation for my support, he admonished me for not having visited him thus far, clearly forgetting in his jubilation that a deadly virus still loomed about, making all travel difficult, if not impossible.The past year has taught us to survive with video calls to relatives and friends. I have also attended my fair share of weddings on Zoom and other video platforms. But these two phone calls made me realise how blessed I am to have friends who remembered me when they were the happiest. I consider myself twice lucky, although neither of my friends remembered much from the previous night later, and enquired why we had spoken at such a bizarre time. But c’est la vie! This is how life shall go on till we can join each other in person for a bout of merriment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/just-a-phone-call-away-317611
