30-09-2021||The course for flight instructors at the Air Force Station||Rugged training for the very best||A few foreign students from friendly nations also joined in, among whom Flight Lieutenant Dipolou from Nigeria stood out for his height and build. Tipping the scales at nearly 100 kg, he claimed to be the heaviest fighter pilot in the entire African continent. He was also happy-go-lucky and enjoyed strumming away on a guitar in the evening, rather than studying Kermode’s principles of flight or analysing the Kutta-Joukowski theorem.Having done his basic flying training in the UK, he had impeccable etiquette. The first progress test conducted after about three weeks of training was designed to bring all aspiring instructors down to earth. Rather than a test of knowledge, it was meant to discover what you don’t know and the faculty greatly enjoyed this ritual. The test was a disaster for Dipolou.The next afternoon, I found him in an unusually sombre mood in the aircrew room. After persistent query, he came out with the shocker. He had just been marched up to the commandant for his poor performance. Group Captain RK Malhotra, speaking through his handlebar moustache, had given him a dressing-down. To quote Dipolou, ‘The commandant said you are representing your country and here you fall at the first hurdle itself...’ The training school had a reputation for suspending under performers and it was the fear of failure that actually spurred us to work hard. I cheered him up and told him that he could not fail in theory subjects with Flight Lieutenant Chhotu Bhadauria, a super-intelligent pilot, sitting by his side. We had a fixed seating plan in the classroom.Seeing the blank look, I prodded further with a subtle hint, ‘Of what use are these hawk’s eyes of a fighter pilot if you cannot spot your target on the next desk?’ His face lit up. Leaning forward, he resolutely whispered, ‘I swear, from now on, I won’t fail in any exam, even if I have to bury my head in Bhadauria’s answer sheet.’And a man of honour — he lived up to his words to ensure successful graduation from the instructors’ school, even at the cost of discomfort to the gentleman at the next desk.Bhadauria, meanwhile, swept all awards and trophies at the course. He also charted his way up to Chief of the Air Staff, and is retiring today after a glorious career. No wonder the services promote only the very best amongst us.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/rugged-training-for-the-very-best-318070
