01-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh records 108 new Covid cases, 5 deaths||Chandigarh recorded 108 new Covid cases on Tuesday, while five people succumbed to the infection.The total number of active cases in the UT stands at 1,481, while 57,915 Covid-19 patients have been cured till date.The death toll stands at 758.A total of 389 patients have been discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per MoHFW guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-108-new-covid-cases-5-deaths-261779
01-06-2021|| Mohali||Covid situation improving, Mohali administration removes odd-even restriction for shops||All shops can now open in Mohali district daily as the district administration has removed the odd-even restriction imposed in view of Covid for shopkeepers. Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the decision had been taken after a delegation of shopkeepers met him on Tuesday. He said as the Covid situation had improved in the district with minimum cases surfacing, all shops would remain open from 9 am to 5 pm. He said the directions had been given to the shopkeepers to observe Covid guidelines.Dayalan said private offices, which were functioning with 33 per cent staff, had now been allowed to increase their staff strength to 50 per cent.It is pertinent to mention here that about 12 weeks after the surge in the Covid wave, the Mohali district has witnessed 88 Covid positive cases. As many as 149 cases had surfaced on March 10.He said if the situation improved further, the restrictions would be eased to give relief to the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-situation-improving-mohali-administration-removes-odd-even-restriction-for-shops-261723
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mobile Covid care unit set up to  serve remote villages of Mohali||The Punjab Government has set up a mobile Covid care unit (MCCU) in partnership with a private hotel chain to serve the remote villages of Mohali, said Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu while flagging off the service in the district today.Pilot projectSidhu said the MCCU would be equipped with 20 beds, 10 oxygen concentrators, on-site medical and nursing staff and medical supplies. The SAS Nagar administration will be the first to run the unit in the state. After the success of the pilot project, a few more would be pressed into service, he said.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the district administration had arranged medical and nursing staff along with supplies and consumables, while Treebo Hotels had set up a mobile base camp with oxygen concentrators. The camp would offer free service, including medication, to rural residents.“The unit aims at ensuring free quality care for the vulnerable sections. As part of our corporate responsibility, it is our duty to stand by our fellow citizens in these difficult times,” said Puneet Puri, vice president (business development), of the company. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mobile-covid-care-unit-set-up-to-serve-remote-villages-of-mohali-261594
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Dependants of deceased advocates get financial aid||The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana distributed financial assistance to the dependents of deceased advocates of Punjab at a function held here today.Minderjeet Yadav, chairman of the Bar Council, said approximately Rs50 lakh was distributed among the dependants of 42 advocates today.The amount has been given out of the Rs1-crore grant given by the Government of Punjab for the Advocates Welfare Fund.The chairman said the State Bar Council always stood with the legal fraternity, especially in this tough time of the pandemic. He told the families of the bereaved advocates that the Bar Council always treated them like their family and stood in solidarity with them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dependants-of-deceased-advocates-get-financial-aid-261576
01-06-2021||---||Court seeks status report from SHO||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 31A local court has sought a status report from the SHO of the Sector 31 police station on a complaint against an ASI Kabal Singh filed by a 72-year-old woman, Gurmeet Kaur.Gurmeet, in a complaint filed through advocate Munish Dewan, alleged that ASI Kabal Singh had misbehaved with her on April 25 when the cop, along with other police personnel, reached a hotel in the Industrial Area to inquire into an alleged brawl incident.Dewan filed the complaint under Section 156 (3) of the CrPC seeking the direction to the police to register a case against the ASI. Dewan argued before the court that despite giving the complaint to the SSP against the ASI, the police had not acted so far in the matter.In the order, the court said to proceed further with the complaint, a status report from the SHO of the Sector 31 police station be called for June 8, 2021 regarding the alleged incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-seeks-status-report-from-sho-261570
01-06-2021||---||Zirakpur: Man arrested for assaulting minor daughter||Zirakpur, May 31A man was arrested for allegedly molesting his minor daughter on May 29.The girl reported the incident to her mother, who later informed the police. A case of sexual harassment was registered against the suspect and he was arrested.The police said the mother of the victim had lodged a complaint stating that when she had gone out for some work on May 29, her daughter was alone in the house. When she returned home, her daughter was crying. She told her mother that she was sexually abused by her father. The suspect fled the spot when the victim raised an alarm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-man-arrested-for-assaulting-minor-daughter-261569
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh’s wife on increased Oxygen support in ICU||While former Indian sprinter 91-year-old Milkha Singh continues to be stable under home isolation, his 82-year-old wife Nirmal Milkha Singh, former skipper of the Indian volleyball team, is under close observation at a private hospital in Mohali.“Nirmal Milkha Singh is stable. However, she is on an increased oxygen support at the intensive care unit. She is being closely monitored,” read a press release. Meanwhile, ace golfer Jeev Milkha Singh said Milkha Singh was stable and responding well to treatment under home isolation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-singhs-wife-on-increased-oxygen-support-in-icu-261567
01-06-2021||---||Minister lays stone of govt senior secondary school in Sector 65, Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 31A government senior secondary school in Sector 65 here will be set up at a cost of Rs13 crore. The school will have an ultra-modern triple-storey building constructed in 85,900 sq ft area with ample open space.Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Minister for Rural Development, who also holds the charge of the Higher Education Department, stated this after laying the foundation stone of the school today. Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla and Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu were also present on the occasion.Bajwa said the school would have 32 classrooms, two libraries and ample laboratories for students of science stream.Replying to a media query on the consequences of meeting of certain MLAs with the party High Command in Delhi, Bajwa termed airing the differences in the media by some Congress leaders as “unfortunate” and added that “they ought to have approached the party High Command before going to the media.” He hoped for any early resolution of the issue.Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla credited the increase in enrolment in government schools to reforms in school infrastructure, coming up of 12,000 smart schools, commencement of pre-primary classes and performance-based transparent transfer policy introduced by the Education Department.Refuting the probability of the construction process being limited to laying of foundation stone, Singla said: “Unlike the previous government’s practice of laying hasty foundation stones without working out proper project feasibility and fund allocation, we have made the provision of funds and tendering for the construction of the school has been done with the mandatory clause for the completion of the building in a year.”Thanking both ministers for support in bringing up a school in one of the most densely populated areas of Mohali city, Balbir Singh Sidhu said the existing school catering to the area had a small building and could not handle the pressure of increasing student strength. A new spacious campus had been a demand of the people of the area, which was appropriately met today.Sidhu said Mohali was being developed as a medical hub as the construction of a medical college had been put on the fast track, while the proposal of a new civil hospital for Mohali had been prepared and it would come up in Sector 66 soon. He said an urban primary health centre each in Sector 69 and 79 and a primary health centre at Seneta village would be completed in four to six months, while the community health centre being constructed in Phase-3B1 would also be completed by October.Mayor Amarjit Singh Jiti, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, Market Committee Chairman Harkesh Chand Sharma Machhlikalan, District President Youth Congress Committee Advocate Kanwarbir Singh Sidhu, councillors and officials of the Panchayati Raj and the Education Department were present.To have 2 libraries, 32 classroomsTript Rajinder Bajwa, Minister for Rural Development, said the school would have 32 classrooms, two libraries and ample laboratories for students of science stream.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minister-lays-stone-of-govt-senior-secondary-school-in-sector-65-mohali-261565
01-06-2021||---||Oxygen audit: Chandigarh manages to reduce Oxygen consumption by 20-25%||Chandigarh, May 31The UT Administration has managed to reduce the consumption of medical oxygen by 20-25 per cent in private and government hospitals and mini-Covid care centre after conducting an audit.Yashpal Garg, nodal officer for oxygen supplies in UT, constituted a committee comprising Jagjit Singh, PCS, Dr Manjit Singh, GMSH-16, and Dr Manpreet Singh, GMCH-32, to audit, educate and sensitise private hospitals, government hospitals and mini-Covid care centres in the city for optimum utilisation of medical oxygen.Yashpal Garg, Nodal Officer for Oxygen supplies in UTThe committee visited all private and government hospitals and mini-Covid care centres in the past 20 days. The committee interacted with the staff of healthcare institutions, gave live demonstrations, replied to their queries and inspected all oxygen installations.Garg said the committee visited all private and government hospitals and mini-Covid care centres in the past 20 days. The committee interacted with the staff of healthcare institutions, gave live demonstrations, replied to their queries and inspected all oxygen installations.A report submitted to the UT Administration by the committee revealed that the consumption of oxygen was decreased following a sensitisation programme carried out by its members.During the programme, staff members were trained in using various masks, nebulisers, oxygen concentrators and oxygen cylinders. It was also reemphasised to check all leakages in pipelines circuits and cylinders so that the wastage of oxygen and fire hazards can be minimised.Dr Manpreet Singh explained the importance of change of water in oxygen flow meter bottles to all as it may contribute to the increased problems of fungal infections.After the training, it was observed that overall 30-40 per cent oxygen consumption was decreased in most of the private hospitals. It was also observed that 13-15 per cent of bed occupancy was also decreased during this period due to downtrend of Covid-19 in the city.After a sensitisation programme at the GMSH-16, it was observed that the daily average consumption of liquid medical oxygen was decreased by 31 per cent and oxygen consumption per patient decreased by 23 per cent approximately.Garg said: “With these visits at different hospitals, it was observed that more than 20-25 per cent oxygen consumption was decreased following the sensitisation programme and it contributed tremendously to judicious utilisation of oxygen”.Efforts yield results||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/oxygen-audit-chandigarh-manages-to-reduce-oxygen-consumption-by-20-25-261564
01-06-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Sports complexes in Chandigarh open today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 31Bringing some relief for local sportspersons, Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has approved opening of sports complexes, except for swimming pools and gyms, from June 1.However, sports complexes that were converted into mini-Covid care centres will remain shut till the June-end. Players have been asked to utilise the facility by strictly following Covid-19 protocols.Amit, a local shuttler It’s a welcome step by the Administration considering that several national championships are scheduled after July. The players will get two months to prepare.“The Administrator has allowed mini-Covid care centres to continue till June-end. He appreciated the good work done by these centres and their commitment to the city,” stated a spokesperson for the UT Administration.“The complexes will be open for sportspersons of all age groups. The coaches will be asked to follow all Covid-related protocols,” said Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director Sports, UT.He cleared that all facilities would be open only for professionals and not for members/amateurs/leisure activity players.Earlier, only sportspersons preparing for the upcoming national or international championships were allowed to use sports complexes.“It’s a welcome step by the Administration considering that several national championships are scheduled after July. The players will get two months to prepare,” said Amit, a local shuttler.Sources said before opening, these complexes would be sanitised. The department would take a call tomorrow on whether the complexes should be open once or twice a day.“The timings totally depend upon the need of coaches and the number of trainees. It’s been almost a month that the complexes have been shut and the focus was just on performing strength conditioning. Players will be eager to carry technical exercises. In such a scenario, the complexes should be allowed to open for twice a day under staggered timings,” said a senior coach.Some trainees to wait moreAs the UT Administrator allowed extension of mini-Covid care centres till June-end, trainees of Sector 34, Sector 43 and Sector 8 sports complexes will have to wait. Out of seven mini-Covid care centres, three are functional at these complexes. The Sector 34 sports complex caters to judo players, Sector 43 caters to gymnasts and Sector 8 is for badminton players. “The players of these facilities will have to wait for another one month due to extension to the care centres. The players of these disciplines will be adjusted at other venues,” said an official.‘Open swimming pools for vaccinated people’Members and amateur players, meanwhile, demanded that the swimming pools should be open at least for vaccinated people. “It will help the department in generating revenue and will also help keen sports enthusiasts to carry exercises. Not only pools, but other complexes should also be open for members. All swimming pools, under the department, received tremendous response every year. Since only four months are left for the summers, the department should think over it. It’s been over one year that the pools are closed,” said Arun, a swimming enthusiast.Facilities open only for professionals“The complexes will be open for sportspersons of all age groups. The coaches will be asked to follow all Covid-related protocols,” said Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director Sports, UT. He clarified that all facilities would be open only for professionals and not for members/amateurs/leisure activity players.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sports-complexes-in-chandigarh-open-today-261531
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||‘Festival of Entertainment’ celebrated at Tribune Model School||Tribune Model School, Sector 29, celebrated the 2nd five-day ‘Festival of Entertainment”, an annual event, where the entire teaching staff were seen refreshing their online teaching strategies by focussing on universal human values of love, peace, truth, non-violence and right conduct.The events were organised by “Team Kreative”, a combination of the departments of art, music, yoga, sports and the counselling cell. During the event, where quick tasks were shared to boost laughter through movement, music, dance exercise and artwork. Practices that enhance mindfulness were included. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/festival-of-entertainment-celebrated-at-tribune-model-school-261530
01-06-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Engineering College Principal assumes charge||Dr Lakhvir Singh today took over as the new Principal of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Engineering College, Fatehgarh Sahib. Dr Lakhveer Singh thanked SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur and all the trust members for his appointment and said he would strive to take the college to new heights with the help of the college staff. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/baba-banda-singh-bahadur-engineering-college-principal-assumes-charge-261529
01-06-2021||Our correspondent||New shop timings for Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, May 31With a significant decline in active Covid cases, the administration here today extended the timings for opening of shops in the district.From an average 150 cases (approximately) per day, the Covid count in the district has come down to 40 cases.As per the latest order issued by Fatehgarh Sahib Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill, all types of shops, essential and non-essential, can open from 8 am to 5 pm on all week days. Earlier, the shops were allowed to open from 8 am to 1 pm.The Beopar Mandal had demanded that all shops should be allowed to open from 9 am to 5 pm.Welcoming the decision, president of the district Beopar Mandal Varinder Rattan said the earlier timing created panic and people, particularly in the rural areas, used to throng the markets and heavy rush was witnessed in Sirhind, Mandi Gobindgarh and Amloh towns of the district during the limited business hours. He said the extension in shop timings was badly needed.“Most of the traders have got vaccinated and are strictly following Covid guidelines while opening the shops,” he said, while pledging all sorts of help to the administration in its fight against Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-shop-timings-for-fatehgarh-sahib-261528
01-06-2021||---||Panjab University, Chandigarh Deans given charge||Chandigarh, May 31The Vice-Chancellor of Panjab University, Prof Raj Kumar, in anticipation of the approval of Syndicate/Senate, has extended the term of Prof SK Tomar, Department of Mathematics, as Dean of Student Welfare from June 1 for a period of one year.The Vice-Chancellor, meanwhile, in anticipation of the approval of Syndicate/Senate, has also appointed Prof Meena Sharma, University Business School, as Dean of Student Welfare (Women) from June 1 for a period of one year. Meena, an alumni of UBS, Panjab University, has more than 30 years of teaching and research experience.Prof Ashok Kumar, Department of Hindi, has been appointed as Associate Dean Student Welfare for a period of one year.Meanwhile, the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) has written to the Vice-Chancellor for appointing hostel wardens by inviting applications, on the basis of seniority to avoid arbitrariness. “As per information available to PUTA, the applications from eligible teachers have not yet been invited as per the past practice. A large number of teachers are aspiring to apply for the posts of wardens. It will be in the best interest of the university and teachers that all new vacancies are filled in by inviting applications from eligible teachers and then appointing them on the basis of seniority,” stated the letter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-chandigarh-deans-given-charge-261527
01-06-2021||Vijay Mohan||Panjab University, Chandigarh facility joins hands with US-based firm||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 31Sophisticated Analytical Instrumentation Facility (SAIF) at Panjab University, Chandigarh, has collaborated with a US-based air purifying manufacturer to assemble and optimise the company’s air purifiers in 10 hospitals. This number is expected to increase in the coming days.Covid wards and ICUs at several hospitals in Chandigarh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, and Himachal Pradesh will soon be able to improve their ventilation facilities with the help of air purification units from the American company, Molekule.Under the partnership between SAIF, a facility supported by the Department of Science and Technology (DST), and Molekule, air purifiers will be donated to hospitals across the country.Efforts are underway to cover most of the Covid-affected states in the country to help them in the battle against the pandemic and provide patients, doctors and staff with much-needed clean air, according to a statement issued today by the Ministry of Science and Technology.The air purifier will help prevent transmission of Covid-19 through exposure to aerosolised respiratory droplets by facilitating adequate indoor air purification and ventilation in the hospitals. Molekule’s core technology, Photoelectrochemical oxidation (PECO), is designed to destroy airborne pollutants like viruses, bacteria, mold or chemicals known as volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Tests on PECO for these air purifiers indicate up to 99.99 per cent inactivation of coronavirus strains and H1N1 flu virus, up to 95 per cent destruction of VOCs and airborne chemicals, and up to 99.9 per cent destruction of bacteria, mold and viruses in the air.The first batch of Molekule’s Air Purifier Mini and Molekule Air Pro RX models was received, assembled and tested at SAIF by its technical staff.Air Pro RX optimised for air purification in multipurpose facilities at hospitals including emergency wards and ICUs.  BeneficiariesSo far, 42 units have been distributed to Panjab University’s Covid care centre, Health Centre and Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital. Sixty units have been handed over to the PGI, Chandigarh, 30 units to the GMSH-16, and 20 units to the GMCH-32, Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-chandigarh-facility-joins-hands-with-us-based-firm-261526
01-06-2021||Harvinder Khetal||Dr R Kumar: The doctor who prescribed health-mindedness||In the passing away of Dr R Kumar, the voice that amplified nagging medical issues in simple terms in many English and Hindi newspapers and other public fora has been silenced. An eye specialist having worked with the PGI, Chandigarh, Dr Ram Kumar was a prolific writer and author of many medical books.A strong proponent of practising a healthy lifestyle to nip sickness in the bud, in his later years, he had floated the Society of Ethical and Affordable Health Care (SPEAK) to espouse this passionate belief and to serve the community. As its president, he organised many seminars to spread the importance of what he never tired of emphasising: “Believe in health care, not medical treatment. Don’t be medical minded, be health minded.”His abiding prescription to all patients was to work towards rooting out the cause of the illness, rather than just treating the symptoms with pills and potions. No wonder he laid stress on preferring on preventive care and vaccine over curative medicine. His daily routine of taking a walk and eating simple food and leading a disciplined life mirrored what he preached. It helped. Even at 75, he was agile and working.I was fortunate to associate with him in his seminars held in the tricity and benefited immensely from the insightful and expert opinions disseminated therein. The one that stands out prominently is the candid discussion laying bare the underbelly of India’s pharmaceutical industry as also the use and abuse of drugs. The other one was on the health hazards of pollution.Dr R Kumar would be a familiar figure to The Tribune readers. He has been a regular contributor of special articles for over two decades. Always eager to educate the public on a wide ranging issues of fitness and wellness – from fats to euthanasia, eye ailments to TB and hospital infections – his astute observations lent great value to our pages. In the past few years, as I handled the Oped page, he has been one of the go-to authorities on medical topics. Eager as a fresher, he would often lay out five ideas at once, making my task of choosing one difficult as all of would be interesting. Ever since the pandemic broke out, he has unravelled so many aspects of the coronavirus, Covid, treatment and vaccines.Unfortunately, it was complications due to the virus that ultimately claimed his life. One of his last messages on Facebook on May 7 poignantly revealed his status: ‘Corona jaane ka naam nahi lai rahi, mujhe bhi hasptal mein gher rakha hai, good wishes from all of you please.” He battled the disease for about a month before succumbing to it on May 30. Hailing from a village in Kaithal, Haryana, he studied MBBS from Government Medical College, Patiala. He is survived by his wife, son and grandson.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dr-r-kumar-the-doctor-who-prescribed-health-mindedness-261525
01-06-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Chandigarh artist paints Covid-19 messages on garages||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 31When the devastating second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic washed hope to the dark and macabre shores of despair, city-based visual artist Ravi Sharma picked up his brush and colours to paint optimism. On garage doors of Sector 45, he has made four artworks about Covid-19, to pay tributes to health workers, create awareness about the virus and to motivate people to fight against it.Ravi SharmaMy way of contributing to societyAs a diabetic, I can neither donate blood nor plasma. So, this is my way of contributing to society, especially in such tough times. I hope someone looks at my paintings and remembers to wear a mask, maintain social distancing and thank health workers.The 39-year-old resident of Sector 45, who is also an automotive trainer, said it was his way of giving something to society, as it struggled to battle the deadly blows of the infectious disease. “My neighbours, an elderly couple, too, got infected with the virus. I would give them lunch everyday. My garage was the first thing they saw when they opened their door. So, I decided to paint ‘hope’ on my garage, to motivate them,” recalls Ravi, talking about his first artwork about Covid. “I travel a lot and was inspired by the street art in European countries,” he adds.At its core, Ravi’s artworks are aimed at spreading social messages and he paints on people’s garages free of cost.Ravi uses acrylic colours on garage doors to create his artworks. “However, when the garage door needs more preparation, like if it’s rusted and needs to be repainted, we do that too,” he shares.Ravi’s neighbour, lawyer and President of Resident Welfare Association Ashok Sharma Nabhewala, who also got his garage painted by Ravi, says: “Visual art always helps in spreading the message rampantly than an individual personally can. This art on my property, for instance, might make the violators guilty and the unaware more conscious. My daughter, who is also a lawyer, insisted that we must have this socially mobalised, to encourage others to follow the norms and also make streets more colorful.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-artist-paints-covid-19-messages-on-garages-261524
01-06-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh Administration braces for ‘third wave’ of Covid||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 31Daily Covid-19 numbers reported in the past few days in Chandigarh point at the downward trend of the second wave of the pandemic. After learning a few lessons from the second wave, the UT Administration is already bracing for a possible third wave and is against lowering the guard.Arun Gupta, Principal Health Secretary, UT‘We will fill gaps’No one can predict the third wave but we are preparing for the areas we were found wanting in the second wave. There were three areas of concern in the second wave — oxygen, ICU beds and trained manpower — and we will fill these gaps for the imminent surge in infection.Rs “No one can predict the third wave but we are preparing for the areas we were found wanting in the second wave. There were three areas of concern in the second wave, oxygen, ICU beds and trained manpower, and we will fill these gaps for the imminent surge in infection,” said Arun Gupta, Principal Health Secretary, UT.Gupta added: “In addition to three oxygen generation plants, three oxygen plants each with a capacity of 1,000 litre per minute have been approved for the PGI. This will take care of 50 per cent requirement of the hospitals and amounts to at least 10 MT of liquid oxygen. We are trying to establish mini-oxygen plants for civil hospitals and a proposal has been sent in this regard. Besides, the administration also had purchased 400 oxygen concentrators.”The most critical factor in the second wave has been ICU beds and despite increasing the capacity for more than double from the first wave, the patients were found wanting for such beds.The GMCH-32 has been requested to increase at least 50 ICU beds. The mini-Covid care centres will be on standby so that they can be opened within two-three days if the need arises.The PGI has also stepped up the measures for the third wave. Prof Jagat Ram, Director of PGI, said: “We are in the process of procuring more ventilators. Even in the second wave, the proportion of severity of Covid has been in older adults only. Younger children were also affected by infection but not of great magnitude. It is unlikely that paediatric will be greatly involved in the third wave as these were not vaccinated in the second wave also. There may not be an exclusive group to be involved in Covid. Nevertheless, there are already 30 beds set up in the paediatric ward for Covid patients. We should be ready, whatever comes.”The UT Director of Health Services, Dr Amandeep Kang, said: “We have started preparing for the third wave if at all it comes. We will hire four-five paediatricians and purchase PICUs. Children may be susceptible because they have not been vaccinated.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-braces-for-third-wave-of-covid-261523
01-06-2021||Mohali||Nigerian held with heroin in Mohali||Liquor vend staff bookedZirakpur: The police have booked an employee of a liquor vend for opening the shop beyond the permitted time. The said liquor was being sold illegally through a hole in the shutter after 8 pm last night. TNS‘Vaccinate security guards on priority’Mohali: Members of Private Security Industry Staff here on Monday urged Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu to consider private security guards staff as frontline workers and provide them vaccination on a priority basis. Manjeet Singh Cheema, managing director, Five Force Security Solutions Private Limited and regional vice-president, CAPSI, North India, said like doctors, nurses and other health workers, security guards were also risking their life to safeguard the assets of clients as well as the country. It had been seen that a large number of security guards were also getting infected from Covid due to the nature of their deployment as frontline workers. TNS18K industrial workers jabbedMohali: More than 18,000 industrial workers working in various industrial units across Mohali district have been vaccinated during vaccination camps organised by the Mohali Industries Association (MIA). Disclosing this, MIA president Yogesh Sagar said vaccination was the only way to break the Covid-19 transmission chain. He said the vaccination drives were initiated with the help of the district administration and Health and Family Welfare Balbir Singh Sidhu. He said they would continue to hold such camps for the industry. TNSYouth, girl snatch mobileChandigarh: Two bike-borne miscreants, including a girl, allegedly snatched a mobile phone and Rs8,000 from an 18-year-old boy in Sector 41. Complainant Adil, who resides in a jhuggi, reported that he had gone to answer nature’s call in a nearby forest. While he was returning, a boy, riding a Pulsar motorcycle, with a girl riding pillion, sped away after snatching his phone and Rs8,000. TNSPanjab varsity defers CET (PG)Chandigarh: Panjab University has decided to postpone the PU-CET (PG)-2021 test, which was scheduled for June 12 and 13. "Further, it is informed that new date of entrance test will be updated on the website in near future. An opportunity will be given to those candidates who have not been able to apply/complete the application process during the present timeline. All concerned are requested to visit the website https://cetpg.puchd.ac.in for further updates," said a PU spokesperson. TNSVarsity allows Online examsChandigarh: In view of the Covid-19 pandemic and interrupted academic activities, Panjab University has allowed all its affiliated colleges and teaching departments to conduct a viva voce presentation and others of the candidates of undergraduate, postgraduate, vocational, diploma. 2nd, 4th amd 6th semester with in schedule from June 15 to 26 through the online mode. TNSNo-Tobacco Day observedChandigarh: The NSS unit of Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women observed World No-Tobacco Day on Monday by organising an online pledge ceremony. A total of 76 NSS volunteers participated in the ceremony. The aim of the activity was to spread awareness among the youth about the potential risks of using tobacco and to educate them about their right to healthy living by saying no to tobacco. TNSDrive against tobacco itemsDera Bassi: On World No Smoking Day, Rotary Club president Bhupinder Saini launched a signature campaign against tobacco items at Adarsh Nagar on Monday. He said close to 1,000 persons at 10 sites supported the campaign against the tobacco products. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nigerian-held-with-heroin-in-mohali-261522
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Waste collection rates revised in Chandigarh||The MC General House today revised the monthly door-to-door garbage collection rates. The measurement unit for the calculation of waste charges in urban residential properties has been changed from square metre to marla/kanal. ChargesFor above 2 kanal: Rs350In rural areas||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waste-collection-rates-revised-in-chandigarh-261515
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Rain, winds lash Chandigarh; expect more||Rain and gusty winds lashed the city for another day today.Till 11.30 pm, the city recorded 11.2 mm of rainfall and the wind was blowing at a speed of 30 to 40 km per hour. Met officials said the rain and wind intensity would increase during the night. There was a forecast of rain on Tuesday and Wednesday also.The maximum temperature today was 38°C, one degree below normal. The minimum temperature was 27.7°C, three degrees above normal. The Met officials said the maximum and minimum temperature would not see a major change in the coming days.Trees were seen lying on roads today and complaint were lodged from Sectors 38, 41 and others. Officials said it would take some time to clear all trees as around 75 had fallen when the storm had hit the city on Saturday night. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rain-winds-lash-chandigarh-expect-more-261479
01-06-2021||Sandeep Rana||Road-sweeping pact in Chandigarh not to be renewed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 31The five-year mechanised road-sweeping contract given to Lion Services Limited for the southern sectors of the city will not be renewed.The Oppostion had always raised questions over a whopping Rs5 crore a month charged by the firm. The agency, which is also operating in Mohali, was awarded the contract here in 2016 and it expires in November this year.Ravinder Kaur Gujral, CouncillorWe may like the services, but if these can be provided by other agencies at a better rate, there is no harm in trying new options. Against the demand of a few BJP councillors, the MC House today decided to go for retendering expecting lower cost and better services. A few members also suggested the outsourcing of the entire city’s sanitation work, but no call was taken on it.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma earlier asked all councillors give their views whether they wanted the contract to be extended or wanted a new tender to be floated.However, BJP councillors from southern sectors praised the work of the company and favoured the renewal of the contract for at least six months or a year due to Covid.Councillors Rajesh Kalia and Gurpreet Singh Dhillon were among those who strongly favoured extending the existing contract. According to Gurpreet Dhillon, residents of the area were happy with the existing system. He said a new company might upset the current system. Councillors Hira Negi and Sunita Dhawan agreed with them.However, councillors Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, Rajbala Malik, Anil Dubey, Jagtar Singh, Shakti Prakash Devshali and nominated councillor Shipra Bansal were in the favour of floating a new tender.Maheshinder said there was no harm in floating a fresh tender as the city might get better services at a less cost. He was in the favour of outsourcing the sanitation work for the entire city.Rajbala said competition among contractors was good for the MC and the city.Councillor Ravinder Kaur Gujral said: “We are not bound by a company. Why should we stick to them when we can have new technology?”Leader of the Opposition Devinder Singh Babla said they gave in writing that all five councillors were against giving the contract to the existing firm as city’s Swachh ranking had fallen. He accused councillor Arun Sood of favouring the firm, to which the latter said he was in the favour of retendering.Babla also accused Kalia of sitting in the Lion’s office during the video-conferencing meeting today. However, Kalia claimed he was in his own office.BJP president Arun Sood questioned two Congress councillors over recently giving commendation certificate to workers operating in the southern sectors.However, amid calls by a majority of councillors against the extension of the contract, he also favoured retendering.Ravinder Gujral said the appreciation letter was for workers who were toiling hard during Covid.“We may like the services, but if it can be provided by other agencies at a better rate, there is no harm in trying new options,” she added.Meanwhile, the Mayor told the House that it had been resolved that a fresh tender would be floated in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/road-sweeping-pact-in-chandigarh-not-to-be-renewed-261443
01-06-2021||Saurabh Malik||Electricity privatisation: Chandigarh move in conflict with sabka saath, sabka vikas, says High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 31Rapping the UT Administration over “misplaced” priorities, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that its proposed action of electricity privatisation was in direct conflict with the nation’s agenda, “sabka saath, sabka vikas”.Directing that the proposed action be kept in abeyance, the Bench of Justice Jitendra Chauhan and Justice Vivek Puri said the UT Administration showed unwarranted haste in the matter, while cremation grounds witnessed long queues and hospitals were jam-packed. The Bench asserted: “With great pain and anguish, it is recorded that we are unable to reconcile with the fact that when the whole world is grappling with the deadly virus, when there is no oxygen, no ICUs, a long queue at the cremation grounds and no place in the hospitals, the undue hurry on the part of the Administration to hand over the profit making department to the private entity at this stage of the history and in this situation of crisis faced by the entire mankind, seems to be misplaced.”The direction came after senior advocate Ashwani Kumar Chopra and Akshit Chaudhary told the Bench that the process had been expedited even through people were dying because of the Covid second wave.The Bench added that privatisation with the blind motive of so-called efficiency fell flat as the department was not only profit making, but also time and again matched the high standards of customers’ satisfaction and had a big role in maintaining the City Beautiful.The Bench added that the petitioners, through an application, had prayed for stopping further proceedings on electricity privatisation in Chandigarh, including opening and finalisation of the tender bids till the final adjudication of the writ petition.The Bench said no decision could be taken in the changed circumstances brought about by the pandemic as the functioning of the Courts stood curtailed to a “very great extent”.Keeping in view the exigency of the situation, the Bench stated at the current stage, the cause of justice and humanity would be better served by keeping the operation of communication dated April 19, 2021, on the proposed action of privatisation in abeyance, particularly when the matter is coming up for hearing before the Court on August 18.Privatisation of electricityWhat The Bench saidDirecting that the proposed action be kept in abeyance, the Bench of Justice Jitendra Chauhan and Justice Vivek Puri said the UT Administration showed unwarranted haste in the matter, while cremation grounds witnessed long queues and hospitals were jam-packed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/electricity-privatisation-chandigarh-move-in-conflict-with-sabka-saath-sabka-vikas-says-high-court-261406
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC wants water tariff hike notification withdrawn||After the water tariff hike notification was deferred by the UT Administration till March 2022 due to Covid, the MC House today resolved to withdraw it. The House was of the view that after withdrawing the notification, new rates should be finalised and the hike should be normal. However, MC Commissioner KK Yadav gave his dissent note, citing financial loss to the MC.Both Congress as well as ruling BJP councillors favoured the withdrawal of the notification and adjustment of the hiked bills already paid in the future bills. A decision in this regard will be taken by the Administration.What else was decidedThe MC House decided to ask the UT Administration to “itself” do the work of putting up new speed limit and stop signage boards along with marking on MC roads. Otherwise, it should give additional funds to the MC for the purpose. Members of the House decided to visit different garbage processing plant sites before deciding which technology is to be adopted for the processing plant in Sector 25. — TNSCommissioner gives dissent noteThe House was of the view that after withdrawing the notification, new rates should be finalised and the hike should be normal. However, MC Commissioner KK Yadav gave his dissent note, citing financial loss to the MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-wants-water-tariff-hike-notification-withdrawn-261396
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh traders hail move, say step in right direction||The Chandigarh Beopar Mandal has welcomed the decision of the UT Administration to increase the timings of shops dealing in non-essential goods by an hour and limited opening of barber shops and salons.Charanjiv Singh, president of the mandal, said they had demanded shopping hours from 9 am to 5 pm for all shops till the lockdown was in place, but an increase of one hour was also a step in the right direction.Diwakar Sahoonja, a spokesperson for the mandal, said they were hopeful of early steps by the government towards their pending demands such as priority vaccination of staff, management and families of shopkeepers, financial assistance, self-assessment of pending taxation cases and making need-based changes in the building bylaws of commercial properties to give a boost to commerce in the state.Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, president, Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, said they hoped that Administrator VP Singh Badnore would accept their request for 9 am-5 pm timings for all shops soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-traders-hail-move-say-step-in-right-direction-261394
01-06-2021||---||Chandigarh extends shop timings by hour||Chandigarh, May 31In a relief to traders, the UT Administration has decided to extend the timings of shops by an hour. Now, all shops are allowed to open from 9 am to 4 pm in the city.The decision was taken at a review meeting, chaired by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, on Covid-19 pandemic here today.To keep the number of Covid-19 cases down, it was decided to continue with the existing restrictions until 6 am on June 9 with certain other modifications.Keeping in view national and international events, the Administration has allowed sportspersons to utilise all sports facilities by strictly following the Covid protocol. However, swimming pools and gyms will remain closed.The UT authorities also allowed barber shops and salons to open only for hair cutting, etc, but spa and massage centres, where physical contact is involved, will continue to remain closed. The Administrator expressed satisfaction over the availability of adequate oxygen and medicines in all medical facilities.He directed that the hospital in Sector 45 should be converted into an exclusive paediatric hospital for children, who suffer from Covid-19.Badnore directed DGP Sanjay Baniwal to ensure that proper security is available in all medical institutions so that health officials feel protected and can work without fear. He also directed him to ensure that the Covid protocol was strictly followed in the city. Badnore directed the PGI to expeditesetting up of an oxygen plant (PSA) and also to start conducting a sero survey in the city to detect the prevalence of Covid infection among the local populace.Appreciating the good work done by Mini-Covid care centres and their commitment to the city, the Administrator allowed the centres to continue till June-end.No school fee for kids orphaned by pandemicExpressing concern over the plight of children who have lost parents to Covid-19, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed that the school fee of all such children will be exempted and if any child needs accommodation in a welfare home, it will be provided free of cost. He directed Nitika Pawar, Secretary, Social Welfare, to prepare a comprehensive scheme so that those affected can be fully rehabilitated.Barber shops to open, but not massage centres||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-extends-shop-timings-by-hour-261390
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Chandigarh sees 8 deaths, 124 cases||The city reported 124 new Covid cases and eight deaths on Monday. The active case tally now stands at 1,767 and the toll at 753. As many as 483 more patients recovered from the virus. TNSMohali new cases below 100, nine more fatalities Mohali: Nine persons succumbed to Covid-19 in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 963, while 88 fresh cases were reported. It was after over two and a half months of a surge in the second wave of Covid that the district witnessed less than 100 cases. Meanwhile, 322 more patients have been cured of the disease. Of the 66,494 positive cases reported so far, 62,629 patients have been cured. There are now 2,902 active cases in the district. — TNSTwo succumb, 64 cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: Two more persons succumbed to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 349 in the district. Meanwhile, 64 fresh cases were reported from the district. So far, the district has reported 29,965 cases and 813 are active. A total of 734 persons were vaccinated at 16 government and a private vaccination centres in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-chandigarh-sees-8-deaths-124-cases-261375
01-06-2021||Naina Mishra||Covid: May dealt a deadly blow in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 31May remains the worst month on the Covid front with the city seeing over 17,000 cases and 275 deaths.The UT Health Department conducted over one lakh tests and 17 per cent tested positive for the virus.The month was marred by patients searching for ventilator beds in hospitals, gasping for oxygen.The second wave in the city started in the second week of March with more than 100 cases being reported daily. There was a gradual increase in the daily cases with the highest single-day tally — 895 — recorded on May 9. After this, the cases started declining.During the month, the health infrastructure was overwhelmed as ICU beds with ventilators remained occupied, leaving patients struggling for critical care beds. On May 6, there was no ventilator bed vacant at the city government hospitals.The month also witnessed a scarcity of oxygen due to which, the oxygen quota allotted by the Centre was revisited by health officials to ensure optimum utilisation of oxygen in hospitals.In the last week of the month, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 0.3 per cent every day. The active cases have reached 3.6 per cent in the city with a constant decline in the cases. Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, said the case doubling time in the city was now 242 days. She also mentioned that the recovery rate was 95.2 per cent and 3,43,300 Covidshield vaccine doses had been administered to residents.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said they had 232 Covid patients at the PGI — 37 from Chandigarh, 112 from Punjab, 39 from Haryana, 28 from Himachal Pradesh and 16 from other states. He said they had admitted 135 patients suffering from mucormycosis (black fungus).City saw 17K cases 275 deathsOverwhelmed infraDuring May, the health infrastructure of the city was overwhelmed as ICU beds with ventilators remained occupied, leaving patients struggling for critical care beds. On May 6, there was no ventilator bed vacant at the city government hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-may-dealt-a-deadly-blow-in-chandigarh-261334
01-06-2021||Patiala/Chandigarh||Thunderstorm hits region, snaps power in several parts of Punjab||A thunderstorm hit the region for the second time in as many days on Monday, snapping power lines in several parts of Punjab.Thundershowers and gusty winds snapped off power lines in parts of Fazilka, Muktsar Sahib, Bathina, Barnala, Moga, Sangrur, Patiala, Mansa, Ludhiana, Fatehgarh Sahib, and the adjoining areas, officials said.Electricity poles were reportedly damaged in many villages across districts in Punjab.“Current power load of whole Punjab is only 3400MW. This means that most of Punjab is facing a blackout. This low load in peak summer is alarming. Usually, 3000mw is the load during peak winter December and January,” a top official from Punjab State Power Corporation Limited said. “Our officials are working hard in the field but due to high-velocity winds, our field staff is finding it hard to rectify the problem.”Senior PSPCL officials said later that power had been restored in most cities in Punjab, and that its officials were now working toward restoring supply lines to villages.Until 9.15 pm, Chandigarh reported 4.6 mm rain and winds up to 20-30 km per hour, officials at the regional office of the Indian Meteorological Department said.Rain and wind velocity may likely increase, the officials said. Rain is on the Met department’s Chandigarh forecast for Tuesday and Wednesday.Gusty winds took down trees in several sectors of the city for the second day in a row. Officials from Chandigarh Municipal Corporation said these would take some time to clear given that they already have to clear the ones from the previous day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thunderstorm-hits-region-snaps-power-in-several-parts-of-punjab-261276
