02-06-2021||Chandigarh||PU VC Raj Kumar gets three-year extension||Controversial Panjab University Vice-Chancellor was given a three-year extension, officials from the university on Wednesday— a development that comes as a surprise given frequent his run-ins with Panjab University Teachers Association as well as former members of the university’s senate and syndicate.  A communication making the announcement was issued on Wednesday evening by the office of the university’s Chancellor, India’s Vice-President Venkaiah NaiduHis tenure was to end on July 23.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-vc-raj-kumar-gets-three-year-extension-262374
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||TBRL to conduct critical impact tests on Gaganyaan’s crew module||Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory (TBRL) here has joined hands with ISRO’s Human Space Flight Centre (HSFC) for conducting hypervelocity impact studies on Gaganyaan’s crew module.TBRL, a Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) establishment engaged in ballistic evaluation of missiles, warheads, explosives and other projectiles, will test material specimens against micro-meteoroid and orbital debris (MMOD) found in space.Gaganyaan is a manned orbital spacecraft intended that would form the basis of the Indian Human Spaceflight Programme being undertaken by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO).The spacecraft’s crew module is being developed by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited.Located at ISRO’s headquarters, HSFC is responsible for implementation of the Gaganyaan project which involves end-to-end mission planning, development of engineering systems for crew survival in space, crew selection and training and associated activities for sustained human space flight missions.A Memorandum of Understanding for conducting hypervelocity impact studies was signed between TBRL and HSFC recently, under which more than 50 tests are envisaged to be carried out to evaluate critical components of the crew module against MMOD impact, according to DRDO sources.Hypervelocity impact studies are vital to ensure the safety of crew members during the space mission against the threat posed by the impact of space debris, which have seen an exponential increase around the Earth in the last 60 years.These orbital debris are moving at such high velocities that even the impact of a flake of paint can cause significant damage to the crew module in the absence of appropriate shielding and protection. A two-stage light gas gun facility at TBRL, which is the only test facility in India that can achieve a velocity of more than 5,000 metres per second, will be utilised to conduct the hypervelocity impact studies.Some feasibility tests have already been conducted on dummy targets to establish the internal ballistics parameters and high-speed diagnostics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tbrl-to-conduct-critical-impact-tests-on-gaganyaans-crew-module-262367
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 134 new Covid-19 cases; 3 deaths||Chandigarh reported 134 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths in the last 24 hours—the lowest the UT has recorded since last April—a health bulletin from the union territory’s administration showed on Wednesday.The UT’s active cases stand at 1,251. The bulletin showed 2,830 samples were taken for tests over the last 24 hours.The UT’s fatality count stands at 761.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-134-new-covid-19-cases-3-deaths-262356
02-06-2021||Mohali||Liquor vendors to remain closed during weekend curfew in Mohali||Owning to a decline in cases and after serious discussions with stakeholders, District Magistrate Girish Dayalan exercising powers conferred under Section 144 of Cr. PC has issued some modifications to the orders issued on May 7, 2021, which should be effective until further orders.   "In view to balance the needs to contain and manage Covid-19 while at the same time, save, and secure livelihoods of people, partial modifications to previous orders have been made", informed the DM. The Mohali administration on Wednesday issued orders that the liquor vendors would remain closed during weekend curfew. The restrictions regarding the number of passengers travelling in personal vehicles stand withdrawn.However, they continue to be applicable on commercial vehicles and taxis.  Shops can remain open between 5 am to 5 pm, but no shopping malls or single/multi-brand retail standalone shops would remain open. Only shops selling essential items in these malls and complexes will remain open. Covid monitors should be appointed by the market associations and their names should be prominently displayed. They should be personally responsible for ensuring adherence to Covid guidelines of GoI and GoP. Restaurants, eateries can open only for home delivery till 9 pm, but no dine-in or take-away. All private offices should ensure that their staff are tested regularly – preferably every 2 weeks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/liquor-vendors-to-remain-closed-during-weekend-curfew-in-mohali-262303
02-06-2021||Mohali||Healthcare facilities permitted to restore elective surgeries in Mohali||All government and private healthcare facilities have been permitted to restore the elective surgeries in the district.However, "it should ensure that Level-3 Capacity for Covid-19 is not to be compromised", said the Deputy Commissioner.The decision has been taken because of the relatively lesser pressure on the healthcare facilities, owing to the general decline in Covid-19 cases statewide.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/healthcare-facilities-permitted-to-restore-elective-surgeries-in-mohali-262301
02-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Video of Chandigarh doctors singing Dev Anand's song 'Aaja Panchhi Akela Hai' spreads positivity; have a look||Video of two Chandigarh doctors singing an old Hindi song has gone viral on all social media platforms. This happened over the weekend. Supreet Dhiman shared the clip on his Facebook account. The video has over a thousand views and several shares.  Dr Raman Abrol and Dr Biman Saikia sang 'Aaja Panchhi Akela Hai' from the 1957 film Nau Do Gyarah in the video. While Dr Abrol sang the classic, Dr Saikia added a hilarious twist to the classic with his quirky inputs to the lyrics.“Proud to be from a city where everyone takes things in their own stride...this is how doctors from Chandigarh are dealing with Covid. Team Dr Raman Abrol and Dr Biman Saikia. You must be over the moon Rachna Dewan after all you are the woman behind one half of this duet,” the caption of the post reads.Watch here:'Aaja Panchhi Akela Hai', composed by SD Burman, has vocals by Mohammed Rafi and Asha Bhosle. The film featured Dev Anand and Kalpana Kartik in the lead roles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/video-of-chandigarh-doctors-singing-dev-anands-song-aaja-panchhi-akela-hai-spreads-positivity-have-a-look-262289
02-06-2021||bika Sharma||Tenders invited for widening of Pinjore-Nalagarh road||Tribune News ServiceSolan, June 1The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on May 28 invited tenders for the widening of the 31-km Pinjore-Nalagarh stretch of the National Highway No.105 to four lanes. Only 17.37 km of the highway lies in Himachal while the remaining is in Haryana. The bids will be opened on July 13.The tender value has been pegged at Rs 731.67 crore and once allotted, the project is to be completed within 910 days. The process to acquire land is underway and compensation for structures acquired is also being disbursed, said NHAI Regional Officer GS Sangha.“Around 400 of 649 acquired structures have been evaluated till now and the process to evaluate the remaining ones is underway. A compensation of Rs 26.71 crore has been paid for the structures acquired at 13 villages of Saraj Majra Lanana, Kishanpura, Manpura, Belikhol, Dhana, Khera Chak, Juddy Khurd, Tahi Wala, Khera Nihla, Rakh Ram Singh, Dadi Bhola, Nalka and Kirpalpur on May 25. These structures will be dismantled for the road project. Besides, Rs 172 crore has been disbursed for the land acquired,” said Mahinder Pal, SDM, Nalagarh.As per the project design, 22 bridges and five flyovers will be constructed on the highway. Approved by the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways in 2014, the project has faced several stumbling blocks, including the high rate of compensation.The four-lane highway will be 39 metres wide and 2,190 trees will be axed for the purpose. Initially, a 45-metre wide highway was to be constructed but the width was reduced to 39 metres last year to bring down the cost of land acquisition.The project, which has been hanging fire for years, will be finally initiated now, as major impediments have been cleared. “Thousands of vehicles, including multi-axle trucks, carrying industrial goods, use this highway on a daily basis. Frequent accidents cause loss of human lives and the road widening will put an end to this,” said Sanjay Khurana, president, Baddi Barotiwala Nalagarh Industries Association.The high cost of land acquisition was a major stumbling block in the project. The NHAI had refused to fund the project, as the cost of land was much higher than the cost of the structures to be razed to widen the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tenders-invited-for-widening-of-pinjore-nalagarh-road-262166
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Paras, Alchemist put on notice for overcharging||The Panchkula Deputy Commissioner has issued show-cause notices to Paras Hospital, Sector 23, and Alchemist Hospital, Sector 21, for overcharging Covid patients in violation of the Haryana Government guidelines and has asked these to submit their replies within seven days.Alchemist Hospital refutes allegation“We strongly refute any such allegation against us. We have not received any complaint and in the absence of a complaint, we are not in a position to present our reply, said a Alchemist Hosptial spokesperson.After the district administration received several complaints regarding overcharging by private hospitals, a committee was constituted to look into the bills. Several patients approached Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, who is the local MLA.Cooperating with panel: Paras Hospital“We are extending our best possible support to the committee in its investigation. We are committed to providing the best healthcare facilities to the community,” said the Paras Hospital management.Gupta even wrote to the Chief Minister and the Health Minister in this regard. Meanwhile, after going through the bills and submission of reports by the district-level inquiry committee, the show-cause notices were issued on May 31.5 notices issued: DCDeputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said in all, five notices were issued in five cases.In one of the cases, Paras Hospital issued a bill, dated April 25, to Man Singh, a Covid patient, for Rs4.99 lakh. The show-cause notice pointed out that of the total billing of Rs4.99 lakh, the patient was administered intravenous drug immunoglobulin treatment 14 times during the period of admittance at Rs32,302.20 per dose, totalling Rs4.2 lakh, which was Rs16,152.20 higher than the market rate per dose.“Therefore, it can categorically be said that the hospital has overcharged 50 per cent excess as compared to the market rate i.e Rs16,152.20 x14 times = Rs2,26,130.80 while administering the drug in the patient bill summary,” said the notice.The same hospital issued a bill, dated May 8, to Vijay Kumar Goel, a Covid patient. In his case, the provisional bill amounted to Rs19.51 lakh, of which Rs12.39 lakh was received, while Rs7.12 lakh was outstanding. The total bill, as per the Haryana Government instructions, would have been Rs5.68 lakh, said the notice. “However, in the instant case, the patient is covered under the scheme of the instructions, being a non-insurance case and has been charged on the higher side of the legitimate bill amount,” added the show-cause notice.Paras Hospital issued a bill to Suresh Kumar Sud for Rs2.22 lakh, while the total billing as per the government instructions should have been Rs81,620.The show-cause notice said the patient was charged in excess by Rs1.40 lakh, which was 171.67 per cent extra than the legitimate bill. In the case of Covid patient Milan Sharma, the show-cause notice pointed out that the bill amount issued by Alchemist Hospital was Rs3.63 lakh. However, had the patient been covered under the Haryana Government instructions, only Rs2.70 lakh would have been charged.It added that the patient was charged Rs92,403 more, which was 34 per cent extra than the legitimate bill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/paras-alchemist-put-on-notice-for-overcharging-261853
02-06-2021||Mohali||Odd-even for shops in Mohali goes||In a major relief to shopkeepers, the district administration today lifted the odd-even system for opening of shops in the district. A decision to this effect was taken during a meeting of representatives of market associations and other stakeholders with the Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan this morning.The DC said in view of a decline in the number of active cases, they had agreed to the demand of shopkeepers and had also permitted private offices to work with 50 per cent staff in place of 33 per cent.He said staggered opening of shops, weekend and night curfew and vaccination had to some extent helped in checking the rapid surge in Covid cases. Since the pace of the virus spread had been curtailed, certain relaxations were being extended, but these would be subject to strict adherence to the safety protocol, he said.Dayalan said the market associations had been told to appoint Covid monitors for each market to ensure compliance with the Covid protocol. He also told the associations to ensure vaccination of their entire staff. He said the associations had been asked to donate for the Covid vaccine to the State Covid Vaccination Fund. It was informed that many markets had been nearly 100 per cent vaccinated, while others were on the road to it. The Baltana Furniture Market Association promised a contribution of Rs51,000 to the vaccination fund.SSP Satinder Singh said if active cases continued to decline, some other relaxations might also be considered at the state level.Assuring compliance with the Covid guidelines, the market associations requested for permission to open the shops on Saturdays as well. They were told that the permission to open shops on weekends fell in the purview of the government and their request would be flagged at the state level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/odd-even-for-shops-in-mohali-goes-261854
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Coming, 1.20 lakh vax doses for Chandigarh this month||To speed up inoculation, Chandigarh will receive 1.20 lakh doses of the vaccine in June. Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said the Central Government had sanctioned 1.20 lakh doses of the vaccine, including 50,000 for the 18 plus age group, for this month.Vax slots open at three pvt centresWhile there are no slots open for booking in government hospitals, three private healthcare centres have opened slots for 18+ vaccination. These are Bedi Hospital, Sector 33-A | Global Health Care, Sector 21-C | New Public School, Sector 18.She said the first supply of 36,000 doses would reach the city on June 10. They had written to the Centre to re-allocate a part of the surplus stock meant for the 45-plus age group for the 18-44 age group, which comprised a major chunk of the local population, she said.Earlier, the UT Administration had announced opening up of 4,000 slots per day for the 18-44 age group. It lasted only a day when over 3,000 beneficiaries were vaccinated. The decision was later withdrawn due to a shortage of the vaccine.Nearly 3,20,000 persons in the 18-44 age group are yet to be vaccinated in the city. There are a total of 6,31,338 persons in the 18 plus age group as per the current updated voter list. Nearly 62,000 persons in the 45 plus age group are yet to be vaccinated. So far, 48,638 persons have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in the 18-44 age group and eight beneficiaries have received the second dose. In the 45-60 age group, 1,07,257 have got their first dose, while 13,183 residents have received the second dose. Similarly, 76,058 senior citizens have been given the first dose and 33,198 have also got their second dose. A total of 3,54,141 persons, including healthcare and frontline workers, have been inoculated in the city||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coming-1-20-lakh-vax-doses-for-chandigarh-this-month-261856
02-06-2021||Panchkula||No fresh fatality, 94 new cases in Panchkula district||The district today reported no new fatality due to Covid and 94 fresh cases. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur said four cases each were reported from Raipur Rani and Sector 4, five each from Amrawati Enclave, Kalka, Sector 2 and 20 and 18 from Pinjore.The district tally stands at 30,059 with 28,972 recoveries. There are 738 active cases with 349 deaths.A total of 1,066 persons were vaccinated against Covid in the district today and 132 of them got their second dose. A total of 662 persons in the 18-44 group and 280 in the 45-59 age group got the jab. Besides, 105 persons above 60 years of age were inoculated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-fresh-fatality-94-new-cases-in-panchkula-district-261857
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Scooterist hit by tractor-trailer, dies||A 40-year-old man riding an Activa was killed after the scooter was hit by an unknown tractor-trailer on a slip road near the Airport light point.According to the police, complainant Dheeraj Kumar (28), a resident of Zirakpur, reported that he, along with his brother-in-law Pankaj Kumar (40), had gone for vaccination at Sector 40, Chandigarh, on May 30. While they were returning home, a rashly driven tractor-trailer hit the scooter, being driven by Pankaj, while overtaking following which the duo fell on the road and got injured.The complainant rushed the victim to a private hospital in Zirakpur from where he was referred to the PGI where doctors declared him brought dead. The police said a case had been registered in this regard at the Mauli Jagran police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/scooterist-hit-by-tractor-trailer-dies-261858
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||At avg 36°C, coldest May in Chandigarh since 2011||The month gone by was the coldest May in the city since 2011. The Meteorological Department has data available since 2011 only. As per the data, the May this year recorded 36°C as the average maximum temperature, the lowest since 2011. It was 36.6°C last year, 38.4°C in 2019 and 38.9°C in 2018.“People must have experienced that it was not a usual hot month this time. The reason is that western disturbances kept occurring every five to six days. Besides, the Tauktae affect also played its part,” said AK Singh, Director, Chandigarh Meteorological Department. Officials said though the city saw hot days too in the month, rain kept occurring at regular intervals. Due to this, the maximum temperature remained on the lower side for the most part of May.The month also recorded 58.8-mm rainfall. Last year, the city had recorded 71-mm rainfall in May.Meanwhile, the city recorded 18-mm rainfall on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. The maximum temperature today was 31.1°C, eight degrees below normal, while the minimum temperature was 20.6°C, five degrees below normal. In the next three days, the maximum temp is expected to increase by five to seven degrees while the minimum temperature is likely to rise by two degrees.According to the weatherman, the weather was expected to be generally cloudy tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-avg-36%C2%B0c-coldest-may-in-chandigarh-since-2011-261861
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Five die in Chandigarh, 108 positive||Milkha couple’s condition stableChandigarh: The condition of both Milkha Singh (91) and his wife Nirmal Milkha Singh is stable. While Nirmal continues to remain under observation at a private hospital, Milkha is under home isolation. “Nirmal is stable and continues to be on oxygen support in the ICU,” read a medical bulletin. — TNS4 deaths in Mohali, 197 new casesMohali: Four fatalities due to Covid were reported from the district, taking the death toll to 967. It also saw 197 fresh cases, while 533 patients were cured of the disease.Among the new cases, 37 came from Mohali (urban), five from Boothgarh, eight from Lalru, 10 from Gharuan, 11 from Kurali, 12 from Banur, 20 from Dera Bassi, 46 from Kharar and 48 from Dhakoli. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-die-in-chandigarh-108-positive-261863
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Fleecing: Action against Chandigarh oxygen vendor recommended||Strict exemplary action has been recommended against a private vendor for taking an undue advantage of an acute shortage of medical oxygen and allegedly overcharging for refilling cylinders.The UT Administration had fixed the rate of Rs 295 plus GST for refilling each D-type oxygen cylinder, but M/s Super Agencies, the vendor, allegedly started indulging in overcharging.Yashpal Garg, nodal officer for managing oxygen supply in the UT, said on May 10, Arunesh Agarwal, the director of the mini-Covid care centre at Indira Holiday Home, Sector 24, sent a WhatsApp message alleging that M/s Super Agencies had charged Rs3,344 for refilling four cylinders but the bill was issued for Rs1,344. Garg intervened and the excess amount was adjusted by the vendor in the next bill.In another case, it was observed that M/s Super Agencies charged Sewa Bharati Society Rs600 per cylinder on May 10 and issued bills for the same. The matter was then taken up with the vendor and the bill amount was changed to Rs295 per cylinder.The excess amount charged was refunded, said Garg.Some private hospitals also lodged complaints of overcharging with the Director, Health Services, UT, on May 18, he said.Considering repeated complaints against M/s Super Agencies, on May 22, Jagjit Singh, a UT official assigned the charge of coordinating with all private hospitals regarding availability of beds and supply of medical oxygen, was asked to hold an inquiry into the matter.In his report, the probe officer stated that the private hospitals could not submit any proof, documentary or otherwise, in support of their complaints against M/s Super Agencies.The report stated that during the inquiry in the case of Sewa Bharati Society, the vendor stated that its official concerned was not familiar with the accounts, which did not seem convincing.For the period from May 1 to 8, M/s Super Agencies issued bills at the rate of Rs150 per cylinder and from May 8 to 10 at the rate of Rs300. M/s Super Agencies could not justify as to why it was refilling cylinders at the rate of Rs150 and arbitrarily started charging Rs300 and then started refilling cylinders at the rate of Rs295.“The two instances show that M/s Super Agencies may be arbitrarily charging for the refilling of oxygen cylinders but there is no conclusive proof in this regard,” concluded the report.Garg said, “M/s Super Agencies had taken an undue advantage of the acute shortage and almost monopolistic rights of supplying medical oxygen to specific private hospitals and mini-Covid care centres, especially between May 7 and 22 when the quota system was in force.”Acting on the report, Garg recommended that such acts on the part of M/s Super Agencies need to be dealt with a strict exemplary action. “The Health Department may initiate a strict action against M/s Super Agencies under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, or the Chandigarh Epidemic Disease, Covid-19 Regulations/Instructions,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fleecing-action-against-chandigarh-oxygen-vendor-recommended-261866
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Two 3-BHK flats in CHB's e-auction go for over Rs 1 cr each||Two three-bedroom flats in Sector 51 and 63 have fetched more than Rs1 crore each against a reserve price of Rs 86.24 lakh in the second phase of e-auction conducted by the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) here today.The CHB had invited e-bids for 79 built-up residential units on freehold basis from May 17 to May 31. However, the board had received 97 e-bids for 27 dwelling units in Sectors 63, 51, 49 and 38 (West). These included 1, 2, 3-bedroom flats and MIG and economically weaker section (EWS) properties. The total reserve price of the 27 units was Rs20.89 crore while the total highest bids received against these units was Rs22.58 crore. On an average, the maximum bids were more than 8 per cent above the reserve price of these units. The biggest difference between the reserve price and the highest bid was Rs18, 81,102 for a three-bedroom flat in Sector 63.In the first phase, the CHB had received 105 bids for 36 dwelling units. A three bedroom flat in Sector 63 had fetched Rs1.05 crore against a reserve price of Rs86 lakh in the auction. The CHB had earned Rs29.41 crore from the auction of 36 dwelling units though it had offered 109 properties for auction.The highest bidder will have to deposit 25 per cent of the bid amount (after adjusting the earnest money) within five working days of the closure of the bid. In case of default, the earnest money deposited by the bidder will be forfeited. Further, the bidder will be barred from bidding for any property of the CHB in future. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-3-bhk-flats-in-chbs-e-auction-go-for-over-rs-1-cr-each-261880
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||CBSE, ICSE Class XII: Move to cancel exams evokes mixed response||The Central Government’s decision to cancel the Class XII CBSE exams in view of the ongoing Covid-19 situation in the country evoked a mixed response from the city.The Prime Minister had announced that Class XII results will be made as per the well-defined objective criteria in a time-bound manner. Following this, the ICSE also cancelled the exams for Class XII.The decision has evoked a mixed response from teachers, students and parents.Ankit Nayyar, Shishu Niketan, Chandigarh, said: “Although happy with the decision, still worried a bit about the criteria. Hoping it will be a fair one and takes in consideration all circumstances of students.”Reema Dewan, Principal, Delhi Public School, Sector 40, said: “Considering the current scenario, it is a welcome move if the Centre comes up with an objective, child-friendly and time-bound criteria for assessment. The CBSE will ensure that the interest of students is at its core. Any child who would still want to write the exams will be able to appear at a time when it is conducive to do so.”Atul Khanna, Director of Strawberry Fields School, Sector 26, said: “We are living in perhaps the most trying and unprecedented times of the 21st century. These are by no means easy decisions to take and abide by. Indeed, students have been on tenterhooks and anxious about their future. But when you look at the overall picture, you realise that this is a mere blip on the radar of the modern history. Given the trauma and pain of countless families, the uncertainties of one academic year will be surmounted. We are very sure our students will come out of this stronger. Our teachers are doing their best to provide them with all support and guidance they need.”“We wanted the CBSE to hold online exams. Children who have been working hard and preparing for the exams are disappointed. It’s not fair to cancel the exams each time, this is affecting the quality of the human resource we are producing,” said Nitin Goyal, Chandigarh Parents’ Association“Though the decision was the need of the hour considering the current scenario and prevalent infection in the community, admission to college will be affected at large because it depends solely on Class XII results,” said Sahil, a Class XII student.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbse-icse-class-xii-move-to-cancel-exams-evokes-mixed-response-261890
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University extends Covid measures till June 9||The committee constituted for reviewing the status of the Covid-19 cases in Panjab University approved 9 am to 2 pm as the office timings till June 9.The committee met today and decided to change the office timings to contain the spread of the virus. “The office timings of the university will be observed from 9 am to 2 pm till June 9. Only 50 per cent staff will be allowed to work. However, the Controlling Officers/heads of the branches/departments may call the staff beyond 2 pm depending upon the exigency of the work at staggered timings and ensuring that the attendance of staff at any time should not exceed the stipulated limit of 50 per cent. Officers at the level of the Office Superintendent and above will attend the office on a daily basis,” said a PU spokesperson.It was further added: “The remaining non-attending 50 per cent staff will work from home under the instructions of their Controlling Officers and they will remain available through e-modes (telephone, e-mail and video conference). No staff will leave the station without prior approval by the Controlling Officer. Also, there will be no public dealing till June 9 except with a prior appointment of the HOD concerned, that too for urgent issues only. With respect to field workers, the heads concerned of the department/office may take a decision to stagger their timings/strength, keeping in view the Covid-19 protocol.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-extends-covid-measures-till-june-9-261900
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University Governance reforms: Pandemic delays reports by high-level panel||The submission of a report by an 11-member high-level committee, formed by the Vice-President of India and Panjab University Chancellor, to suggest governance reforms in the university has been delayed due to Covid.After the Punjab Government submitted its recommendations on May 15, the committee was expected to submit the final report in the coming days. However, the pandemic has delayed the process. Though committee members maintained that regular updates have been submitted to the office of the Chancellor, the final report will be submitted soon.“Earlier, the Punjab Government, one of the stakeholders in the committee, had asked for more time for filing their suggestions. The committee was asked to submit its report within two months after its formation on February 8. However, the delay occurred due to the ongoing pandemic. Nevertheless, the report will be submitted as soon as all formalities are completed,” said a committee member.The committee was asked to seek views of different stakeholders, study the recommendations made by different committees in the past and examine the best practices adopted within the state.The committee included Prof RP Tiwari, Vice-Chancellor, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda; Prof Nagarajan Ramamoorthy, Director, IIM-Amritsar; Prof VS Chauhan, Chairman, Executive Committee, National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC]- Nominee of Chairman, UGC Member; Prof PK Raina, Director, lIT-Ropar; Prof KN Pathak, former Vice-Chancellor, PU; Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, PU; Dr Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice-Chancellor, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar-Nominee of the Chief Minister, Punjab; Paramjit Singh, DPI (Colleges), Government of Punjab; Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director (Higher Education), Chandigarh Administration; and Satya Pal Jain, Additional Solicitor-General of India - Nominee of the Chancellor, Panjab University.The committee recommendations include reducing the number of Senate members and changing the graduate constituency to postgraduate contingency.Earlier this month, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had adjourned the hearing on a petition filed by the PU and another petitioner, stating that it was impossible to hold the Senate elections on May 19 because of the pandemic till July. The matter is being adjourned to July 8 to reassess the situation at that time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-governance-reforms-pandemic-delays-reports-by-high-level-panel-261911
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Sector 10 RWA wants rear gate of Hotel Mountview closed||The Residents’ Welfare Association, Sector 10, has written to the UT Adviser, requesting him to close the rear gate of Hotel Mountview as “it is causing a lot of problems to the area residents”.“The CITCO management had leased out the space to a private party to operate a gym in Mountview in 2019 and allowed them to make a new gate from the rear wall, which is on a V6 road and is totally surrounded by residents of Sector 10,” wrote Col (retd) Kulwinder Singh, president, RWA. He alleged the gate was illegal.He said due to the gate, vehicles are parked on this narrow V6 road, thereby causing traffic snarls leading to arguments and sometimes fights too. Vehicles are parked all along the Mountview wall on the road in front of houses.“Many complaints have been filed with the traffic police. They try to come and temporarily clear it to get filled up again. A coffee shop has been opened near the gate and youngsters stop by and park on the road adding to the traffic problems. Loud music disturbs the peace of this area,” said the RWA president.“We have taken up the matter with the Chief Architect on March 18, but were informed that only the UT Administration can enforce it,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-10-rwa-wants-rear-gate-of-hotel-mountview-closed-261912
02-06-2021||Panchkula||Illegal liquor factory at Barwala: Another accused in police net||The Panchkula police today claimed to have arrested the sixth accused in the illegal liquor factory case that unearthed at HSIIDC, Barwala, on May 25.The accused has been identified as Rahul Gupta (40), a resident of Sector 21 Panchkula. He was produced in a local court today which remanded him in two-day police custody.The police said Rahul Gupta was the business partner of Sanjeev Singla (48), a resident of Silver City in Dera Bassi. Singla was arrested by the police on May 30. Earlier, the police had arrested four accused — Ankit, a resident of Machhroli village in Panipat district; Monty, a resident of Shamli in UP, Kamal and Ravi, both residents of Baghpat in UP.The CM Flying Squad had received a tip-off that some people were manufacturing and selling illegal liquor from a factory at Barwala. The accused were supplying liquor on the pretext of setting up water filtration systems. A team, led by ASI Vinod Kumar, and two officials of the Excise Department raided the factory on May 25. When they entered the premises, the four accused were packing the liquor bottles. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/illegal-liquor-factory-at-barwala-another-accused-in-police-net-261913
02-06-2021||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||PCMSA protests Ramdev’s remarks||The district unit of the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association (PCMSA) today protested the recent remarks of Baba Ramdev against allopathy and allopathic doctors. Doctors at civil hospitals and CHCs of the district wore black ribbons on their forearms. They, however, continued medical facilities, including OPDs and emergency.Dr SS Banga, district president of the association, said their protest was against Ramdev who made a derogatory statement against the medical fraternity at a time when the entire country was fighting against the pandemic, and doctors and healthcare workers were doing everything to save lives. He said many doctors had lost their lives while treating Covid patients.Dr Banga demanded that either Ramdev should tender an unconditional public apology or action should be initiated against him under the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.Senior medical officers, including Dr Kuldeep Singh, Dr Sanjeev Arora, Dr KD Singh, Dr Lakshya Dhalla and Dr Gagandeep Kaur, were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pcmsa-protests-ramdevs-remarks-261914
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Western Command chief reviews Sappers’ preparedness||Lt Gen RP Singh, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, visited Kharga Sappers at Zirakpur and reviewed their operational preparedness.He was briefed by the Commander about the capabilities and mission readiness of the formation, which forms part of a strike corps, as well as its achievements.Two personnel of the formation were also awarded the GOC-in-C’s Commendation for achievements in the field of engineering. Lauding the troops for their sustained efforts towards achieving excellence and their contribution to force preservation during the Covid-19 pandemic, the Western Command chief exhorted them to remain prepared for future operational challenges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/western-command-chief-reviews-sappers-preparedness-261915
02-06-2021||Zirakpur||Ramgarh Bhudda village sans power, water for 2 days||Residents of Ramgarh Bhudda village today staged a protest against PSPCL officials for failing to restore electricity supply to their village for the past two days. The protesters said power supply to the village from the Babhat grid had not been restored after the dust storm on Sunday night.A group of villagers, led by Karam Singh, Amarjot Singh, Parvinder Singh and Harmandeep Singh, complained that PSPCL had set up a grid on the shamlat land of their village, but they were being denied power from this grid.“The Babhat grid is far-off from the village due to which there are frequent disruptions in the supply, almost on a daily basis,” said residents.The residents alleged that they had contacted PSPCL officials several times, but the supply had not been ensured. Sans power, water supply had also been affected, they complained.“It has become difficult for us without electricity and water. People are facing a tough time staying indoors in the scorching heat,” said Sushma Devi, a resident.PSPCL Executive Engineer Khushwinder Singh said: “The problem was due to strong winds in the recent days. Our employees are trying to restore power supply. It will be done soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ramgarh-bhudda-village-sans-power-water-for-2-days-261919
02-06-2021||Mohali||Heaps of garbage eyesore for Kharar residents||Heaps of garbage have piled up in markets of Kharar area of Mohali district due to the ongoing strike by sanitation workers, who have been demanding an increase in the salaries.Heaps of garbage can be seen lying unattended at the Main Bazar, Sadar police station and Pacca Darwaza, under the flyover adjoining Mata Gujri Colony and Dasehra ground. Stray animals could be seen rummaging through the waste in search of eatables or leftover green vegetables.Surjeet Kaur, a resident of Main Bazar, said: “Stink emanating from garbage is making it difficult for them to even breathe. A lot of garbage has accumulated near our house as sanitation workers did not lift it for the past few days”.Manjeet Singh, a resident of Pacca Darwaza, said till the time sanitation workers join their duties, the MC authorities should make arrangements to lift the waste. Heaps of garbage could result in outbreak of diseases such as dengue or malaria.It is pertinent to mention here that sanitation workers, led by Satpal Singh Mawi, recently organised a protest against the state government at the Mundi Kharar park. He said the government had failed to regularise their services despite the fact that they have put their lives at risk of being infected with coronavirus. They collected garbage from door to door during these tough times. He demanded that the state government should appoint them on a regular basis.Executive Officer Sangeet Ahluwalia said the decision regarding the regularisation of services of sanitation workers was to be taken at the government level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/heaps-of-garbage-eyesore-for-kharar-residents-261926
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Criminal plaint filed against Ramdev at Chandigarh District Courts||A criminal complaint was filed against Baba Ramdev at the District Courts here today on his alleged statement against doctors and allopathy science.The complaint has been filed by Ravinder Singh Bassi, president of the Lawyers for Humanity, through advocate Vinod K Verma for summoning him as an accused to face trial for the offences under Sections 188, 269, 270 and 276 of the IPC and Sections 51, 52 and 54 of the Disaster Management Act - 2005. The matter will be heard on Wednesday. ‘Not the first time’Ravinder Singh Bassi, president of the Lawyers for Humanity, said it was not the first time Baba made such misleading statements. Earlier, he allegedly claimed that he had developed an Ayurvedic medicine, Coronil, for the treatment of Covid-19 and called a press conference. Later, he said it was not a medicine, but an immunity booster.In the complaint, Verma said the alleged statement of Baba Ramdev calling doctors “foolish people” and allopathy as “pseudo science” was a serious matter. By doing so, he played with the health of people and violated various guidelines and laws.Verma said Baba Ramdev had tried to sabotage the services provided by doctors and allopathy hospitals in the state of medical emergency and also tried to break the confidence of people in allopathy. His statement had demoralised doctors, nurses and frontline workers, who had been working hard for the past two years and putting their lives at risk. Over 200 doctors had laid down their lives while fighting this pandemic.Bassi said it was not the first time Baba made such misleading statements. Earlier, he allegedly claimed that he had developed an Ayurvedic medicine, Coronil, for the treatment of Covid-19 and called a press conference. Later, he said it was not a medicine, but an immunity booster.Bassi demanded that Baba Ramdev may be summoned, tried and punished under Sections 188, 269, 270 and 276 of the IPC and Sections 51, 52 and 54 of the Disaster Management Act-2005.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/criminal-plaint-filed-against-ramdev-at-chandigarh-district-courts-261939
02-06-2021||Panchkula||Four thrash specially abled woman in Pinjore, held||The Pinjore police have arrested four persons, including a woman, for forcibly entering a shop and attacking a specially abled woman, besides damaging the goods.The suspects have been identified as Gurmail Singh, Rattan Singh, Gurmeet Kaur and Gulshad Ahmad, all residents of Basola in Pinjore.The police said Nacchattar Kaur, a resident of Basola village, in her complaint, stated that four persons, including a woman, forcibly entered the shop around 1.30 pm on May 7. She said the suspects started damaging the goods in the shop and tossed the cot on which she was sitting, causing her injuries.The complainant said the suspects also thrashed her and hit her in the stomach. When her elder son tried to save her, the suspects thrashed him with sticks and iron rods, causing serious injuries. They also attacked her another son, Jaswant Singh.The woman said they informed the police about the incident. The police reached the spot and took them to a community health centre in Kalka for treatment. A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 323, 506 and 34 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-thrash-specially-abled-woman-in-pinjore-held-261946
02-06-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula MC building to be inaugurated in January: Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal||The under-construction building of the Panchkula Municipal Corporation in Sector 3 here will be inaugurated in January next year.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal stated this after inspecting the construction work of the building. He expressed dissatisfaction over the slow pace of construction work. He said the building was to be inaugurated in January. So, work on the project should be expedited.Goyal said at present people have to travel from one place to another for their work. The building should be constructed as soon as possible so as to save people’s time and money.Vijay Goel, superintending engineer of the MC, told the Mayor that the lintel of the fourth floor of the building had been laid and the structure would be completed within a month. After this, furnishing work of the building would be started. The building was expected to cost around Rs30 crore and was being constructed by Vasu Construction.XEN Sanjeev Gupta, SDO Ravindra Singh and JE Sandeep Dhiman were also present on the occasion.Goyal, who visited the site for the third time after being elected as a Mayor, said the new building would have all departments of the MC under one roof. At present, the MC was functioning from two sites - Sector 14 and Sector 4. Apart from the basement, a four-storeyed eco-friendly building would be built here where different facilities would be available. The corporation has tied up with the Indian Green Bidding Council, Hyderabad, to implement the rating system of the building code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mc-building-to-be-inaugurated-in-january-mayor-kulbhushan-goyal-261954
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Accused caught with remdesivir vial denied bail||A local court has dismissed the bail application of an accused, Abhishek, who was arrested allegedly with a remdesivir injection.The counsel of the accused argued that Abhishek was in the custody since long and he was not required for investigation. The accused was falsely implicated in the case.Public prosecutor JP Singh argued that mere long custody does not make the applicant entitled to be granted concession.He said one remdesivir vial was recovered from him during a police raid on a hotel premises. The bail application of five other accused was rejected earlier. The police arrested the accused from a hotel in Sector 17 on April 17.In the FIR, the police alleged that all accused were dealing in sale and purchase of remdesivir without any permit or licence. A sample of the vial with an MRP of Rs4,700 on it was also recovered from them.The raid was also conducted on a pharmaceutical plant in Baddi and 3,000 remdesivir vials were seized. A case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC, Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, and Section 27 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, was registered against all suspects at the Sector 17 police station.After hearing the arguments, Narender, Additional Sessions Judge, dismissed the application.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accused-caught-with-remdesivir-vial-denied-bail-261958
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Home Secy gets 3-month extension||Amid the Covid pandemic, UT Home Secretary Arun Kumar Gupta has reportedly been given a three-month extension.The UT Administration had sought extension in service for three months for Gupta and Municipal Commissioner KK Yadav. The three-year tenure of both officers ended last month.Covid circumstancesUT Adviser Manoj Parida had stated that extension in service was sought for both officers as it would not be the right decision to replace the officers amid the existing Covid circumstances.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had sent a communication to the Ministry of Home Affairs to grant extension in services to Gupta, a Haryana-cadre IAS officer of the 1992 batch, and Yadav, a Punjab-cadre IAS officer of the 2003 batch.Sources said the Appointment Committee of the Cabinet had extended the inter-cadre deputation of Gupta, currently posted as the Home Secretary with the UT Administration, for three more months beyond May 31.The Haryana Government had earlier sent a panel of three IAS officers to succeed Gupta. The panel included the names of Nitin Kumar Yadav (2000 batch), Ravi Pankaj Agarwal (2000 batch) and Vinay Singh (2003 batch).Meanwhile, the Punjab Government had sent a panel of three IAS officers - Anindita Mitra, Amit Kumar and Rajiv Prashar - to succeed Yadav as the MC Commissioner.UT Adviser Manoj Parida had stated that extension in service was sought for both officers as it would not be the right decision to replace the officers amid the existing Covid circumstances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-home-secy-gets-3-month-extension-261969
02-06-2021||Mohali||4 of mobile snatchers’ gang land in Mohali police net||The police have arrested four members of a gang involved in 34 mobile phone snatching cases over the past few months in Mohali.The suspects have been identified as Sandeep Pandey, Sandeep Thapa, Rajinder Prasad and Chetan, all residents of Mohali.The recoveriesAs many as 34 mobile phones and one stolen scooter have been recovered from their possession. A case under Sections 379-B, 411 and 201 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Phase 1 police station on May 31.As many as 34 mobile phones and one stolen scooter have been recovered from their possession. A case under Sections 379-B, 411 and 201 of the IPC was registered at the Phase 1 police station on May 31.Shivdeep Brar, SHO of the Phase 1 police station, said: “The gang was active in Mohali, Kharar and nearby areas. Two suspects were held on May 14. Their questioning led to the arrest of two more suspects on May 31. Further investigation is likely to solve more cases of snatching in the area.”The police said the suspects used to target labourers and passersby in poorly lit areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-of-mobile-snatchers-gang-land-in-mohali-police-net-261977
02-06-2021||Panchkula||Hit by van, Home Guards jawan dies, another hurt||A Home Guard jawan was killed and another injured seriously when a pickup van hit them near Golpura village on the National Highway No. 7 here today. The deceased has been identified as Sandeep Singh (28) and the injured as Jaswinder Singh.According to information, officials of the Regional Transport Authority were checking the documents of a truck (HP 64A 3577) near a brick kiln on the highway when the incident took place. Sub-Inspector Darshan Singh, RTA vehicle driver Subhash and the two Home Guard jawans were standing near the driver’s window of the truck. In the meantime, a pickup van bearing a temporary registration number hit the truck in its rear, rammed into the two jawans and collided with the RTA vehicle.The pickup van driver fled the spot leaving the vehicle behind. The injured were rushed to the Community Health Centre in Raipur Rani where doctors declared Sandeep as brought dead.The police have registered a case against the unidentified driver of the pickup van under Sections 279, 337, 304A and 427 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hit-by-van-home-guards-jawan-dies-another-hurt-261981
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Man ends his life in Sec 41||21-DAY Yoga camp starts AT PUChandigarh: A 21-day yoga camp begin on Tuesday at the Directorate of Sports, Panjab University. More than 800 members participated in an online inaugural ceremony of the event. HR Nagendra, Chancellor, S-Vyasa University, Karnataka, inaugurated the event and Panjab University Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar addressed the gathering. “The camp will help develop awareness and increase yoga practice among the masses. This programme will be organised through virtual mode and e-certificates will be provided to the participants,” said a member of the organising committee. TNSLecture by PGI DirectorChandigarh: The Department of Biotechnology, Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma College, Sector 32, under the aegis of the Chandigarh Forum for Science and Technology Communication, in collaboration with the Indian Science Congress Association (Chandigarh chapter), organised a lecture by Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, on “PGIMER in Covid-19 pandemic”. Prof Jagat Ram shared his thoughts on the pandemic and provided insights into the role and services by PGI. He also shared a glimpse of facilities created at the PGI and telepathy drive conducted by the institute, which was beneficial for the people across the nation. TNSYouth held with 400-gm opiumMohali: The police nabbed a motorcycle-borne youth with 400-gm opium at a naka on Guru Chowk on the Kharar-Ladran road on May 31. The suspect has been identified as Navjot Singh, a resident of Banta village in Mohali. He works at a dry cleaning shop in Kharar. He used to supply opium to his customers in Ladran, Kharar and Kurali. A case under Sections 18, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered at the Kharar city police station. The suspect was remanded in police custody. TNSDr Sood chosen as innovation leaderChandigarh: Dr Sanjay P Sood, Project Director - eSanjeevani (National Telemedicine Service) of the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, Mohali, has been chosen as an innovation leader in the world’s Future50 Class of 2021 by Health Information and Management Systems Society of the USA that is engaged in furthering the digital health agenda globally. Dr Sanjay Sood is spearheading the team that has developed and is looking after eSanjeevani - country’s National Telemedicine Service. This indigenously developed, innovative digital medium has over 370 online OPDs and has already served over 55 lakh patients in the country during the pandemic. Sood has also led the development of another national telemedicine portal, Sehatopd.in, which was recently launched by the Defence minister of India. TNSTwo cellphones, Rs3,000 snatchedZirakpur: Miscreants assaulted and snatched mobile phones and Rs3,000 from two scooter-borne youths near Chhat village here on Monday. In their complaint, Ashok, a resident of Sohana, and Govinda, a resident of Mataur, stated that they were returning home from Zirakpur when unidentified youths signalled them to stop. The suspects assaulted them and snatched their mobile phones and money before fleeing the spot. The police had started an investigation. TNSDemolition drive in JawaharpurDera Bassi: GMADA demolished several illegal constructions in an illegal colony in Jawaharpur village here on Tuesday. The team demolished the walls of houses and some plots in the colony. GMADA SDO Harpreet Singh said: “It was learnt that an illegal colony was being raised at Jawaharpur village by some unknown persons. We visited the spot and found the colony being built in the fields.” A complaint was lodged with the police seeking action against the coloniser, the official said. TNS4 held for rioting, violating curfewZirakpur: The police arrested four persons for rioting in a vehicle and not wearing face mask at a public place here on Monday night. ASI Sukhdev Singh said the suspects had been identified as Navdeep, Navin Kumar, Mohit Kumar, all residents of Preet Colony, and Mohammed Sagar. They were roaming on the Patiala road in their car without face masks. When the police stopped them near the Patiala Chowk, they started rioting. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-ends-his-life-in-sec-41-261995
