03-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 111 new cases of Covid-19 and one death||Chandigarh recorded 111 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday and one death while 226 patients recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours.The total number of cases in the UT has reached 60,399, of which 1,135 are active cases.As many as 58,502 people have recovered from the infection so far while 762 people have succumbed to the virus.A total of 226 patients have been discharged including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Health Ministry guidelines.A 55-year-old man from Dhanas who was suffering from severe acute respiratory infection and leprosy died.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-111-new-cases-of-covid-19-and-one-death-262906
03-06-2021||Mumbai||Kirron Kher thanks fans for wishes as she battles cancer, son Sikandar says she's 'a lot better'||BJP MP and actor Kirron Kher has expressed her gratitude to fans for their love and support as she battles multiple myeloma, a type of blood cancer.In April, her actor-husband Anupam Kher released a statement informing that Kirron Kher was undergoing treatment in Mumbai and was on her path to recovery.In her maiden video appearance since her diagnosis, Kirron Kher, 68, greeted her fans during her son, actor Sikandar Kher's Instagram live on late Wednesday evening.Sikandar Kher began the live session with a glimpse of his mother's feet as she rested on a couch and asked her to say hello to her fans. "Thank you for constantly asking me about her... She is doing a lot better," Sikandar Kher said. Kirron Kher interrupted him, saying she wanted to show her face and speak to her well wishers directly. "Hello. Thank you everybody for your good wishes and love. Thank you very much," the veteran, who looked slightly frail, said with a smile.A sling could also be seen on her left arm.The actor, known for films like "Devdas", "Khamosh Paani", "Veer Zaara" and "Dostana", took her second dose of COVID vaccine last month. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kirron-kher-thanks-fans-for-wishes-as-she-battles-cancer-son-sikandar-says-shes-a-lot-better-262827
03-06-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Blood donation camp in Sirhind||Akal Welfare Society organised a blood donation camp at Sirhind today. Didar Singh Bhatti, halka in-charge, SAD (B), inaugurated the camp. A team of doctors from the Civil Hospital, Fatehgarh Sahib, collected more than 50 units of blood at the camp.Addressing the gathering, Bhatti said every drop of blood was precious as it saved human lives. Blood was a natural gift and could be collected through donation, he added. He called upon people to come forward for the noble cause. There was a big gap between demand and availability of blood, he said.Everyone should donate blood especially in the present Covid crisis, he added. People were not donating blood due to Covid threat, he said. He appreciated efforts of Akal Welfare Society in organising the camp. Surjit Singh Sahi, Suresh Sharma, Sanjay and other Akali leaders addressed the gathering on the occasion.—OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/blood-donation-camp-in-sirhind-262697
03-06-2021||---||Vaccinate vulnerable groups, Badnore directs Health Dept||Chandigarh, June 2 UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed the Health Department to organise special vaccination camps to cover vulnerable groups such as street vendors, hawkers and transport employees, who come in contact with a large number of people. During a review meeting with senior officers, the Administrator directed that the speed of vaccination should be enhanced. He also appealed to the market associations and shopkeepers to ensure that all their staff get vaccinated.  Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, made a presentation regarding the progress of the vaccination drive. The Administrator also reviewed the functioning of Army Hospital, ESI Hospital and mini-Covid care centres.  He directed them that no one should become complacent in following the Covid-appropriate behavior. He focused on keeping beds reserved for children. The Administrator directed that the new signboards indicating the speed limits should be set up at the earliest. He directed the Secretary, Engineering, to examine if the entire work could be done by the Engineering Department to ensure uniformity in the signboards already set up.  He also reviewed the distribution of food grains under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana. He directed the Food Secretary to ensure that Covid norms were followed during the distribution of food among the needy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccinate-vulnerable-groups-badnore-directs-health-dept-262397
03-06-2021||Panchkula||7th accused in police net in Barwala illegal liquor factory case||The Panchkula police today claimed to have arrested the seventh accused in the illegal liquor factory case, which was unearthed in the HSIIDC, Barwala, on May 25.The accused have been identified as Dinesh Bansal, a resident of Sector 20, Panchkula. The accused was produced in a local court today which remanded him in judicial custody.Earlier, the police had arrested six accused identified as Rahul Gupta, Sanjeev Singla, Ankit, Monty, Kamal and Ravi.The CM Flying Squad had received a tip-off that some people were manufacturing and selling illegal liquor from a factory at Barwala. The accused were supplying liquor on the pretext of setting up water filtration systems. A team, led by ASI Vinod Kumar, and two officials of the Excise Department raided the factory on May 25. When they entered the premises, the four accused were packing the liquor bottles.A case under the Punjab Excise Act, Haryana Excise Act and Sections 420, 308 and 120-B of the IPC had been registered against the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7th-accused-in-police-net-in-barwala-illegal-liquor-factory-case-262399
03-06-2021||7 and the arrangement for safe drinking water has been made for the vendors. Two dustbins — red and green — will be given to vendors every six months.
||Panchkula street vendors’ market starts today||Jai Parkash, councilor, Sector 15, who inspected the vending site today, said the vendors would be given summer and winters clothes and caps with the MC logo and hand gloves. He said Gian Chand Gupta would inaugurate the vending site at 11.30 am. He said as per the policy, health checkup of the vendors would be carried out every month and police verification would be carried out every six months.  Parkash said vendors operating illegally would be removed. He said skill training with respect to their work would be given to vendors and an accidental insurance of Rs5 lakh each would also be ensured for vendors. He said it was not necessary for vendors to purchase the e-carts by the MC and they could get their own manufactures after getting the approved design from the MC. He said e-carts have been fitted with solar lights and added that GPS system would also be installed in these carts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-street-vendors-market-starts-today-262400
03-06-2021||---||5 more held in Kharag Mangoli murder case||Panchkula, June 2The Panchkla police have nabbed five more youths accused of murdering a Kharag Mangoli resident on May 5.The accused have been identified as Ritik, Anu, alias Kalu Patla, Manish, Sauras, alias Kallu Mota, and Ravi, all residents of Kharag Mangoli.Earlier, the police had arrested nine accused in the case — Deepak, Mohammad Usman, Vishal, Arjun, Rajiv, Vinay, Gaurav, Amit and Anil.Victim’s wife Kajal, a resident of Kharag Mangoli, told the police that on May 6, her husband Karan went out for a stroll late in the evening outside their house. She said 10 to 12 youths were fighting over some issue. She said the accused started beating up her husband and one of the boys hit her husband with a knife on the side of the stomach. Later, the accused threw him in the nearby bushes.A case under Sections 148, 149, 302, 506, 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act 2005 was registered against the accused. Later, the police arrested three youths who revealed the names of other six youths involved in the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-more-held-in-kharag-mangoli-murder-case-262401
03-06-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay
||Aero City, Mohali: Construction firm penalised for overcharging, told to refund Rs 11L||Tribune news service Chandigarh, June 2 The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission here has directed a construction firm to refund Rs 11,95,370 to a city resident “received in excess” for the construction of a house. The commission also directed the firm to pay Rs 50,000 as compensation to complainant Mubarak Masih for causing him mental agony and harassment, and litigation cost.  The 75-year-old had approached the commission after he found the works carried out by the firm unsatisfactory.  The complainant said he had paid Rs 27 lakh to M/s Gautam Construction Company between August 10, 2018 and December 11, 2018 for construction of a residential house in Aero City, SAS Nagar, Mohali. However, when he asked for the bills, he got no response. He then hired a professional to assess the work and on January 10, 2019, it was found that the value of completed works was just Rs16,77,629. Under such circumstances, Masih got the work stopped.  The complainant also claimed that the firm had failed to complete the construction as per the agreement dated September 19, 2018.  The construction firm in its reply said the complainant was liable to pay an amount of Rs62,84,800 for the area measuring 3,928 square feet at Rs1,600 per square feet. Since 60 per cent of the work was completed, an amount of Rs37,73,880 was payable by the complainant, the firm added.  The firm also claimed that the person who assessed the works was not an expert in the field. The commission, meanwhile, appointed Kishanjit Singh, former Chief Engineer, UT, as local commissioner to assess the work independently.  It is evident from the report that though the material used is as per the required specifications, the value of the work which has been done at the site comes to Rs15,04,630 only, the commission noted. However, the construction company has already received Rs27 lakh from the complainant. The act clearly amounts to “unfair trade practice”, the commission observed.  It directed the firm to refund Rs 11,95,370 received in excess from the complainant, along with interest at 12 per cent within a period of 30 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aero-city-mohali-construction-firm-penalised-for-overcharging-told-to-refund-rs-11l-262402
03-06-2021||---||Vaccine camp for 45 plus at Chandigarh's Khukhrain Bhawan||Chandigarh, June 2The Property Consultants Association, in coordination with the UT Health Services, organised a vaccination camp for above 45 years beneficiaries at Khukhrain Bhawan here.KB Singh, chairman, Police Reforms Commission, UT, was the chief guest for the event and Dr Manjit Singh Trehan from Government Multi-Speciality Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, was the guest of honour.Nearly 300 persons got vaccinated during the camp and pledged to wear masks.KB Singh appreciated the efforts of the association. Chairman of the association Kamaljit Singh Panchhi and president Kamal Gupta thanked all those who turned up at the camp and got vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccine-camp-for-45-plus-at-chandigarhs-khukhrain-bhawan-262403
03-06-2021||---||CHB invites e-bids for sale of 11 flats on leasehold basis||Chandigarh, June 2The Chandigarh Housing Board has invited e-bids for the auction of 11 built-up residential units on a leasehold basis.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said e-bids would be invited separately for each unit. The e-bid must be above the reserve price and the unit would be allotted to the highest bidder, he said. “The bidders can revise their e-bids, any number of times, till the closure of the bid submission,” he added.He said there would be no restriction on the transfer of the residential units sold by way of e-tender subject to payment of prescribed transfer charges and permission from the CHB.He said the earnest money deposit (EMD) of Rs2 lakh for each residential unit to be submitted online through e-tendering portal — https://etenders.chd.nic.in.The bidders can submit their bid only after depositing earnest money online.The said e-tenders will be available at etenders.chd.nic.in on June 4 from 10 am and the bidders may immediately start to submit their bids. The last date for the submission of e-bids is June 30 at 6 pm. He said the bids would be opened on July 1 at 10 am.Specific details such as unit number, location and reserve price of each of the unit is available on the website of the CHB — www.chbonline.in.Residential units will remain open for inspection on 16th, 23rd and June 29 from 10 am to 5 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-invites-e-bids-for-sale-of-11-flats-on-leasehold-basis-262404
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||SFS launches protest, demands opening of libraries||Students for Society (SFS), Panjab University, started an indefinite protest demanding the opening of libraries and other establishments.  The protesting students demanded the opening of labs, AC Joshi Library and  departmental libraries, considering the lockdown period for hostel stay as zero and charges on a regular basis. They said there should be no fee for partial lockdown period for all PhD scholars and they should be allowed to stay in hostels. They also demanded the waiving off all charges like library fee, department charges and other infrastructural charges. The mess canteen of girls’ hostel no. 4 should be opened and the process of RDC and promotion of scholars from JRF to SRF expedited, they added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sfs-launches-protest-demands-opening-of-libraries-262405
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University VC gets 3-year extension||Vice-President and Panjab University Chancellor M Venkaiah Naidu has approved three-year extension for Vice Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar.The current term of Prof Raj Kumar is scheduled to come to an end on July 23.Panjab University slips 26 places, ranked 175 in AsiaA communication in this regard was issued this evening by the office of the Chancellor, Panjab University.“Panjab University has taken a quantum leap in the last about three years. There are many first time initiatives which include integration of seven verticals SAIF/CIL lab, design innovation centre, CIIPP, skill development, bio-nest incubator, Institute Innovation Council, DST centre for policy research...,” said a PU spokesperson.“Under his (Prof Raj Kumar) tenure, the university has ranked second in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) among Indian universities of the country. It has signed 37 MoUs with national and international institutions/industry. The faculty organised more than 900 webinars/seminars/workshops/conferences in last two years, along with more than 500 online events during Covid pandemic,” the spokesperson highlighted.Usually at loggerheads with Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA), former Syndicate and Senate members, Kumar was unlikely to get the second term. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-vc-gets-3-year-extension-262406
03-06-2021||---||Chandigarh Youth Congress leaders protest near Patanjali store||Chandigarh, June 2 Leaders of the local Youth Congress today staged a protest outside a Patanjali store, Sector 23,  against Baba Ramdev’s recent comments on allopathy. Manoj Lubana ‘Mouji’, flanked by other Youth Congress leaders, demanded that the shop owner put up shutters for the rest of the day. The leaders staged a dharna carrying banners and posters to register their protest against Baba Ramdev’s comments.  Lubana said it’s a shame that the government allowed him to keep running his business despite having made such comments and spreading rumours about Covif-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-youth-congress-leaders-protest-near-patanjali-store-262407
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Baba Ramdev case: Complainant records statement||Ravinder Singh Bassi, president of Lawyers for Humanity, today appeared as witness and recorded his statement before a local court during the hearing on his complaint filed against Baba Ramdev. The court has fixed the next hearing in the case for June 7.Bassi has filed the complaint against Baba Ramdev on his alleged statements against doctors and allopathy. He demanded for summoning him as an accused to face trial for the offences under section 188, 269, 270, 276 of the IPC and Section 51, 52 and 54 of the Disaster Management Act 2005. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/baba-ramdev-case-complainant-records-statement-262408
03-06-2021||---||Panjab University slips 26 places, ranked 175 in Asia||Chandigarh, June 2Panjab University has dropped 26 places to 175th rank (in Asia) in the latest Times Higher Education Asia University Rankings 2021.Last year, the university was placed at 149th spot.Panjab University VC gets 3-year extensionIn total, a record 63 Indian universities participated in this year’s rankings, with 14 institutions appearing on the list for the first time.The Asia University Rankings 2021 used 13 performance indicators, including teaching (25 per cent), research (30 per cent), citations (30 per cent), international outlook (7.5 per cent) and industry income (7.5 per cent), to rank universities.Panjab University scored between 30.2 points to 36.3 points, while the institute had aggregated 34.2 points last year. In 2019, PU had managed 32.1 points.“We did better in the field of industry income and research income. The university has improved on majority of the parameters. However, we witnessed a drop in citation and student-faculty ratio,” said Ashish Jain, Director, Inter-Quality Assurance Cell, PU.“The university is ranked No. 4 among multi-faculty universities, the rankings like TIMES and QS have an inherent issue in comparing the technical institutes and multi-faculty universities in the same category, which works to our disadvantage,” said Jain.The university has been placed higher than Thapar University, Savitribai Phule Pune University, Aligarh Muslim University and others.However, Delhi University, Banaras Hindu University and Jamia Millia Islamia, which trailed PU in the last year’s rankings, have improved their tally this time.Fact CheckIn 2019, Panjab University was ranked 136th. Last year, it dropped to 149th among 489 institutions from 30 countries and regions in Asia. As many as 56 Indian institutions qualified for the rankings in 2020, while 49 had qualified in 2019, said sources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-slips-26-places-ranked-175-in-asia-262409
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh, wife stable||Nirmal Milkha Singh, wife of legendary athlete Milkha Singh and former India women’s volleyball team captain, who is being treated for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Mohali is “recovering in right direction”.“Nirmal Milkha Singh is doing better with reducing oxygen requirement,” read a medical bulletin issued by the hospital today. Milkha Singh, who was recently discharged from hospital, is also responding well to the treatment, informed family members. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-singh-wife-stable-262410
03-06-2021||---||Haryana hockey  player Manpreet Kaur eyeing India debut during Tokyo Olympics||Chandigarh, June 2Manpreet Kaur, who has been training at the Sports Authority of India (SAI) centre in Bengaluru as a part of the women's senior core probable group, is eyeing to make her debut for India at the upcoming Tokyo Olympics.“Debut for the senior national team at a dream event like the Olympics… it is like a fairytale. I mean, it will be a different feeling altogether, but I want to keep my feet on the ground and continue working hard,” said Manpreet, who hails from Shahbad.The Haryana girl said though the selection was not in her hands, she wanted to make every day of her training count.“Team selection is not in my hand, but I would say this phase is really exciting. We all are pumped up and just working hard, making each and every day count in the training.”Having represented the junior team, the 22-year-old defender earned her maiden call-up for the senior group in January last year.“It’s been a great experience so far with the senior team. Things are very different to what I experienced when I was with the junior team. From training to diet to fitness, everything is on a different level here, and you need to adapt to it as quickly as possible,” she said.Manpreet was a part of India’s recent tour to Argentina. It was her maiden international outing with the senior national team.Manpreet is a product of famous Shahabad Hockey Academy, which has produced the likes of Indian women's team skipper Rani Rampal and experienced forwards Navjot Kaur and Navneet Kaur.“She (Rani) is my biggest inspiration, and it's a special feeling to spend time with her at the camp. She guides young players like me in the right direction, and she is the biggest motivator in the team,” said Manpreet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-hockey-player-manpreet-kaur-eyeing-india-debut-during-tokyo-olympics-262411
03-06-2021||---||Bail plea of theft accused rejected||Chandigarh, June 2  A local court here has dismissed the bail application of an accused, Adil Khan, who was arrested on the charge of stealing a scooter. He was arrested on April 12 on a woman’s complaint.  The complainant told the police that she visited the Elante mall for shopping and parked her scooter in front of Plot No. 27, MW Market. When she came back after shopping, she did not find her scooter at that place.  During investigation, the police found CCTV footage in which Adil was seen taking away the complainant’s scooter.  After hearing the arguments, the court said it was the settled law that mere long custody did not make the accused entitled to the concession of bail.  It is clear that the applicant is booked in many cases of the similar nature at different police stations. In these circumstances, this court has not found any good ground to allow the application. Accordingly, his bail application is dismissed, the court said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bail-plea-of-theft-accused-rejected-262412
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||70 porters get ration at Ambala station||Ambala division of the Northern Railway has provided 70 porters at Ambala Railway Station with ration. Harvinder Kaur, president of Northern Railway Women’s Welfare Organisation (NRWWO), Ambala Division, gave each porter (Rail Sahayak) 10-kg atta, 5-kg rice,1-kg edible oil,1-kg sugar, 250-gram tea, 2-kg dal and 1 packet of salt.   Harvinder Kaur said all members and office-bearers of NRWWO contemplated owning the responsibility of assisting such persons in need. Divisional Railway Manager Gurinder Mohan Singhsaid division would be doing the same in coming times too. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/70-porters-get-ration-at-ambala-station-262413
03-06-2021||---||Webinar marks Environment Day||Chandigarh, June 2The Dean (International Students) office, in collaboration with the department of sociology, department of history and the department of environmental studies, organised a national webinar on “India’s Response to Global Call, Paris Agreement UN SDG-13 and COP -26” to celebrate World Environment Day. It was headed by Dr Srikanta K Panigrahi, Director-General, Indian Institute of Sustainable Development (IISD), New Delhi.The webinar was initiated by Prof Anju Suri, Dean (International Students), who highlighted the significance of environment and its protection, especially during the Covid times. Prof Rani Mehta, Chairperson, Department of Sociology, emphasised the uniqueness of planet Earth which provides life to several micro organisms, plants, animals and human beings.Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, mentioned the importance of protecting the environment and highlighted the role which each individual could play in bringing about sustainability by following simple easy steps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/webinar-marks-environment-day-262414
03-06-2021||---||On HC intervention, PGI to operate upon kidney patient||Chandigarh, June 2Amid the gloom spread by the pandemic, Bhupender Beniwal is seeing a ray of hope. A day after he sought the intervention of the Punjab and Haryana High Court for treating his kidney patient nephew, the PGI has already commenced the procedure for conducting the surgery — an act Justice Jaishree Thakur appreciated entirely.Justice Thakur asserted that the court would like to place on record its appreciation for respondent-PGI, Chandigarh, for its prompt action taken while making an attempt to medically treat the petitioner’s nephew.“It is in the notice of this court that on account of resurgence of the Covid-19 pandemic, the institute is facing difficulty in fixing dates for surgeries and the institute has taken up this matter on orders. However, any orders passed herein will not be treated as a precedent for any other case,” Justice Thakur asserted.Beniwal had moved the court seeking directions to the hospital to operate upon his nephew apprehending acute kidney infection in the absence of surgical intervention. He added that the absence of surgery in all probability would result in kidney damage.He told Justice Thakur’s Bench that the surgery was slated for April 26, but the patient was, unfortunately, diagnosed as Covid positive. As such, the surgery could not be conducted on the slated day. He argued that the patient subsequently recovered and would now require surgical intervention already recommended by the treating surgeon.As the case came up for resumed hearing, Justice Thakur’s Bench was told that the PGI had entertained the patient in accordance with the Court orders and had conducted a preliminary test. However, they were yet to be informed about the actual date of surgery.“This court is hopeful that all efforts would be made by the respondent to conduct the surgery as soon as possible, Justice Thakur added, while also appreciating the assistance by senior advocate Amit Jhanji and counsel Abhishek Premi on the PGI’s behalf.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/on-hc-intervention-pgi-to-operate-upon-kidney-patient-262416
03-06-2021||---||Fallen trees stop Chandigarh cyclists in their tracks||Chandigarh, June 2 Several trees have been lying on cycle tracks, disrupting the movement of cyclists in the city. Tree branches broke and fell on cycle tracks due to the rain and squall on May 30. However, many of these have not been removed yet. As per the Municipal Corporation, as many as 75 trees were damaged and fell in different parts of the city.  During a random check, tree branches were found lying on the cycle tracks along various roads, including Sectors 32/33, 46/45, 44/45 and Sector 28 near Himachal Bhawan. The cyclists halt on finding the track blocked, lift their cycle to the main road and move on. Some of them were seen avoiding the cycle tracks. Amitesh Kumar, a cyclist, said, “We understand that many trees fell on the day, but it does not mean that these will not be removed for many days. Besides blocking our way, these may injure commuters.” “The authorities must get these tracks cleared as soon as possible. They have all the machines, vehicles and the manpower to do the needful,” said another cyclist, Ramesh Rawal. Besides, broken branches were found on some roads also. Officials said it would take some time to remove a large number of broken trees and branches.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fallen-trees-stop-chandigarh-cyclists-in-their-tracks-262417
03-06-2021||Naina Mishra||In a month, 8 die of black fungus at Chandigarh hospitals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 2Eight patients suffering from mucormycosis (black fungus) have died at the city hospitals in the past one month. Three of them belonged to the city.So far, the city hospitals have witnessed 201 cases of mucormycosis. While the maximum 147 patients were admitted to the PGI, 50 were admitted to the GMCH-32, three to Healing Hospital and one to Mukat Hospital.Dr Gyan from the ENT Department, PGI, said, “Mucormycosis can affect lungs, nose and rhinosinus orbit. It can also affect various organs like kidneys. Risk factor is different for different organs. Mucor has also been seen in patients suffering from cancer and receiving chemotherapy and those requiring dialysis. Mostly, the prevalence is in rhinosinus orbit. Rhino-orbital mucormycosis is mostly seen in patients with uncontrolled diabetes. It spreads faster from nose to eyes.”“These days, a lot of eye involvement is seen. The fungus is spreading faster through blood vessels and enters the eye. Once it reaches the eye, it obstructs the blood vessels of the eye. As a result, it freezes the movement of the eyeball with subsequent loss of vision. If immediate intervention is not provided, it has the propensity to enter the brain and further complicate the condition leading to stroke and fungal meningitis,” he added.Since the onset of the pandemic, there have been multiple reports across the country of a very high incidence of mucormycosis among patients with Covid-19 especially in those who are diabetic and those who have received steroids. Covid-associated mucormycosis has been associated with high morbidity and mortality, exorbitant treatment costs and led to shortage of anti-fungal drugs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-a-month-8-die-of-black-fungus-at-chandigarh-hospitals-262418
03-06-2021||Panchkula||Three fatalities in Panchkula, 50 cases||Chandigarh sees 3 deaths, 134 casesChandigarh: The city reported three deaths and 134 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday. The active cases now stand at 1,251 and the toll 761. As many as 361 more patients have recovered from the disease. — TNS8 deaths, 153 new cases in Mohali Mohali: Eight patients died while 153 positive cases were reported from the district on Wednesday. As many as 441 patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, 51 were reported from Mohali, 14 from Dhakoli, 24 from Dera Bassi, 27 from Kharar, 14 from Gharuan, seven from Kurali, six each from Banur and Boothgarh and four from Lalru. Of the 66,844 cases reported so far, 63,601 patients have been cured. With eight deaths on Wednesday, the toll has reached 975 in the district. — TNS1,753 inoculatedA total of 1,753 persons were vaccinated at one private and 25 government vaccination centres across the district. Of them, 137 persons got the second dose. Among those who got the vaccine, 1,410 persons were aged between 18 and 44, 253 persons between 45-59 and 69 above 60. A total of 2,16,917 persons have been vaccinated in the district. Of them, 1,67,102 got the first dose, while 49,815 got the second dose. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-fatalities-in-panchkula-50-cases-262419
03-06-2021||Mohali||High drama at Mohali hospital over Covid death||High drama was witnessed at Shalby Hospital, Phase 9, when kin of a 32-year-old patient, Santosh Yadav, from Bihar stretchered the body into the reception area and protested alleging that their patient died due to doctors’ negligence after undergoing treatment for close to a month here. According to Manoj Yadav, brother of the deceased, ‘’The patient, with no comorbidities, was admitted to the hospital with high fever on May 8 in the Covid area. On May 15, he tested Covid negative and was told that he would be discharged in a day or two, but subsequently, he was shifted to the ICU for further observation. Later, the patient was put on a ventilator,’’ he said.“When his condition improved a little bit, I conveyed my wish to the doctors to shift the patient to another private hospital in Mohali. However, the doctors were not willing to discharge the patient, saying the patient’s condition had to be stabilised before shifting,” he added.The deceased’s kin alleged that an inflated bill of Rs 12 lakh was handed over to them, which, the hospital management claimed, was around Rs 7 lakh. —TNSWhat the police say||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-drama-at-mohali-hospital-over-covid-death-262420
03-06-2021||---||Chandigarh Administration to adopt Model Tenancy Act||Chandigarh, June 2For the regulation of rent and to balance the rights and responsibilities of landlords and tenants, the UT Administration will adopt the Model Tenancy Act approved by the Union Cabinet today.With the implementation of the Act, a Rent Authority will be established for regulating renting out of premises and to balance the interests of the owner and the tenant by establishing adjudicating mechanism for speedy dispute redressal and a Rent Court and a Rent Tribunal will be established to hear appeals and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.The Rent Authority will have exclusive jurisdiction over tenancy issues. All rent agreements will have to be submitted to this authority. The landowner and the tenant will have to separately file the particulars within a month of signing the agreement. At present, these can be registered at the Sub-Registrar’s office.The authority will adjudicate all disputes between the landlord and the tenant. At present, rent-related disputes are resolved by civil courts, where the pendency rate is high. Appeals against the orders of the authority will be made in the Rent Court, headed by a senior judicial officer, and the case will have to be disposed of within 60 days. Against a Rent Court order, an appeal can be filed with the Rent Tribunal.No person shall, after the commencement of this Act, let or take on rent any premises except by an agreement in writing, which shall be informed to the Rent Authority by the land owner and tenant jointly within a period of two months from the date of agreement.Where the land owner and the tenant fail to jointly present a copy of the tenancy agreement, such land owner and the tenant shall separately file the particulars about the tenancy agreement within a period of one month.Revision of rent between the land owner and the tenant shall be as per the terms set out in the Tenancy Agreement.In case the premises has been let for a fixed term, rent may not be increased during the tenancy period unless the amount of increase or method of working out the increase is expressly set out in the Tenancy Agreement.No land owner or property manager or tenant either by himself or through any person shall cut-off or withhold any essential supply or service in the premises occupied by the tenant or the landowner.A land owner is entitled to get compensation of double of the monthly rent for two months and four times of the monthly rent thereafter, for the use and occupation of a premise by a tenant who does not vacate the premises a after his tenancy has been terminated by order, notice or as per agreement.A tenant shall not be evicted during the continuance of tenancy agreement except in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (2).Objecting to the creation of the Rent Authority, Advocates SK Jain and Vikas Jain said the eviction order passed without any judicial officer is totally arbitrary, unreasonable, oppressive, harsh and unconstitutional and contrary to the doctrine of the rule of law. “If this power is given to the District Magistrate, this will widely abuse the process of law in the hands of executive authorities,” they remarked.Moreover, if the landlord-tenant dispute is allowed to be settled by the District Magistrate without judicial background, it will cause extreme hardship and will be tyrannical quasi judicial power of the magistrate concerned, they added.“The eviction of the tenant to settle disputes between the landlord and the tenant without appreciating the evidence will be ultra virus to the Model Tenancy Act, 2020,” they submitted.Salient features||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-adopt-model-tenancy-act-262421
03-06-2021||---||Haryana Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan’s house trespassed; woman, son held||Chandigarh, June 2A woman and her 24-year-old son have been arrested by the local police for allegedly trespassing into Haryana Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan’s house in Sector 7 and deterring a policeman on guard duty from discharging his duty. The same woman was earlier arrested in April for allegedly trespassing into Vardhan’s house and deterring a policeman from discharging his duty.According to the police, Constable Sumer Singh of the Haryana Armed Police, who was on guard duty at the house, alleged that Preeti Jhakhar and her son Atharva Chaudhary forcibly entered House No. 20 in Sector 7 on June 1 and deterred him from performing his duty.The constable further alleged that the suspects snatched his watch.The police were informed following which both suspects were arrested.A case under Sections 379 A (snatching), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of duty), 452 and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of a common intention) of the IPC was registered against the two at the Sector 26 police station. They have been remanded in judicial custody.Preeti was earlier arrested on April 26 under Sections 448 and 353 of the IPC. She was later released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-chief-secretary-vijai-vardhans-house-trespassed-woman-son-held-262422
03-06-2021||---||Liquor vends shut on weekend in Mohali||Mohali, June 2The Mohali administration today issued orders that liquor vends will remain closed during the weekend curfew. The restrictions regarding the number of passengers travelling in personal vehicles stand withdrawn. However, these continue to be applicable to commercial vehicles and taxis.Shops can remain open between 5 am and 5 pm. However, no shopping mall or single/multi-brand retail standalone shop will open except those selling essential items in these malls/complexes.Covid monitors will be appointed by market associations and their names will be prominently displayed. They will be personally responsible for ensuring adherence to the Covid guidelines.Restaurants, eateries can open only for home delivery till 9 pm, but no dine-in or take-away is allowed.All private offices should ensure that their staff are tested regularly – preferably every two weeks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/liquor-vends-shut-on-weekend-in-mohali-262423
03-06-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh's Eden Critical Care Hospital got abnormal quantity of oxygen amid shortage||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 2When the city was facing acute shortage of medical oxygen, Eden Critical Care Hospital procured abnormal high quantity. This was stated in the report of an inquiry into the abnormal pattern of consumption of medical oxygen cylinders by the hospital from April 1 onwards.On May 9, Yashpal Garg, the nodal officer for oxygen supplies in Chandigarh, formed a committee chaired by Jagjit Singh, a PCS officer, to conduct the inquiry. Dr Manjit Singh of the GMSH-16 and Dr Manpreet Singh of the GMCH-32 were other members of the committee. The committee completed the inquiry and submitted its report to Garg on May 31.“There cannot be any justification for consumption of about 200 to 350 cylinders per day. Since the hospital has not produced the daily list of patients along with the purpose of admission or treatment and proper record of oxygen consumption, the possibility of hoarding/black marketing/ illegal diversion of medical oxygen cylinders cannot be ruled out,” read the inquiry report.The committee observed that Eden Hospital used medical oxygen at a very high flow rates against the guidelines issued by the Government of India. In comparison with other private hospitals in the UT, Eden Hospital consumed much higher number of cylinders for almost similar number of patients. Even if all beds at the hospital were occupied and all patients were at high flow of oxygen, the consumption of D-type cylinders could not have been more than 150-160 cylinders, read the report.Due to acute shortage of medical oxygen in Chandigarh, it was decided to rationalise the distribution of oxygen and fix a daily quota for private hospitals. Eden Hospital was consuming abnormal quantity of about 350 cylinders per day while another hospital of almost same capacity was consuming about 90 cylinders only.Even the stated leakages in the pipeline did not justify the exceptionally high consumption of oxygen cylinders on certain dates. There was no explanation as to how the abnormal consumption of oxygen cylinders reduced immediately after fixation of the quota on May 7.The hospital has accepted about not keeping proper opening and closing balance of oxygen cylinders on daily basis. It showed an irresponsible behaviour, the report stated.IrregularityThe daily use of O2 by the hospital was compared. The first period (April 26–May 5) was prior to fixation of quota while second period (May 23- June 1) was post-abolition of the quota. During these periods, the hospital was free to procure any number of cylinders but the consumption pattern was different. Eden should have used 1,641 cylinders for 565 patients during the first period, but it consumed 2,935 cylinders.Use of high flow O2 affected patientsOne of the glaring findings of the inquiry report was that the use of a high flow of oxygen against the prescribed guidelines might have negative effects on the patients. ‘Strict action warranted’Yashpal Garg, nodal officer for O2 supplies, said the Health Department might initiate strict action against the hospital under the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-eden-critical-care-hospital-got-abnormal-quantity-of-oxygen-amid-shortage-262424
03-06-2021||Mohali||Mohali restores Elective surgeries||Chain snatched in Sector 47Chandigarh: Two bike-borne miscreants snatched a gold chain from a woman near her house in Sector 47 on June 1. A case has been registered. TNSYouth arrested with heroinChandigarh: A 26-year-old youth has been arrested with 20-gm heroin. The suspect, Vinay of Kishangarh village, was nabbed at the IT Park during curfew hours on June 1. TNSEdu institutions shut till June 9Chandigarh: The Directorate of Higher Education, UT Administration, has extended the closure of all educational institutions and libraries till June 9. "All educational institutions in the UT of Chandigarh will remain closed till June 9. The colleges (aided/unaided) will continue to function with 50 per cent non-teaching staff and teaching staff may be allowed to work from home. However, principals concerned can call any faculty member or non-teaching staff for urgent official work," stated a circular. It further added, "All public libraries and also coaching institutes will remain closed till June 9. However, online coaching may continue." TNSBicycle photo contest todayChandigarh: The BYCS-Chandigarh will celebrate World Bicycle Day by holding a bicycle photo contest on June 3. All participants have to submit their photos online and can give a maximum of five photos in categories, including "solo male on bicycle", "solo female on bicycle", "couple's photo on bicycles" and "family photo on bicycles". Those interested can submit their entries at https://tinyurl.com/BYCSPhoto.PU declares resultsChandigarh: : Panjab University declared results of Master of Business Administration (Hons School System) 1st semester, Bachelor of Science (Agriculture) (four-year course) 5th semester examination and Bachelor of Science 5th semester. The results can be seen at the respective departments/colleges or at the Panjab University website. TNSNSS units hold online talkChandigarh: On the occasion of Menstrual Hygiene Day, the NSS units of Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women, Sector 36, organised an online talk on the topic, "Menstrual Hygiene and Preventive Women Health". Dr Divya Awasthi, senior consultant, conducted the session which was attended by more than 95 students. Dr Divya stressed that a lack of awareness and poor hygiene could create problems, including risk of genital infections and infertility. Meanwhile, the NSS units and the medical committee of the college jointly organised a webinar titled "Isolation and Post Covid Care: Know the Facts" by Dr Anita Sharma. TNSMedical college buildingMohali: The lease deed for the new building of BR Ambedkar Medical College was signed here on Wednesday, informed the Mohali Deputy Commissioner. Approximately, 10.4 acre of land has been leased by Behlolpur and Jhujharnagar panchayats for the college. The construction of the boundary wall of the complex will start shortly, he said. TNS250 get jabbed at free vaccine campMohali: A free Covid-19 vaccination camp was held at Phase 10, Mohali, here on Wednesday. As many as 250 residents were benefitted by getting free jabs from a team of professional nurses from Government Hospital, Phase 6, Mohali. The camp was appreciated by beneficaries for its hygenic conditions, segregated waiting and vaccination areas and entry and exit points. TNSBBMB holds blood donation campChandigarh: A blood donation camp was organised by the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) here following a special request from the PGI’s Department of Transfusion Medicine. The PGI was able to fulfill its immediate requirement of blood units from the camp. The camp was inaugurated by Harminder Singh Chugh, member (Power), BBMB. Sanjay Srivastava, Chairman, BBMB, said all BBMB hospitals at Nangal, Talwara and Sundernagar are working 24x7 to provide treatment to Covid patients and carrying out vaccination drives. TNSSachkhand halt time increasedChandigarh: Sachkhand Special Express (number 02715) will halt at the Chandigarh railway station for 10 minutes now, instead of five minutes. The train will traverse Chandigarh, halting at the station from 3.35 pm to 3.45 pm. TNSGym owner breaks covid rules, heldPanchkula: The Panchkula police have held the owner of Fitness Plus Gym in MDC, Sector 5, here for violating the Covid guidelines. The accused has been identified as Praveen Kumar, a resident of Bhainsa Tibba village. Kumar was held after Naveen Sharma, Assistant Labour Commissioner, and his team found the gym open, the police said. A case under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and relevant Sections of the Disaster Management Act 2005 was registered against the gym owner at the MDC police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-restores-elective-surgeries-262446
