04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 88 new Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths; lowest in two months||Chandigarh reported 88 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths in the last 24 hours, a bulletin from the health department showed on Friday—the lowest the union territory has logged in over two months.Single-day recoveries recorded meanwhile stood at 215.Chandigarh’s active cases now stand at 1,005. The bulletin showed 2,602 tests were conducted over 24 hours.Chandigarh’s death toll now stands at 765.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-88-new-covid-19-cases-3-deaths-lowest-in-two-months-263370
04-06-2021||Mumbai||Aparshakti Khuranna, wife Aaksriti Ahuja to welcome first child together||Actor Aparshakti Khuranna on Friday announced that his wife Aakriti Ahuja is pregnant with their first child. The 33-year-old actor shared the news in a funny Instagram post. "As we couldn't expand the work during the lockdown, we decided to expand our family #PreggerAlert," Khuranna wrote alongside a monochrome photograph of him and his wife.A post shared by Aparshakti Khurana (@aparshakti_khurana)  Ahuja too announced her pregnancy on her Instagram page. "Doing our bit to add to this Baby Boomer generation #PreggerAlert," she wrote. The couple tied the knot in September 2014. On the work front, Khuranna, whose last big-screen outing was "Street Dancer", is gearing up for the release of the comedy movie "Helmet", opposite Pranutan Bahl.The quirky comedy, directed by Satram Ramani, marks Khuranna's first outing as a solo lead after supporting appearances in films like "Stree", "Dangal", "Luka Chuppi", and "Pati Patni Aur Woh". PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aparshakti-khuranna-wife-aaksriti-ahuja-to-welcome-first-child-together-263276
04-06-2021||The Eco Club||World Bicycle Day celebrated||PU declares resultsPanjab University on Thursday declared results of BSc (Microbial and Food Technology) fifth semester, MA (Fine Arts) third semester and MA (Ghandian and Peace Studies) first semester. Students can check the results at their respective departments/colleges or Panjab University website. TNSWorkshop on translationThe eight-day online workshop - Beyond Linguistic Barriers: Workshop on Translation of Literary Texts - organised by the Postgraduate Department of English, Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women, Sector 36, concluded here on Thursday. The workshop witnessed deliberations on art and craft of translation. TNSOpportunities in IT sectorThe PG Department of Information Technology, Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma College, Sector 32, organised an academic counselling and mentoring session on career opportunities in the field of IT. Experts from the industry spoke about the career options that could help the students explore the most suitable career opportunities. Head of Department Dr Virender Singh; Anil Kumar Singhal, founder of IMPACT Solutions; Shobhan Soi, founder and CEO of Pre Schools; and senior consultant and life coach Preeti Raina addressed the students. Sandeep Goyal, founder and MD of Jeronone Technologies Pvt Ltd, and Principal Dr Balraj Thapar also interacted with the participants. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/world-bicycle-day-celebrated-262978
04-06-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Surbhi Malik takes charge as Fatehgarh Sahib DC||Decision on schools todayChandigarh: The UT Education Department is likely to take a decision on reopening of government schools on June 4. Amid speculations that the department may open schools on June 14, Director School Education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said: "A decision may be expected tomorrow." Earlier, the department had declared summer vacation till June 8. TNSMobile snatched in Sector 41Chandigarh: Two motorcycle-borne miscreants allegedly snatched a mobile phone in Sector 41. According to the police, complainant Maheshnand Joshi, a resident of Nayagaon, reported that the miscreants snatched his mobile phone at Badheri village on June 2. A case has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/surbhi-malik-takes-charge-as-fatehgarh-sahib-dc-262979
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Accused in robbery case denied bail||A local court has rejected the bail plea of an accused arrested in the robbery incident at a jewellery shop in Sector 23, Chandigarh.The accused, Rohit Puri, was arrested after the police registered the case on December 9, 2020, in the alleged robbery incident.Owner of a shop, ‘Shree Gold Testing’, in Sector 23, had alleged that a person named Rohit, along with three friends, came to his shop on December 9, 2020, and said they wanted to sell their metal. One of the Rohit’s friends pointed a pistol at him and others in the shop. Another boy handed over a bag to them, directing them to put all gold jewellery articles in the bag. When they objected, the youth with the pistol shot at him and tried to loot the jewellery. He said the bullet had hit his brother.The counsel for the applicant argued that the accused was falsely implicated in the case. JP Singh, public prosecutor, opposed the bail. After hearing the arguments, the court rejected the bail application of the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accused-in-robbery-case-denied-bail-262957
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||AAP seeks financial help for labourers||AAP convener Prem Garg has written to UT Adviser Manoj Parida seeking financial assistance for building and construction workers affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown restrictions.Garg wrote that a significant portion of the city’s population had been directly affected by the second wave of Covid-19. Building and construction workers have been rendered jobless.He said Aam Aadmi Party requested utilising the funds available with the Chandigarh Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board of the Labour Department for providing immediate financial assistance to construction workers. Several crores of rupees collected as labour cess during the time of sanctioning building plans was unutilised.Nitin Goyal, chief spokesperson of Aam Aadmi Party, said the labour cess was collected from building owners for this purpose and it was high time for the Administration to release the funds.AAP General Secretary Vijaypal Singh has facilitated more than 500 construction workers in getting registered. Vijaypal had taken up this issue with the Administration during the first wave of Covid-19 in 2020 and the UT had transferred Rs6,000 to the accounts of registered workers, but no such initiative had been taken during the second wave, Vijaypal said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-seeks-financial-help-for-labourers-262959
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Industry seeks relief from Chandigarh||In a representation to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, industrials have sought a relief package for the industry due to the Covid-19 pandemic and also called for an immediate meeting of the Empowered Industrial Advisory Committee.Chaired by UT Adviser Manoj Parida, the committee is the apex body for resolving the problems and framing policies related to the industry.Naveen Manglani, president, Chamber of Chandigarh Industries, said various problems being faced by the industrials need to be examined in detail to prevent further deterioration of businesses and job losses.The industry has also sought a special vaccination camp with on the spot registration for industrial workers in the age group 18-44 years.They demanded waiver of fixed charges and late fee surcharge on electricity bills for a period of one year and waiver of property tax for 2021-22.Meanwhile, the Administrator has reportedly asked the UT Adviser to resolve the issues faced by the industry. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/industry-seeks-relief-from-chandigarh-262961
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Murder accused seeks bail||Barinder, one of the four accused in the murder case of a youth, Sandeep, in the Industrial Area, has applied for anticipatory bail in a local court.In the bail application filed through advocate AS Gujral, Barinder claimed that he was falsely implicated in the case and was not present on the spot when the incident happened.Barinder said that he was named by the complainant in the case only because of an old enmity. The police had opposed the anticipatory bail. The court will hear the arguments on his bail application on June 9. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/murder-accused-seeks-bail-262962
04-06-2021||---||‘Majority of Chandigarh sports complexes to open by June 7’||Chandigarh, June 3The UT Sports Department has started opening sports complexes in a phased manner for national and international athletes.In the first phase, the department has reopened the Sector 38 Sports Complex for trainees.“A majority of the complexes will be open by Monday,” said Sports Director Tejdeep Singh Saini.Before opening the complexes, the department will sanitise the arenas.The trainees will be called as per staggered timings and training will be imparted keeping in view the Covid norms.In the last war room meeting, the UT Administrator and Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore had allowed opening of sports complexes for professional players from June 1 onwards.However, the department was asked to ensure implementation of Covid-19 protocols.Swimming pools and gyms under the UT Sports Department are not allowed to open.“The players have been allotted different timings. And to start with, only one training session (morning) is being organised. Players below 14 years are not allowed to practice,” said a coach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/majority-of-chandigarh-sports-complexes-to-open-by-june-7-262952
04-06-2021||---||Property Grab Case: HC dismisses bail plea of two accused||Chandigarh, June 3The Punjab and Haryana High Court today dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of Saurabh Gupta and Arvind Singla in the alleged fraud case involving a property in Sector 37.The order by Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal on the two pleas filed against the UT of Chandigarh was not yet available. So far, the police have arrested four men in the case, including journalist Sanjeev Mahajan.One of the accused, Manish Gupta, has been granted regular bail.A case of forgery, cheating, abduction and other offences under Sections 452, 331,344, 365, 386, 419, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, 473, 474, 477 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 39 police station.As per the FIR, a house in Sector 37, Chandigarh, was fraudulently sold.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-grab-case-hc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-two-accused-262954
04-06-2021||---||Chandigarh MC to plant 50K shrubs||Chandigarh, June 3As many as 7,164 trees and 52,901 shrubs will be planted by the local MC during the monsoon in the city.The drive will start on the occasion of World Environment Day on June 5. The officials said some of the trees and shrubs that could not be planted during the last season had also been included in the current tally for the season.According to Superintending Engineer (Horticulture) Krishanpal Singh, saplings of trees such as mahogany, Arjun, pilkhan and others that already exist in the city, will be planted during the drive. He said these were available in the nurseries of the MC and did not have to spend money to buy them.However, Rs1 crore will be spent on buying shrubs. Trees and shrubs will be planted on road berms, community centres, parks, gardens, N-choe, rehabiliation colonies and Sehaj Safai Kendras.The SE said in addition to this, Forest Department, UT Administration, PU, PGI, schools and colleges will have their separate plantation drive during the monsoon.The different wings plant saplings every season. Not all of them survive. Since 2019, the MC had been growing fruit-bearing trees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-to-plant-50k-shrubs-262955
04-06-2021||---||Tax Bar Assn files plaint over Panchkula ETO’s ‘apathy’||Panchkula, June 3The District Taxation Bar Association (DTBA), Panchkula, today lodged a complaint about the “indifferent attitude” of the Panchkula Excise and Taxation Officer (ETO) to the Haryana Excise and Taxation Commissioner and sought redressal of their problems.In a press statement, Amit Sharma and Vineet Thakral, DTBA president and general secretary, respectively, said they had sent memorandums to the Haryana Excise and Taxation Commissioner, Ambala Range Joint Commissioner and Panchkula Additional Excise and Taxation Commissioner (ST) in this regard.They claimed that ETO Narinder Singh was often unavailable during his office hours due to which advocates were facing problems regarding the assessment for 2017-18. They said whenever lawyers visit the ETOs office, the latter is either not at his office or sends them back with assurances regarding preparation of evaluation and as such, no matter could be discussed with him.They said generally, assessments had been framed after stipulated date, March 31, 2021, which is either ex-parte, without any order sheet or without getting the signature of the authorised advocate.They said assessments had been finalised creating huge demands without serving any deficiency notice or any other communication to assessees or their counsel. Counsels appeared before the officer several times to get their assessments finalised and even asked for deficiency/discrepancy in their cases, but no assessment proceedings were ever initiated in the presence of the counsel nor any communication was done by the officer, they said. Further, all the assessments had been framed in a haste, arbitrarily and after the due date, they added.The lawyers requested that the “irregularities” committed by the officer while preparing the assessment be probed by going through the assessment files, along with the settlement register, by a higher authority. They said the documents submitted by the lawyers had not been considered while preparing the assessment. Due to the negligence of the officer, bailable bonds had to be produced and they faced difficulties for filing appeals before the higher authorities, they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tax-bar-assn-files-plaint-over-panchkula-etos-apathy-262956
04-06-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||No vaccine for 18+  in Fatehgarh Sahib||Due to shortage of the vaccine, particularly for the 18 to 44 age group, students, employees and those working in the private sector are running from pillar to post to get vaccinated.To add to their woes all the vaccination centres being run from the Civil Hospital and community health centres in the district have been closed without informing the public.People are asking Health Department officials but there is no one to guide them.A large number of people have been making calls to mediapersons to know about the availability of the vaccine and about the new vaccination centres.When contacted, Dr Kuldeep Singh, Senior Medical Officer, Civil Hospital, said the vaccination centre at the hospital had been closed as per the government directions and shifted to Mata Gujri College, Fatehgarh Sahib.Dr Singh said he had requested the Principal to give them two separate rooms for the purpose and he had agreed. “So now the vaccination will be initiated there,” he informed.Dr Singh said the government had directed that the vaccination centres should be shifted out of civil hospitals to stop the spread of Covid.He also said they were short of the vaccine for the 18 plus.Civil Surgeon Dr Mohinder Singh, meanwhile, said: “There is no shortage of vaccine. Media is habitual of creating a hype.”District Immunisation Officer Dr Rajesh informed that the vaccine for the 45 plus comes from the Centre while the vaccine for 18 plus comes from the state government.When asked about vaccination for people from rural areas, he said: “They will be vaccinated in Anganwadi centres, gurdwaras or some common place.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-vaccine-for-18-in-fatehgarh-sahib-262953
04-06-2021||Panchkula||Beautification works, vending zone launched in Panchkula||Haryana Assembly Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta launched beautification projects in the Mansa Devi Complex (MDC) area and Saketri worth Rs1.5 crore today.Gupta also inaugurated a vending zone, “Pandit Deendyal Upadhyay Market”, in Sector 15 to rid the sector of illegal vendors.The beautification projects of the MDC include construction of a well-equipped entrance gate from IT Park to Panchkula, construction of a road from the MDC to the temple located at Manav Colony, beautification of a pond in Ward No. 8 and repair and construction of a boundary wall of the cremation ground at Mahadevpur in Saketri.Gupta said the vending zone was a big gift from the Municipal Corporation for toiling vendors.He said the vending zone project was conceived about three years ago and a survey was conducted to verify the actual number of vendors. He said after a scrutiny of the vendors’ list, many addresses were found fake. He said later it was decided that only those who were residents of Panchkula or working in Panchkula would be allowed to work in the vending zone.He said 715 sites had been identified in Sector 2, 4, 8, 10, 11, 12, 15 and 19 in the city, where work of creating vending zones had been started.He said vendors could get their own e-carts prepared after getting the design from the MC office. He said if anyone tried to coerce vendors to take a stall from a particular company, a complaint in this regard could be submitted to Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal. Strict action would be taken on such complaints, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/beautification-works-vending-zone-launched-in-panchkula-262972
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Sec 18 residents irked over garbage dump||While the Municipal Corporation is carrying out a “swachhata abhiyan” in different parts of the city, garbage lying on the rear side of houses in Sector 18-A has not been removed for the past six months.According to area residents, heaps of garbage, wild grass and shrubs can be spotted at the service lane from near house numbers 106 to194 in Sector 18-A. Even debris and horticulture waste has been dumped there.“The site has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. I have requested the area supervisor a number of times, but no action has been taken. Even senior officials were informed, but my pleas went unheard. We are tired of the situation,” said a senior citizen.“Even before six months, there used to be no regular cleaning. The workers used to come in two to four months time after repeated requests. The situation should change as during the rainy season, it will lead to foul smell,” he added.One of the area residents quipped: “It is surprising that during the special swachhata drive, MC workers and officials suddenly get active, but do not entertain complaints throughout the year. We have not been noticed even during this campaign. I request the Mayor to get these cleaned and save us from the mess.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sec-18-residents-irked-over-garbage-dump-262960
04-06-2021||---||56-yr-old doctor falls to death from second floor in Sector 16||Chandigarh, June 3A 56-year-old doctor died after mysteriously falling from a window on the second floor of the house he was residing in at Sector 16 today. The police have ruled out any foul play. They said there was no grill on the window, which led to the mishap.According to the police, the victim has been identified as Dr Gopal Krishan Bansal. He was residing on the second floor of the house.The police said the victim reportedly lost balance and fell down. He was rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where doctors declared him brought dead. The police said the victim was posted at a hospital in Patran, Punjab. Inquest proceedings have been initiated into the matter at the Sector 17 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/56-yr-old-doctor-falls-to-death-from-second-floor-in-sector-16-262980
04-06-2021||Mohali||3 die in Mohali, 191 test +ve||Three more Covid fatalities were witnessed in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 978. As many as 191 new cases surfaced, taking the case tally to 67,035, while 214 patients were cured of the disease.Among the fresh cases, 46 were reported from Mohali (urban), six from Banur, seven from Lalru, 10 each from Kurali and Boothgarh, 17 from Gharuan, 28 from Kharar, 30 from Dera Bassi and 37 from Dhakoli. The district has reported 63,814 recoveries so far. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-die-in-mohali-191-test-ve-262940
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees one death, 111 new cases||The city reported one death and 111 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday. The active cases now stand at 1,135 and the toll 762. As many as 226 more patients have recovered from the disease. TNSNo death in Panchkula, 64 cases Panchkula: A total of 64 fresh Covid cases surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the total count to 30,173. However, no death was reported. Of the 30,173 positive cases reported so far, 29,205 patients have been cured of the disease. There are now 616 active cases in the district. The death toll stands at 352.1,729 get jabbedAs many as 1,729 persons were vaccinated at 21 government centres across the district. Among them, 1,254 persons were aged between18 and 44, 269 between 45 and 59 and 87 above 60.A total of 2,18,646 persons have been vaccinated in the district so far. While 1,68,689 got the first dose, 49,957 received the second shot, too. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-one-death-111-new-cases-262941
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board to auction 150 commercial units||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has invited e-bids for the sale of 150 built-up commercial units on a leasehold basis.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said the e-tender process was open to all citizens as well as NRIs/persons of Indian origin above 18 years of age.The GST would not be charged on the consideration amount, he added. “The bidders can revise their e-bids any number of times till the closure of the bid submission,” he said.There would be no restriction on transfer of the commercial unit sold by way of e-tender subject to payment of prescribed transfer fee and permission from the CHB.Earnest money deposit (EMD) for each unit has to be submitted online through e-tendering portal (https://etenders.chd.nic.in).The amount of EMD will be Rs2 lakh for the unit with the reserve price of Rs1 crore, Rs5 lakh for the reserve price of more than Rs1 crore but up to Rs2.50 crore and Rs10 lakh for a property with the reserve price of more than Rs2.5 crore but up to Rs5 crore.The bidder can submit the bid only after depositing the EMD. In case of unsuccessful e-bids, the EMD would be refunded online.E-tenders will be made available for bidding on https://etenders.chd.nic.in on June 8 at 10 am. The last date for e-bid submission is June 30 till 6 pm. In order to submit e-bids, every prospective bidder is required to get himself/herself registered on the e-tendering portal. All willing participants may visit the official website www.chbonline.in to know the procedure.The bids will be opened on July 1 at 10 am. Specific details like unit number, location and the reserve price of each of the unit are available on the CHB website. Stickers have been pasted on each commercial unit and the prospective bidder may visit the unit any time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-to-auction-150-commercial-units-262942
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Expect light rain in Chandigarh for 2 days||There is a forecast of light rain on Friday and Saturday.According to the Chandigarh Meteorological Department, the next two days are expected to see a partly cloudy sky with thundery development/light rain.On Sunday, the city is likely to see a clear sky.Meanwhile, the city today recorded a maximum temperature of 34°C, five degrees below normal.The minimum temperature was 25.2°C, which was normal for the day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/expect-light-rain-in-chandigarh-for-2-days-262944
04-06-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Panchkula District Attorney for FIRs against Paras, Alchemist||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 3The District Attorney (DA), Panchkula, has given a legal opinion for the registration of FIRs against Paras Hospital and Alchemist Hospital for alleged cheating, forgery and disobedience to order duly promulgated under the IPC, the Epidemic Act and the Disaster Management Act.In the case of Alchemist Hospital, District Attorney Pankaj Raj Garg opined that it violated the guidelines issued by the Haryana Government, “which calls for criminal action, besides administrative action,” for overcharging from patient Milan Sharma.The patient was issued a bill on May 22 for Rs3.63 lakh and as per a show-cause notice issued to the hospital. Had the patient been covered under the Haryana Government instructions, only Rs2.70 lakh would have been charged. So, the patient was charged Rs92,403 more, which is 34 per cent more than the legitimate bill.The FIR has been recommended under Sections 188, 420, 465, 468 and 471 of the IPC, Section 3 of the Epidemic Act and Sections 51, 53, 57 and 58 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.In the case of Paras Hospital, it was found that it overcharged patient Man Singh 50 per cent extra (Rs2.26 lakh more), vide a bill, dated April 25, as compared to the market rate for administering drug immunoglobulin.Another patient, Vijay Kumar, was issued a bill, dated May 8, for Rs19.51 lakh, of which Rs12.39 lakh was paid, while Rs7.12 lakh was outstanding. As per the Haryana Government instructions, the bill should have been Rs5.68 lakh.Patient SK Sud was charged Rs1.40 lakh in excess, vide a bill, dated May 25, which was 171.67 per cent extra than the legitimate bill.The District Attorney observed that in the case of patient Jog Dhian, Paras Hospital had overcharged, but later it was rectified on the intervention of a committee, constituted by the DC.The District Attorney has called for the registration of FIR against Paras Hospital under Sections 188, 420, 465, 468 and 471 of the IPC, Section 3 of the Epidemic Act and Sections 51, 53, 57 and 58 of the Disaster Management Act.The FIRs have been recommended to be registered complaint-wise.The District Attorney’s opinion was sought after the district-level committee gave its findings. In its recommendations, the District Attorney has recommended appointing a nodal officer through whom the payment of bills should be routed to private hospitals. It will help check excessive billing.He said the nodal officer could also be assigned the duty of verifying the purchase of medicines or equipment bills of the hospitals for treating Covid patients and the amount charged by the hospitals.He said private hospitals could also be directed to upload the complete data about patients admitted with Covid-19 in the said hospital and the amount in detail with full particulars charged from them.Both hospitals denied the allegations and claimed they were cooperating in the investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-district-attorney-for-firs-against-paras-alchemist-262945
04-06-2021||---||NITI Aayog’s Sustainable Development Goals India Index : Chandigarh tops the chart among UTs||Chandigarh, June 3Chandigarh has achieved most of the goals set by the NITI Aayog in the third edition of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) India Index 2020-21.Among the UTs, Chandigarh, with 79 points, topped the chart on a score of 100. The city was followed by Delhi, Puducherry and Lakshadweep (68 points), Andaman and Nicobar Islands (67), Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh (66) and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu (62).Among the states, Kerala was placed on the top of the chart with 75 points. Himachal Pradesh bagged 74 points to secure the second position. Punjab and Haryana scored 68 and 67 points, respectively.Made it to the top despite pandemic, says AdviserDespite the Covid scenario, we have been able to top the list, thanks to the leadership of UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, the dedication and team spirit of officials and cooperation of city residents. —Manoj Parida, Chandigarh AdviserThe index was prepared on the basis of 15 identified goals, including a host of social, environmental and economic parameters.On the “affordable and clean energy and reduce inequalities” front, the score of the city was a prefect 100, according to the SDG Index report. However, it performed the worst with 45 points on the industry, innovation and infrastructure front.Tamil Nadu and Delhi have been adjudged the best in dealing with issues related to alleviation of poverty. Similarly, Kerala and Chandigarh did well to ensure zero hunger.The overall performance of Chandigarh improved to some extent from 70 in 2019 to 79 in 2020.On the good health goal, Gujarat and Delhi have been adjudged the best, while Kerala and Chandigarh were on the top of the chart in terms of quality education. Chhattisgarh and Andaman and Nicobar Islands did well in ensuring gender equality. Goa and Lakshadweep did well on the clean water and sanitation front.On the economic growth count, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh topped the chart, as did Gujarat and Delhi in terms of having good infrastructure. In the case of life on the land, Arunachal Pradesh and Chandigarh got the top rank. In terms of peace and justice, Uttarakhand and Puducherry were found to be the best.UT Adviser Manoj Parida lauded the Chandigarh Administration for making Herculean efforts to ensure the top rank for the UT despite the pandemic. He expressed the hope that the performance would continue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/niti-aayogs-sustainable-development-goals-india-index-chandigarh-tops-the-chart-among-uts-262946
04-06-2021||Panchkula||Cancellation of  Class XII exams: PM speaks to Panchkula student, gets nostalgic||Prime Minister Narendra Modi turned nostalgic while speaking to a local boy on the cancellation of Class XII board examinations via videoconferencing today.He spoke to Hiteshwar Sharma, a Class XII student of humanities, during his interaction with 17 students from various parts of the country. Modi also interacted with his parents Ashutosh Rajan, an HCS officer, and Meenakshi Sharma.While interacting with Hiteshwar, Modi came to know that the boy lives in Panchkula. On this, he asked the boy in which sector he lived in. Hiteshwar replied that he resided in Sector 10.Modi told the local lad that he had stayed in Sector 7 of Panchkula for many years. Hiteshwar told the PM that he was not aware of this, while adding that he and his friends wanted to see him in the city.The PM asked Hiteshwar about his views on the cancellation of the Class XII board exams.Hiteshwar, who was a national topper in Class X, replied that initially, he felt bad because he was expecting to top exams once again. However, he was happy that the PM considered the well-being of the students more than anything else during the pandemic times, he added.Commenting on the cancellation of the exams, Modi said, “Jeevan ki pariksha ka mulya anko se jyada hota hai aur hamen us per dhyan dena chahiye. Gyan kabhi nasht nahin hota, woh kahin na kahin kam jarur aata hai.....”. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cancellation-of-class-xii-exams-pm-speaks-to-panchkula-student-gets-nostalgic-262947
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha again in ICU, stable||Former Indian sprinter and 91-year-old Milkha Singh has been admitted to the ICU at the Covid hospital, PGI, following a dip in the oxygen level.A team of doctors said he had been kept under observation. His condition is said to be stable now. With fluctuating oxygen requirement, his 82-year-old wife Nirmal Milkha Singh also continues to be in the ICU at a private hospital in Mohali.“Milkha is doing fine, but has been kept under strict observation. He has been following a good routine but suddenly his saturation level dropped following which he was rushed to the PGI,” said a source.Milkha’s admission to the PGI is a cause for concern as he was recently discharged from a private hospital on May 30 on the request of his family and was under home isolation. He was being treated along with his wife at the hospital.Milkha’s daughter Dr Mona Singh, who works at Covid ward in Metropolitan Hospital Center in New York, came to India last week and is coordinating with the doctors at the hospitals.Last month, Milkha was said to have contracted the infection from a house help. The legendary athlete is a four-time Asian Games gold medallist and 1958 Commonwealth Games champion but his greatest performance was the fourth-place finish in the 400m final at the 1960 Rome Olympics. His timing at the Italian capital remained the national record for 38 years till Paramjeet Singh broke it in 1998.Milkha also represented India in the 1956 and 1964 Olympics and was bestowed the Padma Shri in 1959. “He has been admitted to the PGI ICU ward. Praying to God for them (parents) to pull through,” said Jeev Milkha Singh, the couple’s son and ace golfer. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-again-in-icu-stable-262948
04-06-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali MC asks Powercom to pass on Rs 27-cr municipal tax||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 3Facing financial crunch, the Mohali Municipal Corporation has asked Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to pay Rs27 crore collected by the Powercom from its consumers as municipal tax since 2017.In a letter to the Managing Director, PSPCL, Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu said as per the Punjab Government notification dated November 22, 2017, a two per cent municipal tax was being charged on the electricity bills issued to the consumers.As per the notification, the PSPCL was supposed to pay Rs30 crore to the Mohali MC. However, the PSPCL paid only Rs3.01 crore to the corporation so far, Sidhu mentioned.Accordingly, the PSPCL is supposed to pay Rs27 crore to the corporation, he said.Sidhu further said the arrears in this regard could be higher as the details about the total units of electricity consumed by the people in Mohali city and areas falling under the civic body were not available with them.The municipal tax on power consumed is the main source of income for the civic body and the delay in transferring the amount is causing delay in development works to be carried out in the MC area. —Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu, MayorHe stated that despite several letters to the local office of the PSPCL with regard to the payment of the remaining amount, nothing had been done so far.“The municipal tax on power consumed is the main source of income for the civic body and the delay in transferring the amount is causing delay in development works to be carried out in the MC area,” Sidhu pointed out.The Mayor urged the PSPCL MD to “immediately transfer” the remaining amount of Rs27 crore so that development works could be carried out in the MC area for the benefit of people.Money mattersAs per the Punjab Government notification dated November 22, 2017, a two per cent municipal tax is being charged on the electricity bills issued to the consumers. As such, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited is supposed to pay Rs30 crore to the Mohali MC. However, the PSPCL has paid only Rs3.01 crore to the corporation so far||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-asks-powercom-to-pass-on-rs-27-cr-municipal-tax-262949
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||PU depts, libraries to stay closed till June 9||Complying with the orders of the UT Administration, the Panjab University authorities have decided to keep departments and libraries shut till June 9.The authorities also decided against the opening of hostels.“Following the orders of the UT Administration, teaching departments and libraries of Panjab University will remain closed till June 9,” read a PU circular. “It has already been advised that the hostel residents should go back to their families for their safety and health. The hostel residents are hereby again advised not to come back to the university until Panjab University authorities issue notice in this regard.”“To break the chain of Covid infection and in the larger interest of all of us and for the safety of residents and staff from the current pandemic, students should stay at home and join online classes/e-library,” it added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-depts-libraries-to-stay-closed-till-june-9-262950
04-06-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||No relief for auto dealer from consumer panel||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, June 3The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has upheld the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum’s order against auto dealer Krishna Auto Sales, Industrial Area, saying that the revision petition filed by the latter holds “no merit”.The auto dealer had challenged the District Consumer Forum’s order dated September 10, 2020 in which the dealer had been told to release the vehicle against a payment of Rs 25,000 for the repair of the vehicle subject to the outcome of the complaint.In her complaint to the form, city resident Poonam Sharma had alleged that despite making a payment of Rs 30,000 her car Skoda Rapid was still lying with the auto dealer for repairs. And now they are asking for money to repair the vehicle, she added.Sharma said she took the vehicle for repair on December 28, 2019 and since then it had been lying with the dealer.Counsel for the auto dealer submitted that the district forum while passing the impugned order failed to take into account an annexure with the complaint, in which the auto dealer had written the technical advice.He alleged that the complainant was not ready to permit the dealer to repair the EGR cooler and as such, the problem of white smoke could not be rectified by replacing the spare parts mentioned at serial No. 1 to 6.He claimed that the representative of the complainant refused to take the delivery of the vehicle and filed a consumer complaint before the forum.The counsel further submitted that the defects in the car occurred due to irregular service. He further submitted that the vehicle was six years old.On the other hand, the complainant said that when she visited the auto dealer in compliance with the order of the forum, the dealer refused to accept the amount of Rs 25,000 and deliver the vehicle.She said the dealer rather demanded Rs 1,71,000 which constrained her to file an execution application before the district forum.The application is pending for adjudication.The complainant alleged that the documents submitted by the dealer were fabricated as they did not bore her signature.After examining the records, the commission refused to interfere in the order passed by the district forum and said: “The order is very much clear and self-explanatory.”“It is the admitted fact that the complainant already made the payment of Rs 30,000 for repair of the vehicle but the vehicle is still lying with the dealer, and further for change of the spare parts, some more amount was required,” the commission observed.“The district commission rightly directed to make the further payment of Rs 25,000 for repair of the vehicle subject to outcome of the complaint, meaning thereby, the issue of pending payment will be seen at the time of decision on the complaint.“When the dealer refused to accept the same, rather demanded an amount of Rs 1,71,000 from the complainant, the consumer was constrained to file an application which is pending before the district forum for adjudication,” it said.“So, we are of the view that the district forum rightly passed the order. As such we do not find any merit in the revision petition.” the commission added.The commission further stated that the present revision petition had been dismissed and hence, the stay application filed by the revision petitioner stood “infructuous”.The commission also directed both the parties to appear before the district forum on July 22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-relief-for-auto-dealer-from-consumer-panel-262951
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-positive Milkha Singh admitted to ICU of PGIMER due to dipping oxygen levels||Legendary athlete Milkha Singh who is Covid-19 positive was admitted to the ICU in Covid Hospital of the PGIMER here on Thursday due to dipping levels of oxygen.He has been kept under observation and is stable now. He was discharged from a private hospital earlier this week.Milkha Singh was on Sunday discharged from a private hospital where he was getting treatment for Covid-19 infection even as he continues to be on oxygen support.The 91-year-old was discharged in stable condition on the request of his family.“On the request of the family, Mr Milkha Singh was discharged from the hospital today in a stable condition. He is on oxygen and nutritional support,” the Fortis hospital, Mohali, had said in its update.Milkha is suspected to have contracted the infection from a house help.The legendary athlete is a four-time Asian Games gold medallist and 1958 Commonwealth Games champion but his greatest performance was the fourth-place finish in the 400m final at the 1960 Rome Olympics.His timing at the Italian capital remained the national record for 38 years till Paramjeet Singh broke it in 1998.He also represented India in the 1956 and 1964 Olympics and was bestowed the Padma Shri in 1959.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-positive-milkha-singh-admitted-to-icu-of-pgimer-due-to-dipping-oxygen-levels-262939
