05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports fewer than 100 Covid-19 cases for second day in a row||Chandigarh reported 98 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths over the last 24 hours, a health bulletin from the Chandigarh administration said on Saturday.This is the second day the union territory reported below 100 new Covid-19 cases. The UT now has 925 active cases. Its death toll stands at 768.The bulletin said 2,785 samples had been tested over the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, 175 people were released from hospitals and home isolation, the bulletin showed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-fewer-than-100-covid-19-cases-for-second-day-in-a-row-263899
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-positive Milkha Singh is ‘stable and better’: PGIMER||Legendary Indian sprinter Milkha Singh, who is battling Covid-19 in the ICU of PGIMER here, is stable and his condition is “better than yesterday”, the hospital said on Saturday.The 91-year-old, who is being closely monitored by a team of three doctors, is still on oxygen support.“Flying Sikh Shri Milkha Singh ji, being unwell due to Covid-19, has been admitted in the ICU of NHE Block of PGIMER since June 3.“On the basis of all the medical parameters today, that is June 5, his condition has been observed better than yesterday,” Prof Ashok Kumar, official spokesperson of PGIMER, said in a statement.The top hospital had on Friday said that Milkha was “better and more stable”.Milkha’s family also issued a statement through a spokesperson that the iconic athlete “is stable and doing well, but still on oxygen.”               “Please ignore the rumours floating around. It’s false news,” the spokesperson said, referring to some false social media posts which has been doing the rounds since Saturday morning.Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju also quashed the rumours and wished Milkha a speedy recovery.“Please don’t run false news and create rumours about the legendary athlete and pride of India Milkha Singh Ji. He is stable and let’s pray for his fast recovery,” he tweeted.Milkha was brought to the hospital on Thursday with dipping levels of oxygen.On Friday, Milkha had received a phone call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi enquiring about his health.Modi spoke to Milkha and expressed hope that the iconic sportsman will be back soon to “bless and inspire athletes, who will be participating in the Tokyo Olympics.”         Milkha was discharged from Fortis hospital in Mohali, where he received treatment for COVID Pneumonia, on Sunday last on the request of his family.He, however, continued to be on oxygen support at home.Milkha’s 82-year-old wife Nirmal, who had also contracted COVID-19 days after her husband got the infection, continues to be in the ICU of the Fortis hospital.“Mrs Nirmal Milkha ji continues to battle it out valiantly,” the statement from the family spokesperson said.Milkha’s son and ace golfer Jeev had reached Chandigarh from Dubai on May 22. His elder sister, Mona Milkha Singh, who is a physician in the United States, had also reached here.Milkha is suspected to have contracted the infection from a house help.The legendary athlete is a four-time Asian Games gold medallist and 1958 Commonwealth Games champion but his greatest performance remains the fourth-place finish in the 400m final of the 1960 Rome Olympics.His timing at the Italian capital was a national record for 38 years till Paramjeet Singh broke it in 1998.He also represented India in the 1956 and 1964 Olympics and was bestowed the Padma Shri in 1959. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-positive-milkha-singh-is-stable-and-better-pgimer-263851
05-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Here's how 76-year-old Chandigarh man beats depression; turns into an Instagram celeb; shares his story||While the lockdown is making the most of us extremely lazy, a 76-year-old is buzzing all thanks to his motivating and jaw-dropping fitness 'inspiring' clips.  His videos prove that age is just a number. The Chandigarh resident, Tripat Singh, maintains a strict fitness routine and a proper vegan diet. Singh has gained celebrity status on Instagram.With 7k follower on social media, Singh mostly posts exercise videos. Singh also shares exercises that his followers could perform at home.In a heart-to-heart conversation with Humans Of Bombay, the fit septuagenarian opened up about his journey towards becoming a fitness enthusiast.Talking about his journey, Singh revealed that it was his wife's demise that pushed him towards the road of fitness. Humans of Bombay shared a video where Singh with a picture of his late wife. He revealed that his wife passed away in 1999, leaving him heartbroken and depressed. He soon realised that his wife would have been disappointed seeing him this way, which pushed him to bounce back. Now, he runs a successful business and is fitter than ever.The video shows Singh doing different exercises — ranging from lifting weights, working out using monkey bars and even lifting weights while hanging inverted from a monkey bar. Several on Instagram praised his fitness as well as his journey. Have a look: A post shared by Humans of Bombay (@officialhumansofbombay)A post shared by Tripat Singh (@_tripat_singh)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/heres-how-76-year-old-chandigarh-man-beats-depression-turns-into-an-instagram-celeb-shares-his-story-263842
05-06-2021||---||Digital summer camp at GES Gazipur||Chandigarh, June 5With the norms of social distancing still in place, the summer camp at G.E.S. Gazipur took the digital route this year.The camp had experts from various fields provide guidance on the lockdown trend of home-cooking, craft ideas, motivational talks, music, dance and art.The digital camp received an overwhelming response from the students and even their parents. Experts who addressed the camp included Yoga teacher Anju Sharma, Singapore-based academician, Shilpi Sharma,  Fitness trainers Narayan Arora and Prashant  Sandhu, Arts professor Gayatri  Singh and English trainer Aashima Malik Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/digital-summer-camp-at-ges-gazipur-263838
05-06-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Panchkula private hospitals under lens as complaints pour in||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 4After complaints of overcharging Covid patients, Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has issued six more notices to Paras Hospital, Sector 23, Alchemist Hospital, Sector 21, and Wings Hospital, Sector 25.Bills not in line with govt-approved ratesPatients have been charged 42 per cent to even 345 per cent in excess of the legitimate bill that was to be calculated as per the Haryana Government instructions, dated June 25, 2020, vide which Covid treatment rates have been capped.Hospitals that have been put on noticeOne notice was issued to Wings Hospital, two to Paras Hospital and three to Alchemist Hospital.Patients have been charged 42 per cent to even 345 per cent in excess of the legitimate bill that was to be calculated as per the Haryana Government instructions, dated June 25, 2020, vide which Covid treatment rates have been capped.A district-level committee, which is monitoring Covid bills, under Additional Deputy Commissioner Mohd Imran Raza, had looked into the bills of the patients and after their reports, show-cause notices, dated June 3, were issued. On May 31 too, the Deputy Commissioner had issued five notices to Paras Hospital and Alchemist Hospital.Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, who is the local MLA, has been pressing for action against hospitals and refund of the excess amount.BB Singal, a member of the Haryana State Pharmacy Council and member of the Covid bill monitoring committee, said, “The next step is to analyse whether the amount of remdesivir and tocilizumab were charged from patients at government-approved rates. It is being observed that some hospitals have charged Rs50,000 to Rs60,000 per day irrespective of the severity of the disease, flouting all Covid instructions.”Many cases of excess billingIn the case of Wings Hospital, a Covid patient, Arun Kumar, was issued a bill of Rs 80,132 for three days, from May 2 to May 4. After an analysis by the district-level committee, it was found that he was overcharged Rs 34,132, which is 74 per cent of the legitimate bill, which should have been Rs 46,000 in his case, said the show-cause notice.Anju Aggarwal was admitted for nine days, from May 2 to May 10, at Alchemist Hospital for Covid. She was charged Rs 3.03 lakh, while the legitimate bill should have been Rs 2.13 lakh. The show-cause notice said she was overcharged Rs 90,177, which is 42 per cent of the legitimate bill.In another case of Alchemist Hospital, a Covid patient, Ashok Bhandari, was issued a bill of Rs 3.07 lakh, dated April 19. He has been charged Rs 92,541 in excess, which is 43.2 per cent of the legitimate bill amount, said the show-cause notice.Rajinder Kumar stayed at Alchemist Hospital for 24 days, from April 3 to April 27. He was issued a bill of Rs 7.04 lakh, after allowing a discount of Rs 11,520. The show-cause notice said as per the state government instructions, the bill should have been Rs 3.52 lakh. He has been overcharged Rs 3.51 lakh, which is 99 per cent of the legitimate bill, said the notice.In the case of Paras Hospital, a patient, Mamta Rani, was issued a bill Rs 3.29 lakh. The legitimate bill should have been Rs 1.75 lakh as per the show-cause notice. She has been charged Rs 1.54 lakh in excess, which is 87.8 per cent of the legitimate bill amount, added the notice.In another case of Paras Hospital, Kamla Devi was issued a bill of Rs 1.66 lakh, while the legitimate bill should have been Rs 37,250. She was hospitalised for two days only on May 8. The show-cause notice said she was charged Rs 1.29 lakh in excess, which was 345 per cent of the legitimate bill.All three hospitals have to submit their replies within seven days regarding each case.Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja could not be contacted for comments. Paras Hospital and Alchemist Hospital have issued statements earlier, denying the charges of overcharging.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-private-hospitals-under-lens-as-complaints-pour-in-263663
05-06-2021||---||Chandigarh extends weekend curfew||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 4In its fight against the deadly coronovirus, the UT Administration has decided to extend the weekend curfew in the city.City witnesses 3 deaths, 88 casesChandigarh: The city reported three deaths and 88 new Covid-19 cases on Friday. The active cases now stand at 1,005 and the toll at 765. As many as 215 patients have recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours. TNSAccording to an order issued by District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar, the weekend corona curfew will be imposed from 5 am on Saturday to 5 am on Monday and no person will be allowed to leave home or move by vehicles during the curfew.However, shops dealing in the supply of essential goods such as milk, bread, vegetables, fruits, dairy products, eggs, meat, groceries and bakeries will be allowed to remain open for home delivery up to 2 pm.The manufacturing industry will be allowed to remain open and there will be no curbs on inter-state movement of essential and non-essential goods. Kitchens of restaurants or eating places and hotels can remain open for home delivery only up to 10 pm. Passengers going to or returning from the airport, railway station or the ISBT will be exempted.During the weekend curfew, those going for appearing in examination and those on examination duties will be allowed movement.All vaccination or testing centres will remain open and morning walk will be allowed from 6 am to 9 am. However, the public will maintain the Covid protocol.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-extends-weekend-curfew-263665
05-06-2021||Dera Bassi||Brother detained for youth’s death||A youth working at a meat plant in Behera village was found dead under mysterious circumstances here today.Suspecting it to be a case of murder, the police have detained the deceased Rizwan’s brother Salman after a preliminary investigation. The police said the brothers were working at a meat plant and lived in nearby quarters. Around 4 pm today, Salman called an acquaintance, Farman, from the nearby quarters and told him that his brother’s condition was critical and he had to be taken to a hospital.Farman told the police that he brought his three-wheeler to the spot where he had found Rizwan bleeding. His stomach was wrapped with a piece of cloth. He got scared and returned home. Later, he found Rizwan’s body near his quarter, following which he informed the police.The police caught Salman at an eatery around 8 pm.Dera Bassi SHO Jatin Kapoor said the police took the body into their possession and kept it at the mortuary of the Civil Hospital. Further investigation in the case was on, the police said. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/brother-detained-for-youths-death-263666
05-06-2021||---||8 Chandigarh heritage items sold for Rs 58L abroad||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 4In yet another auction of heritage items from the city, eight artifacts designed by Pierre Jeanneret were sold for Rs58.39 lakh in auctions held in Luxembourg and France recently.Ajay Jagga, member, Heritage Protection Cell, Chandigarh, said in an auction held in Luxembourg on May 30, an easy table, an easy armchair, senate committee chairs and an office cane chair were sold for Rs34.51 lakh.Similarly, easy arm chairs, two sets of easy chairs and take down chairs were sold for Rs23.88 lakh in an auction held at Fontainebleau in France on May 29. In a letter to Minister for External Affairs S Jayashankar, Jagga said the auctions were held in violation of the Ministry of Home Affairs orders, dated February 22, 2011. “In view of the continuous auction of our heritage in foreign countries, without any resistance from India, there is a need to get the matter examined from law-enforcing agencies of Paris find out how these items reached there,” he said. “With these two auctions, their number has gone up to nine in 2021,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-chandigarh-heritage-items-sold-for-rs-58l-abroad-263667
05-06-2021||Naina Mishra||50% black fungus patients visiting PGI found Covid +ve||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 4Over 50 per cent patients visiting the PGI with mucormycosis symptoms were also diagnosed with Covid-19 on the same day.“A lot of people are presenting to our hospital with symptoms of mucormycosis (commonly known as black fungus) but they are found Covid positive as well on the same day,” said Dr Gyan Ranjan Nayak from the Department of ENT, PGI.“The association may be partly explained by the fact that many of them were borderline diabetic or pre-diabetic and their blood sugar levels shot up when they contracted Covid-19. The patients can be asymptomatic for Covid but can develop mucormycosis symptoms,” said Dr Nayak.Prof Arunaloke Chakrabarti, Head of Department, Medical Microbiology, PGI, said, “A lot of people in our country take medicines without consulting doctors. There is hardly any patient of mucormycosis in the PGI who does not have hyper glycemia.”“Almost 80 per cent mucormycosis patients were also taking steroids. When they came to the PGI, they were found infected with the fungal infection as well as the Covid,” said Prof Chakrabarti.The PGI has so far seen 189 patients of mucormycosis, of which 60 per cent (115) are Covid positive.After analysing the data related to the testing of these 115 patients, it was found that 50 per cent were diagnosed with both diseases on the same day, while 29 per cent were diagnosed with fungal infection within five days of being tested positive for the Covid. Around 77 per cent patients (136 out of 189) were found diabetic as well. A majority of patients diagnosed with fungal infection are in the age group of 51 to 60 years, followed by those above 61 years of age. At least 17 patients have succumbed to mucormycosis. “Mucormycosis is an aggressive fungal infection that occurs in people whose immune system doesn’t function well (immune-compromised), including people with uncontrolled diabetes mellitus,” said Prof Chakrabarti. “Mucor is in our environment, but it doesn’t enter our body because of immunity. In diabetes, innate immunity gets compromised,” he added. Ruling out the role of oxygen therapy in inducing fungal infection, Prof Chakrabarti said, “Oxygen therapy does not play any role in contributing to the growth of the fungal infection. Patients who are on oxygen, means they have severe infection, and such patients are at high risk of mucormycosis.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/50-black-fungus-patients-visiting-pgi-found-covid-ve-263674
05-06-2021||Dera Bassi||Chandigarh resident takes lift in SUV, robbed||Four unidentified persons robbed a Chandigarh resident of Rs1.20 lakh, gold and other belongings near here last night.The complainant, Davinder Sharma, said he used to repair jewellery of goldsmiths of Punjab and Haryana and had gone to Paonta Sahib for work. He was returning with jewellery when the incident took place.Sharma said at Ambala, he took a lift in an SUV going towards Chandigarh. Apart from the driver, there were three persons in the SUV.Sharma stated that when they reached Dera Bassi around 9.30 pm, the driver took a turn towards the forest area near Dera Bassi. The suspects then threatened him and robbed cash, jewellery, an ATM card, a mobile phone and other documents before fleeing. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-resident-takes-lift-in-suv-robbed-263675
05-06-2021||---||Vinay Pratap Singh is new Panchkula DC||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 4Vinay Pratap Singh, a 2011-batch IAS officer, has been posted as the Deputy Commissioner (DC) of Panchkula, replacing Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, who has been transferred to Gurugram as its Municipal Commissioner.Vinay Pratap Singh, one of the youngest DCs in the state, hails from Faridabad. He had graduated from the Birla Institute of Technology, Pilani, Rajasthan, in 2011.Meanwhile, Kurukshetra Deputy Commissioner Sharandeep Kaur Brar has been posted as the Commissioner of Panchkula Municipal Corporation, replacing RK Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vinay-pratap-singh-is-new-panchkula-dc-263676
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||10-15 days required for kidney patient’s surgery, HC told||For Bhupender Beniwal, there is light at the end of the tunnel, only the channel’s length has increased. Just about two days after the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGI) stated that the procedure for conducting his kidney patient nephew’s surgery had already commenced, the Punjab and Haryana High Court was today told that another 10-15 days were required for certain formalities.“It is fairly conceded by the counsel for the parties that before fixing the date of operation, certain formalities, including requisite tests, are necessary, which are going to take 10-15 days. Therefore, they jointly request for a date in the first week of July. Adjourned to July 7,” Justice Sant Parkash asserted.Beniwal had moved the court seeking directions to the hospital to operate upon his nephew apprehending acute kidney infection in the absence of surgical intervention. He added that the absence of surgery in all probability would result in kidney damage.He told the Bench that the surgery was slated for April 26, but the patient was, unfortunately, diagnosed as Covid positive. As such, the surgery could not be conducted on the slated day. He argued that the patient subsequently recovered and would now require surgical intervention already recommended by the treating surgeon.As the case came up for hearing, the Bench was told that the PGI had entertained the patient in accordance with the court orders and had conducted a preliminary test. But they were yet to be informed about the actual date for surgery.“This court is hopeful that all efforts would be made by the respondent to conduct the surgery as soon as possible,” Justice Jaishree Thakur added, before adjourning the hearing for today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-15-days-required-for-kidney-patients-surgery-hc-told-263677
05-06-2021||---||6.80 lakh people screened for Covid in Mohali villages||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 4In order to make Mohali villages free from Covid-19, the Health Department has screened around 6.80 lakh people after visiting 1.50 lakh houses in the rural areas of the district during a survey.‘Don’t step out of houses aimlessly’Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said though the number of new Covid cases was steadily declining on a daily basis, precautions were still needed. She appealed to people not to step out of their houses aimlessly. If there is an urgent need to move out, the face should be covered with a mask and necessary distance from each other should be maintained, she said.The statsCovid care centreThe Mohali Industries Association, in association with the Mehr Foundation, has set up a Covid care centre at Raen Basera, opposite Dara Studio, Phase VI. The 20-bed centre was inaugurated by Balbir Singh Sidhu, Minister for Health and Family Welfare, Punjab, on Friday. Yogesh Sagar, president, MIA, said they would provide meals, medicines, health supplements, oxygen concentration and cylinders, along with round-the-clock consultation, free of cost.Divulging details, Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said the survey, which started on May 21, was carried out in villages of three health blocks of the district namely Gharuan, Dera Bassi and Boothgarh. Health teams, including Asha workers, visited 1,49,891 houses in the district and examined a total of 6,86,881 persons. A total of 7,180 rapid antigen tests were conducted. Out of this, 328 were found to be Covid positive. The target was to visit 1,24,954 houses in villages and cover a population of 6,25,540. The villages within the city limits were also covered as a precautionary measure due to the pandemic.Dr Adarshpal reiterated that though the number of new Covid cases was steadily declining on a daily basis, precautions were still needed. She appealed to people not to step out of their houses aimlessly. If there is an urgent need to move out, the face should be covered with a mask and necessary distance from each other should be maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-80-lakh-people-screened-for-covid-in-mohali-villages-263684
05-06-2021||---||Army helps admn in conducting vaccination camp at Jagatpura||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 4The district administration in collaboration with the Army (Western Command) and Avtar Education Trust organised a vaccination camp under Mission Fateh 2.0 at Heritage Public School, Jagatpura, here.Appreciating the initiative, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dyalan said 100 doses each were procured and provided by the family of martyr Col Sanjay Rana and Avtar Education Trust.Dayalan said a large number of ex-servicemen were supporting the campaign and the Army provided doctors, paramedics, support staff, ambulances and other necessary equipment for the camp on Thursday.He said Jagatpura village was densely populated and efforts were being made for maximum vaccination on priority basis.“This will not only help in curbing the current wave of Covid but also help in achieving the target of 100 per cent vaccination in the district,” he said.Col Jasdeep Singh Sandhu, Director, Civil Military Affairs and Joint Operations, Western Command, said the Commander Lt General RP Singh had decided to extend all possible cooperation to the district administrations for expanding vaccination campaign.He said the vaccination camp emerged as a model in which the Army provided doctors, paramedics, ambulances, etc.“Such efforts by the Army will continue in future as well,” said Colonel Sandhu.Kinshuka Sethi, director, The Heritage Public School and Nodal Institute of Security Guards, said the school teachers went door to door to sensitise people on vaccination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/army-helps-admn-in-conducting-vaccination-camp-at-jagatpura-263686
05-06-2021||---||Chandigarh Congress sends memo to President Ram Nath Kovind over slow pace of vax drive||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 4The Chandigarh Territorial Congress Committee (CTCC) today sent a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind through the Punjab Governor on the issue of vaccination drive going on in the country. ‘Vaccinate 1 crore people daily’According to HS Lucky, chief spokesperson for the CTCC, the memorandum highlighted the slow pace of vaccination drive in the country and demanded 1 crore people to be vaccinated every day in India to achieve the desired results. It was also demanded that the vaccination be made free for all residents of the country.The SDM Central received the memorandum on behalf of the Governor. Chandigarh Territorial Congress Committee president Subhash Chawla and other senior leaders of the party, including Devinder Singh Babla and HS Lucky, handed over the memorandum to the SDM.According to HS Lucky, chief spokesperson for the Chandigarh Territorial Congress Committee, the memorandum highlighted the slow pace of vaccination drive in the country and demanded 1 crore people to be vaccinated every day in India to achieve the desired results. It was also demanded that the vaccination be made free for all residents of the country. The memorandum also listed the failure of the Central Government on various fronts related from vaccination procurement to its distribution and pricing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-congress-sends-memo-to-president-ram-nath-kovind-over-slow-pace-of-vax-drive-263689
05-06-2021||---||Traders want markets in Chandigarh sanitised regularly||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 4A meeting of members of the Municipal Corporation coordination subcommittee of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal was held here today.After due consultations and deliberations, the committee decided to take up various issues with the Municipal Corporation (MC).Committee chairman Sanjeev Chadha said the garbage collection process from the markets needs to be made practical by collecting the waste after the opening of business establishments.“A sum of Rs118 being charged by the MC on each transaction to pay property tax online should be waived immediately,” he said, adding that all markets should be sanitised properly on a regular basis to prevent the spread of Covid.During limited shopping hours, there should be no harassment by the anti-encroachment staff of the MC, he said.Chadha said a memorandum would be handed over to the MC Commissioner in this regard in the coming week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traders-want-markets-in-chandigarh-sanitised-regularly-263690
05-06-2021||---||Woman, son denied bail in abetment-to-suicide case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 4A local court has denied bail to a mother-son duo facing charges of abetment to suicide. The police had arrested Arnav Kashyap (20) and her mother Seema Kashyap after registering an FIR against them on the complaint of Prem Lata, daughter of late Deshraj, for offences under Sections 306, 120-B and 201 of the IPC at the Sector 17 police station in Chandigarh on October 30, 2020.Prem Lata, a resident of Delhi, alleged that her father, Deshraj, allegedly committed suicide due to alleged ill-treatment and harassment by his daughter-in-law Seema and grandson Arnav. In the complaint, she stated that her brother was residing in Sector 22-B, Chandigarh, along with their parents. She alleged that his family was not taking care of her parents. Whenever she used to talk to her father on phone, he always used to tell her that Seema and Arnav used to harass him and they never used to take care of him.On October 29, 2020, she received a call from her brother. When she reached Chandigarh, along with her family, she saw that the body of her father was kept in a freezer. She got suspicious when she noticed marks around her father’s neck. She informed the police about the incident. After investigation, the police arrested the mother-son duo.The counsel for the applicants pleaded for interim bail, saying they have been in custody since their arrest. The challan has already been filed and the charges have also been framed against the applicants. There is every apprehension of applicants contracting Covid-19 in the jail as the jail authorities are unable to maintain proper hygiene on the premises. He said they had been falsely implicated in the case for no fault of theirs.Public prosecutor JP Singh strongly opposed the bail on the basis of the severity of the offence. He also claimed that necessary steps were being taken to maintain high level of hygiene on the jail premises.After hearing the arguments, Narender, Additional Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, dismissed the interim bail application, saying mere long custody does not make the accused entitled to be given concession of bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-son-denied-bail-in-abetment-to-suicide-case-263691
05-06-2021||---||Court rejects bail application of robbery accused||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 4A local court here has denied bail to Vijay Singh Rawat, who was arrested for allegedly attacking and snatching a gold chain from a property dealer in Sector 44-D, Chandigarh.The police had registered a case on the complaint of the property dealer, who alleged that two persons entered his office on October 31, 2020. They attacked him and snatched his gold chain.When he objected, one of the suspects took out a knife from his pocket and started attacking him. The duo later fled from the spot.After registering a case against the suspects under Sections 379, 452, 411 and 34 of the IPC at Sector 34 police station, the police arrested the duo.The counsel for Vijay Singh argued before the court that he was falsely implicated in the case.Public prosecutor JP Singh opposed the bail, alleging that there are serious allegations against the applicant. After hearing the arguments, the court dismissed the bail application of the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-rejects-bail-application-of-robbery-accused-263692
05-06-2021||Panchkula||‘Asst Registrar trying to save all three accused’||Former president of the New Bankers Cooperative Thrift and Credit Society, Panchkula, has alleged that the Assistant Registrar, Co-operative Societies, Haryana, was trying to save the accused in a 2012 embezzlement case.In his complaint to the Lokayukta, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and State Cooperative Minister Banwari Lal, Sajeev Sharma demanded that the new inquiry report prepared by Assistant Registrar be rejected. He sought revocation of the RCS order and appointment of an administrator to review the recent decision.Sajeev Sharma alleged that the new inquiry report tried to save Kamaldeep Singh, Rakesh Sharma and Kashmir Singh who were arrested in the case earlier.The Co-operative Societies had received a complaint about the fudging of New Banker Thrift and Credit Society records after which a case was registered in 2012 to recover the records.Even as the police arrested the trio and presented the challan against them in the court, the Assistant Registrar failed to take possession of the seized records.Sanjeev Sharma said some employees and officials of the Cooperative department were allegedly trying to protect the accused by ignoring the departmental reports and records and manipulating these.He alleged that the officials were hatching a conspiracy to save the accused by destroying the records related to the transactions worth crores of rupees and presenting a new inquiry report.Sharma said action was not possible against the accused without holding a proper inquiry into the case.He also claimed that the Assistant Registrar in his statement to the court had stated that he would have no objection if the police discharge the accused. Sharma further claimed that the Assistant Registrar even failed to appoint an administrator for the society.He said the department had taken affidavits from some of the loanees stating that they had returned the loan taken from the society but failed to produce any document through which it could be confirmed that the loanees had actually returned the loan amount. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/asst-registrar-trying-to-save-all-three-accused-263693
05-06-2021||Panchkula||Illegal liquor factory at HSIIDC, Barwala: Delhi resident in Panchkula police net||The Panchkula police today claimed to have arrested a Delhi resident, an accused in an illegal liquor factory case. The illegal factory was unearthed at the HSIIDC, Barwala, on May 25.The suspect has been identified as Amit Goyal, a resident of Pitampura, North Delhi. He was produced before a court, which remanded him in judicial custody.Earlier, the police had arrested seven suspects - Dinesh Bansal, Rahul Gupta, Sanjeev Singla, Ankit, Monty, Kamal and Ravi – in this connection.It is pertinent to mention here that the CM Flying Squad had received a tip-off that some people were manufacturing and selling illegal liquor from a factory at Barwala. The suspects were supplying liquor on the pretext of setting up water filtration systems. A team, led by ASI Vinod Kumar, and two officials of the Excise Department raided the factory on May 25. When they entered the premises, four suspects were packing liquor bottles.A case under the Punjab Excise Act, Haryana Excise Act and Sections 420, 308 and 120-B of the IPC had been registered against the suspects. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/illegal-liquor-factory-at-hsiidc-barwala-delhi-resident-in-panchkula-police-net-263694
05-06-2021||---||Panchkula civic body stops dumping garbage at Sector 23||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 4Two days after the Chief Minister ordered to stop disposal of garbage at the Sector 23 dumping ground here, the Municipal Corporation has now started to dump the garbage at the Jhuriwala site, giving relief to the residents living in the Sectors across the Ghaggar.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal said the CM during a meeting with the MC officials gave clear instructions that if the garbage was not dumped at Jhuriwala, strict action would be taken against the officials concerned.People living in the sectors across the Ghaggar had to face a lot of problem due to the stink emanating from the garbage dump, particularly during the rainy season.During the municipal elections, the BJP had promised to shift the dumping ground from Sector 23.Goyal said a company had been entrusted with the task of clearing the dumping ground in Sector 23 and once the site was cleared a park would be built there.He informed that 100 tonne of garbage was generated from the city every day and was dumped at Sector 23 causing a lot of problem to the people living in the nearby areas.So far the Local Bodies Department has floated two tenders for Solid Waste Management Plant at Jhuriwala, but not a single agency has come forward to bid for the project, said Goyal.Now, preparations are being made by the Urban Local Bodies to float the tender again. There is a plan to build a solid waste management plant in Jhuriwala on 13.24 acres at a cost of about Rs 40 crore, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-civic-body-stops-dumping-garbage-at-sector-23-263696
05-06-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Uncertainty over Commonwealth shooting, archery events||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 4As medals at the Commonwealth Shooting and Archery Championships, scheduled to be held here in January next year, will not be added to the main tally of the 2022 Birmingham Commonwealth Games (CWG), the charm around hosting two competitions has diminished.Earlier, The Tribune confirmed that the Commonwealth Games Federation had reportedly communicated to the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) that medals won at the Commonwealth Shooting and Archery Championships to be held in Chandigarh would not be added to the main tally of the Birmingham CWG.IOA secretary general Rajiv Mehta added to doubts when he said, “It’ll be difficult to host the two events in Chandigarh as only seven months are left to prepare for the competitions. Besides, there is a large number of population still to be vaccinated against Covid in the UT.”Last year, just after the announcement about Chandigarh hosting the games, the UT Administration had started preparing for the event. Officials were awaiting visits from IOA representatives. But the second Covid wave seems to have derailed all plans.The Administration had planned to conduct the shooting championships at the Sector 25-based Patiala-ki-Rao Range and the archery competition at an open or close space, depending on discussions with IOA officials.It was also proposed to get more land and renovate the Sector 25 shooting range.Hosting championships would have helped the city develop world class sports infrastructure and bring it on the international sporting map.“We were expecting to reap benefits from these games by getting infrastructure for local sportspersons. If the championships were to be held, the IOA would have come up with a world class system here,” said a coach.“Both shooting and archery are among the neglected sports in Chandigarh. We have just one shooting range and that too is under the Chandigarh Police. Archery is limited to a couple of places – Lake Sports Complex and Panjab University. Conducting this major event could have given us the best for the rest of our lives,” the coach added.“Even if they decide to conduct the event in the coming days, it won’t be possible to develop world-class infrastructure at such a short notice,” said another coach.IOA chief Narinder Dhruv Batra was in the city recently. Though on a personal visit, people concerned with the development of sports could have discussed the issue with him. However, they were busy in a “show of strength” and getting the hold over the Chandigarh Olympic Association.“National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) president Raninder Singh admitted in an interview that everything will be taken care of. He claimed that on paper everything was planned and ensured to conduct the International Shooting Sport Federation Junior World Cup here in Chandigarh (after the Commonwealth Shooting Championship). But will all this happen? If the city has so much land to build a proper infrastructure then why wait for hosting an international championship?” asked an official, seeking anonymity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/uncertainty-over-commonwealth-shooting-archery-events-263701
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 35 schools contribute over 600 short videos||Thirty-five schools participated in the Inter-School Short Mobile Video Contest organised by Yuvsatta and the Department of Environment on the occasion of World Environment Day. The contest was based on the theme “Correlation of viruses, environment and Humans”.“Over 600 short videos have been posted by students from 35 schools of the city,” said Pramod Sharma, coordinator, Yuvsatta, an NGO.Aishana Kaushal of St Joseph’s School, Ojaswi Agarwal from Bhavan Vidyalaya, Deepanshu Garg of Gurukul Global School, Khushi Puri of Kids ‘R’ Kids and Manya of Manav Mangal School occupied the top-five positions in the junior category.In the senior category, Shubhdeep Kaur of GMSSS 37-B, Akshit Taneja of St Stephen’s School, Khushi Sheoran from Bhavan Vidyalaya, Arav Singh Kharola of Manav Mangal School, Aavni Agnihotri from Kids ‘R’ Kids, Hunar Nangru of Gurukul Global School and Shivangi Bhardwaj of St Joseph’s School won accolades.Shivani Sharma, Harmanjeet Kaur, Kanwaljit Kaur and Jagdeep Kaur of Manav Mangal School, Rajyasari of St Joseph’s School and Parminder Kaur of Kids ‘R’ Kids bagged the honours in teachers’ category.Eco-bricks from plastic wasteStudents of St Joseph’s Senior Secondary School, Sector 44-D, made eco-bricks with the assistance of the MC Sanitation Department. The initiative was part of the World Environment Day celebrations.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-35-schools-contribute-over-600-short-videos-263704
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Western Command chief reviews preparedness of Airawat Division||The General Officer Commanding-in-Chief (GOC-in-C), Western Command, Lt Gen RP Singh, visited the Airawat Division in Patiala today and reviewed formation’s operational preparednessHe lauded troops for their innovative approach towards training while adhering to the restrictions imposed due to Covid pandemic. He complimented all stakeholders for their sustained efforts for enhanced operational preparedness and professional training. He exhorted all ranks to retain operational focus in order to be prepared for future security challenges. During his visit he was also briefed on initiatives taken by the Army to assist the local population and veterans of the surrounding areas in the fight against Covid.Lt Gen Singh interacted with healthcare workers involved in Covid management and lauded their efforts in providing medical support to serving personnel, veterans, families and civilians. He also met Col Manoj Kumar Sharma, CO, Western Command Covid Hospital, Patiala, and complimented the team running facility at Rajindra Hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/western-command-chief-reviews-preparedness-of-airawat-division-263706
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||PM Narendra Modi dials Milkha Singh, wishes him speedy recovery||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday spoke to former Indian sprinter Milkha Singh and enquired about his health. Modi wished the legendary athlete a speedy recovery and hoped he would be back soon to bless and inspire the athletes who are participating in the Tokyo Olympics.Milkha Singh is more stable than he was before, Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) said on Friday. “Milka Singh was admitted to the PGIMER ICU yesterday. He is being closely monitored by a team of three doctors,” a spokesperson said.“The condition of Milkha Singh’s wife has deteriorated with progression of disease and increase in oxygen requirement. She is presently on HFNC and NIV intermittently,” said a statement by Fortis Hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pm-narendra-modi-dials-milkha-singh-wishes-him-speedy-recovery-263411
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Flying Sikh Milkha Singh better, but wife's health plummets||Legendary athlete Milkha Singh is doing better but the condition of his wife is on the decline, doctors treating them said in two different statements on Friday.  The couple, who tested positive for Covid-19 in the last week of May, are currently being treated at two different hospitals in the Tricity—the 91-year-old Milkha Singh at Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research and his 82-year-old  wife, a former captain of Indian women's volleyball team, at Fortis Hospital in Mohali. A statement from PGI, where Milkha Singh is admitted to an Intensive Care Unit, said he was doing better than before. “Flying Sikh Milka Singh Ji, being unwell due to Covid-19 was admitted in ICU of NHE Block of PGIMER yesterday i.e 3rd June 2021. On the basis of all the medical parameters today, his condition has been observed better and more stable than yesterday. He is closely being monitored by a team of three doctors at PGIMER,” an official spokesperson said in a statement.A statement from Fortis Hospital for his wife bore grimmer news: the hospital said in a statement that the health of Nirmal Milkha Singh declined as the disease progressed, leading them to increase her dosage of medical oxygen."She is presently on HFNC and NIV intermittently," the statement said.  The couple tested positive for Covid-19 in the last week of May and were admitted to Fortis hospital, Mohali. Milkha Singh was released from the hospital on May 31, but his wife had then been moved to the hospital’s ICU after her oxygen levels dipped.Milkha Singh meanwhile was admitted to PGI after his blood oxygen level plummeted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/flying-sikh-milkha-singh-better-but-wifes-health-plummets-263362
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Weekend curfew in Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s district magistrate imposed weekend curfew in the union territory---a development that comes even as cases continue to decline.An order signed by Chandigarh District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar said the curfew would be imposed in the union territory from 8 am on Saturday to 5 am on Monday.The following category of people are exempted from the curfew:—Those tanked with law & order, emergency and municipal services/duties including Executive Magistrates, Police personnel, military/CA.P.F personnel in uniform health, electricity, fire, media persons with accreditation, telecom services including internet, government postal services, banking and government machinery tasked with Covid-19 related duties (all on the production of identity card)— Shops dealing with supply of essential goods like milk, bread, vegetables, fruits, dairy products, eggs meal, groceries, bakeries, etc. will be allowed to remain open only for home delivery up to 2:00 pm— The manufacturing industry will be allowed to remain open. The movement of employee/labour manufacturing unit/industry and vehicles carrying them will be allowed. However, such industries must provide the requisite permission/identity cards for the purpose. Details of the same will be shared with Director, Industries, Chandigarh— There shall be no curb on inter-State movement of essential and non-essential goods— All vehicles/persons in bonafide transit and inter-state travel will be allowed to pass after verification of point of origin and destination—ATM, hospitals, veterinary hospitals, and all related medical establishments, both public and private, will remain open—Kitchens in restaurants, hotels and food establishments can remain open for home delivery until 10 pm. Staff must carry appropriate IDs.—Pregnant women and patients requiring medical services will be allowed to travel, as will passengers returning from airports, railway stations and interstate bus stands.  —Marriage functions can continue with permission from the district magistrate. Such functions can’t have more than 20 people. Funerals can’t have more than 10 people.—People taking or overseeing examinations will be allowed to travel on the production of an appropriate ID/admit card—Those with a restricted movement pass can travel—Government employees will be allowed to travel on the production of an appropriate ID—All vaccination centres/ testing centres/dispensaries/ medical facilities will remain open.—Morning walks will be allowed between 6 am and 9 am provided Covid protocols are strictly adhered to.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-weekend-curfew-in-chandigarh-263349
