06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 74 new Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths||Chandigarh reported 74 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths, a health bulletin showed on Saturday.This is the lowest the union territory has reported in over two months.The UT now has 833 active cases. Its death toll since the pandemic began last year stands at 772.The bulletin showed 162 recoveries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-74-new-covid-19-cases-4-deaths-264401
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh showing ‘continuous improvement’ in Covid fight, wife battling it ‘bravely’||Indian sprint icon Milkha Singh is showing “continuous improvement” as he battles Covid-19 in the Intensive Care Unit of PGIMER hospital, the facility’s spokesperson said on Sunday.The 91-year-old is being closely monitored by a medical team at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).“Legendary sprinter Shri Milkha Singh ji, who has been admitted in the ICU of NHE Block of PGIMER since June 3 and getting treatment for Covid-19, is showing continuous improvement,” hospital spokesperson Prof Ashok Kumar stated.“On the basis of all the medical parameters today, that is June 6, his condition has been observed better than previous days,” Prof Ashok Kumar, official spokesperson of PGI, said in a statement.Milkha’s family also issued a statement through a spokesperson stating that the iconic athlete is improving and his condition is stable.His Covid positive wife Nirmal Kaur (82), however, “continues to battle it out bravely,” according to the spokesperson.Kaur is currently admitted at the Fortis hospital in Mohali.Milkha was also admitted at the same hospital earlier but was discharged on Sunday last on the request of his family.He, however, continued to be on oxygen support at home and was admitted to PGIMER after his oxygen levels began to dip.Milkha is suspected to have contracted the infection from a house help.The legendary athlete is a four-time Asian Games gold medallist and 1958 Commonwealth Games champion but his greatest performance remains the fourth-place finish in the 400m final of the 1960 Rome Olympics.His timing at the Italian capital was a national record for 38 years till Paramjeet Singh broke it in 1998.He also represented India in the 1956 and 1964 Olympics and was bestowed the Padma Shri in 1959. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-singh-showing-continuous-improvement-in-covid-fight-wife-battling-it-bravely-264395
06-06-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Farmers lathicharged in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 5Protesting farmers were lathicharged by the police as they tried to move towards the residence of Haryana Assembly Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta here today.Block highwayProtesting farmers blocked the Zirakpur-Kalka highway for about two hours, causing inconvenience to commuters. The traffic police had to divert the traffic. Police officials held talks with them to end the blockade. However, they relented when officials of the district administration reached there.According to information, hundreds of members of the BKU led by its block president Gurjant Singh blocked the toll plaza near Chandimandir and raised slogans against the Union government. They were protesting in response to a nationwide call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha against the controversial farm laws.From Chandimandir, the protesters started proceeding towards the residence of MLA Gian Chand Gupta in cars and tractor trolleys to burn copies of the three farm laws. Various farmers from Barwala and Raipur Rani joined them at old Panchkula.The police tried to stop them on the way but they managed to reach Suraj Theatre where cops had set up barricades. The farmers tried to cross the barricades following which the police resorted to a mild lathicharge. Some protesters were injured in the police action. Baldev Singh Surajpur, Khushdeep Singh, Taranjit Singh Manakpur, Mandeep Singh, Anmol and Sitar Mohammad were among those hurt.Talking to mediapersons, Gurjant Singh alleged that some officials of the district administration had used abusive language against them to instigate them. He claimed that some police officials were in civil dress. He said they were to hold a peaceful protest but continuous attempts were allegedly made by police officials to vitiate the atmosphere.Later, the protesters blocked the Panchkula-Shimla highway for about two hours, which caused inconvenience to commuters. The traffic police had to divert the traffic.A team of Crime Branch and detective staff, including an ACP, a DSP and the Sector 5 police station in-charge, reached the spot. In the meantime, police officials continued to hold talks with the protesters. The farmers lifted the blockade after officials of the district administration reached the site.Deputy Commissioner of Police Mohit Handa claimed that neither any order was given nor the protesting farmers were lathicharged. He said the police peacefully tried to stop the protesters from moving towards the residence of the local MLA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-lathicharged-in-panchkula-264175
06-06-2021||Mohali||Dharna staged outside Union Minister’s house||On a nationwide call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), hundreds of farmers staged a dharna outside the residence of Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Som Parkash in Sector 71 here today to protest against the controversial farm laws. The protesters also burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi besides putting on fire copies of the three farm laws.Since farmers had already announced to gherao the minister’s house, the police had cordoned off the entire area since morning. However, protesters managed to reach there.Farmers started their protest march from Bestech Mall in the Industrial Area, Phase 9, and reached the minister’s residence via Sohana Chowk where they burnt an effigy of the Prime Minister and copies of agricultural laws.Addressing the protesters, Mehar Singh Theri, senior vice-president, BKU (Sidhupur), alleged that the Central government led by Narendra Modi favoured corporate houses and was ignoring the issue raised by farmers. He said they would continue to hold protest as per the programme given by the SKM till the Union government repealed the three farm laws.Meanwhile, members of the Youth Club, Sohana, led by its president Guri Sohana supported the farmers’ protest by holding a rally from Gurdwara Singh Shaheedan to Bestech Mall. They also burnt an effigy of the Prime Minister and copies of the farm laws. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dharna-staged-outside-union-ministers-house-264176
06-06-2021||Panchkula||No death for third day in Panchkula||For the third consecutive day, the district reported no new death due to Covid-19.Meanwhile, a total of 66 fresh cases surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 30,305. Of the 30,305 positive cases reported so far, 29,414 patients have been cured. There are 539 active cases in the district. The toll stands at 352.1,090 persons vaccinatedAs many as 1,090 persons were vaccinated at a private and 16 government centres across the district on Saturday. Among them, 618 persons were aged between 18 and 44, 302 between 45 and 59 and 129 persons above 60. — TNSMohali sees five deaths, 99 casesMohali: Five more Covid patients died in the district during on Saturday, taking the toll to 986. Meanwhile, 99 fresh cases were reported from the district, taking the tally to 67,204. As many as 268 patients have defeated the virus in the past 24 hours. TNSThree succumb, 98 test +ve in ChandigarhChandigarh: The city reported three deaths and 98 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday. The active cases now stand at 925 and the toll at 768. As many as 175 patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-death-for-third-day-in-panchkula-264177
06-06-2021||Sandeep Rana||City’s death certificate count for May doubles this year||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 5The UT Administration claims that 275 persons died due to Covid in the month of May, but the total number of death certificates issued in the city was double the number of certificates issued in the corresponding period last year.According to the data procured from the birth and child registration department, a total of 1,212 death certificates were issued in May last year against 2,517 issued in the month this year. The number of death certificates issued in April this year also witnessed a significant rise. While 1,888 death certificates were issued this year, the count was 1,156 last year.On the contrary, there was no major difference in the figures for the month of March.It was on March 19, 2020, that the first Covid case was reported from the city.The family of deceased has to apply for a certificate within 21 days of the death. The total number of deaths in each month includes those dying of Covid, natural deaths, accidents, suicides, etc. In the past two months, there has also been no significant number of road fatalities. Also, there were not many heinous crimes like murder reported from the city.MC Medical Officer of Health Dr Amrit Pal Warring, who heads the registration wing, said, “The major difference in the figures is mainly because of registration of deaths of persons from other states, who died in the UT. People of different states are referred to the PGI and in case of death, whether Covid or otherwise, are registered in the city. In May last year, due to restrictions and fear, most people avoided coming to the city hospitals.”RK Garg, a city-based RTI activist, said, “The number of deaths has doubled. It is shocking. Is the UT Administration hiding Covid deaths? There seems to be some irregularity and the data needs to be verified. The PGI gets referrals throughout the year. How come so many patients from outside died in the city last month. Why March of 2020 and 2021 has similar death figures?”Dr JS Thakur, Chairman, Covid-19 Prevention and IEC Committee at the PGI, said, “As per epidemiological assessment, proportion of deaths of outsiders and city residents should be taken into consideration. Also, cause of deaths should be analysed before drawing any conclusion.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/citys-death-certificate-count-for-may-doubles-this-year-264179
06-06-2021||---||Elder brother nailed for youth’s murder||Tribune News ServiceDera Bassi, June 5The police have arrested Salman (28) for stabbing his younger brother, Rizwan (20), to death at his house in Behera village on Friday evening.The duo, natives of Hapur in UP, was employed at a meat plant in Behera village and used to live in quarters nearby. They frequently used to have arguments over sending money back home.On Friday, the brothers, who were in an inebriated state, again had an argument, following which Salman stabbed Rizwan to death.Salman, with the help of an acquaintance, took Rizwan to a private hospital in an auto-rickshaw last night.Sources said Salman took his younger brother from the hospital on the pretext of consulting another doctor, but later abandoned the body.The police had detained the suspect from an eatery on Friday night. Later, Salman reportedly confessed to his crime. The knife used in the crime has also been recovered.Dera Bassi SHO Jatin Kapoor said: “Salman was placed under arrest today. He will be produced before a court tomorrow. The police are investigating whether the suspect took his brother to the hospital or not. The hospital records show no such entry.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elder-brother-nailed-for-youths-murder-264180
06-06-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Rumours put to rest, PGI doctors say Milkha’s health improving||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 5Legendary athlete Milkha Singh, who is being treated for post-Covid complications at the PGI, is improving and “better than yesterday”.Medicos get clicked with legendAs sports lovers dealt with the rumours surrounding Milkha’s death, inside the hospital the athlete reportedly obliged the doctors and attendants by getting clicked with them. “He is in good spirits and eager to go back to his normal routine. He’s a legend and the insiders (people of hospital) are interacting with him and even clicking photographs. The social media is full of such pictures,” said a senior doctor. “The family is already going through a lot. In such a scenario, everyone should act responsibly,” the doctor added.Capt Amarinder tweetsSpoke to @JeevMilkhaSingh son of ‘Flying Sikh’ & national icon Milkha Singh Ji to enquire about the condition of his father who is admitted in ICU due to #Covid 19. Conveyed my best wishes to him for his speedy recovery. All of us in Punjab are praying for his well-being.“On the basis of all medical parameters, his (Milkha Singh) condition is better than yesterday,” read a medical bulletin issued by the PGI on the health of the former sprinter.Milkha Singh was earlier treated for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Mohali and was admitted to the PGI following some complications on June 3. “He is being closely monitored by a team of three doctors at the PGI,” the bulletin added.Earlier in the day, rumours about Milkha’s death spread like a wildfire on social media forcing PGI Director Dr Jagat Ram to issue a video message on his health.Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju also took to social media to put an end to the rumours. “Please don’t run false news and create rumours about the legendary athlete. He is stable and let’s pray for his recovery,” tweeted Rijiju.Milkha Singh’s family also requested people to ignore the rumours. “Milkha Singh is stable and doing well. But he is on oxygen support. Please ignore the rumpus. It is false news,” said star golfer and Milkha’s son Jeev Milkha Singh. It is not for the first time when rumours about Milkha’s death have surfaced on social media. In 2017, when AG Milkha Singh (75), who played four Tests for India, died, people mistook him as the sprinter and started writing obituaries, only to realise later that it was the Tamil Nadu cricketer who had passed away.Nirmal remains stableThe condition of Nirmal Milkha Singh, former captain of India women’s volleyball team and wife of Milkha Singh, who is being treated for Covid at a Mohali hospital, is reportedly stable. “Nirmal Milkha Singh continues to be stable,” read a medical bulletin issued by the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rumours-put-to-rest-pgi-doctors-say-milkhas-health-improving-264181
06-06-2021||---||2 held for thefts in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 5The police today arrested two suspects involved in several cases of theft in houses, a temple and a gurdwara here.The recoveriesA total of 18 silverware items, Rs30,000 stolen from the cashbox of Maa Durga temple in Sector 68 and a CCTV hard disk stolen from Gurdwara Ravidas, Sector 68, were recovered from them.The suspects have been identified as Suresh Kumar, alias Mangli, and Bunty, both residents of Amb Sahib Colony, Phase 11, here. The duo was involved in several cases of theft in houses, a temple and a gurdwara in Sector 68 in the recent past.A total of 18 silverware items, Rs30,000 stolen from the cashbox of Maa Durga temple in Sector 68 and a CCTV hard disk stolen from Gurdwara Ravidas, Sector 68, were recovered from them.A case under Sections 380 and 457 of the IPC was registered against them at the Phase 8 police station on June 2. The duo was produced before a court on June 3, which remanded them in one-day police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-held-for-thefts-in-mohali-264182
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Man arrested for murder bid||The police have arrested a resident of Ram Darbar, Phase 2, for assaulting a woman with a sharp weapon near her house, here last night. The woman received injuries on her back. However, her condition is stated to be stable at the GMCH-32.The police said old enmity between two families was the reason behind the attack. The 34-year-old suspect, Sompal, fled the spot after the incident. However, the police arrested him a few hours later. The police said the weapon used in the crime is yet to be recovered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-arrested-for-murder-bid-264189
06-06-2021||---||Project hangs in balance as states yet to release dues||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 5The fate of luxurious flats to be constructed for officers and MLAs of Punjab and Haryana at the IT Park hangs in the balance.The 2019 proposalThe Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) had in September 2019 proposed a scheme to construct high-end flats at the IT Park and sought suggestions of both Punjab and Haryana governments on buying flats for their officers and MLAs. Besides Punjab and Haryana, the PGIMER had also expressed interest in the project.The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) had in September 2019 proposed a scheme to construct high-end flats at the IT Park and sought suggestions of both governments on buying flats for their officers and MLAs. Besides Punjab and Haryana, the PGIMER had also expressed interest in the project.After finalising the drawings of the project, the CHB had demanded 25 per cent of the total amount in advance for starting the construction of the flats, a senior CHB official said. The official said even after sending repeated reminders to Punjab and Haryana governments for releasing their share of payment, nothing had happened so far.It would be difficult to start with the project without getting the payment from both governments, said the officer.The Board had decided to build 10 towers with 28 flats each having a base price of Rs2 crore for each flat. Both governments and the PGI are expected to pay Rs66 crore each for their share of flats. The project will come up on 6.73 acres at the IT Park.Meanwhile, the Plan Approval Committee of the UT Administration had raised objections over several issues pertaining to a proposed housing scheme of the CHB to come up in the IT Park for general public.The CHB had to float the scheme in April to construct 728 flats in three categories in seven-storey towers for the general public. However, the scheme could not be floated as the committee had sought clarification regarding the construction of the EWS flats, which are mandatory to be constructed in a housing scheme. The CHB had decided to shift the EWS flats from the project to a separate location in Sector 54.The official said that they had submitted the replies and waiting for the response of the committee.They would be able to float the scheme only after getting an approval of the committee, he added.In the project, the towers will have two basements with a provision for parking of two cars for each flat in addition to surface parking for visitors.A four-bedroom flat is likely to cost nearly Rs2.75 crore, three-bedroom flat Rs1.90 crore and two bedroom flat Rs1.30 crore. As per the proposed plan, the IT park project will have 28 4BHK flats, 448 3BHKs and 252 2BHKs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/project-hangs-in-balance-as-states-yet-to-release-dues-264190
06-06-2021||---||Protesters burn copies of farm laws outside BJP leader’s house||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 5On a call to observe a ‘sampoorna kranti diwas’ (day of total revolution), farmers burnt copies of agro-market laws outside the house of BJP leader Sanjay Tandon here.Members of the Naujawan Kisan Ekta and civil society gathered at the market opposite the church of Sector 18. They marched towards the house of BJP leader Sanjay Tandon, which was heavily guarded by the police. The protesters stopped at the barricades barely 20 feet from his house.Ketan Bansal, SP City, said: “We have deployed 170 persons here to keep the situation under control and to stop the crowd from entering the house.”Protester Prateek Maan of the Naujawan Kisan Ekta said: “We just wanted to burn the copies of these draconian laws outside the house of Sanjay Tandon, not inside his house. We would have gone to Kirron Kher’s house too, but she’s unwell and we don’t want to disturb her.” The gathering burnt the copies of the laws outside Tandon’s house and raised slogans against the BJP for passing the bills without consulting the farmers and stakeholders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protesters-burn-copies-of-farm-laws-outside-bjp-leaders-house-264191
06-06-2021||Naina Mishra||Twofold rise in mucormycosis cases in a year: Study||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 5The first evidence-based multi-centre study on Covid-19 Associated Mucormycosis (CAM) held between September and December last year has found a twofold rise in mucormycosis cases in India as compared to the same period in 2019.The study – MucoCovi – conducted across 16 centres, including the PGIMER, compared epidemiology and outcomes among cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) associated mucormycosis.The study results were yesterday published in the Emerging Infectious Disease Journal (Journal of CDC, Atlanta, USA) as ‘Multicenter Epidemiologic Study of Coronavirus Disease associated Mucormycosis, India’.Among 287 patients of mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus, 187 (65.2 per cent) had CAM. Of these, 158 (84.2 per cent) were classified as late CAM. A higher proportion of patients with late CAM received glucocorticoid treatment.The researchers noted a 2.1-fold rise in mucormycosis during the study period as compared to September–December 2019.The most common underlying disease among both the CAM and non-CAM groups was uncontrolled diabetes mellitus (62.7 per cent). Covid-19 was the only underlying disease in 32.6 per cent of the CAM patients.As per the study, newly detected diabetes mellitus was more frequent in the CAM, suggesting direct role of the Covid-19 in causing or worsening diabetes, which may predispose these patients to mucormycosis.In fact, patients with diabetic ketoacidosis developed CAM early – in less than eight days of Covid-19.On the other hand, those patients who developed the CAM later had mostly received steroid treatment. It was seen that inappropriate use of steroids (63.3 per cent) – either in very high doses or use in patients who did not need it – was associated with development of the late CAM.According to the study, the Covid-19 related hypoxemia and improper glucocorticoid use independently were associated with the CAM.“The Covid-19 pandemic has led to an increase in mucormycosis in India, partly from inappropriate glucocorticoid use. Age, rhino-orbital-cerebral involvement, and intensive care unit admission were associated with increased mortality rates… sequential antifungal drug treatment improved mucormycosis survival,” the study concluded.45% death rate after 12 weeksThe overall death rate due to mucormycosis (both CAM and non-CAM) was 38.3 per cent at six weeks and 45.7 per cent after 12 weeks of illness. It was observed that patients more than 54 years of age, those with brain or lung involvement, and those who had to undergo ICU admission were at a higher risk.Diagnosis in 18 days after CovidIt was seen that on an average the CAM diagnosis was made 18 days after Covid-19 infection. The most common sites of infection were found to be nose with eye involvement (58% cases) followed by nose with eye and brain involvement (27% cases) and lung infection (9% cases). It shows a considerable number of patients reported late to the hospital. Besides facial pain, nasal blockage and discharge, toothache and loosening of teeth were seen in a high number of cases for the first time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/twofold-rise-in-mucormycosis-cases-in-a-year-study-264192
06-06-2021||---||Can’t reserve beds, may give preference to PU staff: Admn||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 5The UT Administration has refused to reserve any quota (at least 10 beds) for Panjab University employees hit by Covid-19 at the 100-bed makeshift hospital by Western Command at the international hostel of the campus in Sector 25.However, the Administration ensured the PU of preference to the employees at the Sector 25 or any other centre, as per the availability of beds. The Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) had written to the UT Administrator for reserving at least 10 beds at the Sector 25 facility.“A request was received from PUTA to reserve 10 beds at the Sector 25 facility. It is neither advisable nor feasible to reserve beds for any specific category. However, in case the patient is from Panjab University (employees, dependents, research scholars and students), the Administration will try to admit them preferably at the Sector 25 facility, on the condition of availability of beds. If bed are unavailable, patients will be admitted to any other facility,” read the circular.Last month, the Covid Task Force, PU, had also raised the same issue. Earlier, on the request of PUTA, the authorities had granted permission to use PU faculty house for accommodating infected employees or their family members. PUTA also started arrangements for home delivery of meals for employees facing problems and appreciate the help extended by the DSW.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cant-reserve-beds-may-give-preference-to-pu-staff-admn-264193
06-06-2021||---||People duty-bound to protect environment: Justice Sangwan||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 5Stressing on the need to safeguard ecology, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan of the Punjab and Haryana High Court said today that people and the state were duty-bound to protect the environment.Referring to the Indian Constitution, Justice Sangwan reminded the participants at a webinar of their fundamental duty to protect the environment. Justice Sangwan also underscored the United Nations Charter, which make the state duty-bound to protect environment. The participants were exhorted to take a pledge to plant a tree.The webinar on ‘Environmental Jurisprudence in India’ was organised by Rayat College of Law, Ropar, to commemorate World Environment Day. Chief guest at the webinar, Justice Sangwan also made the participant aware of different aspects of environmental protection law.Citing Supreme Court judgments, Justice Sangwan informed the students about the judiciary’s role in protecting the environment. Justice Sangwan further underlined the need for replacing the conventional sources of energy with solar to check global warming.Dr Sandeep Singh Kaura, Managing Director of Rayat Group of Institutions, initiated the discussion by highlighting the need for spreading awareness regarding environment protection.He called upon the participants to initiate efforts to protect the environment, starting from their own house. College principal Monika Sharma extended welcome to the guests and the participants.Plantation drive at Chhatbir ZooZirakpur: World Environment Day was celebrated at Chhatbir Zoo here on Saturday. A plantation drive for officials and a series of webinar for citizens was organised to encourage the spirit of protecting the environment. Naresh Mahajan, Field Director, Chhatbir Zoo, explained that the theme (ecosystem restoration) of World Environment Day this year. Mahajan said: “I think everyone can contribute to the environment in their own ways.” In the first session of the webinar, Dr Ashish Kumar, SVO, Chhatbir Zoo, spoke on ‘One health prospective on ecosystem restoration’. TNSConclave on environment protection Panchkula: Government Postgraduate College, Sector 1, Panchkula, celebrated World Environment Day Conclave through a virtual event. Teachers and students from across India participated. Dr Rakesh Dubey, former Director of the Disaster Institute of Management, Bhopal, spoke on sustainable development. Haryana DGP Dr RC Mishra delivered a talk on ‘Green ethics’. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/people-duty-bound-to-protect-environment-justice-sangwan-264194
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Teachers of eco club felicitated||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-of-eco-club-felicitated-264195
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Cleanliness drive||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cleanliness-drive-264196
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Four held with illicit liquor||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-held-with-illicit-liquor-264197
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Panel sets aside order directing school to refund admission fee||The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission here has set aside the order of the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum directing St Kabir Public School to refund the admission charges to a student.The commission ruled that the education institutions were not covered under the Consumer Protection Act and could not be held guilty for deficiency in service.St Kabir School had challenged the order dated February 13, 2020, which directed the institute to refund the balance fee of Rs 27,000, after deducting Rs 1,000 towards registration charges, to the student.The forum had also directed the school to pay Rs 5,000 towards litigation cost and compensation. Such matters cannot be entertained by the consumer forum under the Consumer Protection Act, the commission observed.“Accordingly, we find that the appellant who falls in the category of educational institution, cannot be held for deficiency in service,” read the order.“The impugned order passed by the district commission stands set aside,” it added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-sets-aside-order-directing-school-to-refund-admission-fee-264198
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Accused in drug case denied bail||A local court has denied bail to 40-year-old Takdir, a resident of Kalka, who was allegedly arrested with the commercial quantity of ganja.According to the FIR, around 20.5-kg ganja was found in his possession.The counsel of the accused argued that the accused has been in custody since the date of the arrest. He argued the ganja seized was marginally more than the commercial quantity (20 kg).Public prosecutor JP Singh opposed the application on the basis of the gravity of the offence. He argued that the quantity of ganja recovered from the applicant and co-accused was commercial in nature. After hearing the arguments, the court said it was a settled law that mere long custody did not make the accused entitled to a bail.The bail petition of the applicant has also been dismissed by the High Court earlier. The contraband seized was commercial quantity. Thus, the court was not inclined to allow the bail application. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accused-in-drug-case-denied-bail-264199
06-06-2021||Lalru||Man found dead near railway track||Worker hit by JCB machine, diesLalru: A 60-year-old man died after being hit by an earthmoving machine at a brick kiln in Malikpur village on Saturday. The deceased, Ranjit Singh from Rae Bareli, used to work at BBB brick kiln in Malikpur. While filling a trolley with soil, he was hit in the face by a JCB machine and died on the spot, said ASI Jagtar Singh Saini. The police reached the spot and impounded the vehicle. The body has been kept at the Civil Hospital. The victim’s heirs have been informed about the incident. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-found-dead-near-railway-track-264200
06-06-2021||Naina Mishra||India witnessed two-fold increase in mucormycosis cases: CDC study||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 5A twofold rise in mucormycosis has been found in the first evidence-based multicentre study on Covid-19 Associated Mucormycosis (CAM) held in India between September and December last year, as compared to the same period in 2019.The study which took place in 16 centres of India, including PGIMER, Chandigarh, compared epidemiology and outcomes among cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19)–associated mucormycosis (CAM).Under the doctors at PGIMER, a study was conducted with the name of MucoCovi (Muco from mucormycosis, Covi from Covid-19) study at 16 centres across the country. The study results were published yesterday in the reputed Emerging Infectious Disease Journal (Journal of CDC, Atlanta, USA) as ‘Multicenter Epidemiologic Study of Coronavirus Disease associated Mucormycosis, India’. Among 287 mucormycosis patients, 187 (65.2%) had CAM; CAM prevalence was 0.27% among hospitalized COVID-19 patients. The researchers noted a 2.1-fold rise in mucormycosis during the study period compared with September–December 2019.Uncontrolled diabetes mellitus was the most common underlying disease among CAM and non-CAM patients. The most common underlying disease among both CAM and non-CAM groups was uncontrolled diabetes mellitus (62.7%). COVID-19 was the only underlying disease in 32.6% of CAM patients.It was seen that on an average CAM diagnosis was made 18 days after Covid-19 infection. The most common sites of infection were found to be nose with eye involvement (in 58% cases) followed by nose with eye and brain involvement (27% cases) and then lung infection (9% cases). It shows a considerable number of patients reported late to the hospital after the disease progression to the brain. Besides facial pain, nasal blockage and discharge; toothache and loosening of teeth were seen in a high number of cases for the first time.On comparing the cases of CAM with mucormycosis without Covid-19 (i.e. Non-CAM) it was seen that uncontrolled diabetes mellitus was the most common underlying disease in both groups. In patients with CAM, newly detected diabetes mellitus was more frequent compared to non-CAM cases (20.9% versus 10%). This suggests the direct role of COVID-19 in causing or worsening diabetes, which may predispose these patients to mucormycosis.In fact, patients with diabetic ketoacidosis developed CAM early, in less than eight days of Covid-19. On the other hand, those patients who developed CAM later had mostly received steroid treatment. It was seen that inappropriate use of steroids (63.3%) i.e. either in very high doses or use in patients who did not need it was associated with development of late CAM, i.e. more than eight day after Covid-19 diagnosis.The overall death rate due to mucormycosis (both CAM and non-CAM) was 38.3% at six weeks and 45.7% after 12 weeks of illness. It was seen that patients >54 years of age, those with brain or lung involvement and those who had to undergo ICU admission had a higher risk for death.According to the study, the COVID-19–related hypoxemia and improper glucocorticoid use independently were associated with CAM.“The Covid-19 pandemic has led to increases in mucormycosis in India, partly from inappropriate glucocorticoid use. Age, rhino-orbital-cerebral involvement, and intensive care unit admission were associated with increased mortality rates; sequential antifungal drug treatment improved mucormycosis survival, the study concluded.Dr. Arunaloke Chakrabarti, Professor & Head, Department of Medical Microbiology, PGIMER, said, “The rise in number of cases coincides with the country’s Covid-19 epidemic. Clinicians should be vigilant for mucormycosis in the patients recovering from Covid-19 illness, especially among patients with new or previously diagnosed diabetes mellitus and clinical manifestations of facial or orbital pain or black or blood-stained nasal discharge or loosening of teeth. In addition, improper glucocorticoid use for the Covid-19 treatment is an additional risk factor in CAM. Therefore, treating physicians should ensure they use appropriate drugs and doses in Covid-19 patient treatments.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/india-witnessed-two-fold-increase-in-mucormycosis-cases-cdc-study-263891
