07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 48 new Covid cases, two deaths||Chandigarh reported fewer than 50 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths, a health bulletin showed—the lowest the union territory has recorded since the second wave began in March.The bulletin showed that 48 new Covid cases took the number of active infections to 740.The UT’s death toll since the pandemic began last year stands at 774.Chandigarh also logged in 139 new recoveries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-48-new-covid-cases-two-deaths-264915
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||360 clerks appointed by Chandigarh Administration||Despite the restrictions imposed due to the coronavirus situation, the Chandigarh Administration has been able to complete the process of recruitment of 360 clerical staff. Appointment letters and posting orders were issued to all the candidates on Monday.In a formal function, Manoj Parida, Adviser, issued posting orders to five candidates. SS Gill, IAS, Secretary Personnel, and Nitika Pawar, IAS, Special Secretary Personnel, were also present.Parida thanked the Panjab University and particularly the University Institute of Applied Management Sciences for holding the test in a transparent manner.He also thanked Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16 for conducting medical examination of the candidates despite heavy coronavirus related work in the hospital. The posting orders have been issued allocating them work in 38 different departments of Chandigarh Administration.Governor of Punjab and Administrator, UT, Chandigarh, VP Singh Badnore has directed the Personnel Department to ensure that all pending vacancies are filled up on top priority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/360-clerks-appointed-by-chandigarh-administration-264870
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Man held with  20 injections used to treat black fungus||Patiala native hit by train, diesLalru: A 36-year-old man died after being hit by a train near a bridge on the Ambala-Kalka railway line in Lalru. The deceased has been identified as Harjinder Singh, a resident of Kheri Gurna village in Patiala. Harjinder, who was employed as a mason, is survived by his wife and two children. The body was handed over to the victim’s family members after conducting a postmortem examination. TNSMan held with 9-kg poppy huskLalru: The police have arrested a suspect with 9-kg poppy husk near the Lalru Sports Stadium here on Sunday. During search, the police recovered the poppy husk from his suitcase. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered against him at the Lalru police station. The suspect, who works as a driver, was bringing the narcotic powder from Delhi. He was produced before a court. In another case, the police arrested a fugitive wanted in a drug trafficking case. The accused, Kiranpal, a resident of Mauli Thana village, Raipur Rani, Panchkula, was produced before a court on Sunday. TNSOnline carrom tournamentChandigarh: The 1st Chandigarh Online Carrom Tournament will start on June 7. Women’s singles matches will be held on the opening day. The tournament will be declared open by Bharti Narayan, General Secretary, All-India Carrom Federation. A total of 16 players (10 men and 6 women) will take part in the tournament. International players Tuba Sehar, Nidhi Gupta, Mohd Talib, Mohd Hassan and Gagandeep will participate. Each player will play one round of eight boards daily from June 7 to 10. TNSWorkshop on Covid supportChandigarh: The Student Welfare Society of Guru Gobind Singh College for Women, Sector 26, in collaboration with Mahatma Gandhi National Council of Rural Education (MGNCRE), organised a workshop on “Psycho Social Support for Covid Pandemic Conditions”. MGNCRE representative Samarth Sharma apprised students about how they could collaborate with the psychosocial support service cell to contribute in alleviating effects of Covid on the population. TNSDBU celebrates Environment DayMohali: Everyone should come forward to conserve and restore ecosystem, said Desh Bhagat University (DBU) Chancellor Dr Zora Singh while inaugurating an event to mark World Environment Day. The event was organised by the AGRIM Club of the Faculty of Agriculture and Life sciences and the NIRMAN Club of the Department of Civil Engineering, Desh Bhagat University. Krunesh Garg, who was the chief guest for the event, emphasised how water was depleting and what remedial steps could be taken to prevent its further depletion. Dr Deen Mohammad, District Horticulture Officer, Haryana Government, talked about organic farming and conservation of the ecosystem. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-with-20-injections-used-to-treat-black-fungus-264764
07-06-2021||What measures should the UT take to ensure that private hospitals don’t fleece covid patients?||Capping treatment cost not enough, vigil needed too||It is a criminal breach of trustAlthough the government has fixed the rate of treatment and tests, private hospitals overcharge helpless patients. Ambulances are charging Rs12,000 to Rs25,000 to take patients upto 7 to 8 km. To stop fleecing of people display government approved rates for treatment and tests outside and on reception counters of private hospitals. Overcharging must be treated as criminal breach of trust. Strict action should be taken against hospitals indulging in such practice.Capt Amar Jeet (retd), MohaliHospitals Must have transparent systemIt appears some private hospitals in tricity are spoiling image of the noble profession by overcharging Covid patients. Such hospitals should de-empanelled by insurance companies, CGHS and ECHS. The Administration should randomly monitor and audit hospitals bills with the help of the Indian Medical Association and other independent agencies. Besides, hospitals should have a simple transparent system for patients and their kin to avoid any misunderstanding in bills given at the time of their discharge.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliQUESTIONAs the board exams have been cancelled, what criteria should be adopted by the CBSE for evaluating Class XII students?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.comAffected persons left with little choiceRates for various categories treatment have been fixed in consultation with private hospitals. Still overcharging Covid patients is rampant in the UT and adjoining cities. A Covid patient is left with no choice, but to agree to arbitrary demands of hospital concerned on one pretext or other as getting treatment is important at the crucial hour. The Administration should ensure that gullible and helpless patients do not suffer monetarily in these difficult times. Strict action, which acts as a deterrent, should be taken against erring hospitals.Dr Dinesh Kumar Verma, Panchkula.Check records, refund excess chargesOvercharging Covid patients during pandemic is a sin. Any complaint received by the UT Administration in this regard should be pursued seriously. The Administration should depute Health Department officials along with the police force to check records of private hospital against which complaints have been received. If found overcharging, hospital concerned should be warned and instructed to refund excess charges to patient.MR Bhateja, NayagaonLittle being done to stop loot of patientsCapping of Covid treatment cost is a big lie of the Centre and the UT Administration. Reality is doctors have become dacoits and hospital staff arrogant and irresponsible towards patients. The Centre is doing nothing to stop this loot. The UT Administration should blacklist hospitals or cancel their licence if they don't follow official guidelines.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhCurb black marketing of medicines, oxygenStrict measures should be taken to curb black marketing of medicines and oxygen in the UT. The Administration should also take legal action against vendors supplying cylinders with less quantity of oxygen and charging exorbitant rates. A committee must conduct detailed audit of treatment charges paid by Covid patients at private hospitals.Jassica Goyal, ChandigarhCheck bills issued to patients at randomMuch has been heard about private hospitals fleecing Covid patients. The Administration should fix charges for consultation, doctors and sisters room visit, tests, oxygen cylinders, medicines and room rent after consultations with hospital authorities. Hospitals should display all charges at notice boards on their premises. The Health Department can conduct random checking of bills paid by Covid patients at private hospitals.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhIssue Warning to cancel leaseMost private hospitals designated to treat Covid patients have taken the present crisis inhumanly and as an opportunity to 'loot' people with impunity. Some courts have risen to the occasion to rescue public from it by capping charges for various services provided by private hospitals and made their display mandatory. Only punitive measures like revoking permission to treat Covid patients, cautioning them of cancelling their leases and grievance redressal mechanism can stop fleecing of patients.Sunil Khanna, ChandigarhUpload discharge copies on admn siteSurprise checking by vigilance teams at private hospitals will not give the latter chance to mislead and fleece Covid patients. Generation of three invoice copies of patient's discharge (first for patient, second to be uploaded on the UT Administration site and third for hospital) should be mandatory. The Administration must scrutinise these invoice copies and stop looting of patients by private hospitals.Nitin Sud, PanchkulaMinimum penalty should be Rs10 lakhThe UT Administration issues guidelines to all private hospitals to fix charges for all services from time to time. There should be strict punishment for overcharging and lingering on treatment intentionally. For the first offence, there should be a fine of Rs10 lakh. License of the hospital concerned should be cancelled for repeated offence.KC Rana, ChandigarhFix upper limit of treatment chargesThe UT Administration must check the rate list of treatment in private hospitals regularly. The treatment cost must be uploaded on the Administration website. This will bring competition among hospitals to treat patients. The UT must fix an upper limit of charges for all sorts of treatment like the MRP in the case of consumer goods.Antra Rakheja, ChandigarhAn opportunity to fill coffersSome private hospitals are using Covid crisis as an opportunity to fill their coffers by fleecing patients admitted for Covid treatment. Their attitude is deplorable as charges for medication and treatment are unrelated to normal rates. The UT Administration has not yet taken any punitive action against erring hospitals. The least it could do is to send legal notice for resorting to unfair business practices with a stern warning for suspending their empanelment to treat Covid patients.SC Luthra, ChandigarhHeavy fine will deter hospitalsDespite strict instructions from the UT authorities private hospitals continue to overcharge Covid patients on one pretext or other. These hospitals are not afraid of the consequences as they are just asked to refund extra charges or reduce bill as per their convenience in case the matter comes to light. Not all patients fight back over extra charges paid them as they are already hard pressed. Only heavy fine for fleecing Covid patients will deter private hospitals from indulging in this malpractice.Jaswant Singh, ChandigarhLet Centre minimise treatment costIt’s duty of the UT Administration to save lives. Citizens should not be left to fend for themselves during the ongoing pandemic. The UT should have created required facilities for pandemic in a pre-planned way. There is lot of money in PM Care and Disaster Management funds, which can be used for treating Covid patients. A patient should not be asked to arrange funds. No citizen should die because of lack of funds in a disaster situation. Any hospital exploiting the situation should be booked. Let the Centre minimise treatment cost to tackle pandemic.Dr Virendar Sarwal, MohaliPanel should check hospital functioningThe UT Administration should set up a committee to look into functioning of private hospitals. Charges for each service/treatment should be fixed. License of hospital fleecing patients should be suspended for a specific period. Hefty fine can be imposed to deter hospitals from overcharging Covid patients. An app/social media account/website can be launched for filing complainants regarding overcharging for early redressal and action against erring hospital.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliDon’t hesitate in submitting complaintIt is sad that private hospitals are flouting norms and overcharging patients during Covid crisis. They are taking undue advantage of the situation. No doubt these private hospitals work for profit motive only, but it is their moral duty to help people in this hour of need. Managements of such hospitals must come forward to help masses. The UT Administration must keep a check on private hospitals. Stringent action be taken against hospitals following the practice. People should not hesitate to complain against erring hospitals so that timely action can be taken.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhAppeal in court may provide reliefPrivate hospitals are treated on a par with the hospitality sector, where rates are charged according to the star ranking. People are facing dark realities of crumbled healthcare system. The committee formed by the UT Administration to look into overcharging of Covid patients will only issue warnings to a few small hospitals. Only those patients, who appeal in court or tribunal against hospitals, may get some relief.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhAdministration ought to be proactiveMany private hospitals in the city continue to fleece Covid patients taking advantage of the pandemic situation. As there is no transparency in billing, hospitals are free to inflate treatment charges of Covid patients. The UT has formed a team to audit hospital bills and deal with patients grievances. In some cases, money has been refunded to patients. The authorities ought to be proactive to stop fleecing of Covid patients.Anureet Dhami, ZirakpurPool resources to fight Covid pandemicIt’s disgusting that private hospitals are charging huge amount from Covid patients for treatment. During this difficult time all should pool resources to fight pandemic. Private hospitals must follow some ethics. They should not act as money minting health institutions. The UT should strictly regulate treatment charges of private hospitals. Strict and exemplary punishment should be given to erring hospitals.Paramjeet Singh, ChandigarhDisplay charges at hospital entranceStrict action must be taken by the UT Administration against private hospitals overcharging from coronavirus patients amid such crisis. Charges for ICU beds, consultation and medicines must be fixed for Covid patients by the Health Department. Private hospitals should offer a basic package for the Covid treatment at reasonable rates. Treatment and other charges should be displayed at the entrance of all private hospitals.Anita Tandon, KhararInvest in private healthcare sectorDue to less Budget allocation to health sector there will be overcharging from Covid patients in a pandemic of such magnitude. To prevent private hospitals from fleecing patients, it’s necessary for government to invest into private healthcare sector. If private hospitals are not included in fight against Covid the mortality rate would be unimaginable. Also, government hospitals should be provided appropriate infrastructure, resources and staff.Vaibhav Garg, ChandigarhRight to audit balance sheetsSince the UT Administration provides land at reasonable rate to private hospitals so, it has right to audit their balance sheets from time to time. Also, balance sheet of the hospital concerned can be uploaded on its website. It’s the common man, who does not find bed, ventilator or oxygen in government hospitals, complains of overcharging and not the elite class.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhHigh charges for more servicesAt present, there is utter confusion about charges for treating Covid patients. If a private hospital spends more than any government hospital to get its supplies, it has to charge more. Also, if private hospital is providing additional services or facilities then higher charges are justified as people are willing to pay. Patients and their kin should be aware so that they don’t pay extra for treatment. Regular audit of all hospitals, whether private or government should be conducted.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhOpen more hospitalsAs the government is unable to open more hospitals in proportion to the growing population, private hospitals have mushroomed in all cities whether big or small. Government hospitals are not able to give proper attention and hygienic atmosphere to patients. More hospitals with healthy conditions should be opened. No doubt some private hospitals are good, but that doesn’t entitle them to exploit Covid patients. License of erring hospitals should be cancelled. The UT Administration should have strict control over functioning of private hospitals.Dr Gurdev Singh, MohaliNo feedback for admnEven after fixing charges for treatment private hospitals are fleecing patients. Private hospitals take advantage of no feedback to the Administration about charges paid. Besides they gain from stress on patients’ attendants, who end up paying more for treatment. They flout norms with impunity. Defaulters should be given exemplary punishment. Charges for treatment should be displayed at prominent places on hospital premises. Bills of patients admitted to private hospitals should be audited.Wg Cdr Jasbir Minhas (retd), MohaliRefund excess amount charged from patientsPrivate hospitals are making money instead of providing good services during pandemic. In one case, an attendant arranged oxygen cylinders from outside private hospital, but still the patient had to pay charges. Hospitals procured remdesivir for Rs1,300 from the UT healthcare authorities and charged Rs4,000 from patients for the drug. To stop fleecing of patients the Administration should fix charges for treatment and display these on hospital premises. Instructions should be given to refund excess amount charged from patients. Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaForm teams to check malpracticesOvercharging Covid patients can be controlled by constituting teams of different departments to keep a check on private hospitals, starting a helpline number and providing email to lodge complaints in this regard and rewarding person, who passes information of such prevalent malpractices to the Administration. Upper limit of various treatment charges should be fixed by the Administration.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhNo authority to check lootPatients admitted in private hospitals have to pay bills for treatment running into lakhs. There is no authority to check looting of patients. Private hospitals procure remdesivir from the government for Rs1,800 (per injection) and sell it in black market for Rs40,000. If such charges are proved the Administration should cancel licence of the hospital concerned. Like sand mafia there is “hospital mafia”, which stops the authorities concerned to initiate proceedings against wrongdoers.Gurpreet Malhotra, Chandigarhincrease number of government hospitalsThere are not many government hospitals. So, Covid patients are take to private hospitals, where they have to pay extra for treatment. The Administration should fix charges for every treatment. These charges should be displayed at the hospital reception and in rooms. Licence of the hospital indulging in overcharging Covid patients should be cancelled and fine imposed.Sukhwant Bhullar, ChandigarhDon’t take advantage of helpless peopleSome private hospitals are overcharge Covid patients. The Health Department should conduct raids, audit hospital records and seize them if irregularities are found. Flying squads comprising medical officers should keep a check on hospitals. People can complain about overcharging on the Health Department helpline number 104. Private hospitals shouldn’t exploit helpless people in this tough time.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhUpload bill details onlineDoctors like lawyers are by far the richest professionals. Modern private hospitals are corporate entities swelling profits being their ‘raison d’etre’. They thrive on fishing in troubled waters, pandemic pangs and misery of their patients/clients betraying trust/faith notwithstanding. The Administration has fixed charges for tests and services, but fleecing of Covid patients continues. Hospitals overcharging patients should be penalised heavily. An empowered committee should scrutinise hospital bills at random. Item wise details of bills above Rs50,000 should be mandatorily available online.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaPublish fixed charges for treatmentThe UT must publish fixed charges for the Covid treatment at private hospitals. An authority should be designated for examining complaints/grievances regarding overcharging by private hospitals. Non discriminatory access to all public health facilities, adequate medical treatment and affordable charges are non-negotiable. They are part of the constitutionally guaranteed right to health under Article 21.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliForm committee to prepare rate listA panel of the administrators of private and government hospitals must be formed to prepare rate list (package) for the treatment of Covid cases. A copy of the rate list must be pasted at the entrance gate of each hospital and given to patient before treatment. The Administration should check facilities and charges mentioned in the lists. Licence of private hospitals not following rate/package list, approved by committee, must be cancelled.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliTime to take an urgent callThere is no denying the fact that certain private hospitals are overcharging Covid patients with the scantiest fear of the law. The flurry of complaints received by the Chandigarh Administration in this leaves nothing to speculation. The UT has to take an urgent call to ensure that private hospitals don’t fleece people. Such private hospitals should be blacklisted and deregistered. There should be a jail term for those involved in fleecing gullible patients.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhDirty tactics of private hospitalsIt is shocking that some doctors in private hospitals are fleecing Covid patients. Doctors are held in high esteem and worshiped like God, but when patients are betrayed by them, they are hurt. When persons in high position indulge in unethical activities, they should be given minimum 10 times or even more punishment than an ordinary accused. Doctors in private hospitals should remember that their respect in the public is of much more value than money.TR Goyal, ChandigarhCommon man’s baneThe commercialisation of the private healthcare sector is a bane for the common man. Many private hospitals have fleeced Covid patients. Many of them have hoarded essential medicines, oxygen and billed helpless and desperate patients exorbitantly. There is rampant violation of the government norms by private hospitals. The Administration has been caught napping on this front.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhPrivate hospitals should be disciplinedStrict action should be taken against private hospitals resorting overcharging Covid patients. All hospitals should display the approved rates at prominent places on their premises. People should also be exhorted not to pay more than prevailing rates. All cases of overcharging should be reported to the authorities concerned. Surprise checking should also be conducted at hospitals and overcharged amount be refunded to patients.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhEnsure guidelines are followedIt is unfortunate that several private hospitals are fleecing hapless Covid patients during these testing times of pandemic. The UT Administration should ensure that guidelines are followed strictly by hospitals. It should be mandatory for hospitals to display list of charges at the reception and also handover a copy to patients at the time of admission. Strict administrative and criminal action should be initiated against hospitals for any violation.RPS Chopra, ChandigarhAuthorities must cross-check billsSome private hospitals have crossed all limits and started encashing compelling moments of Covid patients whether any of them survives or not. The Administration needs to be strict on this issue. It should be mandatory for private hospitals to display rate list for the treatment of Covid patients. Bills prepared by private hospitals should be cross checked by the health authorities of the Administration before patient or his/her kin makes payment.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliPatients’ kin not aware of chargesSome private hospitals are fleecing patients by charging above the rates fixed by the government. Their relatives/attendants are not aware of the cost of medicines and services provided to them. They are asked to pay in advance. There should be pre and post-audit of medicines and services provided to Covid patients. The UT Administration should constitute a committee headed by a doctor to check bills, get the overcharged amount refunded and take stringent action against hospitals fleecing on the pretext of Covid treatment.Col Balbir Mathauda (retd), ChandigarhUsing pandemic to boost profitsUndoubtedly, it is a matter of great concern that some private hospitals are not sparing the general public even in the ongoing pandemic. They are, in fact, using this difficult time as a good opportunity for boosting their profit margins by overcharging Covid patients. The Administration should, therefore, act tough against all such private hospitals and conduct regular audit of their accounts and random inspection and invite complaints from aggrieved patients or their kin.Hardeep Singh Slaich, MohaliTime to serve humanityCovid patients are being asked to pay above rates fixed by the government. Stringent action should be taken against private hospitals overcharging patients suffering from the disease. The UT should deploy auditors to check this practice. All hospital bills of Covid patients should scanned by the Administration. This is the time to rise above all odds and serve humanity.Charu Malhotra, Mohali||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/capping-treatment-cost-not-enough-vigil-needed-too-264763
07-06-2021||Dera Bassi||Fire breaks out at Dera Bassi warehouse||Fire broke out at a warehouse in Bhagwanpur village on Barwala Road. It took more than four hours for fire officials to douse the flames. However, by then the goods were reduced to ashes.The incident happened on Saturday night. S Suresh Kumar, owner of S Kumar Fabricatons and Contractors, said he suffered loss worth lakhs of rupees after the cotton waste in the warehouse caught fire.Dera Bassi Fire Officer Baljit Singh said, “The fire was brought under control with the help of three fire tenders from Dera Bassi and one from Zirakpur. No casualty has been reported in the incident.”Fire officials said the exact cause of fire would be known later. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-breaks-out-at-dera-bassi-warehouse-264761
07-06-2021||---||Murder suspect sent to two-day police remand||Tribune News ServiceDera Bassi, June 6Salman (28), who is accused of stabbing his younger brother Rizwan, was sent to two-day police remand.The police yesterday arrested the suspect for stabbing Rizwan (20) to death at his house in Behera village.The duo, natives of Hapur in Uttar Pradesh, was employed at a meat plant in Behera village and used to live in quarters nearby. They frequently used to have arguments over sending money back home.On Friday, the brothers, who were in an inebriated state, again had an argument, following which Salman stabbed Rizwan to death.Salman, with the help of an acquaintance, took Rizwan to a private hospital in an auto-rickshaw last night.The police had detained the suspect from an eatery on Friday night. The knife used in the crime has also been recovered.Also read: Elder brother nailed for youth’s murder||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/murder-suspect-sent-to-two-day-police-remand-264760
07-06-2021||Surinder Bhardwaj||Fatehgarh Sahib DC orders inquiry against procurement agency official||Fatehgarh Sahib, June 6Deputy Commissioner Surbhi Malik has ordered an inquiry against the Bassi Pathana area manager of the procurement agency, Markfed, on a complaint filed by commission agents who alleged that the agency official was demanding Rs2 per quintal as commission for releasing the payment of procured wheat in their accounts.The SDM of Bassi Pathana, Jaspreet Singh, called the complainants and the area manager and recorded their statements.The commission agents held a press conference in this regard. While talking to media persons, complainants Rajesh Singla, State Secretary of Federation of Arhtiya Association, Punjab; Vishal Gupta and Ajay Gupta, commission agents, said Markfed procured wheat from their shops and certain bills were yet to be cleared. They said they had been doing the rounds of the Markfed office to get their payment released, but the area manager was demanding Rs2 per quintal as commission for releasing the balance amount. They alleged that the officials were also demanding a bribe for releasing the payment on account of gunny bags. They demanded a vigilance probe against the Markfed officials.The SDM said certain commission agents and the area manager had recorded their statements. He would call others to ascertain the facts and submit his report to the Deputy Commissioner within a day or two.Meanwhile, the DM of Markfed, Maninder Pal Singh, and Area Manager Ajit Pal Singh refuted the allegations, saying that certain commission agents were yet to deliver the wheat that’s why their payment had been kept pending.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fatehgarh-sahib-dc-orders-inquiry-against-procurement-agency-official-264758
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Hit by scooter, traffic cop hurt in Chandigarh||Unknown Activa riders sped away after hitting a traffic policeman near the Sector 45/46/49/50 light point.According to the police, Head Constable Rajinder Singh of the traffic staff reported that he was on duty at the Sector 45/46/49/50 light point when he saw three persons, who were not wearing helmets, triple-riding on an Activa.He signalled them to stop. However, instead of stopping, the suspects hit him with the Activa and sped away. He was injured and taken to the Civil Hospital, Sector 45. The victim failed to note down the registration number of the scooter. The police have registered a case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hit-by-scooter-traffic-cop-hurt-in-chandigarh-264757
07-06-2021||Sandeep Rana||RLA revenue for Chandigarh civic body — A hollow claim by Mayor||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 6Soon after assuming the charge of the Mayor in January, Ravi Kant Sharma held a press conference claiming that the Registration and Licensing Authority (RLA) would be transferred to the Municipal Corporation and the civic body would start fetching the RLA revenue from April 1.However, till now, neither the UT Administration has approved the proposal nor it was forwarded to the Ministry of Home Affairs. It was claimed that the MC will get about Rs100 crore per year revenue from the RLA.However, the cash-starved MC has not received it so far. During the five years of the BJP-ruled MC, all Mayors claimed that they will get funds for the MC, but failed to do so.BJP delegations, led by the Mayor, had met the Administration top brass, but there is no progress so far.Due to a shortage of funds, several civic issues such as maintenance of parks and maintenance of public toilets have been hanging fire. Even for the past two months, the regular MC staff has been getting salaries later than the date expected.Most of the councillors failed to use a major share of their ward development fund due to the shortage of funds with the MC.Leader of Opposition Davinder Singh Babla said: “The Mayor had lied. How can he claim that they are going to get the RLA revenue when it has not been approved by the UT Administration? He should not make such random statements.”However, Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma claimed that they will soon get the matter approved from the Administration. Following which, he said he would go to the MHA to get the RLA revenue for the civic body.Meanwhile, UT Adviser Manoj Parida said: “We are examining the matter.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rla-revenue-for-chandigarh-civic-body-%E2%80%94-a-hollow-claim-by-mayor-264755
07-06-2021||---||Panjab University to hold semester exams online||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 6In view of the prevailing pandemic situation, Panjab University has decided to hold the semester examinations online.The exams will start from June 28, informed sources.A panel formed to conduct examinations has unanimously decided to hold the exams online and have submitted their report to the Vice-Chancellor for final approval.“Considering the pandemic, we have unanimously decided to conduct the examinations online. The suggestions have been submitted for the final approval of the Vice Chancellor,” said a panel member.Asked about reports on introducing a software to stop students from cheating in the upcoming examinations, sources said: “Nothing has been finalised yet.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-hold-semester-exams-online-264748
07-06-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||AAP demands Punjab Health Minister’s resignation over ‘vaccine scam’||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 6Hundreds of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers today held a protest near the residence of Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu demanding his resignation over the “vaccine scam”.The protest was led by Deputy Leader of Opposition in the Punjab Legislative Assembly Saravjit Kaur Manuke, MLAs Jai Kishan Singh Rodi, Amarjit Singh Sandoa, Youth Wing co-president Anmol Gagan Mann and senior leader Manwinder Singh Giasarpura. They raised slogans against the Punjab government and also burnt an effigy of the Health Minister.The district police had made elaborate arrangements by putting up barricades on the roads leading to the minister’s residence. Later, these leaders, along with the party workers, courted arrest as the police did not allow them to move towards the minister’s residence. They were taken to the Matour police station from where they were released after a few hours.Earlier addressing the protesters, Saravjit Kaur Manuke said the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government had procured vaccination under the state quota and sold it to private hospitals at higher rates. She demanded that Balbir Singh Sidhu should immediately be sacked from the Punjab Cabinet and a criminal case be registered against him.The AAP leaders stated that the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government and Balbir Singh Sidhu were fleecing innocent people of the state even in this hour of crisis.“The government bought the vaccine for Rs400 for the people of Punjab and sold it to private hospitals for Rs1,060. It has unethically earned crores of rupees and now closed vaccination centres claiming vaccine shortage,” they said.The leaders said people of Punjab were now aware of the misdeeds of the Congress government. In the upcoming Punjab Assembly elections to be held in 2022, they would give a befitting reply to the Congress.Meanwhile, coming to the rescue of the Health Minister, Amrik Singh Somal and Kuljit Singh Bedi, Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor, respectively, condemned the demand of BJP, Akali Dal and AAP leaders seeking resignation of Balbir Singh Sidhu. They questioned on what grounds the Akalis, who had devastated the health and education sectors of Punjab, were now demanding Sidhu’s resignation. They said two lakh people had already been administered the Covid vaccine in Mohali city alone, while 4.25 lakh people had been vaccinated in Mohali district.The Senior Deputy Mayor and the Deputy Mayor said all these vaccinations were provided free of cost and Congress volunteers and leaders extended this facility to people by organising regular vaccination camps. They said the Health Minister was not aware of this and as soon as he was informed about it, vaccine stock had been recalled from private hospitals immediately. So, it was no longer an issue that was being deliberately raised by the Opposition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-demands-punjab-health-ministers-resignation-over-vaccine-scam-264745
07-06-2021||Mohali||Three of inter-state gang held with Rs 14 lakh, 5 ATM cards||A cyber team of the Mohali police has arrested three suspects allegedly involved in duping persons on the pretext of providing them remdesivir and amphonex injections and has seized Rs14 lakh and five ATM cards from them.The suspects have been identified as Kurukshetra residents Mandeep Singh and Kulwinder Kumar, and Zirakpur resident Amit Kumar. A case under Sections 419, 420 and 120-B of the IPC and 51-A and 53 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, was registered at the Zirakpur police station on June 1. The suspects were produced in a court and remanded in four-day police custody.The police said the inter-state gang used to contact persons in need of remdesivir and amphonex through social media groups and convinced them that they would arrange the injections. Once the money was transferred to their accounts, they stopped taking their calls.The cyber team of the Mohali police was led by SP Gurjot Singh Kaler and Zirakpur SHO Onkar Singh Brar. Kaler said, ‘’The inter-state gang was running a fake operation in Punjab, Haryana, UP, Jharkhand and other states. They had no means to provide the injections and medicines. The suspects, led by Kulwinder Kumar, used to target poor people in far-off places and withdraw money through different bank accounts. The money has been recovered and will be given back to the victims after the legal process soon.’’The suspects were taxi drivers and running the operation for three months. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-of-inter-state-gang-held-with-rs-14-lakh-5-atm-cards-264740
07-06-2021||Mohali||Only 1 Covid fatality in Mohali||Mohali district reported one fatality and 90 fresh cases in the past 24 hours. So far, 67,294 total cases have been reported in the district and the toll stands at 987. As many as 269 patients were cured of the disease. There are 1579 active cases in the district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-1-covid-fatality-in-mohali-264734
07-06-2021||Panchkula||20 cases, 2 deaths in Panchkula district||The district reported 20 fresh Covid cases and two deaths on Sunday. While the overall tally stands at 30,325, the death toll is 354. The district has 471 active cases. The Health Department urged people not to let their guards down and follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour. “Mask, social distancing and hand sanitisation is still the key to preventing the spread of Covid,’’ said CMO Jasjeet Kaur. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-cases-2-deaths-in-panchkula-district-264730
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||74 Covid cases, 4 deaths in Chandigarh||The city reported 74 new Covid cases and four deaths on Sunday. The number of active cases now stands at 833 and the toll at 772. As many as 162 patients recovered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/74-covid-cases-4-deaths-in-chandigarh-264728
07-06-2021||---||‘Allow shops to open till 8 pm’ : Chandigarh traders||Chandigarh, June 6Seeking relief for traders of the city in view of the improved Covid situation, the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal has sent a memorandum to the Administrator and Adviser demanding restoration of routine shopping hours from 10 am to 8 pm in the markets.Charanjiv Singh, president, CBM, said: “As Covid cases have substantially decreased, shops should be allowed to open till 8 pm.”Diwaker Sahoonja, patron-cum-Chief spokesperson for the CBM, while supporting all anti-Covid measures, said he was hopeful that the traders and their staff would be vaccinated on a priority basis and some kind of special relief packages and financial assistance would be announced by the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/allow-shops-to-open-till-8-pm-chandigarh-traders-264725
07-06-2021||Naina Mishra||75% ICU beds still occupied in Chandigarh government hospitals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 6Even as the Covid cases are declining in Chandigarh, there has been no relief when it comes to the occupancy of ventilator beds in ICUs at three city government hospitals. More than 75 per cent ICU beds continue to remain occupied. Meanwhile, around 62 per cent oxygen beds are now vacant.At the PGI, only 11 ICU beds were lying vacant as on Sunday out the total 78 beds. Prof GD Puri, Dean (Academics) and Head, Department of Anesthesia and Intensive Care, said: “Earlier, critical patients were not being admitted to the ICU due to lack of beds. Now, a majority of them are accommodated at the hospital. Such patients stay there for two to three weeks after admission following which the beds fall vacant.”Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, Chandigarh, said: “There has been a reduction in only those patients who require oxygen support, but critically ill patients are still coming to the hospital, showing that there has been a little decline in such cases. The critical patients take longer than 20 days in ICUs.”Prof Ram said: “Besides treating serious patients of Covid-19, we are also doing surgeries on mucormycosis (black fungus) patients at the ICU wards of Covid-19 as these patients are also Covid positive. The mucormycosis patients require critical care during and after surgery as well.”Dr Jasvinder Kaur, Director of Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, said: “The admission to ICUs is gradually reducing.”Dr Paramjit Singh, Deputy Medical Superintendent of the GMSH, Sector 16, said: “We are shifting Covid patients to ICUs so that we can monitor them closely. However, the requirement for oxygen has decreased substantially.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/75-icu-beds-still-occupied-in-chandigarh-government-hospitals-264720
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh on recovery path, wife battles virus||Covid-infected former Indian sprinter Milkha Singh (91) is showing signs of improvement, said a team of doctors attending to him at an ICU at the PGI. “Legendary sprinter Milkha Singh, who is admitted to the ICU at the PGI since June 3, is showing continuous improvement. On the basis of all medical parameters, his condition has been observed better than previous days. He is continuously being monitored by a medical team at the PGI,” read a medial bulletin.“Milkha is improving and his condition is stable. Nirmal Milkha Singh continues to battle the disease bravely,” said a family member. — TNSDeath rumours on social mediaOn Saturday, the social media was flooded with rumours about Milkha’s death. The messages were fake as doctors maintained that Milkha was on the path of recovery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-singh-on-recovery-path-wife-battles-virus-264714
07-06-2021||Naina Mishra||15K vaccine slots vacant at Chandigarh private hospitals till June 26||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 6At a time when beneficiaries from 18 to 45 years are struggling to find slots for vaccination at government facilities, paid slots of vaccines in private facilities are lying unused in the city. Over 15,000 slots (till June 26) were vacant as checked today.For today, at least 841 slots were vacant in private hospitals of the city. On the contrary, there are no slots available at government facilities. The vaccine slots are now open at New Public School, Global Health Care, Bedi Hospital and Cloud Nine Hospital.RS Bedi from Bedi Hospital, Sector 33, said: “Many people are unfamiliar with the availability of vaccine in private hospitals.People are perhaps confused with the number of vaccines coming to the market from time to time. The supply should be seamless and guidelines should not be changed often as it causes uncertainty. The drive has picked up pace in the past two days in private hospitals.”Meanwhile, Chandigarh is yet to gain momentum for 18-45 age group vaccination as the Centre is sanctioning doses in a staggered manner. The UT is expected to receive 26,000 doses of vaccine till June 10.“The situation — vacant slots in private sector and people struggling to get vaccine at government facilities — is exhibiting the country’s vaccine strategy. It shows that vaccines are unaffordable for majority and the distribution formula for public and private sectors needs to be reconsidered. Covid-19 vaccination was an opportunity for the government to show its seriousness on the healthcare front. However, in the end, it seems to have further diminished the trust of people in government facilities,” said Dr Chandrakant Lahariya, public policy and health systems expert.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15k-vaccine-slots-vacant-at-chandigarh-private-hospitals-till-june-26-264708
07-06-2021||Naina Mishra||Performance Grading Index: After 2 yrs in lead, Chandigarh slips to 2nd spot||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 6After leading the country for two years in a row, Chandigarh has slipped to the second place on the Performance Grading Index (PGI), 2019-20. The UT has been replaced by Punjab at the top.Even though Chandigarh has improved its performance on various parameters as compared to the previous years, it could not retain the top position owing to Punjab’s exceptional performance, as per the data released by the Union Ministry of Education today.Punjab added 160 points to its previous year’s tally of 769 to beat Chandigarh, which scored a total of 912 points this year. Last year, Chandigarh had topped the list with 887 points.One of the major reasons for the fall in the rankings of Chandigarh is the absence of a transparent teacher-transfer policy.The “number of teachers transferred through a transparent online system as a per cent of total number of teachers transferred” weighs 20 points. The ministry has time and again asked the UT Education Department to formulate a teacher-transfer policy.Years ago, the UT had approached the Punjab Department of School Education for adopting the e-PunjabSchool Management Information System and online teacher-transfer policy for digitisation of data related to schools, teachers and students.The move was a part of the State Mentoring Programme for exchanging best practices of states and UTs for improving the quality of education. However, as per sources, Punjab did not entertain the request of developing an online software for Chandigarh.In the Project Approval Board (PAB) meeting to be held in June this year, Chandigarh will seek a budget from the Centre for creating an online system of teachers’ transfers.Against a report indicator requiring 100 per cent transfer of teachers through a transparent online system, the UT got a naught. Another digitally inclined parameter on which the city could not perform was capturing students’ daily attendance. “We created a system for recording digital attendance of students during the 2020-21 session. It will be reflected in the next report,” said a source.For the first time, five states and UTs, including Chandigarh, have crossed the threshold of 90 per cent PGI score and reached Grade I++. Chandigarh, though, is yet to attain the highest achievable stage — the ‘first level’ for scores between 951 and 1,000 — as envisioned by the Education Ministry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/performance-grading-index-after-2-yrs-in-lead-chandigarh-slips-to-2nd-spot-264701
07-06-2021||---||Chandimandir: Told not to drink, man shoots brother dead||Panchkula, June 6A 29-year-old man allegedly shot his younger brother dead using his licensed gun at Chunna Bhatti village in Chandimandir late last night.The suspect, identified as Satnam Singh, subsequently filmed a confession video at the crime scene. The video is doing the rounds on social media platforms, including Facebook and WhatsApp.Don’t want to live anymore: SuspectIn the video, the suspect is confessing to his crime. ‘’The government should hang me. If I had bullets, I would have killed myself,” he said in the video. In the background, the victim is also seen lying in a pool of blood on a cot.According to the police, victim Ajit Singh (26) had asked his elder brother not to drink alcohol at home with his friend. Satnam felt humiliated and killed him.Ajit SinghThe police said the brothers were unemployed and had been involved in domestic tensions for a long time. Satnam killed his brother in a fit of rage. Amarjeet Kaur, their mother and complainant in the case, told the police that her elder son Satnam arrived at the house last evening around 9 pm, along with a friend.When Ajit Singh came to the house, he suspected that Satnam was taking alcohol with his friend in his room. Ajit asked his elder brother not to drink in the house. Later, Ajit went to speak with his father in another house.Soon after, Satnam also left the house with his friend only to return an hour later.“He (Satnam) went inside his room and locked the door. I too locked the door from outside in view of his short-tempered behaviour. Satnam then claimed his maternal cousins would come to the house soon and asked me to unlock the door. We both sat in the courtyard. Then Ajit came and ate dinner. He (Ajit) subsequently laid on a cot. As my younger son was using his phone, Satnam went back to his room to get a gun and fired two shots at Ajit’s head,” said the victim’s mother.Amarjeet Kaur then ran to her husband Pritam Singh to narrate the incident. The couple immediately dialled the Police Control Room.A PCR vehicle arrived at the spot, but the suspect had already fled away.The victim was taken to the Civil Hospital with the help of neighbours where doctors declared him brought dead. A case has been registered under the Arms Act and Section 302 (murder) of the IPC at the Chandimandir police station.Suspect arrested||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandimandir-told-not-to-drink-man-shoots-brother-dead-264697
07-06-2021||---||Punjab, Chandigarh among top 5 in Performance Grading Index 2019-20||New Delhi, June 6 Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ on Saturday approved the Performance Grading Index (PGI) 2019-20 for States and Union Territories (UTs) in which Punjab, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, and Kerala have got the highest grade of A++.The major purpose of PGI is indeed to create an environment that nudges States/UTs to continuously improve its performance, the minister said. “Finally, I’m happy to share that19 states and UTs have shown improvement by 10 per cent (36 points) or more in the PGI domain: Governance Process. Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Punjab, Rajasthan & West Bengal show improvement by at least 20 per cent”, he said.The ministry said most of the States/UTs improved their grade in PGI 2019-20 compared to the earlier years. Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Puducherry, Punjab and Tamil Nadu improved their overall PGI score by 10 per cent—that is 100 point or more.Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep and Punjab have shown improvement of 10 percent (eight points) or more in the ‘Access’ domain.As many as 13 states and UTs have shown improvement by 10 percent (15 points) or more in ‘Infrastructure and Facilities’ while Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Odisha have improved their scores in the domain by 20 percent or mored.In ‘Equity’, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, and Odisha have shown an improvement of more than 10 per cent.In ‘Governance Process’, 19 states have shown improvement by 10 per cent (36 points) or more. “Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Punjab, Rajasthan and West Bengal have shown improvement by at least 20 per cent (72 points or more),” the Ministry said.The PGI for States and Union Territories was first published in 2019 with reference year 2017-18.The index has been prepared with 70 parameters to “catalyse transformational change in the field of school education.”The PGI: States/UTs for 2019-20 is the third publication in this series. “The PGI exercise envisages that the index would propel States and UTs towards undertaking multi-pronged interventions that that will bring about the much-desired optimal education outcomes.“The PGI helps the States/UTs to pinpoint the gaps and accordingly prioritise areas for intervention to ensure that the school education system is robust at every level,” the Ministry said.“State-wise performance in PGI 2019-20 shows that 33 States and UTs have improved their PGI scores in 2019-20 compared to the previous year. The major purpose of PGI is indeed to create an environment that nudges States/UTs to continuously improve its performance,” said Pokhriyal.“The difference between the maximum and minimum PGI scores is more than 380 points in the year 2019-20. The main purpose of PGI is to make all the States and UTs aware of the areas where there is scope for improvement. We aim to have all the States and UTs at the highest,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-chandigarh-among-top-5-in-performance-grading-index-2019-20-264358
07-06-2021||New Delhi||PM Modi speaks to Milkha Singh, wishes him speedy recovery from Covid||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday spoke to former Indian sprinter Milkha Singh and inquired about his health, reported ANI.Modi wished the legendary athlete a speedy recovery and hoped he will be back soon to bless and inspire the athletes who are participating in the Tokyo Olympics.Singh who is Covid-19 positive was admitted to the ICU in Covid Hospital of the PGIMER here on Thursday due to dipping levels of oxygen.He has been kept under observation and is stable now. He was discharged from a private hospital earlier this week.Milkha Singh was on Sunday discharged from a private hospital where he was getting treatment for Covid-19 infection even as he continues to be on oxygen support.The 91-year-old was discharged in stable condition on the request of his family.“On the request of the family, Mr Milkha Singh was discharged from the hospital today in a stable condition. He is on oxygen and nutritional support,” the Fortis hospital, Mohali, had said in its update.Milkha is suspected to have contracted the infection from a house help.The legendary athlete is a four-time Asian Games gold medallist and 1958 Commonwealth Games champion but his greatest performance was the fourth-place finish in the 400m final at the 1960 Rome Olympics.--ANI/TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pm-modi-speaks-to-milkha-singh-wishes-him-speedy-recovery-from-covid-263271
07-06-2021||Naina Mishra||‘Psychological impact of Covid wide-ranging’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 3Doctors at the PGI have documented the case report of a young woman with psychotic breakdown, who was not suffering from Covid, but believed that she was spreading Covid to others and attempted self-immolation due to the guilt of contracting the infection.The case study was published in the Asian Journal of Psychiatry on May 21.A 27-year-old married woman was admitted with 20 per cent superficial thermal burns at the PGI last year. Psychiatry consultation was sought as she refused dressing and medications. On detailed psychiatric evaluation, she was found to be suffering from a psychotic illness for the past three years.Her symptoms started intensifying after March 2020, when she regularly started following the news related to Covid-19. She remained tense and distressed about the Covid infection. She would express worries regarding her and her family’s health. In the same week, she had some trivial sneezing and sore throat for a day, with no associated fever.Following this, she started believing that she might be having Covid-19. She knew that Covid-19 spreads through droplets when in close contact with a person who has the disease. However, she believed that in her case, Covid-19 infection developed inside her, though she could not explain it further.Over the next few days, she found her neighbours sneezing and started to believe that she was spreading Covid to others. She never got tested for Covid, but strongly believed that she was spreading the infection to others. Over the next one month, she started remaining sad and tired most of the time, lost interest in all housework and leisure activities.She started remaining fearful that people would find out and beat her up and her daughter for spreading Covid and she stopped going outside. She would frequently express a wish to die to her husband to save the family from public humiliation and would think of elaborate plans to kill herself.“On a morning, while making tea, she tried to kill herself and her daughter. The screams of her child awakened the family members, who quickly rescued them. She sustained superficial burns on both the arms and legs, while her daughter suffered from 30-40 per cent superficial to deep burns on the face,” read the case study.The doctors found out that she still believed she was carrying Covid-19 infection and was spreading the virus to others. She was managed with electroconvulsive therapy and psychotropics. The patient returned to her usual routine and no adverse reactions were observed. Both her and her daughter’s lesions from burns have healed with minimal scarring.The doctors have observed that the psychological impact of the pandemic has been wide ranging. Socio-cultural events have been shown to produce significant effect on the development of psychopathology and Covid-19, being a novel stressor, has played a major role in the development and course of various mental illnesses.“The case report highlights the fact, patients presenting with various neuropsychiatric symptoms, especially exhibiting new set of symptoms, should be routinely be evaluated for the association of such symptoms with beliefs about Covid-19 and its spread,” read report.Remained tenseThe 27-year-old patient, who remained tense and distressed about the Covid infection, started believing that she might be having Covid. She knew that Covid spreads through droplets when in close contact with a person who has the disease. However, she believed that in her case, the Covid infection developed inside her, though she could not explain it further.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/psychological-impact-of-covid-wide-ranging-262943
