08-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 71 new cases of Covid-19, 5 deaths||Chandigarh on Tuesday reported 71 new cases of Covid-19 and five deaths due to the pandemic.The total number of cases in the city has reached 60,778 of which 685 are active cases.The death toll in the city has reached 779.A total of 121 patients have been discharged including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.The number of cured people in the city has reached 59,314.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-71-new-cases-of-covid-19-5-deaths-265464
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Continuous improvement in condition of Covid-afflicted Milkha Singh: PGI||Legendary Indian sprinter Milkha Singh’s battle with Covid-19 at PGIMER’s Intensive Care Unit completed its sixth day on Tuesday amid “continuous improvement” in his condition here.The 91-year-old tested positive for the virus late last month.“...there is continuous improvement in the condition of sprint icon Shri Milkha Singh Ji, who has been admitted in the Intensive Care Unit of the NHE Block of PGIMER since June 3 and getting treated for Covid-19,” PGIMER official spokesperson, Prof Ashok Kumar, said.A PGIMER statement further said Milkha is under the observation of a medical team comprising senior doctors of the institute.Milkha’s wife Nirmal Kaur is also undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in a separate hospital in Mohali. The 82-year-old Nirmal, who is a former national volleyball captain, is admitted at the Fortis Hospital.“Milkha Ji continues to improve and his condition is stable. Mrs Nirmal Milkha Ji is stable and continues to battle hard,” read a statement issued by the Milkha family.“We are grateful for your prayers and good wishes,” the family said.The two are suspected to have contracted the infection from a house help.Milkha was admitted to PGIMER on June 3 after his oxygen levels dipped in home quarantine. He was previously admitted to Fortis hospital. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/continuous-improvement-in-condition-of-covid-afflicted-milkha-singh-pgi-265446
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Deputy Commandant's parade held at IMA in run-up to passing out parade||In the run-up to the Passing Out Parade (POP) scheduled to be held at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) on June 12, the Deputy Commandant and Chief Instructor’s Parade was conducted on Tuesday.A total of 341 Indian and 84 foreign Gentlemen Cadets displayed their immaculate turnout and precision marching. This marks the preparation for the grand finale later this week and symbolises the culmination of rigorous training and transformation of a cadet into a young officer. The parade was reviewed by Maj Gen JS Mangat, Deputy Commandant and Chief Instructor of the Indian Military Academy. He complimented the cadets and encouraged them to strive for professional excellence. He also emphasised the importance of valour, honour, ethos, and fine traditions of Indian Army. “The Gentlemen Cadets have been taught to lead by example and the soldiers who would be under their command should look up to them with pride. Indian troops are the best in the world, simple by heart, with unquestionable loyalty and hearts filled with patriotism. But then, as an officer you have to earn their respect and trust by your action, conduct and demeanor and above all by the truthfulness and purity of your intention and action. Once you have earned their trust and loyalty, they will follow you to every battle and win it for you," Maj Gen Mangat said.He also mentioned the efforts of the faculty and the hard work of the gentlemen cadets that went in the training regimen amidst the global pandemic and challenges posed by Covid-19.He also extended his felicitations to cadets from nine friendly foreign countries on successful completion of the training and wished them all the success ahead as they carry with them the cherished memories of their time at IMA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/deputy-commandants-parade-held-at-ima-in-run-up-to-passing-out-parade-265435
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh count below 50, 1st time in 103 days||After a gap of 103 days, the city today recorded less than 50 fresh cases of Covid-19. It was on February 25 when the UT had reported 49 cases.In the past seven days, the city logged 785 cases, which is a decline of 45 per cent as compared to a week before. As many as 1,433 cases were reported in the week ending May 31. The test positivity rate on Monday stood at 2.8 per cent, while for the week it was 3.9 per cent. The number of new infections grew by an average 0.2 per cent a day.Two succumb, 48 infected in chandigarhChandigarh: The city reported two deaths and 48 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday. The active cases now stand at 740 and the toll at 774. As many as 139 patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. TNSThere has also been a dip in the number of tests conducted this week. A total of 19,645 tests were conducted last week whereas the testing figure was 20,812 for the week ending May 31.For every 100 confirmed cases, 97 have recovered from the virus and one is currently infected. Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “The Covid load at hospitals has decreased along with the cases but people need to adhere to the norms while going out. The government cannot impose restrictions all the time. It is our duty to act responsibly so that there is no surge in infections again.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-count-below-50-1st-time-in-103-days-264984
08-06-2021||Panchkula||3 deaths, 23 new cases in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-deaths-23-new-cases-in-panchkula-264987
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Second wave sees increased cases of post-Covid issues||The war against Covid is not yet over for many as discharged patients are reporting a dip in the oxygen level after they get back home.Amit (38), a resident, was able to save his father at first, if not his mother, from Covid. His father was discharged from the hospital and he was to arrange an oxygen cylinder at home. “I lost my father as we had to shift him back to the hospital after his oxygen level dropped suddenly. He could not survive the second time,” he said.Punjab’s Covid expert group head, Dr KK Talwar, said during a meeting that almost 30 per cent patients were reporting post-Covid complications and continued to be symptomatic. Patients are taking almost three months to get back to normal and need to be strictly monitored. Talking to Chandigarh Tribune, Dr Talwar, who is also a former head of the PGI, said: “Some of the serious symptoms after Covid involve heart attack, brainstroke, tachycardia, breathlessness and sudden dip in the oxygen level and such symptoms can persist up to three months. Some patients also reported fever one week after they tested negative. There are chances of pulmonary embolism (blood clotting) that can create hypoxia.”“Patients with lung involvement suffer from scarring of the lungs due to which the dependency on oxygen increases. It is advised to go to a doctor in case of breathlessness,” said Dr Talwar.He said: “Younger people, who reported post-Covid complicationd, are mostly those who took alcohol and smoked. They should be more careful.”Citing the case Flying Sikh Milkha Singh, who was discharged after Covid recovery but had to be hospitalised again, the Punjab Chief Minister, Capt Amarinder Singh, had stated that “20 per cent patients in hospitals in Patiala are similar cases of recovered patients being readmitted.”Dr Yashpal Sharma, Head of Cardiology, PGI, said: “Patients come to us with problems such as breathlessness and a dip in the oxygen level after being discharged. More cases of post-Covid complications have been observed in the second wave. Patients with cardiac history also have aggravated symptoms after Covid. Patients are becoming dependent on oxygen at home after being discharged. We are mulling educating attendants on patient care. Patients should avoid any rigorous physical activity such as running for six to eight weeks.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/second-wave-sees-increased-cases-of-post-covid-issues-264988
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration may allow more relaxations||In the wake of the dip in Covid cases, UT residents are likely to get a major relief in restrictions after more than a month. Sources said the UT Administration was considering extending the timings of the shops by two hours. At present, the shops are allowed to open from 9 am to 4 pm only.The Administration could also reduce the night curfew hours, which is currently being imposed from 6 pm to 5 am on weekdays.On the pattern of the neighbouring states of Haryana and Punjab, limited number of shops could be allowed to open in shopping malls in the city and the authorities are mulling lifting the weekend curfew.The sources said the Administration could also allow dine-in at restaurants and hotels with 50 per cent seating capacity and the number of persons attending a marriage function or a funeral could also be increased. At present, only 20 persons are allowed to attend a marriage function and 10 persons a funeral. However, the final decision on providing the relaxations will be taken in a review meeting to be presided over by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore tomorrow.In a letter to the UT Administrator, Vyapar Sadan president Arvind Jain suggested that if the Administration was considering changing the timings of the shops, they should be allowed to operate from 11 am to 7 pm.“Jewellery stores need an hour or more to set up the shop and the same to pack up as we have to verify the stock position. Night curfew could be imposed from 7.30 pm to 5.30 am,” he said. He said the lockdown could be considered for Sunday and Monday instead of Saturday and Sunday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-may-allow-more-relaxations-264990
08-06-2021||Mohali||Five die in Mohali, 74 +ve||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-die-in-mohali-74-ve-264991
08-06-2021||Zirakpur||Birds, fish perish in fire at pet shop||Scores of birds and fish perished in a fire at a pet shop in Zirakpur early this morning. A short-circuit in “Gold Aquarium, Pet Dogs and Birds” led to a major fire in which the shop was gutted around 3 am. Two fire engines were rushed to the spot, which took around an hour to douse the flames, but by then, the shop was completely gutted, said Zirakpur fire officials.Eyewitnesses said there was massive sparking and explosions around the inverter inside the shop, which led to the fire. “Bird cages, toys, hand-made aquariums and other dry items were burnt. The loss is around Rs15 lakh,” said Sandeep, a co-owner of the shop.Zirakpur Fire Officer Rajeev Kumar said, “We received a call at 3:02 am and sent two fire engines to the spot. Fish and birds were found dead in the fire. The shop owner said there were no pet dogs for sale in the shop at the time of the incident.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/birds-fish-perish-in-fire-at-pet-shop-264992
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh heritage goes for Rs92 lakh in France||In the 10th auction of heritage furniture from the city this year, nine artifacts designed by Le Corbusier and Pierre Jeanneret went under the hammer for Rs92.23 lakh at Chantily in France yesterday.Ajay Jagga, member, Heritage Protection Cell, Chandigarh, said of the total items, a teak sofa with inclined flat backrest was sold for a record Rs21.22 lakh, while an advocate chair fetched Rs19.45 lakh and six dining chairs were sold for Rs15.03 lakh.In a letter to Minister for External Affairs S Jayashankar, Jagga said the 10th auction of Chandigarh heritage items was held at Chantily in France by Oise Encheres yesterday and four items were auctioned in violation of the Ministry of Home Affairs orders, dated February 22, 2011.“In view of the fact that there is no protest or resistance from the Government of India, continuous auctions of our heritage in foreign countries are going on; there is a need for getting the matter examined from law-enforcing agencies of France, as to how these items reached Paris,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-heritage-goes-for-rs92-lakh-in-france-264993
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration gets 360 clerks||The UT Administration today issued appointment letters and posting orders to newly recruited 360 clerical staff.At a formal function, UT Adviser Manoj Parida issued the posting orders to the candidates. The Adviser thanked Panjab University for holding the test in a transparent manner and the GMSH for conducting the medical examination of the candidates despite heavy Covid-related work in the hospital. The posting orders have been issued allocating them work in 38 departments.Meanwhile, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed the Personnel Department to ensure that all pending vacancies are filled on priority. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-gets-360-clerks-264994
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha, wife’s condition stable||Former Indian sprinter Milkha Singh and his wife Nirmal Milkha Singh continue to battle the Covid infection. Milkha (91), who is admitted to the PGI, is said to be stable, while Nirmal, who is admitted to a private hospital in Mohali, is also fighting the disease. “Milkha continues to react well to medication and his condition is stable. However, he is still in the ICU. Nirmal Milkha Singh is also stable and improving. She is battling hard,” read a statement from Milkha’s family. “We are grateful for your prayers and good wishes,” it added.“Milkha is maintaining a good saturation level and he has shown improvement. He is interacting with doctors and the attendant.His wife, meanwhile, is fighting hard and is being monitored closely,” said a source.On Monday, Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi spoke to doctors at the PGI to enquire about Milkha’s health. “I am relieved to know from the doctors at the PGI that Milkha is stable and responding to treatment,” said Sodhi. The legendary sprinter was admitted to an ICU at the PGI on June 3 and since then, he is showing continuous improvement.The legendary athlete is a four-time Asian Games gold medallist and 1958 Commonwealth Games champion, but his greatest performance remains the fourth-place finish in the 400m final of the 1960 Rome Olympics. His timing at the Italian capital was a national record for 38 years till Paramjeet Singh broke it in 1998. He also represented India in the 1956 and 1964 Olympics and was bestowed the Padma Shri in 1959. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-wifes-condition-stable-264995
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||No limit to human greed, says Punjab and Haryana High Court||There is no limit to human greed, the Punjab and Haryana High Court asserted as it turned down the anticipatory bail plea filed by liquor contractor Arvind Singla in an alleged Sector 37 property fraud case.In his detailed order, Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal refused to accept the petitioner’s contention that he was a leading liquor contractor of the region and had bona fide invested the money at the behest of a property dealer.“The petitioner may be a billionaire, but the investment made by him in the property does not appear bona fide and is certainly not for nation building or generating employment. It is for personal aggrandisement, as there is no limit to human greed,” Justice Grewal asserted.Making it clear that his custodial interrogation, in the facts and circumstances of the case, would be necessary, Justice Grewal observed that he was alleged to be the mastermind and instrumental in preparation of fake and forged documents for transfer of the property whereby he allegedly received more than Rs1 crore.Going into the background of the matter, Justice Grewal added that the house was apparently allotted by the UT to Santosh Mehta on a leasehold basis. She was said to have expired in October 1986. The property after her death was stated to be in the possession of her husband Ved Parkash Mehta, who expired in 2017. After his death, the co-accused, along with Surjit, a bouncer, allegedly took forcible possession of the house. Surjit preferred a civil suit on January 17, 2017, which was decreed the very next day as Rahul Mehta — Santosh Mehta’s son — allegedly appeared and admitted the tenancy. He was restrained from forcibly dispossessing plaintiff Surjit from the suit property.Justice Grewal added that Rahul Mehta was stated to be keeping “indifferent physical and mental health” and the accused allegedly took advantage.Justice Grewal also took note of the public prosecutor’s contentions that the petitioner actively connived with the co-accused and an agreement to sell was entered between Rahul Mehta and co-accused Khalendra Singh Kadyan.Thereafter, the petitioner entered into a pact with Kadyan and invested for buying 33 per cent share, while 67 per cent remained with Kadyan. The petitioner transferred Rs27 lakh Rahul Mahajan’s account, which was suspiciously opened in Catholic Syrian Bank. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-limit-to-human-greed-says-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-264996
08-06-2021||Dera Bassi||Man dies as tipper-truck  hits scooter||A 60-year-old man was killed after a tipper-truck hit his scooter near a petrol pump on the Barwala road here this morning.The police said the victim, Ashok Kumar, a resident of Saidpura, and his son were going to Dera Bassi when a truck hit their scooter in the rear. Ashok, who was driving the scooter, lost the balance and came under wheels of the truck. The victim died on the spot.After the accident, the truck driver sped away but passersby noted down the registration number of the vehicle.Dera Bassi SHO Jatin Kapoor said a case had been registered against the unknown truck driver. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-dies-as-tipper-truck-hits-scooter-264997
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh didn’t give MC nod to notify regularisation policy, says High Court||Nearly 15 years ago, a five-Judge Bench of the Supreme Court held that the Central or the state governments may consider framing a policy as a one-time measure to regularise the services of the employees working against sanctioned posts for more than 10 years. However, the Punjab and Haryana High Court observed that the Chandigarh Administration did not grant permission to the Municipal Corporation to notify the regularisation policy.The fact came to the fore as Justice Anil Kshetarpal of the High Court dismissed a bunch of 20 writ petitioners. The petitioners, among other things, were seeking appropriate directions to the Union Territory and another respondent to frame a policy for regularisation of contractual employees working in various establishments, departments and branches falling under purview of the UT Administration.Appearing before Justice Kshetarpal’s Bench through videoconferencing, counsel for the petitioners relied upon the minutes of the Municipal Corporation’s General House meeting held on November 14, 2019.Justice Kshetarpal observed that it was an admitted position that the policy was neither adopted nor approved. In fact, the Chandigarh Administration did not grant permission to the Municipal Corporation to notify the regularisation policy as proposed in the meeting.The counsel also told the Bench that the petitioners were now being sought to be replaced by another set of temporary employees, which could not be permitted. It was further contended that a Municipal Corporation committee, at its meeting held on July 28, 2014, had framed a draft policy by laying down certain conditions for regularisation.After hearing the contentions, Justice Kshetarpal asserted that the Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh, issued a recruitment notice on March 26, inviting applications from eligible candidates for filling posts on a temporary basis, which were likely to be regularised.“Thus, there is enough indication in the recruitment notice that the posts are likely to be regularised. The eligible candidates will have the opportunity to apply and compete, which is in accordance with the requirement of the Constitution,” Justice Kshetarpal asserted.Dismissing the petition in limine or at the threshold, Justice Kshetarpal observed that only one petitioner was appointed on March 22, 2006. The remaining petitioners were appointed after the judgment. Another petitioner had also not completed 10 years of service on the date of judgment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-didnt-give-mc-nod-to-notify-regularisation-policy-says-high-court-264998
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Garbage dumped in front of society irks Sector 50 residents||Residents of Tribune Society, Sector 50-D, are a harried lot due to the waste dumped in front of the society.According to residents, the waste of all societies is dumped at the same spot every day. The plastic waste is taken away for selling by waste collectors, but other garbage remains piled up here, say residents.“Those living in houses near the dump cannot even stand in their balconies. The garbage has always been piled up here for the past two years. We have approached several officials, but it has not been removed,” said one of the residents.“When the wind blows, odour enters our houses and makes our lives miserable. It gives us a headache. When it rains, the situation gets worse. No one is paying any heed to it,” said Hari Singh, another resident.The residents said they had asked the collectors to lift the waste, but they take away only a part of it. “We have to keep spraying room fresheners and keep our balcony doors tightly closed to avoid smell,” added residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/garbage-dumped-in-front-of-society-irks-sector-50-residents-264999
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Court denies bail to accused||A local court has rejected the interim bail application of Movish Bains, one of the accused in the alleged firing incident outside Eskobar, a nightclub in Sector 9, Chandigarh, on October 11, 2020.The caseSaurav Gujjar, a TikTok star, was injured in the firing after a bullet hit his thigh outside the club. The police had arrested the accused on the basis of an FIR lodged on the statement of Akash, a resident of Mohali.The counsel of the accused argued that the applicant was falsely implicated in the case. The applicant was behind the bars for the past seven months without any fault on his part. He also sought bail citing the Supreme Court guidelines for prisoners in view of Covid-19.The public prosecutor argued that as the applicant was involved in a serious case, he did not deserve the leniency of the court in granting bail.Saurav Gujjar, a TikTok star, was injured in the firing after a bullet hit his thigh outside the club. The police had arrested the accused on the basis of an FIR lodged on the statement of Akash, a resident of Mohali.After hearing the arguments, the court rejected his application for the interim bail. The court said in view of the grave nature of offence, it was of the opinion that no ground was made out to release the applicant on interim bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-denies-bail-to-accused-265000
08-06-2021||Panchkula||CM Khattar in Panchkula today||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar is likely to announce the constitution of the Panchkula Metropolitan Development Authority, said MLA Gian Chand Gupta.He said the Chief Minister would address a press conference tomorrow noon at the PWD Rest House in Sector 1. The move would accelerate the pace of development in the district on the lines of Gurugram and Faridabad. Khattar would also lay the foundation stone of three projects and inaugurate two others. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cm-khattar-in-panchkula-today-265001
08-06-2021||Panchkula||Owner attacks tenant over shop possession||A 49-year-old man, who runs a catering shop in a rented booth of the Sector 10 market, was allegedly attacked by the landlord of the property and his eight accomplices over a possession dispute.According to the FIR, the incident took place on Saturday around 10 pm.The victim, identified as Raj Kumar, claimed that he had received five stiches in the head after the suspects banged his head into a glass in the shop.“On Saturday evening, I received a call from a neighborhood shopkeeper that someone has broken my shop’s lock. I went to the Sector 10 police post and a police official visited the shop for inspecting the incident. Meanwhile, owner Atul Gupta, his father Vijender, friend Chandan Dhingra, Chirag, Madhav and a few others reached the shop in three cars. Vijender said it was their shop so how could I approach the police?” said the complainant.“The suspects then started beating me up in the presence of the police official. The neighborhood shopkeeper, his sons and the police official tried to intervene. Atul got hold of my neck and banged my head into a glass of the shop. When I fell down, Vijender hit me with a stick in. Spotting more policemen coming towards us, the suspects fled away. Before leaving, they threatened to kill me if I did not vacate the shop,” said the complainant.A case has been registered at the Sector 5 police station under relevant sections of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/owner-attacks-tenant-over-shop-possession-265004
08-06-2021||Mohali||Courses introduced at Rayat Bahra||Rayat Bahra University (RBU) has introduced new-age courses in artificial intelligence and machine learning, cyber security and ethical hacking, data science, android development, besides MSc in radiology and imaging technology.Gurvinder Singh Bahra, Chancellor of the university, said the university had opened career counselling centres and admission centres in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar, Uttarakhand and J&K, as students were unable to travel due to Covid.He said the university had taken the initiative to help the students seeking admission to professional courses. The career counseling centres and admission offices would be manned by experienced staff. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/courses-introduced-at-rayat-bahra-265006
08-06-2021||Zirakpur||Man injured as lift’s light, fan fall on him in society||Residents of Royale Estate housing society in Zirakpur today protested against the management after a light and a fan of a lift in tower No. 12 fell on a person today morning.The lift was closed for use after the incident. The management officials said only one person was in the lift at the time and he sustained minor injuries. Lift mechanics were trying to ascertain the cause of the mishap, they said. Residents, including women, resorted to sloganeering and later, lodged a complaint against the management officials at the Zirakpur police station.Zirakpur SHO Onkar Singh Brar said: “A complaint has been received against the management and we are verifying it. We have not received any medical report of the injured yet.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-injured-as-lifts-light-fan-fall-on-him-in-society-265010
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Release seized articles of U’khand cop: Court||The CBI court has directed the CBI to release the articles of Hemant Khanduri, a Sub-Inspector of the Uttarakhand Police, who was arrested while allegedly taking a bribe in Chandigarh.A case was registered against him on a complaint of a local taxi driver. He alleged that Khanduri was allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs5 lakh from the complainant for not taking action against him whose name had cropped up in a case of cheating lodged at Cantt police station, Dehradun.Hemant Khanduri was posted at the Cantt police station, Dehradun. In the application, Khanduri demanded for the release of articles taken into custody from him during his arrest. He submitted that an ATM card, ID card, Aadhaar card, credit card and a purse, along with cash, were seized.The CBI argued that the seized articles were required for investigation, except debit card, ID card and Aadhaar card. After hearing the arguments, the court ordered to release his debit card, departmental ID card and Aadhaar card.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/release-seized-articles-of-ukhand-cop-court-265016
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||CBI court defers hearing in bribe case to July 8||Awaiting prosecution sanction, the CBI court has deferred the hearing in the case of an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of the Chandigarh Police, Harbhajan, who was arrested on the charges of demanding bribe from an Air Force employee, Dharampal.The court has now fixed the hearing for July 8. The chargesheet against the accused was already submitted in the court.Dharampal, a resident of Lalru, told the CBI that he had taken a loan from a finance company. He said he was paying the installments regularly, but was not being issued receipts. So, he stopped making payments to the company. On receiving the complaint from the company, the ASI allegedly met Dharampal and demanded Rs10,000 for not registering a case against him. The CBI had the caught the ASI red-handed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-court-defers-hearing-in-bribe-case-to-july-8-265024
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Nidhi, Talib lead in carrom meet||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nidhi-talib-lead-in-carrom-meet-265027
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Sacked sanitation workers protest||Sacked outsourced safai karamcharis staged a protest under the banner of the Coordination Committee here today.Wearing black robes, the safai karamcharis, who were working at Rock Garden on an outsourced basis, staged a protest in front of the road in Sector 9 and raised slogans demanding that they should be taken back.Addressing the protesters, Coordination Committee chief Satinder Singh and general secretary Rakesh Kumar said the sacked workers were not taken back even after assurance from senior officials for the past one year.They threatened to intensify the agitation if the sacked workers were not taken back.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sacked-sanitation-workers-protest-265031
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Man held with country liquor||Stone of health centres laidMohali: Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Monday laid the foundation stone of two urban primary health centres at Sector 69 and Sector 79, which will be set up at a cost of Rs1.07 crore. A new multi-storey block with seven operation theatres is also being constructed here for a medical college that will be linked with the Phase 6 Civil Hospital. The foundation stone of the medical college building will be laid soon. Roads will be constructed in the area, along with a proper drainage system. TNSMan violates curfew, nabbedChandigarh: A Mauli Jagran resident, Abhishek, was arrested while roaming without having any pass/permit near the tent house, Charan Singh Colony, Mauli Jagran in violation of the curfew orders, on Sunday. He was later released on bail. A case under Section 188 of the IPC has been registered. TNSTwo nabbed on assault chargeChandigarh: Lakhvir Singh, a resident of Sector 19 and a Sub-Inspector with the Punjab Police, alleged that Samir, alias Samy, Gaurav, both residents of Sector 19, and others beat him up in front of his house on Sunday. A case under Sections 323, 341, 506 and 34 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 19 police station. The police have arrested Samir and Gaurav in this regard. TNSPU to conduct examinationsChandigarh: Panjab University has announced to conduct special examinations of certain courses from June 10. The examinations will be conducted for those who filled their forms for May 2020 but missed their exams. The exams will be held for Bachelor of Hotel Management & Catering Technology 4th semester (four-year-course) from June 15 to 17, while for BA/BSc (General) 2nd semester has been scheduled from June 10 to 21. TNSFaculty development programme beginsMohali: In order to facilitate the faculty in acquiring the required knowledge for successfully conducting online teaching and aiding research, a seven-day national faculty development programme on “improving the teaching and research acumen” began at GGDSD College, Kheri Gurna, here, on Monday. Upkar Krishan Sharma, president of GGDSD College Society, who was the chief guest, expressed views on the importance of the blended mode of teaching and learning in the post-pandemic era. Principal Rama Arora said the programme had been designed to cover a myriad range of issues pertinent for online teaching-learning and research. Over 100 participants were present during the inaugural session. TNSPatiala MP launches ‘single wire’ projectPatiala: MP Preneet Kaur on Monday launched the “single wire” project at Anardana Chowk to rid the walled city of haphazard electric cables. Expressing gratitude to the Chief Minister, Capt Amarinder Singh, for sanctioning a special grant of Rs40 crore for the beautification and strengthening of the power distribution system in the inner part (walled city) of the heritage city, she said the project would give the walled city a clean and beautiful look, which would attract tourists. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-with-country-liquor-265038
