09-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh records 84 new cases of Covid-19 and 2 deaths||Chandigarh on Wednesday recorded 84 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths due to the pandemic.The total number of cases in the city reached 60,862 of which 649 are active cases.A total of 118 patients have been discharged including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.A 33-year-old male and a 75-year-old female who were suffering from other co-morbidities succumbed to the virus taking the death toll to 781 in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-84-new-cases-of-covid-19-and-2-deaths-265931
09-06-2021||Ankit Gera||Ankit Gera ties the knot with Rashi Puri in Chandigarh||The actor adds, “Rashi flew down to India around three weeks ago before the wedding to meet me. Even though it was a short span, we got to know each other better and decided to take the plunge. Rashi had no clue about my work as an actor. She liked me for who I was as a person and not for my profession. That’s what made me fall in love with her.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ankit-gera-ties-the-knot-with-rashi-puri-in-chandigarh-265796
09-06-2021||---||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s big push for development of Panchkula||Chandigarh, June 8Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today announced the setting up of the Panchkula Metropolitan Development Authority (PMDA) on the lines of the bodies established in Gurugram and Faridabad.He said it would help in executing an integrated development plan. He said Panchkula was a part of the tricity, but lagged behind Mohali.Addressing the media in the presence of Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, the Chief Minister said Panchkula would be developed as a hub of medical, education and tourism facilities and industrial investment.He said to promote Panchkula as a destination for real estate, external development charges (EDC) and infrastructure development charges (IDC) were slashed by almost one-third in Panchkula, bringing these on a par with those in Mohali and Zirakpur.He said there were two sites for big hospitals, one in Sector 32 and the other in Sector 5-C, which would be auctioned soon. He said a food and drug testing lab was being opened in Sector 3 at a cost of Rs22 crore.“At Thapli in Morni, a panchkarma centre is being set up under the Ayush Department. A nursing college is also being planned for the city while the National Institute of Fashion Technology is coming up in Sector 23,” he said.He said efforts were being made to develop Barwala as an industrial township and the IT Park in Panchkula would be operated in collaboration with the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI).He said Morni would be developed as a tourist destination. He said paragliding activities would start at Morni on June 20. Besides, 10 trekking routes had been identified. “We are exploring the possibility of home stay or farmhouse stay facilities for trekkers,” he said.He talked about setting up Nakshatra Vatika, Sugandh Vatika and Rashi Van on 20 acres along the Morni road from Panchkula.Focusing on Pinjore, he said a film city was being planned on 60 acres. “It will comprise indoor studios,” he said.He said the government had decided to shift the Sector 23 dumping ground to Jhuriwala by December 31. He said the work to connect Panchkula with the Chandigarh airport was in progress. He said an air taxi service might start from Pinjore.WHAT’S IN THE OFFING||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-chief-minister-manohar-lal-khattars-big-push-for-development-of-panchkula-265744
09-06-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Setting up Panchkula Metropolitan Development Authority just a gimmick: Opposition||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 8Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal’s announcement regarding setting up the Panchkula Metropolitan Development Authority (PMDA) evoked a mixed response from residents.Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia, Ex-Mayor‘IT IS A BID TO DIVERT ATTENTION FROM ISSUES’The PMDA is nothing but a way to divert the attention of people from issues in city. It will create confusion.While leaders of the ruling party claimed that it would help in boosting the development, the Opposition claimed that it was nothing but a gimmick to divert the attention of residents from various issues in the city.BB Singal, senior BJP leader and a member of the Haryana State Pharmacy Council, said the announcement made by the Chief Minister was a historic step and a long-pending demand of the city.He said with the PMDA, almost all departments, including the MC, HUDA, HSIIDC, UHBVN and horticulture, would come under an umbrella and the decision making would be easier.SK Nayar, PRESIDENT, CITIZENS’ WELFARE ASSN, P’KULAWILL HELP COMPLETE DEVELOPMENT WORKSSetting up of the PMDA will help in completing development works in the district on time. It is a good decision; the previous governments had ignored Panchkula.Singal said with the setting up of the PMDA, the rates of the CLU (change of land use) would be reduced to one third — on a par with the rates in Mohali and Zirakpur. He said the EDC funds that earlier went to the state government would now be received by the PMDA and used towards the development projects in the city.However, former Mayor Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia said the PMDA was nothing but a way to divert the attention of people from issues in the city. She said the Deputy Commissioner, Mayor and other officials of various departments, who are members of the PMDA, were already present to take decisions regarding the development of the city. She said setting up of the PMDA would just create confusion.Welcoming the move, SK Nayar, president, Citizens’ Welfare Association, Panchkula, said setting up of the PMDA would help in completing the development works of the district timely. He said it was a good decision and the previous governments had ignored Panchkula.Subhash Papneja, president, Residents’ Welfare Association, Sector 16, said the government made several announcements, but everything remained on papers. He said a government medical college, Sanskrit college, Ayurvedic college and Sainik school were some of the announcements made by the government, but nothing has been done so far. He said the pace of development was very slow and hoped that setting up of the PMDA would boost the development works in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/setting-up-panchkula-metropolitan-development-authority-just-a-gimmick-opposition-265745
09-06-2021||---||Stuck in lift in Zirakpur, harrowing time for woman, son||Zirakpur, June 8A mother-son duo, residents of Aastha Apartments in Zirakpur, had a harrowing time when they were stuck in a lift for more than half an hour at the housing society this evening.Seema Verma and her five-year-old son were stuck in the B Block lift around 8 pm and had to be rescued with the help of some residents. Power outage and voltage fluctuation had left them stranded on the first floor.‘’Auto rescue devices of lifts of Phase 2 of Aastha Apartments are non-functional for a long time. Further, generator too is not working for want of fuel. Lift operator has not been provided for the past one year despite a High Court directive on January 24, 2019. Breaking down of lifts has become a routine. Senior citizens living in the six-floor building have to face harassment every day,’’ said Gulshan Rai, a resident here.This is for the second day running that the residents of housing societies in Zirakpur had to face harassment due to malfunctioning lifts allegedly under the supervision of builders. Frequent power outages, voltage fluctuations and non-operational advanced rescue devices are only exposing the bare minimum infrastructure in the housing societies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stuck-in-lift-in-zirakpur-harrowing-time-for-woman-son-265747
09-06-2021||Sandeep Rana||Covid renders 2,400 Chandigarh vendors defaulters, may lose licence||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 8The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has turned about 2,400 registered vendors defaulters for they have failed to deposit their monthly licence vending fee to the Municipal Corporation.Fee relaxation sought“We expect a fee relaxation for a few months as due to the lockdown we hardly made any earning. We are finding it difficult to make ends meet. MC assistance will encourage the registered vendors to stand up again and work.” Vendor at Sector 15They are now facing the risk of losing their vending licence. There are about 10,000 street, essential and mobile vendors registered with the corporation.During the first wave, the MC had exempted them from paying the fee for three months due to Covid and subsequent restrictions in the city. However, the corporation has not taken any such move to assist them during the second wave.“So far, no such relief has been given. There are roughly 2,400 vendors, who have failed to pay their fee. We are soon going to issue them notices to clear their dues else they will lose their vending licence,” shared a senior MC official.Some vendors have returned to their hometowns due to the lockdown restrictions and some have stopped operating from the sites allotted to them.During a visit to the Sector 15 vending zone, the biggest vending site in the city, Chandigarh Tribune found that a few vendors were operating from there. “We keep sitting in the sun whole day, but hardly get customers these days. With no infrastructural support or fee relaxation coming from the MC, many vendors have stopped working here. Some have started doing other works and some are selling vegetables pedalling around the city,” said Jagat Shankar, a vendor at Sector 15.“We expect a fee relaxation for a few months as due to the lockdown we hardly made any earning. We are finding it difficult to make ends meet. MC assistance will encourage the registered vendors to stand up again and work,” added another vendor.The vendors have to pay monthly fee ranging from Rs500 to Rs2,000 depending upon the area and vending category.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-renders-2-400-chandigarh-vendors-defaulters-may-lose-licence-265748
09-06-2021||---||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation yet to finalise technology for processing waste||Chandigarh, June 8The life of people living near the dumping ground in Dadu Majra continues to be a hell-like as the Municipal Corporation has failed to give the work of garbage processing to any agency even after one year of taking over the waste processing plant from Jaypee Group.For the past several months, it could not finalise the technology to be adopted for processing the waste at the plant, let alone floating a tender to hire an agency for installing latest machinery and processing garbage.After expression of interest was called from different companies, all firms gave presentation to an MC committee. In a House meeting held in April, it was decided that the firms would give presentations to all councillors. Even after this, the matter could not be decided. In May, the House decided to visit different plants in other cities.“While people are suffering, the MC is taking a whole month to decide about a small presentation. Officials will not do anything but waste the hard-earned money of the residents. The MC is spending Rs33 crore on biomining at the dumping ground but no satisfactory work has been done. A CBI inquiry should be conducted into the matter,” said Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman, FOSWAC (an umbrella body of RWAs).Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said, “Learning from our bad experience where proper waste processing was not done by the agency, we are first taking our time to get the best technology for the city. I have told the officials to complete the tendering and installation of machinery works within three months.”In June last year, the corporation had taken the possession of the plant from Jaypee while stating that very less processing of waste was being done at the unit for the past many years. Two months after the takeover, the IIT-Roorkee conducted an inspection and found that all machines at the plant in Sector 25 had already completed their lifespan. It recommended setting up a modern 500 tonne per day (TPD) plant for dry and wet waste treatment.At present, the MC is running the plant on its own with the same worn-out machines. As per the IIT-Roorkee report, the existing plant can at best handle 60 to 65 TPD (tonne per day) waste. The city produces about 450 tonnes of waste per day. The unprocessed waste is being thrown at the dumping ground. Several fire incidents have occurred at the dumping site, causing air pollution and trouble to locals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-yet-to-finalise-technology-for-processing-waste-265749
09-06-2021||Naina Mishra||Gender gap in vaccine drive; more men than women jabbed in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 8Four months after the inoculation drive against Covid-19, Chandigarh has vaccinated over 56 per cent men in comparison to nearly 44 per cent women – highlighting a gender gap in the vaccination programme.Hesitancy for vaccine“There is a lot of misinformation related to the vaccine among women. We receive a lot of calls from women who ask whether it is safe to go for vaccination during menstruation or while taking treatment of infertility. There is nothing bigger than life, and all women should go for vaccination,” said Dr Bharti Joshi, gynaecologist.In other words, for every 1,000 men receiving the jab, only 754 women are getting vaccinated – which is lower than the Chandigarh’s male-female population ratio.According to the 2011 Census, there are 55 per cent men in comparison to 45 per cent women in Chandigarh.Mohali’s vaccination ratio is even lower as only 39 per cent women have received the jab against 61 per cent men. Prof Rajesh Gill from the Department of Sociology, Panjab University, said, “A significant proportion of women still cannot take decisions independently and have to consult family members. Even to access healthcare services, women are the last to go to a health centre as it is their last priority.”“The first priority is of the husband, then son and the women are always the last one. This is about the section of society who aren’t well off and educated,” she said.“There is also a lot of rumour mongering related to vaccination, like infertility concerns. I keep talking to women who are staying in slums and they are against vaccination,” said Prof Gill.“It is difficult to get them vaccinated because they cannot miss their work.They think it is not worth it to stand all day to get the vaccine,” she added.As per the National Family Health Survey-2015-16, 54 per cent of women are allowed to go alone to a market, 50 per cent to a health facility, and 48 per cent to places outside their villages or communities. Overall, only 41 per cent of women in India are allowed to go alone to all three places and six per cent are not allowed to go alone to any of the three places.The survey also showed that 36 per cent women in Chandigarh were not allowed to go to a market, health facility or outside the community alone.“For election voting, all kinds of arrangements are made to ferry the voters to polling booths and women are very excited. But for vaccination, women have to fend for themselves. Just like polling, we should reach out to them for vaccination,” said Prof Gill.“We have to educate them why vaccination is important. We have to facilitate them,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gender-gap-in-vaccine-drive-more-men-than-women-jabbed-in-chandigarh-265751
09-06-2021||Panchkula||Covid-19: Panchkula sees no death, 20 cases||5 deaths, 71 +ve in ChandigarhChandigarh: As many as 71 new Covid cases and five deaths were reported in the city on Tuesday. The active cases now stand at 685 and the toll at 779. As many as 121 patients recovered. TNSDeath toll crosses 1,000 mark in MohaliMohali: The death toll crossed the 1,000 mark with 11 more fatalities, including six “legacy deaths”, being reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 1,003. As many as 113 new Covid cases surfaced while 236 patients were cured of the disease. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-panchkula-sees-no-death-20-cases-265753
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||It’s nearly all open in Chandigarh, but virus  still around, exercise caution||In a relief to residents and traders, the UT Administration has announced major relaxations in various restrictions imposed in the city since May 4 for effective control of the Covid-19 pandemic.With further reduction in the number of coronavirus cases, the UT has decided to allow all shops to remain open from 10 am to 6 pm. The decision was taken at a review meeting, chaired by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, here today.At the meeting, it was also decided to open all restaurants and bars with 50 per cent occupancy from 10 am to 9 pm and also gymnasiums, spas, wellness centres, clubs, barber shops and hair salons with 50 per cent capacity. The authorities also allowed museums and libraries to open. Sukhna Lake will remain open for visitors and walkers from 5 am to 8 pm, but boating will not be allowed. However, it will remain closed on Sunday.With a sharp decline in the Covid cases, the Administration has withdrawn its earlier order wherein restrictions were imposed on the number of employees attending government and private offices and banks. Similarly, gatherings at marriages and cremations and other events will be restricted to a maximum of 30 persons. Earlier, it was limited to 20 persons at marriage functions and 10 at cremations.In another major decision, the authorities have allowed shopping malls to remain open from 10 am to 6 pm. However, eating outlets inside the malls can remain open till 8 pm. The Administration has reduced the timings of the night curfew. Now, it will be imposed from 10 pm to 5 am. Earlier, it was in force from 6 pm to 5 am. Providing a major relief in the weekend lockdown, now there will be a total closure only on Sunday and essential shops, including barber shops, will be allowed to open. The movement of vehicles will be strictly restricted during the day.However, cinema halls and theatres will continue to remain closed. Also, Rock Garden will be closed till further orders. The relaxations will come into force with effect from 6 am and will be applicable until further orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/its-nearly-all-open-in-chandigarh-but-virus-still-around-exercise-caution-265743
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Man arrested for curfew violation in Chandigarh||MILKHA COUPLE’S CONDITION STABLEChandigarh: Covid-infected former Indian sprinter Milkha Singh and his wife Nirmal Milkha Singh continue to be stable but under strict observation of doctors. Milkha is being treated at the PGI, while Nirmal is under observation at a Mohali-based private hospital. “Based on all medical parameters, there is a continuous improvement in the condition of Milkha Singh,” read a bulletin by the PGI. “Nirmal Milkha is stable and continues to battle hard,” said family. Sources claimed the couple was still dependant on oxygen supply. TNSKharar resident held for theftChandigarh: The police have arrested a Kharar resident, Upkar Singh, for stealing 50-quintal iron rods from a shop at Jujhar Nagar, Maloya. TNSProud moment for Chitkara varsityChandigarh: Dr Charu Khosla, Assistant Dean, Office of International Affairs, Chitkara University, won the prestigious Greenpreneur Award - 2021 organised by the FICCI, in association with the Punjab government, for her contribution to ‘Energy Management’. The Greenpreneur Awards - 2021 were organised by Startup Punjab in collaboration with the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI FLO), Amritsar, to honour the finest entrepreneurs in energy management, water management, waste & material productivity and innovative practices in sustainability. TNSShopkeepers, kin inoculatedChandigarh: The Market Welfare Association, Sector 44-D, under the banner of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM), organised a vaccination camp for 18-plus category on Monday. Association president Anil Vohra said 355 shopkeepers, their family members and employees were vaccinated with the first dose of the Covid vaccine. Meanwhile, Charanjiv Singh, president of the CBM, said more such camps would be organised in other markets. TNSVaccine drive by golf clubChandigarh: The Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC), with the help of its president Ravibir Singh and the management committee, in association with The Karan Gilhotra Foundation and St John’s Old Boys Association, hosted a vaccination camp at Gholu Majra village in Mohali. Around 1,000 doses were administered for free. The camp catered to caddies and staff of the club. TNSNigerian held for drug peddlingPanchkula: The Panchkula police on Tuesday claimed to have arrested a Nigerian from Delhi for supplying heroin to local drug peddlers. The suspect, identified as Chidi, was produced before a court, which remanded him to six-day police remand. Investigating officer Rajinder Kumar said a team of the Sector 19 Crime Branch arrested a person, Sahil Khanna, with 20 grams of heroin near Suraj Hotel a few days ago. During investigations, Sahil told the police that he brought the drug from a Nigerian in Delhi. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-arrested-for-curfew-violation-in-chandigarh-265708
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||‘Cheating’ charges: Pre-arrest bail for Chandigarh Municipal Corporation staffer||A local court has granted pre-arrest bail to an MC employee facing cheating charges.Ramfal, a resident of Indira Colony Complex, Mani Majra, Chandigarh, applied for anticipatory bail after the Vigilance registered a case against him for alleged cheating and forgery.The Vigilance had registered a case under Section 420 of the IPC on April 5, 2021. It has been alleged in the complaint that Ramfal and some other employees submitted fake age proof when the MC regularised their services.The counsel for the applicant argued before the court that the accused was innocent and had been falsely implicated in the case. He was an illiterate person and was regularised for the post of ‘baildar’ in 1990. The difference in the date of birth seems to be a clerical mistake. There is no concealment on his part.The public prosecutor argued that the applicant was involved in a serious case of cheating the department by submitting false affidavit of his age proof for getting service benefits. After hearing the arguments, the court allowed pre-arrest bail to the accused while directing him to join the investigation before the SHO concerned within 10 working days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cheating-charges-pre-arrest-bail-for-chandigarh-municipal-corporation-staffer-265706
09-06-2021||---||Two get bail in bribery case in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, June 8A local court here has granted bail to Anil Mor and Dilbag Singh, who were arrested by the CBI for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs10 lakh from an Ambala-based businessman.The accused had allegedly promised the businessman to dispose of a complaint pending against him at the office of Zirakpur DSP in lieu of money.The accused were arrested in April on the complaint of Mohit Sharma, director, MS Fantasy Gaming Technology Pvt Ltd, Ambala.In his complaint, Mohit Sharma alleged that the accused demanded a bribe of Rs50 lakh to settle a complaint filed against him regarding a property dispute at the office of Zirakpur DSP.After registering the case against the duo under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, the CBI laid a trap and arrested the accused.Vishal Garg Narwana, counsel for the accused, pleaded before the court that the two were falsely implicated in the case and the CBI had failed to file a chargesheet in the case within the stipulated time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-get-bail-in-bribery-case-in-chandigarh-265705
09-06-2021||Mohali||Fateh kits case: Punjab Govt indulging in ‘loot of public money’, alleges AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) here today accused Capt Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Government of indulging in “loot of public money”. The AAP alleged that the government purchased 50,000 Fateh kits, having a market price of Rs837 each, at Rs1,338.AAP district president Govinder Mittal said the state government “created a record in scams during the pandemic times”. After the vaccination scam, the Fateh kit scam has surfaced, he said.Mittal alleged that the state government purchased the kits from a company which was not possessing any medical license.“The state government is now registering cases against the people who are raising their voice against the scams,” he added.AAP district secretary Prabhjot Kaur said instead of taking action against the persons involved in the vaccine scam, the government was booking their workers for raising their voice against the corruption. “Instead of taking action against the tainted ministers, Capt Amarinder Singh is trying to suppress the voice of the people by registering cases against them,” said Kaur.SAD flays Cong govtSAD’s Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma on Tuesday said the FIR registered against the party leaders and 200 workers for staging a protest outside the residence of Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu in Mohali was an attempt to “muzzle the voice of the opposition”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fateh-kits-case-punjab-govt-indulging-in-loot-of-public-money-alleges-aap-265704
09-06-2021||---||Youth carrying eight pistols, 9 magazines lands in police net in Mohali||Mohali, June 8The police arrested a Muzaffarnagar native with eight country-made pistols and nine magazines near the Sante Majra village bus stand on Sunday.The 24-year-old suspect, Mohd Sharukh, was carrying eight country-made pistols and nine magazines in his bag at the time of arrest, said the police.The police said a case of theft was already registered against him at the Muzaffarnagar police station. He was imprisoned for six months in the Muzaffarnagar jail in the theft case.The police said the illegal arms supplier earlier used to work as an electrician in his village and get a monthly salary of Rs10,000. In the past, he had worked with building contractors in UP, Bihar, Gujarat and Punjab.The police said further interrogation of the suspect was underway so as to reveal the particulars about the weapons he had been supplying elsewhere so that other people involved in this case could also be traced.A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against the suspect at the Sadar Kharar police station on June 6. The suspect was produced before a court today, which remanded him in three-day police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-carrying-eight-pistols-9-magazines-lands-in-police-net-in-mohali-265703
09-06-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Now, sportspersons in Chandigarh want championships to be conducted||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 8Days after the UT Administrator and Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore allowed opening of sports complexes, local sportspersons are now demanding that the UT Sports Department should also think on conducting championships, which have not been held for the past one year.Owing to Covid-19, the department did not conduct any championship. This year’s plan has also hit hurdles due to the second wave of the pandemic. In April, it was decided to announce the annual sports calendar and all necessary permissions were taken.“The department should think on the lines of conducting championships. To start with, individual disciplines can be organised. The players are really out-of-shape and need such tournaments to get motivated and regain form. Since it has been decided to open the complexes, small championships should be conducted just to boost the morale of players,” said a senior coach.Annually, the department conducts age group and cash prize competitions. “These competitions should not be counted under the annual calendar. These should be organised on the basis of performance gaining events. Coaching centres should be asked to organise age group championships to deliver a positive message to trainees,” said another coach.Even in the last session, the department was unable to organise summer camps for local trainees. “The 15-day programme (sports wing) attracts many players. The selected players get diet and training under professional coaches. However, this (camp) is not possible now,” said a senior official of the Sports Department.Meanwhile, officials maintained that the department may take time before announcing the championship.“While the department did not organise any championship, various sports associations had conducted some last year. The department will go by the rules book and guidance of the higher authorities. Given the present circumstances, there are no plans for conducting any event before August. However, if allowed, we can organise some events of individual disciplines within the coaching centres,” said an official.Members eagerly await dept’s nodAmateur and sports lovers playing for leisure activity, who become members of various sports complexes, are eagerly awaiting the department’s approval for restarting practice at various complexes. Among all sports, swimming, badminton, lawn tennis and squash attract most of the memberships. Now that the UT Administrator has approved opening of gyms, sources claimed that the department will open these facilities in the coming days after carrying out sanitisation work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-sportspersons-in-chandigarh-want-championships-to-be-conducted-265701
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Malls, restaurants, gyms to open in Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration decided to allow restaurants, malls, gyms, wellness centres, clubs, spas, museums, and libraries to open up to the public—a development that comes as the union territory continues to report a decline in Covid-19 cases after a devastating second wave of infections.Orders issued by the Chandigarh Administration on Tuesday said all shops and malls could stay open between 10 am and 6 pm. Food courts and eating establishments in malls could stay open until 8 pm.Theatres and cinema halls however continue to remain closed.Restaurants, bars, and eating establishments could remain open at 50 per cent capacity between 10 am and 9 pm.Covid protocol must be strictly adhered to, the order said. Shopping areas must be regularly santised. Any violation would be penalised, the order said.Night curfew will continue to be imposed between 10 pm and 5 am. Weekend lockdowns will also continue with only shops selling essentials remaining open. Vehicular movement will be restricted.Malls must arrange for patrons’ to be screened and their body temperatures checked before they enter the premises. They must also ensure prevent crowding in shops.Gyms, wellness centres, clubs and spas will stay open at 50 per cent capacity.  Owners must ensure that those using these facilities are vaccinated and that Covid protocol is adhered to, the order said.Museums and libraries will also open.Gatherings for weddings, cremation, or any other event will be restricted to 30 people.Sukhna Lake will remain open to visitors from 5 am to 8 pm, but there will be no boating.The lake will be closed for the public on Sunday."All these relaxations will be reviewed and can be withdrawn too if Covid protocol is not strictly followed. Nobody can rule out the third wave," UT Adviser Manoj Parida said.What’s allowed—Restaurants—Malls—Gyms—Wellness centres—Clubs—Spas—Museums—Libraries—Sukhna Lake What’s not—Theatres and cinema halls What else—Dine-in services at restaurants, bars and eating establishments could remain open at 50 per cent seating capacity between 10 am and 9 pm.—Night curfew to continue between 10 pm and 5 am —Weekend lockdowns to continue—Social gatherings to be limited to 30 people||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/malls-restaurants-gyms-to-open-in-chandigarh-265447
