10-06-2021||---||Rain brings relief from hot weather for tricity residents||Chandigarh, June 10 People got some relief from heat on Thursday as rain lashed several parts of the tricity in the evening.According to the Met department, light rainfall is likely over isolated parts of northern Haryana and Punjab during the next 24 hours.  Thereafter, rainfall activity is very likely to increase over both states, including Chandigarh, from June 11-14. While light to moderate rain (1-3 cm) is expected at few places on June 11, said the Met department. Light to moderate rain (1-4cm) at most places with isolated heavy rain (more than 7 cm) is expected from June 12-13. The said spell is likely to be accompanied with Thunderstorm, Lightning and gusty winds (wind speed 40-50kmph), added the Met forecast.Due to some change in the weather, the maximum temperature today dropped below the 40 degrees C mark after about four days in City Beautiful.Yesterday, it was 41.9 degrees C and dropped to 35.4 degrees C today. Today’s maximum temp is 4 degrees below normal. While the minimum temperature did not see any change. It was 30.5 degrees C yesterday and remained same today as well. Both minimum and maximum temperatures expected to come down further in the next three days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rain-brings-relief-from-hot-weather-for-tricity-residents-266402
10-06-2021||---||Chandigarh records 66 new cases, 6 deaths||Chandigarh, June 10Chandigarh on Thursday registered 66 cases, taking its infection tally to 60,928, according to a medical bulletin. Six more people succumbed to Covid, taking the death toll to 783 in the union territory. The number of active cases dropped to 685 from 740 a day before, the bulletin said. A total of 5,33,043 samples have been taken for testing so far, of which 4,70,876 tested negative while reports of 14 are awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-66-new-cases-6-deaths-266401
10-06-2021||---||Mohali sees three deaths, 86 new cases||Mohali, June 9Three patients died while 86 Covid cases were reported from the district on Wednesday.As many as 186 patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, 20 were reported from Mohali (urban), 16 from Kharar, 13 from Dera Bassi, 11 from Dhakoli, five from Gharuan, three from Boothgarh, four from Lalru, five from Banur and nine from Kurali.Of the 67,567 cases reported so far, 65,365 patients have been cured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-three-deaths-86-new-cases-266331
10-06-2021||---||Four fatalities, 26 cases in Panchkula district||Chandigarh, June 9The Panchkula district on Wednesday reported four Covid deaths and 26 fresh cases.A 70-year-old-woman from the Industrial Area, a 58-year-old woman from Sector 23, a 62-year-old woman from Rampur Seuri and a 64-year-old man from Manaktabra succumbed to the disease.Three of them had comorbid conditions. While the overall case tally reached 30,394, the death toll jumped to 361. There are now 387 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-fatalities-26-cases-in-panchkula-district-266330
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC chief KK Yadav’s tenure extended||New wing at Panchkula hospitalPanchkula: Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar will virtually lay the foundation stone of a 200-bed maternal and child health wing on the premises of the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 here. The project is expected to be completed by May 2023. TNSTuba, Hassan lead in online carromChandigarh: Tuba Sehar recovered in the 2nd round by completing eight boards with 43 missed points to claim top position in the women's category of the 1st Online Carrom Championship. Overnight leader, Nidhi Gupta could not maintain her spree and finished eight boards in 53 missed points while Sanya Chadha finished with 89 missed points. Mohammed Hassan continued to retain top position in the 2nd round. In the open category, Hassan and Nidhi claimed a joint lead. Mohammed Talib claimed the second position while Gagandeep remained at third position. Hassan finished with 52 missed points in eight boards while Gagandeep and Talib completed their eight boards with 51 and 57 missed points, respectively. TNSVirtual Panache at SD collegeChandigarh: The postgraduate department of commerce and management, Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma College, Sector 32, organised the second edition of Virtual Panache 2021. The faculty and students of commerce and management proudly carried forward its promising legacy of 21 years and presented a plethora of competitions ranging from business strategy, business crisis, business quiz to virtual stock trading, business tagline and music competition. Dr Rinku Kalia, Dr Kulwinder Kaur, Dr Khushdeep Kaur and Dr Anupam judged the event. TNSNaresh Kocchar is PSVc RegistrarMohali: Dr Naresh Kocchar, Deputy Director, Punjab Veterinary Vaccine Institute, Ludhiana, has taken over the charge of Registrar, Punjab State Veterinary Council (PSVC). His priority would be to ensure quality veterinary services to the livestock of the Punjab State, besides keeping a check on quackery, Dr Kocchar said after assuming the office on Tuesday. TNSOnline session on patentsChandigarh: The Institution Innovation Council (IIC) of Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women, Sector 36, organised an online session on "Intellectual Property Rights and Patents" by Rakesh Kumar Kushwaha, Assistant Controller of Patents and Designs of Electrical Section, Indian Patent Office, Ministry of Commerce and Industry. A total of 158 students and faculty members attended the event that provided a thorough insight into the points on which patent jurisdiction focuses while passing any patent file. TNSOffice-bearer selectedChandigarh: Dr Har Amrit Singh Sandhu, Assistant Professor, Punjab Engineering College, has been selected president of the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), which represents more than 2,00,000 members of the civil engineering profession in 177 countries and has its headquarters in the US. Recently, the society announced new office-bearers for its Northern Region comprising Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, UP, Jammu, etc, for the term 2021- 2023. Dr Sandhu is a faculty members in the Civil Engineering Department at PEC. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-chief-kk-yadavs-tenure-extended-266262
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Two arrested for theft||Two held for gamblingChandigarh: Mohali resident Sukhwinder was held while gambling near Electricity Office, Motor Market, Mani Majra, on June 8 and Rs9,820 were recovered from him. A case under the Gambling Act has been registered at the Mani Majra police station. Mani Majra resident Majay Paswan was held while gambling near Shastri Nagar, Manimajra, on June 8. The suspects were released on bail later. TNSSewa Kendra timings extendedMohali: The timings for Sewa Kendras have been extended from 9 am to 5 pm and now, service will be extended on Saturdays too. Residents can avail of services even without a prior appointment now. Some counters have been reserved for those who come with prior approval. TNSBJP, AAP members come to blowsChandigarh: BJP councillor Bharat Kumar and AAP leader Krishan Kumar almost came to blows over a developmental issue in Ram Durbar on Wednesday. Krishan Kumar accused the councillor of using poor quality material. A video showing the two leaders lashing out at each other went viral and both the parties accused each other of misbehaviour. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-arrested-for-theft-266261
10-06-2021||---||609 avail of OPD services at Panchkula Civil  Hospital||Panchkula, June 9 With a decline in the number of Covid cases, normal outdoor patient services (OPD) resumed at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 here today. As many as 609 persons availed of the facility on the first day.  Meanwhile, 152 people visited the flu OPD being run to examine those with symptoms such as cough, cold and fever. The hospital had closed its OPD services after a spike in Covid cases. Principal Medical Officer (PMO) Dr Suvir Saxena said the Health Department had decided to resume normal OPD services after directions from the state headquarters. He added the OPD services, including registrations, were being operated for three hours between 8 am and 11 am. All persons coming for the OPD services were required to follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour to minimise the spread of Covid. The Health Department had also deployed its staff to manage the crowd.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/609-avail-of-opd-services-at-panchkula-civil-hospital-266101
10-06-2021||---||Army veterans face problems in availing of canteen facility||Chandigarh, June 9Ex-servicemen have lodged a complaint regarding the problems being faced in availing of canteen facilities and drawing their quota of liquor due to the restrictions imposed because of the Covid.At some places, the canteen is away from the entrance, which required veterans to undergo entry procedures, read a letter written to the Army Veterans Cell by the United Front of Ex-servicemen, Mohali.The front has urged the Army authorities to set up temporary canteen counters near the main gates so that the veterans do not face hassles while purchasing necessary items.The problem is has compounded due to some CSD depots remaining closed for many days because of the pandemic, thereby affecting the supply of goods. Moreover, some canteens are open only for serving personnel and not for veterans, the letter said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/army-veterans-face-problems-in-availing-of-canteen-facility-266103
10-06-2021||Deepankar Sharda
||Lake Sports Complex gym reopens today||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 9 A day after the UT Administration allowed opening of gyms, the facility at the Lake Sports Complex here will be thrown open to the members from June 10. Two gyms operate under the Sports Department — one at Sector 42 Sports Complex and other at the Lake Sports Complex.  While the gyms at the coaching centres are exclusively for professional players, the two facilities cater to intermediate players and members.  For the past few months, these facilities were closed due to partial lockdown.  Ahead of reopening, the gym arena at the Lake Sports Complex was sanitised today. “The entire gym area has been sanitised. It will be sanitised on every alternate day and only 50 per cent of the members will be allowed to use the facility at one time,” said Naib Singh, General Manager, Lake Sports Complex.  “The gyms open in two sessions and the members have been allotted the slots accordingly,” he said.  Meanwhile, sources said the hi-tech gym at the Sector 42 Sports Complex would open this week.  The Sector 42 facility was not opened during the last lockdown as it was shifted into an isolation centre.  The Lake Sports Complex is one of the highest revenue generating centres of the Sports Department. Its membership always remains in demand as it allows people to use both club/restaurant and sporting facilities. “The membership will be reviewed and issued as per the rules. The members will be allowed to use the gym for 45 minutes. The timings will be increased in the coming days to one hour,” said Naib Singh.  “Last time, the members were asked to wear a face shield and take other precautions. The equipment will be sanitised after every hour,” he added.  As per the existing timings, the gym would open to the public from 6 am to 12 pm and from 3 pm to 9 pm. However, a few members suggested that the authorities should extend the opening hours and only 10 people should be accommodated in one slot.  “Instead of allowing 50 per cent members to use the gym, the authorities should allow only 10 people to use it at a given point of time. The gym should open early in morning or function till late in the evening as this place will surely attract a good number of people. The authorities should take some strict measures,” said Anup.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lake-sports-complex-gym-reopens-today-266104
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Sanjeev Mahajan seeks bail, says falsely implicated||A local court has issued notice to the police on the bail application filed by Sanjeev Mahajan, one of the accused in the alleged property grab case at Sector 37, Chandigarh.The court has fixed June 16 as the next date of hearing. Mahajan has filed a bail application through advocate Rajesh Sharma. He was arrested on March 2, 2021, with another accused Manish Gupta. Rajesh Sharma claimed that Mahajan was falsely implicated by the police in the case.He said bare perusal of the FIR would show that the offences as alleged are prima facie not against the accused. He claimed that nothing incriminating was found during his police custody or during the search of his house.Sharma claimed that Mahajan was never part of an inquiry conducted by the DSP. However, on March 1, he was called to the police station and detained. Sharma claimed that the complainant in the case himself submitted another statement to the police on February 6 that after lodging the complaint, he came to know that Mahajan was falsely mentioned and that no action should be taken against Mahajan.Sharma said Mahajan had been falsely booked in criminal cases by the police as he had exposed wrongdoings of government officials, politicians and hardcore criminals.The prosecution has already presented a challan in the court and the trial of the present case may take a long time. Sharma said that due to Covid, the jail inmates are at a high risk of being infected and the Supreme Court had also ordered releasing the inmates generously in view of pandemic. Sharma said the High Court had also granted bail to another accused Manish Gupta in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sanjeev-mahajan-seeks-bail-says-falsely-implicated-266105
10-06-2021||---||Panchkula: Memo against garbage dumped at Jhuriwala||Panchkula, June 9Opposing dumping of garbage at the Jhuriwala site by the Municipal Corporation, residents will submit a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh and Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal on Friday.Residents will give a week’s time to the administration to take a call on their demands or they will stage a massive protest on June 19. They said they may move the High Court. A meeting in this regard was held on Wednesday in the presence of Congress leader and Shivalik Vikas Manch president Vijay Bansal.“The recent decision of the Panchkula Municipal Corporation to dump solid waste at Jhuriwala is illegal. No fresh environmental clearance has been obtained by the civic authorities from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change for dumping solid waste at the proposed site in Jhuriwala. The NOC given in 2013 has already expired. Further, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had directed the local authorities not to dump solid waste at the proposed site,” said Bansal, who is also an advocate.“As the dumping ground in Sector 23 had polluted air and underground water, leading to health hazards and closure of tube wells in sectors of the area, the dumping of solid waste in Jhuriwala would lead to similar issues, with the site being just 500 metres from residential areas,” said Sanjeev Goyal of the Sector 25 RWA.“Moreover, the proposed site is also just 140 metres from the boundary of the declared wildlife sanctuary (Khol Hai Raitan Wildlife Sanctuary). Hence, it is not just a threat to human beings but entire species within the sanctuary. Dense trees will be required to be cut down,” he added.“As per the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, any such dumping site should be at least 200 metres away from National Highways. The proposed site in Jhuriwala doesn’t meet the stated criteria. Also, garbage vehicles hamper the smooth flow of traffic on the NH-73,” the memorandum read.Questioning MLA Gian Chand Gupta’s stand, the memorandum said the BJP leader had opposed the Jhuriwala site in a letter written to the Chief Minister in June 2018.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-memo-against-garbage-dumped-at-jhuriwala-266106
10-06-2021||---||No bail for accused in dowry death case||Chandigarh, June 9  A local court has dismissed the bail application of an accused in a dowry death case. Gian Singh was arrested after his wife allegedly committed suicide by consuming poison.  The FIR was registered on the complaint of Vijinder, the brother of deceased Pinky. He alleged that the accused used to harass his sister for dowry.  He said Pinky was married to the accused in 2018 and died in 2019 due to poisoning.  The counsel for the accused argued that his client had been falsely implicated in the case and was in custody since September 2019. Public prosecutor opposed the bail application.  After hearing the arguments of both sides, the court dismissed the bail application.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-bail-for-accused-in-dowry-death-case-266107
10-06-2021||Mohali||SAD MLA NK Sharma lodges plaint against Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu||Led by Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma, SAD workers today lodged a written complaint with Mohali SSP Satinder Singh, seeking action against Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and others for flouting Covid norms during the swearing-in ceremony of Zirakpur MC president Udayvir Singh Dhillon.The move comes after SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, Sharma and 200 other party workers were booked for staging a protest against Sidhu in Phase 7 here on Monday. Sharma said the Mohali police framed different laws for the ruling party and the Opposition. A case was registered against SAD leaders seeking justice, instead of taking action against those responsible for the vaccine scam, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sad-mla-nk-sharma-lodges-plaint-against-punjab-health-minister-balbir-singh-sidhu-266108
10-06-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Farmers leave for Delhi borders to commemorate martyrdom day of Banda Singh Bahadur||To commemorate the martyrdom day of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur on Delhi borders farmers in large numbers under the banner of Krantikari Kisan Union left for the National Capital in a convoy of buses and cars today. They started from Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Engineering College campus.Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders Nirmal Singh Riona and Amrik Singh Romi said, “The morcha is commemorating the martyrdom of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur on Delhi borders.”Baba Banda Singh Bahadur abolished the feudal system and made farmers owners of the land they were cultivating, they added. The Union government wanted to make corporate houses owners by taking away land from farmers, they said. Farmers would not allow this to happen even if they had to make sacrifices, they added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-leave-for-delhi-borders-to-commemorate-martyrdom-day-of-banda-singh-bahadur-266082
10-06-2021||Deepankar Sharda||This triple jumper from Mohali believes in breaking stereotypes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 9International triple jumper Niharika Vashisht, who always believes in breaking the stereotypes, be it in the field of sports or education, extended her flair to get featured in a commercial shoot for a national brand with Bollywood actor Akshay Kumar. The 25-year-old jumper from Mohali is a national medallist and had represented Panjab University at the International World University Games. She was part of the Indian squad for the 30th Summer Universiade (University) Games, scheduled to be held at Napoli in 2019. She is at present preparing for the 2022 Asian Games and Commonwealth Games, but pulled off sometime from her busy schedule to try her hands in the field of entertainment.Niharika said: “The casting agency of the ad film reached me through a social media platform. Three days later, I went to Mumbai and did the shoot. It was amazing to work with Akshay Kumar and more amazing to see myself on the screen. The commercial is aired on all major platforms.”A graduate from GGDSD College, Sector 32, she has completed her Masters in English from DAV College, Sector 10. “I have been working extensively on the 2022 Asian Games, to be held in China, and the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games. Though the lockdown has put me under lots of pressure, I have been training regularly on different modules. Later this year, I will be participating in other championships. The senior national championship is also scheduled to be held in Patiala this month. I hope to put up a good performance,” said Niharika. When asked about her plans on shifting her focus to modelling, she said: “There are no such plans. But I just want to set an example for others. Life gives many opportunities and one should always avail it,” said Niharika.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/this-triple-jumper-from-mohali-believes-in-breaking-stereotypes-266090
10-06-2021||---||Panjab University resumes full-day working||Chandigarh, June 9 Panjab University, after reviewing the status of Covid-19 cases on the campus and keeping in view the recommendations of a committee, has decided to change the office timings from 9 am to 5 pm with full strength from June 10. “The competent authority has approved that the office timings will be observed from 9 am to 5 pm. However, depending upon the staffing pattern and office space, if the head of an office/department wants staggering of timings/attendance to ensure proper compliance of Covid-19 protocols, then the same can be pursued subject to the condition that the normal day-to-day work as well as time bound assignments relating to the offices may not get affected,” said a spokesperson. It has been decided that the public dealing will remain debarred till June 25, except with the prior appointment of the HoD concerned. “The staff should avoid community lunch and any kind of get-together to ensure proper physical distancing. All staff will ensure appropriate Covid-19 behaviour. The entry and exit points will be properly regulated to avoid any crowding,” added the spokesperson.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-resumes-full-day-working-266093
10-06-2021||---||7 pairs of passenger trains to be restored by Ambala division||Chandigarh, June 9Ambala division of the Northern Railway has announced the restoration of seven pairs of passenger trains, of which two pairs will also halt at Chandigarh Railway Station, from June 15.When Covid cases skyrocketed during the second wave, the division started cancelling special trains from April 29. New Delhi-Una Jan Shatabdi (train number 02057/02058) will leave from Chandigarh on June 15 at 7:43 am and will arrive from Delhi in the evening at 7:03 pm.The second pair of train Rishikesh to Vaishno Devi (train number 04609/04610) will arrive at the station on June 15 at 9:50 pm.Station Superintendent JP Singh said: “At present, only 10 pairs of passenger trains are plying over the city station. Before the second wave, the city station accommodated 16 pairs of trains. However, before Covid, 35 pairs of trains plied over the station.”He added: “The booking for the two restored trains has already started. The trains will run on full occupancy.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-pairs-of-passenger-trains-to-be-restored-by-ambala-division-266094
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University gets nod for holding online exams||Panjab University has decided to conduct semester examinations, starting from June 28, through the online mode, said Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examinations, PU.“As approved by the higher authorities, the improvement/additional examinations will not be conducted in the online mode along with these examinations. These will be held separately along with golden chance examinations in physical manner/online surveillance, the details of which will be shared with the students and general public in due course of time. The instructions for downloading and attempting of question papers and uploading of answer sheets will be released soon and updated on the university website,” said the COE. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-gets-nod-for-holding-online-exams-266095
10-06-2021||Mohali||Punjab Government's door-to-door job mission will train youth on AI and data science||The Punjab Government, under its door-to-door employment mission, is providing an opportunity to the youth to get trained on Artificial Intelligence (AI) and data science. The course would be conducted in collaboration with IIT Rupnagar and Punjab Skill Development Mission.The interested candidates need to have passed Class 12 exam with math as one the subjects. Aspiring students can register for the course by clicking on https://forms.gle/VxA79enrCUoE1aii6. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-governments-door-to-door-job-mission-will-train-youth-on-ai-and-data-science-266096
10-06-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay
||Airlines to pay for not informing passengers before cancelling flight||Tribune news service Chandigarh, June 9 The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission here has directed an airline operator to pay a compensation of Rs 17,000 to a consumer for not informing her before cancelling the flight.  Terming the act as “deficiency of services”, the commission also ordered the operator to refund the cost of the ticket – Rs 11,796 – to the consumer.  Sector 21 residents Garima Garg and Latika Garg had approached the commission after the operator allegedly failed to address their grievances. The duo told the commission that they had booked online tickets for a GoAir flight from Chandigarh to Hyderabad on November 2, last year. The flight was scheduled to leave for Hyderabad at  However, on December 13, 2020, when the duo logged on to the GoAir website for to opt for specific seat numbers, they were shocked to know that the flight had been cancelled.   A notice was sent to the airline operator seeking its version of the case. However, nobody appeared before the commission on their behalf. After hearing the arguments, the commission noted that the airline operator had “certainly indulged in unfair trade practice” by not informing the consumer regarding the cancellation of the flight.  The commission directed the operator to refund Rs 11,796 to the complainants and also pay Rs 10,000 as compensation to them for deficiency in service, unfair trade practice and for causing harassment to them.  The commission further ordered the company to operator to pay a sum of Rs 7,000 to the complainants as litigation expenses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/airlines-to-pay-for-not-informing-passengers-before-cancelling-flight-266097
10-06-2021||---||Residents of Zirakpur protest erratic power||Zirakpur, June 9Facing erratic power supply for more than three days, hundreds of Victoria City residents in Babhat here vented their ire against the PSPCL officials today by coming out on roads and resorting to sloganeering.Most parts of Zirakpur witnessed power outages.The residents complained that they were left without electricity for three days in the peak summer and the PSPCL officials failed to restore the supply.Moreover, the Junior Engineer, the SDO and the Executive Engineer are not even taking our calls. They don’t bother to inform people when the supply will be restored, alleged the residents.“Children cannot bear this heat. But the PSPCL officials have not come here once. There is no one here to listen to our grievances that is why we had to come out on road,” said a Victoria City resident.The residents later staged a sit-in on the Babhat-Nabha road till 9 pm.Meanwhile, in Shiva Enclave, residents complained that there was no electricity for the past 24 hours.“There was a loud explosion in the transformer around 8 pm yesterday. Since then there has been no electricity and water here,” said Gulzar Singh, a Shiva Enclave resident.In Dhakoli too, residents claimed that there was no electricity since 6 pm today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-of-zirakpur-protest-erratic-power-266098
10-06-2021||---||Liquor bizman booked in Rs 3-cr cheating case||Chandigarh, June 9 Liquor businessman Arvind Singla, who is at large in a property-grab case, and three others were today booked on the charge of cheating the wife of his partner of about Rs3 crore. The other suspects have been identified as Tejinder Singh, Raman Puri and Vikas Kumar.  Vikas was arrested. He was produced before a court that sent him to eight-day police remand.  The police said the role of public notary Dalip Kumar is also under the scanner. On a complaint of Shweta Singla, wife of Arvind’s partner Deepak Singla, a case has been registered under sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC at the Sector 26 police station.  In her complaint to the police, Shweta said Arvind and her husband had set up a mobile phone firm, M/s Bell Enterprises, in 2016 with 60-40 per cent partnership, respectively. She alleged that when her husband Deepak Singla was injured with a gunshot at his home in 2016, he was admitted to a Mohali hospital. Arvind came to them at the hospital and obtained her signature on blank papers for handling business. Later, Shweta came to know that her husband was sued in a cheque-bounce case of Rs3 crore by a Gurugram-based company. The police said Arvind fraudulently obtained Shweta’s signature.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/liquor-bizman-booked-in-rs-3-cr-cheating-case-266099
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||CBI seeks details of Chandigarh heritage auction||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has reportedly sought details about the auction of the Chandigarh’s heritage furniture in foreign countries.   The move indicates that the probe agency, for the first time, may look into the alleged theft of the city’s heritage furniture. Ajay Jagga, member, Heritage Protection Cell, UT, said a Deputy Inspector General (DIG) from the CBI had called him and sought the details of auctions of heritage furniture to examine the issue in detail.  “As desired, I shall be providing the details of 10 auctions held in foreign countries so far in 2021,” said Jagga. Jagga said he had been writing to the Ministry of Home Ministry about the auctions of Chandigarh heritage items in foreign countries like the USA, the UK, France, Germany, etc., in violation of the orders of the MHA orders dated February 22, 2011. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-seeks-details-of-chandigarh-heritage-auction-266100
10-06-2021||Saurabh Malik||End-to-end encrypted WhatsApp chats can be analysed: NCB||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 9Investigating a drugs case, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has made one thing clear: End-to-end encrypted WhatsApp chats can be dug into and analysed by government agencies with the help of forensic specialists.As a petition filed by an 18-year-old for regular bail in a drugs case came up for hearing before the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the NCB submitted that the entire WhatsApp chat was end-to-end encrypted. As such, it could not be opened by the NCB officers. They were, therefore, constrained to send it to forensic specialists for “opening and analysis”.The prosecution’s case was that the petitioner and his co-accused-father were found in possession of 520 grams of heroin without permit or licence. They were arrested on February 14, 2020.Justice Sudip Ahluwalia’s Bench was told the complacency/involvement of the accused in trafficking was established from his talks over phone and WhatsApp communications with a Nigerian handler/supplier of contraband.Screenshots from the petitioner’s phone regarding his alleged interaction on WhatsApp with the supplier were filed along with the NCB reply. The Bench was told there was an exchange of text messages and audio and video chats from February 8 to 14, 2020.The petitioner’s counsel submitted that the recordings of the alleged WhatsApp conversations between the petitioner/ holder of the phone at the relevant time and the contraband supplier had not been made available to show the petitioner’s involvement.The NCB counsel submitted: “Once the relevant report comes, it will be made available.” He added the WhatsApp conversations were sent for forensic analysis with the intent to submit its report at an appropriate stage. Finding no justification to release the petitioner on bail at the current stage, Justice Ahluwalia dismissed the petition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/end-to-end-encrypted-whatsapp-chats-can-be-analysed-ncb-265974
10-06-2021||Kritika Kanwar||Life goes on for them, ‘blissfully’ untouched by Covid||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 9At several traffic light points in the city, a kaleidoscopic view of “street kids” rummaging through swanky vehicles is likely to catch your attention. Holding stringed balloons in their hands and oblivious to this “touch-me-not-Covid era”, the little ones make their way through cars in the scorching sun and tap at your window in the hope of getting a penny or two in return, while all they get are stares and despair!A few metres away, their parents can be seen juggling with their craft too and following the crowds, eager to make the day’s living before the night sets in. They largely eke out their living by selling brooms. A broom costs between Rs200 and Rs250, enough for them to fill their bellies. During night, these “street kids” are seen assembling their paraphernalia and retiring under the trees along the road. Their makeshift shelters are just made up of dupattas resting on four sticks. On a lazy day during the weekend lockdown, the kids are seen less on roads. With not many vehicles at the intersection point, it’s a field day for them too.Asked about the second wave of Covid, one of the migrants says with a tinge of pride, “Hamein koi corona nahin hua. Sadkon pe rehte hain. Hamein kya hoga (what corona, we stay on roads. We did not suffer from any such virus).” According to Ganesh, a migrant labourer from Chittorgarh in Rajasthan, an MC van came and took their samples. All of them tested negative! Despite staying together in groups along the roads, none of them ever faced any symptom of Covid.One is struck by a realisation that how Covid caged the so-called elites inside their “sanitised” cars and left them gasping for oxygen, while these free-spirited souls were out on the roads with none of them wearing any mask.A fear that bothers the migrants is the “ashram wallahs” who pick their kids from roads and take them along. “It is only when we deposit thousands of rupees with the authorities that we get our kids back. A van comes and takes our toddlers away. I had to pay Rs25,000 to get my son back from these ‘ashram wallas’,” said Ganesh, showing his ID card. “We can raise our kids with our own money. We are proud of whatever we earn at the end of the day. We got some ration kits in the beginning of the lockdown last year, but now, we are managing on our own.”Ganesh’s wife Reena joins the conversation with a sleepy toddler tucked along her side. She says, “Gaon jana hai. Bachon ko vahin padhaenge. Yahan jhaadoo bech ke apna pet bhar rahe hain (we want to leave for our villages, will teach our kids there).” Quite contented with whatever they earn at the end of the day, they say the lockdown bothers them more than the pandemic. Asked about what kind of help they need from the Administration, pat comes the reply, “Bas ap tarpal le aiega, barish me bache so nahin pate (just give us tarpaulin sheets, our kids find it hard to sleep during a rainy night).”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/life-goes-on-for-them-blissfully-untouched-by-covid-266079
10-06-2021||---||Two succumb to virus in Chandigarh, 84 fresh cases||Chandigarh, June 9Chandigarh on Wednesday recorded 84 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths due to the pandemic.The total number of cases in the city reached 60,862 of which 649 are active cases.A total of 118 patients have been discharged including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.A 33-year-old male and a 75-year-old female who were suffering from other co-morbidities succumbed to the virus taking the death toll to 781 in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-succumb-to-virus-in-chandigarh-84-fresh-cases-266080
10-06-2021||---||New Election Commissioner Anup Chandra Pandey is Panjab University alumnus||Chandigarh, June 9The newly appointed Election Commissioner of India, Anup Chandra Pandey, is an alumnus of Panjab University.Pandey, a former Chief Secretary of UP, had completed his master’s degree from the University Business School, PU. His father Prof VC Pandey was a senior professor in the Department of Ancient History, PU. Pandey stayed on the university campus for many years during his father’s term here.Born in Chandigarh, Pandey is a retired 1984-batch IAS officer belonging to the Uttar Pradesh cadre. He took charge as the Election Commissioner of India today after being appointed to the post by the President.He graduated from Punjab Engineering College. He also holds a doctorate in ancient history from Magadh University of Bihar. He remained the Chief Secretary of Uttar Pradesh from September 2017 to August 2019 and was earlier the state’s industrial development commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-election-commissioner-anup-chandra-pandey-is-panjab-university-alumnus-266081
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Rain likely in Chandigarh tomorrow||Rain is likely in the city on Friday and Saturday. According to the Met Department, thundery development/light rain is expected for two days.  Meanwhile, the maximum temperature in the city today was 41.9°C, three degrees above normal. Yesterday, the maximum temperature was 42°C, the highest for the current month. The minimum temperature today stood at 30.5°C, six degrees above normal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rain-likely-in-chandigarh-tomorrow-266083
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh better, wife remains on oxygen  support||Former Indian sprinter Milkha Singh is responding well to medication, but his wife Nirmal Milkha Singh continues to battle the Covid infection, informed the doctors monitoring the couple. “Milkha continues to improve. Nirmal Milkha Singh, meanwhile, continues to battle hard but is stable,” read a statement issued by Milkha’s family.  Milkha is undergoing treatment for post-Covid complications at the PGI.  “His saturation level has improved and he has started taking food himself,” said a source.  Nirmal, a former captain of the Indian women’s volleyball team, is still on oxygen support and has shown little improvement, said a doctor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-singh-better-wife-remains-on-oxygen-support-266084
10-06-2021||---||Life limps back to normalcy in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, June 9After 36 days, life in the city has started limping back to normalcy as the UT Administration has relaxed most restrictions imposed in view of a sharp rise in the number of Covid-19 cases.The markets witnessed a slight increase in the number of customers after the Administration permitted shops and malls to open from 10 am to 6 pm and hotels and restaurants to allow dine-in with 50 per cent seating capacity. The city’s biggest Elante Mall also opened, but the footfall was far below what was witnessed during pre-Covid days. Shopkeepers were busy cleaning and sanitising their shops on the first day.Low footfall at elante mallThe markets saw a slight increase in the number of customers after the UT permitted shops and malls to open from 10 am to 6 pm and hotels and restaurants to allow dine-in with 50 per cent seating capacity. Elante Mall also opened, but the footfall was far below pre-Covid days.Sukhna Lake, the main attraction of the city, opened with morning walkers, but due to scorching heat, there were hardly any visitors during the daytime.Welcoming the ‘balanced’ unlocking decision of the UT Administration, Ankit Gupta, president, Chandigarh Hospitality Association, said most of the outlets were in the process of reopening, while some opened today with 50 per cent capacity. Being the first day, the response was decent, he added.Manmohan Singh, president, Hotels Association, said it would not only provide help to the food and beverage industry, but also boost the tourism sector.Charanjiv Singh, president, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said opening of the markets on Saturday was a major relief for traders. He said they hoped the situation would return to normal in the coming days. Thanking the Administration allowing opening of shops, he said they could now recover the losses incurred during the lockdown period. He said they had cautioned all traders to strictly follow the Covid protocol for theirs as well as customers’ safety.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/life-limps-back-to-normalcy-in-chandigarh-266085
10-06-2021||Lalru||24-year-old woman takes poison, dies||A 24-year-old married woman allegedly ended her life by taking poison at Batauli village after being accused of having an extra-marital affair by her neighbours.The deceased has been identified as Manpreet Kaur, wife of Subhash Singh.ASI Gorav Sharma said the victim’s husband stated that a woman named Babli, who lives in their neighbourhood, often accused his wife of an extra-marital affair following which she took poison.Manpreet was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Ambala, and then to the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh, where she died.On Subhash Singh’s statement, a case under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC has been registered against Babli, her husband Manga Ram, daughters Simran and Komal and brother Satish. The body has been handed over to the victim’s kin after a postmortem examination. No arrest had been made yet, the police said. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/24-year-old-woman-takes-poison-dies-266086
10-06-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh residents fume as tele firms dig up roads outside houses||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 9With no boards installed to give information about the work being undertaken, barricading or prior intimation to public, private telecommunication companies are digging up roads outside houses to lay cables causing inconvenience to the area residents.Residents alleged that due to a lack of supervision and control of the local Municipal Corporation, which grants permission, such practice was going on unabated in different parts of the city.A telecommunication company started the work of laying optical fibre cable in Sector 21-C in January this year. After the work was completed, another firm started digging up different areas outside the gates of houses in the sector.“Our house gate was blocked for two days as the area outside was dug up and we could not take out our cars. Had we got prior information about the work, we would have made some arrangements. The workers told me that they have informed our neighbour. This did not make sense to me,” shared Charu Jain, a resident of Sector 21-C.Charu, a civil engineer, pointed out, “During the work by both the firms, no barricading of the area was done. Recently, a small child while cycling had a narrow escape from falling into the pits dug up outside houses. I think basics are not being followed while doing the work.”Charan Singh, a resident of Sector 19, added, “There should be a fixed timeline for carrying out the work and restoring the dug up space. It seems there is no supervision or check by the MC.”Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations, commented, “Two to three months ago, we were getting such complaints from Sector 27, 43 and 33. The firms should go for tunnelling rather than digging up the whole road. They must display information about the dates when the work would start and complete and who is to be contacted for complaints.”MC Chief Engineer Shailender Singh said, “Restoration work is our job and firms pay us for it. We do it when the whole work in a particular area is completed as the contractor may again have to dig the same area. We will ensure that public is informed in advance.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-fume-as-tele-firms-dig-up-roads-outside-houses-266087
10-06-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh Administration steps in, now no more fleecing by private hospitals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 9The UT Administration has formed committees to check fleecing of patients by private hospitals in the city.Each committee will be headed by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) of the respective area with a deputy superintendent of police (DSP), a senior medical officer (SMO) and a drug inspector as its members.The names of the SMO and the drug inspector will be recommended by the Civil Surgeon.“The four-member committee will look into the complaints of overcharging by the private hospitals,” said Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar.“Any person or patient can file a complaint with the SDM of the respective area,” Brar said.“The complaint will be inquired into by the committee and if any wrongdoing is found, action will be initiated against the errant private hospital as per the law,” he added.Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, said the committee would also inquire into the complaints of overcharging received against the hospitals during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Taking advantage of the sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases, several private hospitals allegedly overcharged patients for treatment.On receiving complaints, the UT Health Department issued notices to several private hospitals.The private hospitals were found charging extra for oxygen, medicines and tests even as these were part of the package notified by the UT Administration on April 24.Earlier, the health authorities had started a probe into the complaints of overcharging by private hospitals. The complaints were primarily related to exorbitant rates of oxygen and remdesivir – a medicine used in the treatment of Covid-19 patients.A helpline was also set up for patients who were overcharged for Covid-19 treatment. Some private hospitals have already initiated the process of refunding the money to patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-steps-in-now-no-more-fleecing-by-private-hospitals-266088
