11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Re-auction of leftover fancy or special registration numbers of previous series to begin from June 14||The Chandigarh Administration on Friday said that it will conduct a re-auction of fancy or special registration numbers of previous series “CH01CE”, “CH01CD”, “CH01CC”, “CH01CB”, “CH01CA”, CH01BZ”, “CH01-BY, “CH01-BX, “CH01-BW”, “CH01-BU”, “CH01-BT” & “CH01-BS” from June 14 (10 am) and will continue till June 21 (5 pm).The e-auction/bidding will be started from June 22 (10 am) to June 24 (5 pm).The owner of the vehicle can register himself on the National Transport website: https://vahan.parivahan.gov.in/fancy and the link of the same is available on the Chandigarh Administration, Transport Department website: ww.chadtransport.gov.in and obtain the Unique Acknowledgement Number (UAN).The owner of the vehicle who has purchased the vehicle at Chandigarh address only will be allowed to participate in e-auction.Sale Letter i.e. Form No. 21, UID i.e. Aadhaar Card and address proof of Chandigarh are mandatory to participate in the e-auction.After getting himself registered on the above cited National Transport website or through Chandigarh Administration, Transport Department website, the owner of the vehicle will deposit the fee for registration for participating in e-auction and reserve amount of the special/choice registration numbers in the O/o Registering & Licensing Authority, Near Municipal Corporation Building Sector- 17, U.T., Chandigarh by way of DD in favour of “Registering & Licensing Authority, U.T., Chandigarh” payable at Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/re-auction-of-leftover-fancy-or-special-registration-numbers-of-previous-series-to-begin-from-june-14-266887
11-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh records 70 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths||Chandigarh on Friday recorded 70 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths due to the virus.The active case load in the city has come down to 564 as a total of 84 patients has been discharged including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Health Ministry guidelines.The total number of cases in Chandigarh has reached 60,998 while the death toll in the city is 786.The three deaths reported in the city were of patients suffering from co-morbidities.The total number of cured persons till date in the city is 59,648.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-70-new-covid-19-cases-and-three-deaths-266883
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||National Cadet Corps as elective subject to benefit 4.9 lakh students in Punjab, Himachal, Chandigarh colleges||Following the University Grants Commission (UGC) allowing students to take up National Cadet Corps (NCC) as an elective subject in colleges, the regional NCC Directorate has started the process for implementing the new policy from the forthcoming academic session.The introduction of the subject is expected to benefit nearly 4.9 lakh students in 483 institutions located in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh, including those from border areas, where additional cadet strength has been authorised as part of the overall Border Areas Expansion Plan.“The underlying idea behind the move is to motivate students of educational institutions to join NCC and instil in them discipline, camaraderie and patriotism,” Major General JS Sandhu, Additional Director-General, Punjab, Haryana Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh NCC Directorate said here on Friday.Guidelines issued by UGC to Vice-Chancellors of all universities in April 2021 state that NCC is to be considered a General Elective Credit Course (GECC) in response to the proposal that had been mooted by the Directorate General NCC.The syllabus for NCC ‘B’ and ‘C’ certificates is designed as per the Choice Based Credit System (CBCS) of the National Education Policy – 2020, which grants 24 credit points covering six semesters.The move agrees with this policy where students can select their choice of subjects, rather than being confined to only those being offered by the institutions.Core teams have been created by the directorate with a dedicated officer at Chandigarh to ensure that the policy is implemented within a realistic time frame.Most universities in the region have already expressed their willingness to implement the UGC guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/national-cadet-corps-as-elective-subject-to-benefit-4-9-lakh-students-in-punjab-himachal-chandigarh-colleges-266872
11-06-2021||Mohali||Four succumb to Covid in Mohali, 49 +ve||Meanwhile, 49 fresh cases surfaced till Thursday evening and 97 patients got the better of the disease. Among the new cases, 22 came from Mohali (urban) and 10 from the Dhakoli area of Zirakpur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-succumb-to-covid-in-mohali-49-ve-266808
11-06-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula logs 19 cases, 1 death||A 45-year-old woman from Boonga, who was suffering from chronic kidney disease, succumbed to the virus. The Covid toll has reached 362. With 347 cases still active, the recovery rate is 97.66 per cent. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-logs-19-cases-1-death-266806
11-06-2021||---||Chandigarh-based NGO Suryansh Foundation extends help to Kapurthala rape survivor’s family||Jalandhar, June 10Chandigarh-based NGO Suryansh Foundation has come forward to the aid of Kapurthala-based rape victim. The foundation, after receiving the information about the plight of the girl’s family, has decided to extend a help of Rs4,000 per month to her, for six months.The seven-year-old rape victim, daughter of a migrant labourer, got raped on March 15, at a shanty near RCF Kapurthala by her father’s acquaintance on the pretext of getting her biscuits. Critically injured, the girl has been undergoing treatment at the PGI Chandigarh for the past many months. The Kapurthala police, Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema and the state government had extended help to the family. The Punjab Legal Services Authority (PLSA) had also released an interim relief of Rs 2 lakh to the father of the girl.The Suryansh Noble Foundation, which works under the aegis of the Suryansh Charitable Society, has been extending a monetary help of Rs 4,000 per month to the family. The members of the foundation today visited the girl’s family at Kapurthala to donate six cheques for the upcoming six months so that the family does not face any financial trouble.Dinesh Kumar Sharma, Director, Suryansh Noble Foundation along with President Anshu Jain today visited the family. Sharma, while talking to The Tribune, said, “We had read about the family’s plight and visited them at Chandigarh. We will be extending a help of Rs 4,000 per month to the family as long as the girl’s father does not find any steady job. He is currently at home and doesn’t have much work as he is looking after his daughter. Our purpose is to just ensure that the family has enough to make ends meet and carry forth the treatment of the little girl.”A daily wager, the girl’s father along with her mother, had been tending to her at PGI Chandigarh for the past many months. Discharged from PGI Chandigarh in May, the girl was shifted to Civil Hospital, Kapurthala, from where the family came back to their rented accommodation at RCF Kapurthala.The girl’s father said, “I am thankful to the state government and PLSA for the help which has been extended to me so far. Members of the foundation also came to our room at RCF today and donated six cheques to me. They had earlier also deposited some money into my account. I’m thankful to them. We have been asked to come back to PGI Chandigarh after three months for another surgery. Currently, she passes urine only with the help of a bag. After surgery, we are hopeful of her recovery.”While the girl’s father is a daily wager labour, he says he takes up some job every month but is not able to work as much as earlier because he also has to take care of his daughter. After the rape, the 7-year-old’s uterus had to be removed and a colostomy was also conducted. Post several surgeries, her condition got improved. Another surgery will be conducted after three months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-based-ngo-suryansh-foundation-extends-help-to-kapurthala-rape-survivors-family-266739
11-06-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Mystery shrouds labourer’s death||Badnore to launch facilityChandigarh: UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore will open the city’s first material recovery facility-cum-garbage transfer station at the Industrial Area, Phase 2, on Friday. Two more facilities are being constructed in Phase 1 and Dadu Majra. The three centres will replace the Sehaj Safai Kendras in a phased manner. Civic body’s new two-bin vehicles will lift the segregated waste from households and transport the waste directly to the recovery facilities. Tippers will then shift the wet waste to the processing plant. TNSPractical exams to be held online at PUChandigarh: Panjab University has decided to conduct practical examinations online and also extended the schedule for second semester exams. The practical examination (viva-voce/presentation) and others of undergraduate/post-graduate/vocational/diploma candidates for even semesters will be conducted from June 15 to 26 through online mode, said PU authorities. The schedule for second semester practical examination has been extended till June 30 instead of June 26, they said. TNSThree arrested with sedativesMohali: The police on Thursday claimed to have nabbed three Amritsar men for possessing 10,672 sedative capsules and tablets. The trio was held near the Jharmari barrier in Lalru on Wednesday, said the police. The accused have been identified as Rahul Kumar (33), a resident of Islamabad Nagar, Ranjit Kumar (39) of Ranjit Avenue and Sunny Kumar (33) of Guru Nanakpura. The police said they recovered 3,000 Radol-100 and 2,400 tablets of Alprasafe-05 mg from Sunny Kumar and 5,272 Proxywel Spas capsules from Rahul and Ranjit. A case has been registered. They were sent to police custody. TNS13 cases of black fungusFatehgarh Sahib: Thirteen cases of mucormycosis have been reported in the district so far. Two patients have already succumbed to the disease and others are undergoing treatment at the PGI and private hospitals. Civil Surgeon Mohinder Singh said there was a specialist doctor to deal with the disease at the hospital and if the case was found positive, he/she would be referred to the Patiala hospital for treatment. TNSHassan, Nidhi maintain leadChandigarh: Mohameed Hassan and Nidhi Gupta claimed lead after the completion of three rounds with 158 and 137 collective missed points, respectively, in the ongoing 1st Chandigarh Online Carrom Tournament. Mohd Talib and Tuba Sehar maintained second position with 158 missed points each. In the men’s category, Mohammed Hassan and Mohammed Talib claimed a joint lead with 158 points. Gagandeep and Sanya Chadha remained at the 3rd position both in league and cumulative rank. TNS‘Plant Trees Campaign’Panchkula: ‘Plant Trees Campaign’ was launched by Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Panchkula, to mark World Environment Day. People from nearby villages, including Centre’s research farm, Garinda, participated in the event. Dr Sridevi, coordinator of the centre, said it was important to save trees and plants to save the atmosphere. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mystery-shrouds-labourers-death-266712
11-06-2021||Amit Bathla||Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta takes U-turn on Panchkula's Jhuriwala dumping site||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 10Local MLA and Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta has taken a U-turn on the new dumping site at Jhuriwala.Gupta, who had objected to the setting up of a solid waste management plat in Jhuriwala in 2018, is now justifying the move. “The uneven land with large pits at the Jhuriwala site will allow us to fill it for years even if we dump the garbage without processing it,” he said. Memo to Speaker, DC, Mayor todayResidents of the trans-Ghaggar Sectors have decided to submit a memorandum to Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh and Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal on Jhuriwala dumping site on Friday. They have threatened to stage a protest on June 19 and approach the High Court if no action is taken.He though mentioned that a garbage processing plant would soon come up at the site. “The plant can process up to 800 metric tonnes of garbage, which is much higher than the city’s daily garbage generation,” said Guta, terming the dissent against the shifting of dumping site “totally political”.The second-time legislator from Panchkula said though he was in favour of a better alternative, he never opposed the shifting of the dumping site to Jhuriwala. “I had directed officials to find a better alternative, but didn’t oppose the Jhuriwala site.”“Back then, my intent was to shift the proposed site away from the human habitation. For the same, alternative sites had been explored,” he said.Gupta further said it took 4-5 years to get clearances for the Jhuriwala project from various departments. “Now, if the government explores options to shift the dumping ground from Jhuriwala to some other place, it will take another five years for acquiring land, besides getting clearances from various departments,” he said.In his letter to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in June 2018, Gupta had requested the government not to shift the dumping ground to Jhuriwala. “The shifting of dumping ground near the residents’ area or near the national highway will not serve the purpose and will not be in public interest,” read the letter.However on June 2 this year, the CM gave strict instructions to the local authorities to stop garbage disposal at the Sector 23 dumping ground, following which the Panchkula MC began dumping garbage at Jhuriwala.MC officials said efforts were being made by the Urban Local Bodies Department to float a fresh tender for setting up the processing plant at Jhuriwala.The government has fixed December 31 as the deadline to completely shift the dumping ground from Sector 23.According to officials, a company had been entrusted with the task of clearing the dumping ground at Sector 23. Once the site is cleared, a park would be built there, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-speaker-gian-chand-gupta-takes-u-turn-on-panchkulas-jhuriwala-dumping-site-266582
11-06-2021||Mohali||Rs 1.28 crore for Mohali schools||To improve the standard of education, Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today gave away Rs1.28 crore to improve the infrastructure of four schools in the Mohali assembly segment. Out of the total amount, Rs50 lakh and Rs28 lakh have been given to Government Senior Secondary Schools in Gobindgarh village and Gigomajra, respectively. Government primary schools at Giddarpur and Bariali have been given Rs25 lakh each. Balbir Singh Sidhu said the amount given to schools would not only benefit the residents of these villages but also the villages nearby. He said the results of the government schools had improved and schools had witnessed an increase in the number of students.  He said due to this, Punjab bagged the first rank in the performing grading index declared for all states and union territories across the country.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-1-28-crore-for-mohali-schools-266583
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University to work from 9 am to 2 pm till June 18||A day after resuming full working hours, the Panjab University authorities took back the decision and now decided to open the offices from 9 am to 2 pm. The orders were issued on the directions of the UT Education Department. These orders will remain applicable till June 18. “The offices will function with 50 per cent staff strength for six days a week, including Saturday. However, the controlling officers/heads of the branches/departments may call the staff beyond 2 pm depending upon the exigency of the work under staggered timings and ensuring that the attendance of staff at any time should not exceed the stipulated limit of 50 per cent of the strength. The remaining non-attending 50 per cent staff will work from home under the instructions of their controlling officers and they will remain available through e-modes, officers of the level of the office superintendent and above will attend the office on a daily basis,” said a spokesperson. Staff members have been asked not to leave the station without the prior sanction of the controlling officer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-work-from-9-am-to-2-pm-till-june-18-266584
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Sector 54 man gets life term||A local court has sentenced Rajesh Paswan, a resident of Sector 54, here, to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life in a two-year-old murder case.Gurbir Singh, District and Sessions Judge, convicted Rajesh after finding him guilty under Section 302 of the IPC. The court also slapped a fine of Rs10,000 on him.As per the FIR registered on July 14, 2019, at the Sector 39 police station, Chandigarh, Rajesh Paswan, a resident of Adarsh Colony, Sector 54, had allegedly attacked Rajinder Paswan, who later died at the PGI.The FIR was registered on a complaint of Heera Lal, brother-in-law of Rajinder. The complainant alleged that his brother-in-law had consumed liquor along with Rajesh, alias Binny, on the night of July 9, 2019. They later quarrelled over some issue.He alleged that Rajesh slammed Rajinder to the ground and left. Rajinder sustained bone injury on the rear side of his neck. Next day, he (Heera Lal) took him to the General Hospital, Sector 16, Chandigarh, from where he was referred to the PGI where he died on July 25, 2019.During the hearing of the quantum of sentence, the counsel for the accused pleaded for lenient view on the ground that he was a poor person and was unmarried. He has an old mother to look after and was the only breadwinner of the family.The public prosecutor submitted that the convict had committed a murder. So, he deserved death sentence.After hearing the arguments, the court said it was proved beyond any doubt that the accused caused injuries on Rajinder Paswan with an intention to cause his death. So, the charge framed against the accused under Section 302 of the IPC was proved beyond the shadow of any doubt.The court said the death sentence could only be awarded in the rarest of rare cases. It was not a rarest of rare case. Keeping in view the nature and gravity of the offence, Rajesh was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life and pay a fine of Rs10,000. In default of payment of fine, he would have to further undergo one-year rigorous imprisonment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sector-54-man-gets-life-term-266585
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Youth accused of hitting Chandigarh cop with car at naka denied bail, yet again||A court has rejected the third bail application of an accused, Paras Arora, facing charges of hitting ASI Ramesh Chand of the UT police with his car at a naka in Sector 20 here.The FIR was registered on April 10, 2021, on a complaint of Constable Parvesh, who, along with ASI Ramesh Chand and other officials, was deployed at a naka. The police later arrested the suspect.Vikram Jit Brar, counsel for the accused, argued that Paras was falsely implicated in the case. Brar claimed the accident took place on April 10, but the ASI was admitted to the hospital on April 12.Brar said as per the record of the hospital, the ASI was discharged and released as “cured” on April 15. Brar also claimed that his death at the PGI had no link with the accident.Brar said the ASI was admitted to the PGI on April 29, and died on May 1. As per the PGI report, the cause of the death was attributed to respiratory failure with severe acute respiratory distress syndrome, Covid pneumonia and hypertension, and the manner of death was natural.Brar argued that generally autopsy of those dying due to Covid was not conducted. But the police got the ASI’s postmortem conducted three days after his death. Brar said the accused had been behind the bars since April 11. He is a student of BA (final-year) with no criminal record. In fact, the ASI suffered injuries and the case should not be registered under Section 307 of the IPC.The public prosecutor opposed the bail. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-accused-of-hitting-chandigarh-cop-with-car-at-naka-denied-bail-yet-again-266586
11-06-2021||---||ITBP’s Western Command celebrates first raising day||Chandigarh, June 10 Indo-Tibetan Border Police Force’s (ITBP) Western Command celebrated its first raising day here today. The command was established in June last year in the middle of the stand-off with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh. The function was presided over by SS Mishra, Inspector-General (Personnel and Administration). AK Gautam, Inspector-General (Operations, Intelligence and Training), along with other officers from the Command as well as ITBP’s Basic Training Centre at Bhanu, 50 Battalion, Ramgarh, 51 Battalion, Patiala, and Transport Battalion, Chandigarh, were also present on the occasion. The mandate of the Command is to ensure effective security of the border with China in Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, in addition to preventing border crimes, smuggling and unauthorised crossings, besides providing security cover to important dignitaries and installations. Following a cadre review that was approved by the Cabinet in October 2019, two new commands, one based in Chandigarh and the other in Guwahati for the eastern theatre, were raised. These are to be headed by officers of the rank of ADG, equivalent to a lieutenant general in the Army. The Western Command controls the Dehradun-based Northern Frontier comprising Shimla, Dehradun and Bareilly sectors and the North-West Frontier, recently moved from Chandigarh to Leh, which comprises of Srinagar and Ladakh sectors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/itbps-western-command-celebrates-first-raising-day-266587
11-06-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Property grab case: Money trail implicating him ‘false’, claims Satpal Dagar||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, June 10Satpal Dagar, a co-accused in the alleged property grab case of Sector 37, has claimed that the money trail implicating him was “false”. Dagar had been arrested in the case along with three other accused.“The money trail chart annexed with the chargesheet is a false and incomplete document,” Dagar stated in his bail application.Dagar’s counsel Vishal Garg Narwana argued that the police had tried to link his client to the case by virtue of transfer of Rs 16 lakh on August 16, 2018 from ICICI Bank account of co-accused Khailender Singh Kadiyan.He claimed that the police though concealed the fact that Dagar had a business of manufacturing puff panels and used to give and take money from Kadiyan from the last many years.The police have also concealed that out of Rs 16 lakh, Dagar had already returned Rs 6.80 lakh to Kadiyan on February 17, 2020, said Narwana.The transfer of Rs 16 lakh was merely a loan transaction and it had nothing to do with the alleged crime, he claimed.The police had mentioned in the chargesheet that Rs 16 lakh from the deal was transferred to Dagar from the joint account of Kadiayan and Rahul Mehta.The police also stated that Dagar had roped in another accused, Gurpreet Singh, as proxy of Rahul Mehta, and presented him at the office of the Sub-Registrar.Narwana claimed that the whole case against Dagar hinged upon the disclosure statements of the petitioner, which he said were illegal and inadmissible as per Section 27 of the Evidence Act.He said the police were relying upon video footage showing the persons who were present at the time of execution of the agreement to sell off the house in dispute.In the said video, only the beneficiaries/co-accused Sanjeev Mahajan, Khailender Singh Kadiyan, Daljeet Singh, alias Rubal, are seen, he said.Dagar was not at all present during the execution of the agreement and has no link with the alleged transaction, which is proved by the said video, claimed Narwana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-grab-case-money-trail-implicating-him-false-claims-satpal-dagar-266588
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Neerja Bhanot's brother dies||Close family members said Aneesh was on his way back home from a walk when he collapsed at the entrance gate. He had heart ailments, they added.He was a philanthropist and authored books on her sister’s life, including “Neerja Bhanot - The smile of courage” and “The Neerja I knew” ( a coffee table book). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/neerja-bhanots-brother-dies-266589
11-06-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court yet to frame rules for virtual proceedings||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 10The Punjab and Haryana High Court shifted to virtual mode following Covid outbreak more than a year ago, but it is yet to notify the rules regarding hearing of cases through videoconferencing.This is despite the fact that the guidelines for videoconferencing were issued by the HC prior to the outbreak of the pandemic in July 2018. The Supreme Court in October last year also made it clear that the “high courts that have not framed such rules shall do so, having regard to the circumstances prevailing in the state”.The apex court, in its order, observed that videoconferencing in every high court and within the jurisdiction of every high court would be conducted in accordance with the rules for the purpose framed by that high court. The rules would govern videoconferencing in the high court and in the district courts and would cover appellate proceedings as well as trials.“Till such rules are framed, the HCs may adopt the model videoconferencing rules provided by the e-Committee, Supreme Court , to all the Chief Justices of the HC,” it was added.The issue pertaining to the rules for taking up cases through videoconferencing cropped up before the HC during the hearing of a matrimonial dispute after the wife’s prayer for cross-examination of a witness through physical mode was dismissed by a lower court. Her counsel averred that the impugned order dated February 3 was unjustified as petitioner-wife never gave consent for examination of respondent-husband through videoconferencing.Justice Lisa Gill asserted: “Though guidelines for videoconferencing were issued, the rules have not yet been notified by this high court”. Justice Gill also noticed that the respondent was residing at Singapore and it was not possible for him to travel to India for his examination keeping in view the second surge in Covid cases.Justice Gill directed that the respondent-husband’s examination be carried out by the trial court while adhering to the guidelines in 2018 as well as the Model Videoconferencing Rules circulated by the Supreme Court.Video-conference room for Dist Court Muktsar: Justice Alka Sarin of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Thursday virtually inaugurated a video-conference room at the District Court complex here. District and Sessions Judge Arunvir Vashishta said it would help litigants during the pandemic||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-yet-to-frame-rules-for-virtual-proceedings-266530
11-06-2021||Mohali||Mohali Municipal Corporation to clean road gullies||In view of the ensuing monsoon season, special measures are being taken by the Mohali Municipal Corporation to ensure proper drainage of rainwater. While inaugurating the work of cleaning open drains in Phase 5, city Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu said road gullies would be cleaned and the drainage system was being streamlined before the onset of the monsoon. Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi was present on the occasion. Amarjit Singh Sidhu said cleaning and repair works were being undertaken wherever needed. He said the work would be completed before the rains. He said the MC was making special efforts to clean the N-Choe so that the water could be drained out properly from the side of Phase 9 and NIPER.  —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-municipal-corporation-to-clean-road-gullies-266570
11-06-2021||---||Milkha Singh shows improvement||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-singh-shows-improvement-266571
11-06-2021||---||Covid: Panchkula to vaccinate shopkeepers, workers||Panchkula, June 10The Panchkula administration has decided to start a vaccination drive for shopkeepers and their staff.Followed by the vaccination of shopkeepers, a certificate will be pasted outside their shops to ensure the safety of customers.It will promote business activities and help traders recover losses incurred due to the lockdown, said the district administration.Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta, at a meeting in this regard today, directed Additional Deputy Commissioner Mohd Imran Raza, the Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, and BB Singhal, a member of the State Pharmaceutical Council, to formulate an extensive plan for the drive.He laid emphasis on strict implementation of Covid-appropriate behaviour during the drive. Health officials briefed him about their preparation for a possible third wave, which might affect children.He was informed that the bed capacity at all health centres across the district had been increased. Saving lives would be their priority, Gupta said.The local MLA also discussed the issue of overcharging by private hospitals from Covid patients with the district officials. Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh told the MLA that the district administration had issued 18 notices so far.“Hospitals have been asked to rectify the inflated bills by June 18 or face strict action,” the Deputy Commissioner said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-panchkula-to-vaccinate-shopkeepers-workers-266572
11-06-2021||Mohali||Man’s body found hanging||A 35-year-old man was found hanging from a ceiling fan at his house in Gholumajra near Lalru on Thursday.  The deceased has been identified as Navbrijesh Singh, the police said.  The police were informed about the incident by Kewal Singh, husband of the ward councillor. The police said the body appeared to be two to  three days old. A case has been registered at the Lalru police station.  The police said Navbrijesh had married twice and had two children from the first marriage. He was not having cordial relations with his parents as well as the in-laws and used to live alone. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mans-body-found-hanging-266573
11-06-2021||---||Kharar ESI official held on bribe charge||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-esi-official-held-on-bribe-charge-266574
11-06-2021||---||Chandigarh Housing Board invites e-bids for sale of 55 flats||Chandigarh, June 10The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has invited e-bids for the sale of 55 residential units on a freehold basis.The CHB had started the auction process of its 79 built-up residential units on a freehold basis through e-tender on May 17. The board had received 97 e-bids for 27 dwelling units and these were opened in the first week of June.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said the highest bidders were required to deposit 25 per cent of the bid amount within five working days. However, three highest bidders could not deposit the 25 per cent amount within the prescribed period and hence their earnest money deposit (EMD) of Rs2 lakh each had been forfeited. These three dwelling units had been again included in the vacant units.“Now, the CHB is going to sell its 55 built-up residential units on a freehold basis through e-tender,” he said.The e-tender process is open to all citizens of India and persons already having any property can also participate in it.The e-tenders will be invited separately for each dwelling unit. The e-bid must be above the reserve price and the dwelling unit will be allotted to the highest bidder. The bidders can revise their e-bids, any number of times, till the closure of the bid submission.The dwelling unit can be further sold and transferred after the execution of a conveyance deed with the CHB as per law and as per the transfer policies of the CHB applicable to freehold properties. There shall be no restriction on the transfer of the dwelling unit purchased by way of tender.e-tenders will be available at https://etenders.chd.nic.in on June 15 from 10 am onwards and the bidders can immediately submit their bids. The last date of e-bid submission is July 5 at 6 pm.“Specific details such as unit number, location and reserve price of each unit are available on the website of the CHB, www.chbonline.in. For an inspection of the dwelling units, the prospective bidders may contact the CHB site offices in the respective sectors,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-invites-e-bids-for-sale-of-55-flats-266575
11-06-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Liquor vend in Sector 22 cocks a snook at Chandigarh rules||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 10A few metres away from a police post, the order on shop timings is being violated with impunity by a Sector 22 liquor vendor, who does brisk business beyond the permissible 6 pm.The liquor vend (shop number 39), near Aroma Hotel, is turning out to be a favourite spot for tipplers as soon as partial lockdown restrictions come into force.Being charged more, say customersEven those buying liquor from the vend in Sector 22 are aware of the restrictions on opening of shops in the city, but violate the order without any fear. Some complained of being overcharged by Rs10 to Rs20. “If the shopkeeper is selling it (liquor) without any fear, why should we be scared? There are many vendors doing it,” said a man waiting to get a bottle of vodka. Despite the UT Administration order to close shops at 6 pm, the vendor openly sells all varieties of liquor. Chandigarh Tribune has evidence, including details of a card transaction pertaining to a purchase made at the vend.After pulling down the shop’s shutter within the permissible time, the vendor sells liquor through a small window. For smooth functioning, a few workers stand outside the shop while others operate from inside. Boozers get their favourite brand just by a knock at the window.Bottles are eventually handed over to the customers through the window.Sources said many vendors adopted the same method to make a quick buck.“The liquor vend is located right in the middle of the city in a busy market. Even on normal days, it used to sell liquor beyond the permissible 11 pm. The police post is just a few metres away and this area remains under police surveillance 24X7. The Administration, too, seems to be turning a blind eye to the violation,” said Atul, who was passing by the vend.Under the Disaster Management Act, any breach of the District Magistrate’s orders invites action under Sections 51 to 60. Besides, the violator is also charged under Section 188 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/liquor-vend-in-sector-22-cocks-a-snook-at-chandigarh-rules-266576
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Two deaths, 66 new cases in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-deaths-66-new-cases-in-chandigarh-266577
11-06-2021||---||Showers bring much-needed relief for Chandigarh residents||Chandigarh, June 10People got some relief from the hot conditions this evening as rain lashed several parts of the tricity.According to the Met Department, light rainfall is likely over isolated parts of northern Haryana, Chandigarh and Punjab during the next 24 hours.Thereafter, rain is likely to increase in both states, including Chandigarh, from June 11 to 14. Light to moderate rain (1-3 cm) is expected at a few places on June 11, while light to moderate rain (1-4 cm) is likely at most places with isolated heavy rain (over 7 cm) on June 12 and 13.The rain spell is likely to be accompanied by thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds (40-50 kmph), according to the Met forecast.Meanwhile, due to a change in the weather, the maximum temperature today dropped below the 40°C mark in the city after around five days. Yesterday, it was 41.9°C and dropped to 35.4°C today, four degrees below normal. The minimum temperature did not see any change and stood at 30.5°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/showers-bring-much-needed-relief-for-chandigarh-residents-266579
11-06-2021||---||Khattar lays stone of 200-bed child block at Civil Hospital in Panchkula||Panchkula, June 10Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today laid the foundation stone of a 200-bed Maternal and Child Health Block at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 through videoconferencing from Haryana Niwas, Chandigarh.The project, to be built at a cost of Rs93.97 crore, is likely to be completed in two years.Tallest tricity health facilityThe exclusive block will be 11-storeyed (three basements and eight floors) and it will be the tallest building of any medical institution in Panchkula as well as the tricity.The exclusive block will be 11-storeyed (three basements and eight floors) and the tallest building of any medical institution in Panchkula as well as the tricity.It will have an OT complex and a service block.In the 300-bed Civil Hospital, at present, 100 beds are dedicated to maternal and paediatrics care.“With the construction of this building, the capacity of the Civil Hospital will be increased to 500 beds,” an official press note said.Khattar also laid the stone of a malaria office at the Civil Hospital. It will be built at a cost of Rs7.03 crore.Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gain Chand Gupta termed the occasion a matter of pride. He directed officials to ensure completion of these projects in a time-bound manner.Quality should not be compromised, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/khattar-lays-stone-of-200-bed-child-block-at-civil-hospital-in-panchkula-266580
