13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 54 new Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths||Chandigarh reported 54 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths in the last 24 hours, a health bulletin said on Sunday.The union territory has 520 active cases.The death toll since the pandemic began in March last year stands at 792, the bulletin said. The UT recorded 71 recoveries over the last 24 hours, and had conducted 1,771 tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-54-new-covid-19-cases-3-deaths-267905
13-06-2021||Sandeep Rana||Dirty water floods street as trash dump wall gives way||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 12Dirty water from the waste dump flooded the nearby street at Dadu Majra after a part of the boundary wall collapsed in the rain last night. Residents living close to the boundary wall had a tough time as the night rain and the dirty water flowing from the dump compounded their problems. A few residents were seen removing the dirty water from the street with brooms in the wee hours.Councillor sees mischiefLocal councillor and Deputy Mayor Farmila said: “It seems to be a mischief by someone. It can also be an act of the Opposition.” She claimed that the pipe carrying dirty water was closed following local people’s demand, and not on behalf of a politician.“It was at 3 am when the wall collapsed with a thud. Some thought there was some earthquake. But after they came out of their houses, they saw dirty water accumulated in the street. Foul smell and unhygienic condition gave them a sleepless night,” shared Dyal Krishan, a local resident.“Recently, a local politician got the drain pipe at the dump closed as water entered his area. This led to the accumulation of dirty water near the wall. During the rain last night, the wall collapsed all of a sudden,” he alleged.Harjinder Singh, chairman, RWA, Dadu Majra, said: “Dirty water accumulated in the street has led to unhygienic conditions. Recently, two persons died due to cancer and breathlessness. Their houses fall right near the boundary wall. We are not being heard even as we are facing several health problems such as asthma, TB, lung disease and other respiratory diseases due to the inhaling of this poisonous gas emanating from the waste.”He said the local residents staged a protest today, following which a contractor of the MC visited the spot and started repairs in the afternoon.During a visit to the area, Chandigarh Tribune found that not only the boundary wall but the toe wall, too, had collapsed. The low-lying area along the full stretch of the boundary wall was waterlogged.Local councillor and Deputy Mayor Farmila said: “I visited the area and got the repairs started. Besides, on Monday, a tender regarding the construction of a 15-foot boundary wall around the dumping ground will be floated under the Smart City project.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dirty-water-floods-street-as-trash-dump-wall-gives-way-267665
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||47.2-mm rainfall in Chandigarh||The city recorded 47.2-mm rainfall last night. The change in the weather further brought down the maximum temperature to 34.3°C, which is five degrees below normal. The minimum temperature also dropped to 21.2°C, four degrees below normal. The maximum temperature is expected to fall further, but the minimum temperature is likely to increase a bit. As per the Met Department, light rain is likely for the next three days.Power supply hitSome parts of the city saw electricity supply going off for about three-four hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/47-2-mm-rainfall-in-chandigarh-267666
13-06-2021||Naina Mishra||Black fungus patient count rises to 338||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 12The number of mucormycosis cases in the city hospitals has climbed to 338, with the PGI holding the maximum load of 259 patients.Post-Covid careMucormycosis has been diagnosed even as late as 42 to 90 days in patients who have recovered from Covid infection. Individuals recuperating from Covid-19 should, therefore, ensure stringent personal hygiene. Post-Covid, individuals should be housed in a well-ventilated location rather than in a damp environment. They should stay away from decaying organic matters and avoid visit to places like construction sites.Another tertiary care hospital in the city – Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, has 75 cases of mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus.Out of the total 338 cases, 38 are from Chandigarh. Eighteen patients have succumbed to the fungal infection so far. Meanwhile, Dr Sanjay Badada, Department of Endocrinology, PGI, has warned against the rampant use of multivitamins.“The rampant use of multivitamins, containing zinc and iron as immunity boosters that can lead to increased free-iron levels, should not be encouraged,” Dr Badada has mentioned in a latest research paper.“Voriconazole, often used to prevent opportunistic systemic fungal infections, is ineffective against mucorales and can lead to mucormycosis infections,” the research paper added. Dr Badada also suggested: “Glucocorticoid-induced immunosuppression, hyperglycemia and lymphopenia predispose the pathogenesis of mucormycosis.”“Injudicious use of glucocorticoids (steroids) in Covid-19 cases without hypoxemia (low oxygen level) or the utilisation of higher doses of glucocorticoids should be avoided whenever possible,” he pointed out.The paper titled “Intercepting the deadly trinity of mucormycosis, diabetes and Covid-19 in India” also suggested that a high index of clinical suspicion should be kept for mucormycosis, not only in patients being treated for Covid-19 but also in those who had recovered from the viral infection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/black-fungus-patient-count-rises-to-338-267667
13-06-2021||---||Milkha’s health improving, wife stable||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 12Former Indian sprinter Milkha Singh continues to show improvement, while his wife and former captain of the Indian women’s volleyball team Nirmal Milkha Singh is stated to be stable.While legendary Milkha Singh is undergoing treatment at the PGI for post-Covid complications, Nirmal had been admitted to a Mohali hospital after she tested positive for coronavirus and remains in ICU.“Milkha is improving and feeling better. Nirmal Milkha Singh continues to battle hard but is stable,” read a statement by Milkha’s family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkhas-health-improving-wife-stable-267669
13-06-2021||---||Day after protest, Chandigarh Congress chief among others booked||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 12The police today booked city Congress president Subhash Chawla among other party leaders for violating the Covid guidelines and disobeying the orders of the District Magistrate, UT. They had assembled for a protest near a Sector 21 filling station and near the new labour chowk, towards Sector 34, yesterday.On June 11, the protesters, including activists from the Congress, the NSUI, the Youth Congress, the Mahila Congress, the Seva Dal and INTUC, made a human chain. Carrying placards, they raised slogans against the BJP-led Central Government.They were demanding immediate rollback of the hike in fuel prices.A case under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and Section 51(A) of the Disaster Management Act-2005 has been registered at the Sector 19 and Sector 34 police stations. Shashi Shankar Tiwari, Inder Pal, Naresh Kumar were among those booked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-after-protest-chandigarh-congress-chief-among-others-booked-267670
13-06-2021||---||PGI to begin sero survey for children in region soon||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 12The PGI is all set to start a serological survey of children in the age group of two to 18 years this month to determine the burden of Covid-19 infection at the community level among children in Chandigarh.Since children have not been covered for vaccination against the virus and given that an anticipated third wave is expected to affect children more than adults, the result of the survey will help understand the prevalence of antibodies in them. - Prof Jagat Ram, Director of PGI The survey will be conducted in 10 slums/resettlement, 10 sectors and as many villages of the Chandigarh region. Director of PGI Jagat Ram said: “We are working on its modalities like ethical clearance, logistic arrangement and planning, such as from which part of Chandigarh’s rural and urban areas, the samples will be collected for checking the prevalence of antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2 pathogen in them.”“The launch of the survey will be in the next seven to 10 days and the sample size will be 2,500-2,700,” he said.Prof Jagat Ram said the results of the samples would be out within one month of the launch of the survey.“Since children have not been covered for vaccination against the virus and given that an anticipated third wave is expected to affect children more than adults, the result of the survey will help understand the prevalence of antibodies in them,” he added.A community health expert of the PGI, who is part of this survey, said: “The results of the survey will tell us whether the schools should be opened as well as the need for vaccination among children. A lot of people have been infected in the second wave and the survey will give us an idea about the prevalence of infection among the community and also about the group of population that remains susceptible to infection in the third wave.” The Administrator had directed that a sero-survey should be conducted in the entire city. The PGI will conduct sero tests for persons below 18 years of age and the entire expenses will be borne by the Chandigarh Administration. The Government Medical College and Hospital will conduct the sero survey of persons above the age of 18 years.What is sero surveyThe sero survey examines how many people in a population have been infected with Covid-19 and recovered from it. It is done to identify the prevalence of the virus in a particular area. The survey is conducted by using an antibody test, also known as a serology test. It examines if an individual’s immune system has responded to the infection. It is important to carry out the survey to know the prevalence of the disease in the population as only cases reported to the authorities are known. But, there are several cases that don’t come to notice for various reasons such as being asymptomatic or people didn’t report. So, the sero survey gives a rough idea of the population exposed to the virus. The sero survey also helps in knowing what percentage of a population has developed immunity against the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-to-begin-sero-survey-for-children-in-region-soon-267671
13-06-2021||---||Residents get water bills on hiked rates||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 12Many residents were today surprised to receive water bills for March and April based on the hiked rates.The UT Administration had issued a notification on May 25 to put the hike in water tariff on hold till March 2022. That means the bills from May 25 onwards will be on the normal rates.In September last year, the UT Administration had notified an increase between 50 per cent and 200 per cent depending upon the category of users and water consumption level.Meanwhile, the Leader of the Opposition, Devinder Singh Babla, wrote to Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, saying that if the next bills were based on the hike rates, he would go on hunger strike.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-get-water-bills-on-hiked-rates-267672
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Back from jail,  2 arrested for theft, snatching||Two snatchers have landed in the UT police net.The suspects, Shane Alam and Ishrar Khan, are allegedly involved in several incidents of snatching and theft in the city. With their arrest, eight cases, six of gold chain snatching and two of vehicle theft this year alone, had been solved, the police claimed.The duo was nabbed near Sector 41 when they were planning to attempt a snatching around 4.30 pm on Friday. On seeing a police team, they tried to flee on a bike but were apprehended. They could not produce any documents of the motorcycle. On verification, it was found that bike had a fake number and was stolen from Sector 41. A case in this connection was registered at the Sector 39 police station on February 1 this year.Ishrar Khan, 35, is a native of Budaun, UP, and currently resides at a slum area in Zirakpur. Shane Alam, 33, is also a resident of Budaun and resides in Babhat.The suspects are school dropouts and unemployed. Shane Alam was previously arrested in as many as 49 cases of snatching and theft. He came out of jail after completing a seven-year term. Ishrar Khan was previously arrested in 19 cases of snatching and theft. He recently came out of jail after serving a three-year term. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/back-from-jail-2-arrested-for-theft-snatching-267674
13-06-2021||Mohali||Three succumb in Mohali, 53 infected||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-succumb-in-mohali-53-infected-267675
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Three deaths in Chandigarh,  58 fresh cases||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-deaths-in-chandigarh-58-fresh-cases-267676
13-06-2021||Panchkula||No fatality, 10 test positive in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-fatality-10-test-positive-in-panchkula-267678
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration declares holiday on Monday||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-declares-holiday-on-monday-267679
13-06-2021||---||Panchkula starts drive to vaccinate shopkeepers, staff in a week||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 12Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta launched a special drive to vaccinate shopkeepers and their staff members at the Sector 8 Government Dispensary here today.Third drive-through vaccination on June 15To vaccinate all above 18 years, a third drive-through vaccination camp will be held at Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector 3 on June 15. Kalka SDM Rakesh Sandhu has been appointed in-charge for the drive.The drive is expected to be completed in a week under the supervision of Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur, following which it will be expanded to industrial workers in the district.Under the “near-to-shop” vaccination drive, any shopkeeper and their staff can walk to the nearest dispensary between 9 am and 2 pm and get themselves vaccinated.After the first dose of vaccination is administered to the owner and the staff, an identification certificate will be pasted outside the shop to address visitors’ safety concerns.Even after relaxation in the lockdown restrictions, shopkeepers and traders have reported poor response from customers due to the Covid fear. The drive, according to the administration, will allay people’s concerns over contracting the virus.”It will build a sense of trust among customers that the shop is fully safe and there is no risk of Covid-19. It will help businesses to get back on track quickly and recover the losses incurred due to the Covid-induced lockdown,” said Gupta at the launch event.“The daily number of Covid-19 cases has reduced significantly, but people should remain cautious and follow the Covid-appropriate behavior,” he said.Vaccination for industrial workersAccording to health officials, they would vaccinate employees and workers in industrial establishments in the next phase in view of the persistent demand from the corporate community.“For the same, different type of industries would be identified and a plan would be chalked out soon. Our aim is to vaccinate everyone above the age of 18,” they added.No social distancingSocial distancing norms went for a toss at the event as authorities failed to manage crowds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-starts-drive-to-vaccinate-shopkeepers-staff-in-a-week-267680
13-06-2021||Amit Bathla||Vax shortage slows down pace of inoculation in district||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 12The pace of vaccination has slowed down drastically in the district mainly due to the shortage of vaccine for the 18-44 age group, keeping those in the category exposed to the virus.We hope that the availability of vaccines for the 18-44 age group will improve in the coming days. We received the fresh vaccine stock three days ago. - Dr Jasjeet Kaur, Chief Medical OfficerAs many as 17,195 doses have been administered this month so far — an average of 1,432 doses each day. Compared to the last month, the daily vaccination count has come down by 937.While 73,459 doses were administered in May, 76,081 doses were distributed in April.Over 2.31 lakh doses have been administered in the district so far.However, the Health Department is hopeful of receiving enough vaccines in the coming days to ramp up the inoculation drive in the district.Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Dr Jasjeet Kaur said they had a little stock for people in the 18-44 group, which led to a decline the daily vaccination figures.“We hope that the availability of vaccines for the 18-44 age group will improve in the coming days. We received the fresh vaccine stock three days ago. With the arrival of vaccines, walk-in sites for 18-44 age group have also opened up,’’ she added.The figures, too, suggested an improvement. At least 2,063 doses were administered today.Centralised vaccine planAs per health officials, the district has an adequate stock for 45-plus category.“Once the centralised vaccination policy for those above 45 years comes into force on June 21, there will be an integrated vaccine distribution. It will address the vaccine shortage concerns,” they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vax-shortage-slows-down-pace-of-inoculation-in-district-267682
13-06-2021||---||12 alumni of Mohali institute commissioned as Lieutenants from IMA||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 12As many as 12 alumni of the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Armed Forces Preparatory Institute (AFPI), Mohali, were commissioned as Lieutenants from the Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun, today.The cadets had joined the institute in 2015 as part of the Fifth AFPI Course for two years. They were selected to join the National Defence Academy, Kharakvasla, in 2017 as part of the 138th NDA Course and on completion of the three years of training, they proceeded to the IMA for the final year of pre-commission training.The passing out parade at the IMA today for the Spring Term was reviewed by Lt Gen RP Singh, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command. Among the alumni was Lt Loveneet Singh, who was awarded the bronze medal for standing third in the order of merit.Maj Gen BS Grewal (retd), Director, AFPI, said so far, 162 cadets from the first eight courses at the AFPI have joined the NDA or other service academies and of these, 83 have already been commissioned in the Armed Forces. Two more cadets are expected to join the Air Force on June 19.Since March last year, all training at the AFPI has been through the online mode because of the pandemic. This severe restriction notwithstanding, the Institute has been able to send 28 cadets to service academies from January 2020 till May 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/12-alumni-of-mohali-institute-commissioned-as-lieutenants-from-ima-267683
13-06-2021||---||70 donate blood, 40 pledge organ||Chandigarh, June 12To ensure adequate blood availability in the region, the Society United for Kindling Health (SUKH) Foundation on Saturday organised a blood and organ donation camp at Community Centre in Sector 22.The camp was inaugurated by Prof Vipin Koushal, Additional Medical Superintendent, PGI, and Prof Santosh Kumar, Department of Urology, PGI. The duo was accompanied by Dr Pranay Mahajan, Joint Director, ROTTO, PGI. Professor Kumar encouraged others by donating blood and pledging his organs in the camp. The camp witnessed 70 blood and 40 organ donations.The event was also supported by Geeta Kailash Memorial Foundation, which distributes free medicines in tricity. People who had recently recovered from Covid also signed up to donate plasma at the PGI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/70-donate-blood-40-pledge-organ-267684
13-06-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Court dismisses application for monitoring investigation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 12A local court has dismissed the application to monitor the investigation being carried out by the Economic Offence Wing (EOW) of the Chandigarh Police on a complaint of alleged embezzlement of funds at the Defence Services Officers Institute (DSOI), Sector 36, Chandigarh, and register an FIR against the defaulters.Applicant’s pleaHe stated in the application that despite more than three years, FIR has not been registered by the police on his complaint. As such, he prayed for monitoring of the investigation being carried out by the Economic Offence Wing of the police, alleging that certain elements are attempting to brow beat and hamper/derail the investigation process.Not satisfied with the police investigation, the complaint was filed by RS Gujral, former Vice-Chairman of the DSOI Major (retired), under Section 156 (3) of the CrPc in 2017.He stated in the application that despite more than three years, FIR has not been registered by the police on his complaint. As such, he prayed for monitoring of the investigation being carried out by the Economic Offence Wing of the police, alleging that certain elements, noxious and virulent to the tenets of civilised society, are attempting to brow beat and hamper/derail the investigation process.Puneet Mohinia, Judicial Magistrate, First Class, stated in the order that “given the fact that there is nothing on record which would have required the intervention of a specialist agency like the police. The guilt of the accused, if any, can also be established by way of evidence either oral and/or documentary for which the complainant can also avail of the remedy under the CrPC, by preferring a criminal complaint. The complainant can also examine such witnesses and the same can be examined by the court if prayed for. This court finds that it is not a fit case to invoke the jurisdiction under Section 156(3) CrPC.”Court in the order stated that Gujral had alleged that the embezzlement of funds took place during the renovation done at the DSOI from December 2011 to March 2013. Since the funds for the DSOI are controlled by the HQ Western Command, the applicant had requested the HQ Western Command to order an enquiry into the funds expended by the DSOI management.As per the HQ Western Command Arty Branch letter dated March 11, 2013, Rs 87.73 lakh and Rs28.73 lakh were expended on certain renovation. Apart from this, certain other amounts were spent on renovation and a total of Rs1.50 crore were spent “which were not within the powers of General Officer Commanding in Chief HQ Western Command.”Major Gujral (retd) further stated that the financial powers of the Army Commander/General were restricted to Rs12,50,000 so he could not spend such funds without taking an approval from the Ministry of Defence.The Court stated that even the investigation agency in their status report dated May 2, 2018, has mentioned that they had raised certain queries from the DSOI in which they had stated that the renovation was carried out as per the sanctioned fund provided out of the “Western Command Welfare Fund” by the GOC in Command, HQ Western Command, who is also the ex-officio patron of the DSOI. The sanctions accorded in 2012 by the GOC-in-command were well within the financial powers — Rs12,50,000 per transaction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-dismisses-application-for-monitoring-investigation-267685
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara enters agreement with Canadian varsity||Chitkara University has signed an ‘academic mentorship’ agreement with Trent University — Canada’s leading public university — in the faculty of BBA. The pact was signed in Chandigarh.The agreement was signed virtually by the president of Trent University, Dr Leo Georke, and Chitkara University Chancellor Dr Ashok Chitkara. Under the model, students will study an applied Canadian curriculum in the first two years at Chitkara University, which will be co-taught by the Trent faculty. The students will have the option to transfer with 100 per cent credits of prior learning and graduate with the Trent University BBA degree.“Not only students, but their parents will save at least 70 per cent expenditure on the international tuition fee as our university will provide similar international curriculum and infrastructure at their campus,” said Dr Madhu Chitkara, Pre-Chancellor, Chitkara University. The students will also be prepared for IELTS and other requirements mandatory for securing a study permit from the IRCC, Canada.Students under the programme will be eligible to apply for and secure a three-year post study work permit in Canada after graduation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chitkara-enters-agreement-with-canadian-varsity-267687
13-06-2021||---||Three of family among 4  held for financier’s murder||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 12The police have arrested four persons, including three members of a family, for murdering Maya Devi, a 64-year-old Kharar financier, and dumping her body in a manhole near Morinda after she demanded Rs2.5 lakh back from them. CCTV footage helped copsA day earlier, Vikas Tomar lodged a missing report after his mother did not return home from the neighbour’s house. The police scanned the CCTV footage of the area and found Krishna Devi and Raj Dulari walking along with Maya Devi. She was later bundled into a car driven by Dinesh Singh and dumped in a manhole a few kilometres away.The suspects have been identified Krishna Devi, her son Gurdas Singh, Krishna’s sister Raj Dulari, and Dinesh Singh, friend of Gurdas, all residents of Ranjit Nagar, Kharar. A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 302 and 120-B of the IPC at the Kharar City police station, the police said here today.A day earlier, Vikas Tomar lodged a missing report after his mother did not return home from the neighbour’s house. The police scanned the CCTV footage of the area and found Krishna Devi and Raj Dulari walking along with Maya Devi. She was later bundled in a car, driven by Dinesh Singh, and dumped in a manhole a few kilometres away.Kharar City SHO Ashok Kumar said: “Maya Devi, a resident of Govind Vihar, lent Rs2.5 lakh to the suspects, who were her neighbours. The suspects have been sent to four-day police remand.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-of-family-among-4-held-for-financiers-murder-267688
13-06-2021||---||Chandigarh rock star Nek Chand remembered||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 12To mark the death anniversary of Nek Chand, creator of the Rock Garden, Sushma Sanwal, the first woman student of the renowned sculptor, today created an impressive village scene at the world-famous garden displaying a tube well, spinning wheel, curd churning machine and other expressive items surrounded by villagers wearing masks and greenery all around.Sushma said through her work, she gave a message to society to wear masks in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic spreading in rural areas and also, exhibited the importance of greenery all around.“All this has been fabricated from waste material,” Sushma said while paying a tribute her guru on his death anniversary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-rock-star-nek-chand-remembered-267689
13-06-2021||---||Court rejects bail application of accused||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 12A local court has rejected the bail application of one of the accused, Kamaldeep Singh, in the alleged firing incident that took place outside Score Club here in 2015.The police had registered a case on the complaint of Surjit Singh, who alleged that on June 1, 2015, Kamaldeep, along with co-accused, entered the club under the influence of alcohol and demanded more liquor. When they were denied liquor, they started creating ruckus. They were thrown out of the club with the help of bouncers.Later, Kamaldeep, along with co-accused, allegedly took out a pistol from their car and opened fire. Three persons received injuries in the mishap.The police had registered the case against the accused under Sections 307, 326, 212 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25 and 27 of the Arms Act at the Sector 3 police station.As per the prosecution, the accused remained at large for a long time and was arrested on August 16, 2017. As per the supplementary challan, the petitioner, Kamaldeep, along with co-accused, fired four shots from a country-made pistol, injuring three persons.After hearing the arguments, the court dismissed the bail application of the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-rejects-bail-application-of-accused-267690
13-06-2021||---||Chandigarh Administration urged to reduce GST on Covid-related items||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 12The UT Administration has been urged to issue directions to officials concerned to reduce the GST on Covid-related items.In a letter to UT Adviser Manoj Parida, Ajay Jagga, member, Rogi Kalyan Samiti, UT, pointed out that the 44th GST Council, which met under the chairmanship of Union Finance and Corporate Affairs Minister Nirmala Sitharaman today, decided to reduce the GST rates on the specified items being used in Covid-19 relief and management till September 30, 2021.He requested the Adviser to issue instructions to the GST authorities and the Consumer Affairs Department, UT, to ensure that the benefit of tax reduction is passed on to the consumers positively, else action should be taken.The price of all the products must be reduced otherwise it will be a serious violation, read the letter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-urged-to-reduce-gst-on-covid-related-items-267691
13-06-2021||---||Hassan, Tuba make it to final of carrom meet||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 12Mohammed Hassan and Tuba Sehar entered into the final of the men’s and women’s category, respectively, in the ongoing 1st Online Carrom Tournament, today.Hassan defeated Gagandeep, while Tuba ousted Sanya Chadha in the semi-finals. Hassan scored 39 missing points against Gagandeep’s 60 missing points, while Tuba scored 53 missing points against Sanya’s 75 missing points. Gagandeep and Sanya finished third in the tournament.Earlier, in the men’s singles semi-final, Gagandeep managed a close win with 65 missing points against Gopal Kakkar’s 69 missing points to enter into the 2nd round of semis. In the women’s singles, Sanya thrashed Sangini Mamgain in a one-sided clash by scoring 63 missing points against 106 missing to gain into the second semis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hassan-tuba-make-it-to-final-of-carrom-meet-267692
13-06-2021||---||AAP workers seek Dharamsot’s arrest, burn his effigy in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 12The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today demanded “immediate arrest” of Punjab minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot for misusing the funds meant for the scholarship of Dalit students.The AAP workers burnt an effigy of Dharamsot at the Phase 3-5 intersection here and threatened to launch a series of protests across the state if the government did not take action against the minister.Addressing the protesters, senior AAP leader Narinder Singh Shergill and district secretary Prabhjot Kaur alleged that Dharamsot had “embezzled Rs 60 core scholarship” amount.“Due to non-payment of scholarships, various colleges in Punjab have withheld roll numbers of Dalit students, thus putting their careers at stake,” the duo claimed.They further said the ruling Congress dispensation had become a “government of scams”.“The vaccine scam, subsidy scam and the Fateh kit scam has exposed the corrupt face of Punjab Government,” they alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-workers-seek-dharamsots-arrest-burn-his-effigy-in-mohali-267693
13-06-2021||---||Learn health, education lessons from Punjab: Bedi to AAP||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 12Instead of making false statements for political mileage, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) should take guidance from Punjab in the field of education and health, Kuljit Singh Bedi, senior Congress leader and Deputy Mayor of the Mohali Municipal Corporation said here today.Bedi said during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic people from Delhi rushed to Punjab for treatment. “AAP-led Delhi Government should learn from Punjab,” he said.“They also need guidance from Punjab in the field of education,” Bedi added.He attributed the progress made in the fields of health and education in the state to the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.“Today Punjab is No. 1 in both the areas. This was possible only due to the farsightedness of the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh,” he said.Bedi also said the personal interest and diligent efforts made by Mohali MLA and Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had put the city on path of progress.Taking a dig at the Akalis, which has joined hands with the BSP for the forthcoming Assembly elections in the state, Bedi said: “In their 10-year tenure, Akalis did nothing in the field of education and health, due to which the situation had deteriorated in Punjab.”“The infrastructure for both the sectors has been strengthened during the Congress government,” he insisted.Bedi further said Mohali was one of the cities in Punjab where tremendous work was being done in both education and health sectors.He said a medical college was being set up in Mohali and classes had already started.“A 300-bed hospital is also being set up here. An ultramodern Civil Hospital will be set up in the city,” Bedi informed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/learn-health-education-lessons-from-punjab-bedi-to-aap-267695
13-06-2021||Zirakpur||Youth found dead in car at Zirakpur||The police today found the body of a youth in a car outside an eatery in Shatabgarh village here.The youth has been identified as 28-year-old Raghav Narang, a resident of Raipur Kalan, Chandigarh. He is survived by his wife and five-year-old son, the police said.The police suspect that the youth died of a heart attack but the exact cause of the death would be known after the postmortem.Zirakpur SHO Onkar Singh Brar said, “Information was received that the body of a youth was found in a luxury car, with windows rolled up, outside an eatery in Shatabgarh.”“There were no signs of injuries on his body,” he said, adding that the body has been sent to the mortuary of Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi.Family members said the deceased was undergoing de-addiction.Last night, he had come to Zirakpur for some work and told her wife that his car had broken down and he would be late. But he did not come home, following which a search was launched, said the police.The police have initiated action under Section 174 of the CrPc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-found-dead-in-car-at-zirakpur-267696
13-06-2021||Zirakpur||Man hit by car, dies||Awareness on Immunity buildingChandigarh: The Postgraduate Department of Sociology at Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women, Sector 36, in collaboration with the Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights has undertook a two-month-long ‘Be an Immunity Ambassador’ initiative. Under the initiative, student volunteers of the college conducted various awareness activities pertaining to immunity building in their locality. TNSGGDSD College holds e-festChandigarh: The Humanities Department of Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma College, Sector 32, organised Vivacity 21 here on Saturday. Twelve events were organised during the e-fest. Paras Kamboj, Vibhuti Sharma, Simran Punani, Ashutosh Yadav, Aman Sharma, Geetanjali Bhatti, Ananya Kaul, Satvik Khurrana, Vrinda Sharma and Tuhin Badhan won the top positions in their respective categories. TNSPU declares resultsChandigarh: Panjab University has declared results of MSc (IT) 3rd semester, MCA 3rd semester and MA (Sociology) 3rd semester. Students can see the results at the respective departments/colleges or on PU’s website. TNSe-YUVA centre gets Rs2.36 crChandigarh: Dr Rohit Sharma from Panjab University’s Department of Microbial Biotechnology has been designated as the project investigator for ‘Empowering Youth for Undertaking Value Added Innovative Translational Research (E-YUVA)’ scheme. Under the scheme, Rs 2.36 crore have been sanctioned for research for three years. The programme aims to inculcate and promote research and society oriented entrepreneurial innovation among young students and researchers. TNSPanel discussion conductedChandigarh: The Women Empowerment Cell of Punjab Engineering College (PEC) in association with the Pride Month conducted a panel discussion on ‘Role of Universities in sensitizing people about LGBTQIA and issues’. The themes touched upon were setting of the historical context, the current status quo, the role of universities in sensitisation of people and the legal rights of the LGBTQIA community. TNSWebinar on Ayur Jyotish at collegeMohali: To mark the silver jubilee of Desh Bhagat Ayurvedic College and Hospital (DBAC&H), a webinar on the 'introduction to Ayur Jyotish- undergraduate level' was organised. Congratulating the faculty and students, DBU Chancellor Dr Zora Singh announced that university might also start offering certificate and diploma-level programmes in 'Ayur Jyotish'. tns3 held for theft in Dera BassiDera Bassi: The police have arrested three on the charge of stealing iron bars and other goods in an autorickshaw on Barwala road here on Saturday. The suspects have been identified as Lalru residents Kamlesh, Reena and Ambala City resident Jacky. The trio have been booked under Section 379 of the IPC. The police said several cases were already registered against them in other police stations. TNS3 arrested with liquor boxesChandigarh: The police arrested a Morinda resident, Kuldeep Singh, and recovered 15 boxes of liquor from his possession near the road separating Sectors 39 and 40 here on Friday. In another incident, a Jalandhar resident, Gaurav, was arrested with 15 boxes of liquor. Pankaj Singh, a Mohali resident, was arrested with two boxes of liquor near Sector 40. Cases under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act were been registered against the suspects on Saturday. The trio was later released on bail. TNSFour nabbed for gamblingChandigarh: The police arrested Sukhwinder Singh, Manoj Kumar, Rinku and Govind, all city residents, while gambling near the Maloya school here on Friday. A sum of Rs6,620 was recovered from their possession. A case under Sections 13, 3 and 67 of the Gambling Act has been registered at the Maloya police station. The suspects were later released on bail. TNSKaithal resident duped of Rs33KChandigarh: Shamsher Singh, a Kaithal resident, who is employed with the Haryana Roadways and posted at the ISBT-17, reported that an unknown person cheated him of Rs33,597 on the pretext of selling a car on the social media recently. A case under Sections 419, 420 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 17 police station. TNSThieves strike at two housesChandigarh: A Sector 56 resident reported that an unknown person stole her gold chain, two gold bangles, one pair of gold earrings, a gold rind and Rs15,000 from her house on May 13. A case under Section 380 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 39 police station. In another incident, a Panchkula resident, Raju Sharma, reported that an unknown person stole a gas stove, an LED TV and 15-litre mustard oil from his house. A case under Section 380 of the IPC has been registered. TNS340 persons get jabs at campMohali: The Senior Citizen Welfare Association, Sector 48-C, Mohali, organised a vaccination camp here on Saturday. A total of 340 persons in the 18 plus age group were vaccinated during the camp. The camp was organised with the help of the Punjab Health Department and the Municipal Corporation, Mohali. Mayor Amarjeet Singh Sidhu and Deputy Mayor KS Bedi were present on the occasion. TNSPO in police net after 22 yearsKharar: The police arrested a proclaimed offender after 22 years here on Saturday. Rajinder Singh, a truck driver by profession, was wanted in a case related to an accident in Khasi Kalan in Ludhiana 22 years ago, said the police. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-hit-by-car-dies-267698
