14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 50 new Covid cases, 2 deaths||Chandigarh reported 50 new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, a news bulletin said on Monday evening.The union territory now has 507 active cases, the bulletin said. Two more deaths took fatality count since the pandemic began last year to 794. The UT recorded 1,565 tests in the last 24 hours. Some 61 people recovered and were released from hospitals and home isolation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-50-new-covid-cases-2-deaths-268377
14-06-2021||---||Early monsoon comes in with an excess of downpour over the region||Vijay MohanTribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 14The early monsoon has hit the region on a hugely positive note, with the agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana receiving higher than normal rain fall in the month of June so far.From June 1 to June 14, Punjab received 38 mm rain against the normal of 14.7 mm for this period, accounting for a surplus of 158 per cent, according to data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).In Haryana, rain was for surplus by 146 per cent. The state received 33.7 mm rain against the normal of 13.7 mm for the aforementioned period. In of Himachal Pradesh, the surplus was relatively lower at 26 per cent. The hill state received 42.2 mm rain against the normal of 33.5 mm for that period.The monsoon arrived over north India about 15 days ahead of its normal date of onset, which is a significant deviation in terms of climatic conditions as well as agro-economic practices. Rains impact sowing and cropping timing as well as the demand of water from dams and electricity or diesel for running bore wells.Information released by IMD states that as on June 14 the Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) is passing through Diu, Surat, Nandurbar, Bhopal, Nowgong, Hamirpur, Barabanki, Bareilly, Saharanpur, Ambala and Amritsar, covering the entire peninsular, central, east and northeastern India and some parts of north-western India. However due to approaching of mid-latitude westerlies winds further progress  of  monsoon  over  remaining  parts  of  northwest  India  is  likely  to  be slow, according to the IMD.Earlier, the IMD had predicted normal to above normal rainfall over most parts of South Asia during the 2021 southwest monsoon season from June to September. Geographically, above-normal rainfall is most likely over north-western India and some regions along the foothills of the Himalayas.Even in May, the precipitation in the region had been good. Rain was 138 percent above normal in Haryana and 39 per cent above normal in Punjab, but deficient by four per cent in Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/early-monsoon-comes-in-with-an-excess-of-downpour-over-the-region-268359
14-06-2021||New Delhi||Anupam Kher shares lovable birthday post for ‘dearest’ wife Kirron||On the occasion of actor-turned-politician Kirron Kher’s 69th birthday on Monday, her husband Anupam Kher penned a heartwarming note for her along with throwback pictures to make the day special.The ‘Saaransh’ actor took to his Instagram handle to share some priceless pictures of his wife from their family album.In the series of pictures, the ‘Om Shanti Om’ star is seen posing with Dalai Lama, Hollywood stars- Robert De Niro and Bradley Cooper. In the last snap is a precious picture of a father-daughter duo where Kirron is seen posing with her late father- Army officer Colonel Thakar Singh Sandhu.Alongside the pictures, Anupam also penned a heartwarming note for Kirron who is also a Lok Sabha MP.A post shared by Anupam Kher (@anupampkher)  The note read, “Happy birthday dearest #Kirron!! May God give you long and healthy life. May the Almighty grant you all the happiness in the world! People all over the world love you for the person you are! You are honest, fair, sincere and forthright! You deal with every situation in life with an amazing inner strength and grace! Stay healthy and safe! Love and prayers always!”Today marks Kirron’s first birthday after Anupam broke the news in April that her wife has been diagnosed with multiple myeloma, a type of blood cancer. Following this, scores of fellow celebrities and fans of the celebrity couple expressed concern and wished her a speedy recovery on social media.Meanwhile, on the work front, Anupam Kher had also won the Best Actor award at the New York City International Film Festival for his short film titled ‘Happy Birthday’, adding a feather to his cap. The film also bagged the Best Short Film award at the prestigious film festival.Apart from ‘Happy Birthday’, Anupam has several other projects in the pipeline including ‘The Last Show’, ‘Mungilal Rocks’, and ‘The Kashmir Files’. (ANI)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/anupam-kher-shares-lovable-birthday-post-for-dearest-wife-kirron-268283
14-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||AAP workers join SAD in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, June 13 The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), after forming an alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in the state, got a shot in the arm today when a large number of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers from various villages joined the party under the leadership of Didar Singh Bhatti, halka in-charge for the Fatehgarh Sahib constituency.  Bhatti honoured workers by presenting them  ‘siropas’ and assured that they would be given due respect in the party. Addressing the gathering, Bhatti said every section of society was annoyed with the Captain-led state government. New scams of corruption were surfacing, he added. People were eagerly waiting for the elections to teach a lesson to the Chief Minister, who came to power by making false promises, he said.  Youth leaders said they were lured by the false propaganda of the AAP. When they came to know the truth, they decided to leave the party and join the SAD, youth leaders added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-workers-join-sad-in-fatehgarh-sahib-268010
14-06-2021||Our Correspondent||‘Fake’ travel agent dupes farmer of Rs 12 lakh||Fatehgarh Sahib, June 13The police have booked a woman on the charge of duping a farmer of Rs12 lakh on the pretext of sending his daughter to Canada. She neither returned the money nor the original passport and certificates to the complainant. Rather she threatened him with life.The Fatehgarh Sahib Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Amneet Kondal, said Balkar Singh, a resident of Dhirpur village, had lodged a complaint with the police that Kulwinder Kaur, alias Renu, a resident of Mehmadpur village, posing as a travel agent, duped him of Rs12 lakh on the pretext of sending his daughter abroad.Balkar came across Mewa Singh, who told him that his granddaughter, Kulwinder Kaur, resided in Canada and she had come to India for a few days. Mewa Singh said she also worked as travel agent and had sent three girls to Canada earlier.Balkar Singh met Kulwinder Kaur and urged her to send his daughter to Canada. The deal was settled for Rs12 lakh. He paid Rs5 lakh through cheque and later transferred more amount in Kulwinder Kaur’s account. After repeated talks, Kulwinder did not give a satisfactory response, said Balka Singh.Later, Balkar Singh came to know that he had been deceived by Kulwinder Kaur. He asked the woman to return his money, certificates and passport, but she refused to do so and threatened him.The SSP said Kulwinder had never been to Canada. “A case has been registered under Sections 406, and 420, of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 13 of the Punjab Travel Professionals (Regulation) Act 2014 against Kulwinder Kaur,” the SSP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fake-travel-agent-dupes-farmer-of-rs-12-lakh-268011
14-06-2021||Naina Mishra||Covid-diabetes link leading to black fungus, feel experts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 13City hospitals have witnessed 370 cases of mucormycosis so far with a majority of these patients being uncontrolled diabetic and having received steroids in inappropriate quantities during the Covid treatment.“At least 87 per cent of the mucormycosis patients admitted to the PGI are diabetic. This is the most contributing factor for this fungal infection. At the same time, there is a fairly good number of patients who came with mucormycosis, but were Covid positive in the RT-PCR test. They were asymptomatic for Covid-19,” said Dr Naresh Panda, Head of the ENT Department, PGI.There is now growing evidence that Covid-19 itself is triggering hyperglycaemia in patients. Dr GD Puri from the PGI said symptomatic patients even without history of diabetes had shown precipitation of diabetes at the PGI, Chandigarh.DocspeakCovid-19 directly affects the beta cells of pancreas, due to which the sugar level of the patient skyrockets. Coronavirus directly damages beta cells, which causes hyperglycaemia. In addition to this, cytokines storm caused by Covid-19 and steroid used for treatment also contribute to the increased sugar level. —Dr Sanjay Badada, Department of Endocrinology, PGIDr Sanjay Badada from the Department of Endocrinology, PGI, said: “Covid-19 directly affects the beta cells of pancreas, due to which sugar level of the patient skyrockets. Coronavirus directly damages beta cells, which causes hyperglycaemia. In addition to this, cytokines storm caused by Covid-19 and steroid used for treatment also contribute to increased sugar level”.He said uncontrolled diabetes triggers acidosis (too much acid in body fluids) and fungus likes to grow in this environment.In the latest study spearheaded by PGI doctors on mucormycosis, published in the CDC, US, revealed that inappropriate glucocorticoid use was associated with late Covid-associated mucormycosis. Appropriate steroid use was defined as dexamethasone-equivalent doses of six mg/day used for over 10 days. Any excess in dose or duration was classified as “inappropriate”.Dr Panda said several patients had received steroids in excess quantities from outside. Their prescription cards were filled with high doses of steroids, which also triggered uncontrolled diabetic condition in these patients.“None of the patients, who were discharged from the PGI, came with mucormycosis, because they were all managed well as far as steroids and sugar levels are concerned. All these patients either took steroids in home isolation or in other private facilities,” he said.However, some doctors feel that the role of steam inhalation, unhygienic face masks and oxygen humidifiers cannot be undermined in the increasing number of mucormycosis cases in the second wave.Dr Jagdish Chander, consultant microbiologist at the GMCH-32, said: “Overzealous use of steam inhalation for six-seven times a day and reusing the same mask for one to two weeks also increased the risk of acquiring mucormycosis. A high index of clinical suspicion for mucormycosis should be kept in those who have recovered from the viral infection.”Dr Badada, in his recently published research paper, also highlighted the possible speculated causes of mucormycosis. According to the paper, reusable oxygen humidifiers may also play a major role in the transmission of potential nosocomial pathogens via the generation of aerosol particles, for they reach deep into the lung immediately after inhalation. Use of steam inhalation as well as non-humidified oxygen can lead to damage of the respiratory mucosa, allowing easy penetration of mucorales. Hence, it should be limited in post-Covid individuals, it stated.‘Overzealous use of steam inhalation increased risk’Dr Jagdish Chander, consultant microbiologist at the GMCH-32, said: “Overzealous use of steam inhalation for six-seven times a day and reusing the same mask for one to two weeks also increased the risk of acquiring mucormycosis. A high index of clinical suspicion for mucormycosis should be kept in those who have recovered from the viral infection.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-diabetes-link-leading-to-black-fungus-feel-experts-268012
14-06-2021||---||Nidhi, Talib shine in carrom tournament||Chandigarh, June 13Nidhi Gupta and Mohammed Talib claimed women’s and men’s title, respectively, on the concluding day of the 1st Chandigarh Online Carrom Tournament.In the men’s singles, Talib outclassed Mohamed Hassan by carrying 32 missing points against 50 missing points earned by Hassan.Talib was at his peak with excellent skill and scored two black slams in the final match.In the women’s singles, Nidhi played superb game to earn 44 missing points against fancied Tuba Sehar, who finished with 50 missing points. Both Nidhi and Tuba were tied with 18 missing points each in the first three boards.Tuba earned lead in the 4th and 5th board, but dropped in the 6th board to trail by 12 missing points. Nidhi earned six points each in six boards and four points each in another two boards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nidhi-talib-shine-in-carrom-tournament-268013
14-06-2021||---||Over 2K players given scholarship||Chandigarh, June 13More than 2,000 players have been awarded state sports scholarship under different age groups by the UT Sports Department. The scholarship amount was directly transferred to the beneficiaries.Over 2,000 players were awarded scholarship, while nearly 90 players have been asked to resubmit documents. Those who won laurels in the state championships in disciplines such as archery, athletics, badminton, basketball, baseball, boxing, canoeing/kayaking, cricket, cycling, fencing, football, gymnastics, golf, handball, hockey, judo, kabaddi, kho-kho, rowing, shooting, softball, skating/roller sports, swimming, table tennis, lawn tennis, taekwondo, volleyball, weightlifting and wrestling were awarded.Gradation certificatesOver 100 players have been awarded sports gradation certificates in three phases. The last and fourth phase of the gradation interviews will be conducted for the remaining players.“In three phases, over 100 players have been awarded certificates based on their achievements. Due to a less number of tournaments in the last session, a fewer number of players turned up for the interviews,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-2k-players-given-scholarship-268014
14-06-2021||Amit Bathla||Court raps senior officials, cops in Rs 11.99L deficit case||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 13In its order granting bail to a bank cashier in a Rs11.99-lakh cash-deficit case, a district court questioned the role of senior bank officials in an internal inquiry and that of the police after an FIR was registered in the matter.The court granted interim bail to Kiran Chauhan, the cashier at Haryana State Co-operative Apex Bank Ltd (HARCO Bank), in an alleged case of causing deficit of funds to the tune of Rs11.99 lakh.“From the totality of circumstances, it does appear though the shortage of the cash was found on 26.11.2020, yet the bank officials/complainant tried to sweep the same under the carpet by allowing the overdraft limit to the petitioner and then showing the withdrawal of the same and affording an opportunity to the petitioner to make good the deficient amount. The FIR was registered on 28.12.2020 but apparently, no CCTV footage was collected or made available. No recovery is to be made from the petitioner. The petitioner has been alleged of being ‘negligent’ and no dishonest intention has been attributed to her in the entire FIR,” the court said.“The petitioner is a permanent employee of the bank and there appears to be no likelihood of her absconding. She is also facing a departmental inquiry,’’ Additional Sessions Judge Vani Gopal Sharma observed in the order.“It is merely on the assumption that the petitioner has been mentioned guilty for cash shortage without any police inquiry or investigation,” Deepak Jindal, counsel for the petitioner had told the court.The caseAmarjit Kaur, General Manager (Banking), HARCO Bank, in her complaint to the police, said that a sum of Rs 11,99,500 was found short in the cash safe of their bank branch in Sector 6, Panchkula, on November 26.A DDR was lodged by branch manager Sushil Sangwan at the Sector 7 police post against cashier Kiran Chauhan.An inquiry was also conducted at the bank level. On the basis of the inquiry report, the management had decided that the shortage of cash was the joint responsibility of the cashier and the branch manager, therefore, both had been grossly negligent.Later, an FIR was lodged on December 28,2020, under Sections 409 and 120-B of the IPC at the Sector 5 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-raps-senior-officials-cops-in-rs-11-99l-deficit-case-268015
14-06-2021||---||Dinosaur park set to open at zoo post-Covid restrictions||Zirakpur, June 13Chhatbir Zoo will open a dinosaur park after the Covid restrictions are done away with.Different species of dinosaurs will be displayed in various forms at the park. Visitors will see fosilised depiction of some dinosaurs in the park. The facility has been given an attractive look at the reception to attract children and visitors.Basanta Rajkumar, Chief Conservator of Forest (CCF), Punjab, tweeted: “The newly added dinosaur park in Chhatbir is ready to welcome visitors once the zoo opens after the lockdown restrictions are eased.”To attract children, visitorsDifferent species of dinosaurs will be displayed in various forms at the park. Visitors will see fosilised depiction of some dinosaurs in the park. The facility has been given an attractive look at the reception to attract children and visitors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dinosaur-park-set-to-open-at-zoo-post-covid-restrictions-268016
14-06-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Consider marks secured in Class IX, X, XI & pre-board||Ensure objectivity in assessmentEvaluating the performance of students is just not an obligation. It has to be taken up seriously by those, who are involved in it, be it teachers or the staff or institution heads. Evaluation system must cater to hybrid learning and integrated in-house exams with additional parameters of assessment wherein critical thinking, creativity and communication skills are evaluated. The methodology used to evaluate should ensure objectivity in assessment. In fact, the CBSE has to apply different permutation combinations prioritising students' interests while evaluating them.Garv Bhupesh Verma, PanchkulaPaper with Multiple choice questionsThere should be a single online question paper carrying sufficient number of questions prepared by subject experts and psychologists for Class XII students. This paper must carry questions of all subjects with instructions to pick right combinations and stream. Gradation with equivalent percentages can be awarded subsequently. Colleges and universities can frame holistically prepared entrance exams for professional and non-professional courses to filter and accommodate students of their choice.Rajpartap Singh, ChandigarhAn unusual situationPassing Class XII is important as students have to compete for admission in various professional courses like medical, engineering, IT and others. Career of students is rather more important. This an unusual situation, which needs to be addressed with unusual methods. The best way to evaluate Class XII students without conducting examination is through previous three years assessment, which is effective for awarding grades.Capt Amar Jeet (retd), MohaliGrading on basis of online assignmentsThe CBSE must take into consideration Class X and XI marks for evaluating XII standard pupils. Online assignments given by teachers can be considered for final grading. Punctuality in attending online classes should also be given weightage.Antra Rakheja, ChandigarhNot an arduous task as projectedCompilation of CBSE Class XII results without physically holding examinations should not be an arduous task as it is being projected. Schools do have performance records of every student, marks obtained in Class X, XI, online internal and pre-board Class XII exams for each subject, including science practical, held in February. Board examiners can prepare a format for assigning weightage in terms of per cent for every input and arrive at final subject-wise marksheet of every student. Students are victims of circumstances. Not able to appear in final examinations is a matter beyond their control.SC Luthra, ChandigarhStart with performance in middle schoolCancelling Class XII examinations has evoked mixed response from students, their parents and teachers. A panel has been constituted to frame the criterion for students' evaluation. It is a fact that though there is no substitute for offline examination, the decision taken is a step in right direction in view of the second Covid wave. Students should be evaluated in completely transparent manner. Examiners should consider performance from middle standard onwards, marks obtained in internal class examinations, growth trajectory over the period and performance in extra-curricular activities while preparing students' Class XII results.Dr Dinesh Kumar Verma, PanchkulaClass X result can be consideredDue to cancelation of the CBSE Class XII exams students can be promoted on the basis of the Class X board result. This yard stick may be adopted for preparing Class XII results. Marks obtained in online quarterly exams may also be considered on pro rata basis and added to final Class XII results.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliInternal assessment of past two yearsThe government has taken the right decision by cancelling the CBSE examinations for students' safety. The board should consider internal assessment and performance for the last two years for preparing Class XII results. Current progress reports of every student can also be given weightage. Grace marks should be given to each student in view of the ongoing pandemic. Besides, the evaluation criteria should be impartial.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliTeachers can evaluate own studentsTeachers of the same school can be asked to evaluate their students on the basis of house examinations held during the past two years. A teacher is best judge of student. The principal of the school concerned should be the final authority to verify and prepare Class XII results.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhIntroduce open book test criterionDue to spurt in Covid cases, the CBSE had no solution, but to cancel Class XII exams. As evaluation is necessary for preparing final results so open book test criterion can be introduced. This can include multiple choice questions for all subjects. Questions can be framed in a manner that students open and go through text rather than Google for answers. In this case, students would prefer to study for each subject beforehand. Remaining evaluation score could be awarded by taking students viva.Jasleen Kaur, ChandigarhInternal assessment, Projects importantAs board exams have been cancelled an alternative method for students’ evaluation does not seem fair. However, due to exigency the CBSE may assess students on the basis of their performance in Class X and XI internal examinations. Internal assessment by teachers, projects assigned and completed by students in previous classes and marks obtained therein also carry weightage. Besides, grading can also be done on the basis of pre-board examinations or average of marks obtained in the previous two classes.Sunil Khanna, ChandigarhCriterion that suits all studentsCancellation of CBSE Class XII exams was a happy moment for majority of students, but sad news for expected toppers and those wishing to go abroad. Toppers will not get an opportunity to shine. Others are worried whether foreign universities and colleges would consider their Class XII result prepared without exams. The government must come out with a criterion that suits students of all categories. No student should suffer because of the wrong assessment. Students' whole future depends upon the Class XII results. So, utmost care must be taken in formulating a transparent method for assessment.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhStress on internal assessmentBoard exams have been cancelled, but health and safety of students is important. The CBSE should evaluate Class XII students on the basis of internal assessment and X and XI standard results. The board should also give an option of re-examination if students are not satisfied with assessment for preparing results.Gurwinder Bhullar, ChandigarhMaintain education standard in schoolsTo ensure standard of education is maintained, the CBSE should consider performance of students in the last examinations and in the present academic year. If it's not upto the mark, students should be demoted. This will ensure that students study and work hard.AK Jindal, PatialaLast three years’ performancePandemic has forced the CBSE to abandon its plan to conduct the Class XII exams. No civilised government can afford to put lives of the next generation in danger. The CBSE can evaluate students on the basis of the last three years performance in studies plus internal marks obtained in online exams conducted by respective schools in the present academic session. Students must be given an option for revaluation of results or online exams to improve their marks.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhClass X marks show students’ capabilityOne of the best methods to evaluate Class XII students is to take into account their X and XI standard marks as these two exams were conducted under stress free environment. Also marks obtained in these exams reflect students' capability. More weightage can be given to marks as obtained in Class X as students make more efforts for board exams rather than the ones conducted by schools.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhPreference to all subjectsThe CBSE has cancelled Class XII exams. Now, it's time to come up with an evaluation criterion, which transparent. Internal assessment of students through assignments, practical work, viva-voice and co-curricular activities should be considered for evaluation. Priority must be given to grades awarded in the midterm and pre-board exams for preparing Class XII results. Lastly, all subjects should be given equal preference.Harnoor Kaur, KhararOnline exams of one-hour durationIt's a matter of students' career. Students have worked hard throughout the year for their exams. They have to appear in professional courses competitive exams for admission in universities and institutions. Schools should conduct online exams of one hour duration for all subjects. Practical should be conducted and internal assessment also be taken into account for assessment.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliAssessment on basis of preliminary examsCancellation of the CBSE Class XII exams was unbelievable. There was also some relief as the decision had been hanging fire for quite some time. Students were on their toes adding to tension and psychological pressure on account of the pandemic. The CBSE can consider marks obtained in Class X and XI and Class XII preliminary exams for evaluation.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhInclude marks secured in pre-boardMajority of schools conducted pre-boards once or twice this year due to delay in the decision of holding or cancelling Class XII exams. Preboard results with a weightage of around 60 per cent along with performance in Class XII and XI can be a good criterion to evaluate students. The CBSE can also consider class response of the last two years, along with interest show in extracurricular activities, to prepare results.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhOne paper based on entire syllabusThe CBSE has cancelled Class XII exam, which is the need of the hour due to the pandemic. These exams are crucial for students as marks obtained therein are considered by colleges /universities for admission in various courses. The board should evaluate students on the basis of Class X and XI results. Also, the board can hold online exam for one paper based on the entire Class XII syllabus and accordingly prepare result.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhKeep students’ future in mindThe most discussed evaluation criteria under consideration is that students may be evaluated on the basis of their marks obtained in Classes IX, X and XI. The second option is to assess Class XII students on the basis of practical and pre-board examinations conducted by respective schools. Whatever procedure is followed for the evaluation purpose, career of millions of students must be kept in mind by the authorities concerned.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliNot a good decisionCancelling of the CBSE Class XII exams is not a good decision. Most students seek admission in professional courses on the basis of marks obtained in Class XII. Without valid exams colleges/universities may not consider students for admission. The board should conduct exams in two categories. One for the science and other for the non-science group. Schools can conduct online exams for Class XII students and send marks to board.Sukhwant Bhullar, ChandigarhShun attitude of favouritismThe evaluation criteria for Class XII should be such that schoolteachers don't adopt an attitude of favoritism and give more marks to students, who have taken tuitions from them. The evaluation criteria should be fair and unbiased. It should include student's performance in previous years rather than on the present internal assessment by teachers. When result is prepared there are instances of parents approaching the school authorities to improve their wards marks. Schools should be upright and honest and practice what they preach.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhAssessment excluding biases, prejudicesThe government's decision to cancel the Class XII CBSE examination has invoked mixed reactions from various stakeholders. The main challenge is the methodology to be adopted for declaring results. The CBSE can consider marks obtained in Class XI and performance in Class XII in online classes for students evaluation. Another way could be students’ assessment by all teachers and then awarding them grades. The assessment has to be scientific and exclude biases and prejudices as its question of students' future.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhCome up with best assessment policyThe cancellation of the CBSE Class XII exams has brought some relief for students, parents and teachers. There are two options for students' evaluation. One is assessment on the basis of performance in previous classes' final exams. Second is considering Class XI and XII internal assessment. Hope the board will look into Class XII students' interest and come out with best policy for evaluation.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaQuarterly/half-yearly test performanceThe government has taken right decision by cancelling the CBSE Class XII examination because of the Covid pandemic. In the interest of students their results should be declared on the basis of internal quarterly/half yearly tests. Five per cent grace marks may be given to all students.Paramjeet Singh, ChandigarhCount marks of all subjectsThe CBSE Class XII exams have been cancelled, but students have to be evaluated for declaring their results. Class XII results mean a lot for students as marks obtained therein are considered for admissions in engineering, medical or other courses. The board may take into account average marks obtained in each subject in the last two midterm exams and personal assessment of each student by teachers.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliFair, equal assessmentAs the board exams have been cancelled, the CBSE should keep Class XII pre-board marks of students as the evaluation criteria. The evaluation should be fair and equal for all students. Another alternative is to consider marks obtained in Class XI by students and internal assessment of Class XII.Adish Sood, AmlohTake stakeholders into confidenceAny criteria adopted for evaluation should be transparent. The stakeholders - teachers, parents, school management, and if possible students representatives - opinion should be considered for deciding method for evaluation. Past performance in Class IX to XI and marks obtained in internal Class XII exams should be the main criteria for evaluation. Students' future depends on Class XII results.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhEvaluation difficult Sans pre-boardPre-boards assessment indicates marks, which students can obtain in the final examination. In the absence of pre-board exams evaluation becomes a difficult task. In the present circumstances, marks obtained in Class X and XI, whichever are higher, can be considered for preparing Class XII results.RPS Chopra, ChandigarhExperts/educationists should take decisionThe CBSE cancelled the Class XII examinations. Now, the evaluation criteria for certification would be crucial for students seeking admission in academic and professional courses. Educationists/experts of the CBSE are devising a foolproof mechanism for evaluation and the Apex Court is seized of the matter to ensure fair-play and uniformity across states.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaTake care of all students’ interestsMarks obtained in the CBSE Class XII exams help students secure admission in colleges/universities/institutions of their choice. Theory/practical/internal assessment should be used for Class XII students' assessment. An online objective question paper evaluated by external or internal examiners can help in checking students' knowledge. The CBSE has to come up with an evaluation policy, which takes care of mediocre and toppers interests.Charu Malhotra, Mohali80% weightage to internal examsThe consistency in performance and results of various internal examinations need to be considered for Class XII students' evaluation. Internal examinations should be given 80 per cent weightage. While distributing average marks over the whole year, 10 per cent of the best periodic test I and II, 30 per cent of term I and 40 per cent of pre-board examinations may be considered for assessment.SK Khosla, ChandigarhQUESTIONAs Covid cases have come down in Chandigarh, should the government hospitals start OPDs and elective surgeries for patients not infected by the virus?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/consider-marks-secured-in-class-ix-x-xi-pre-board-268017
14-06-2021||Zirakpur||PO wanted in fraud cases held||Over 280 get Covid vaccineMohali: An NGO - Giving Heads for Humanity – organised a Covid vaccination camp near the Phase 7 library here on Sunday. Over 280 persons were administered the Covid vaccine free of cost. Mayor Amarjit Singh Jiti Sidhu and Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi joined the camp. They lauded this unique initiative and appreciated the contribution made by the organisation during the pandemic. It may be recalled that over 200 persons were vaccinated free of cost at the first Covid vaccination camp organised by Giving Heads for Humanity. TNSNation webinar on de-addictionChandigarh: The Drug De-Addiction Society of Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46, organised a national webinar on the topic, “decoding drug issues amidst the pandemic and youth outreach”. Narender Singh, Senior Public Prosecutor, Special Crime Branch, CBI, Chandigarh; Dr Monica Munjial Singh, Chairperson, Centre for Social Work, PU; and Dr Lalitendu Jagatdeb, Executive Director, Chaitanya Kasyap Foundation, New Delhi; were the speakers. They discussed various drug-related issues that are posing a threat to youth due to the prevailing pandemic condition. The session was followed by an interactive session. TNSWebinar on NAAC accreditationChandigarh: A national webinar on ‘revised accreditation guidelines of NAAC for quality enhancement in affiliated colleges’ was organised by the Internal Quality Assurance Cell of Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma College, Sector 32, in collaboration with NAAC, Bengaluru. The seminar started with a brief introduction about the theme and the need for the NAAC accreditation as per the pre-requisite of National Education Policy-2020. Dr Monica Sachdeva introduced the quality mandate of the accreditation council and its vision statement. Upkar Krishan Sharma, president, GGDSD College Society, apprised the participants of the progress of the college. Dr Devender Kawday, Deputy Adviser, NAAC, Bengaluru, gave an overview on the assessment and accreditation process. TNSLehli village team win cricket meetLalru: Shaheed Bhagat Youth Club organised a cricket tournament at Malikpur village in the Lalru area. As many as 15 teams from the area participated in the tournament. Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma distributed prizes among the winners and donated Rs21,000 to the club. The final match was played between Malikpur and Lehli villages. Lehli team won the tournament and was awarded a cash prize of Rs11,000, while Malikpur team, which remained runners-up, received a cash prize of Rs6,100. TNSMan falls prey to online fraudChandigarh: A Sector 27 resident fell prey to an online fraud after a miscreant made a transaction of Rs59,000 from his credit card. Complainant Ashok Rohilla reported that an unknown person called him on his mobile phone posing as an executive of RBL. The suspect asked the victim if he was facing any bank-related issue. The victim told the suspect about monthly charges being deducted from his account. The victim then got an OTP on his phone, which he shared with the suspect. Later, a transaction of Rs59,000 was made from his card. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/po-wanted-in-fraud-cases-held-268018
14-06-2021||---||Man booked for criminal intimidation||Mohali, June 13Kharar resident Baljit Singh was today booked on the charge of criminal intimidation.Manjeet Singh, a maternal cousin of late Ludhiana DSP Harjinder Singh, who died of post-Covid complications in Ludhiana on June 9, had lodged a complaint against the suspect.The suspect allegedly threatened the complainant at his Sector 70 house, where the deceased's family is currently putting up, around noon today.The police reached the spot but the suspect argued with the police and was booked for trespassing and deterring a person from discharging his duty as public servant. A case under Sections 452, 506, 353 and 186 of the IPC was registered at the Mataur police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-booked-for-criminal-intimidation-268020
14-06-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Adieu Nirmal Milkha Singh — a friend, guide & philanthropist||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 13Gloom spread in the sports fraternity as 84-year-old Nirmal Milkha Singh, a blunt administrator, an amiable personality and a philanthropist, lost her battle to Covid-19 this evening. She had tested positive for the virus on May 26 and remained under strict observation till her last breath.A former captain of Indian volleyball team and wife of former Indian sprinter Milkha Singh breathed her last at a private hospital in Mohali. She was cremated at the Sector 25 cremation ground. The ceremony was attended by her son Jeev Milkha Singh and daughter Mona Milkha Singh and others.“Nirmal Milkha Singh passed away after a valiant battle against Covid. A former Director of Sports for Women in the Punjab Government, Nirmal fought a valiant battle till the very end. She was the backbone of the Milkha family. It is tragic that her husband could not attend the cremation as he is still in the ICU,” read a statement by the Milkha family.Chandigarh’s first Joint Director, Sports, she joined the department in September 1984 when it had come into being and became the Director, Sports, in August 1988. She remained on the post till 1993.During her tenure, the department laid the foundation stone of the Sector 42 Sports Complex. She took keen interest in promoting sports. Under her supervision, the city hosted three Asian rowing championships, an international equestrian event and many national games. During her tenure with the hockey national body, she conducted various Asian Games camps for hockey in Chandigarh. Nirmal was always ready to help the needy. In one such instance, she helped a teenaged hockey player, who was working as a labourer, after The Tribune reported his condition. She would often ask about the well-being of sportspersons and coaches from media fraternity.During her last conversation with this correspondent, she was confident of defeating Covid. “I wish Sardar ji (Milkha Singh) gets well soon. How would I survive alone,” Nirmal had said. However, the destiny had other plans.She was known to be the iron lady of the UT Sports Department. Her contribution to sports was immense and the city still enjoys the infrastructure built under her guidance, said KS Bharti, former Joint Director, Sports, UT.Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi condoled Nirmal’s death. “I am deeply saddened to learn about the death of Nirmala Milkha Singh, which is extremely shocking and unfortunate,” he said.Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said, “Widely known for her multiple achievements in the sports arena and her extensive philanthropic works, she will be fondly remembered for her accomplishments on and off the field.”Was City’s first Joint Director of SportsChandigarh’s first Joint Director, Sports, she joined the department in September 1984 when it had come into being and became the Director, Sports, in August 1988. She remained on the post till 1993. During her tenure, the department laid the foundation stone of the Sector 42 Sports Complex.I’m deeply saddened by the demise of Nirmal Milkha Singh ji. May the Almighty give her family the strength to cope with this mammoth loss. I also wish a speedy recovery of legendary Milkha Singh. —Kiren Rijiju, Union Sports MinisterI am saddened to learn about the death of one of the iconic volleyball players who brought several laurels to the country, making every Punjabi proud. —Capt Amarinder Singh, Punjab Chief MinisterA big loss to the sports fraternity. She was a great personality. May the Almighty give strength to the family to bear this irreparable loss. —Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director, Sports, UT||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/adieu-nirmal-milkha-singh-%E2%80%94-a-friend-guide-philanthropist-268021
14-06-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali MC to discuss extending contract of sanitation workers||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 13Extending the contract (ending on June 14) of the sanitation workers for the next two months will be the main agenda item of the Mohali MC House meeting to be held through video-conferencing on Tuesday.The House is likely to pass the agenda for the direct employment of sanitation workers on the DC rates. Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu had met the protesting sanitation workers and agreed extending their contract for two months, besides ensuring direct recruitment for the sanitation work, after which they had ended their strike. Now, a resolution would be presented in the House in this regard.Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi said the House would also pass a resolution for the appointment of employees on various posts lying vacant. He said the posts include librarians, junior librarians, leading fireman, cashier, steno typist and clerk/computer operators.Bedi said the House would also take up the issue of shifting five vendng sites as demanded by the Markfed, Chandigarh. Verka had also demanded nine sites for setting up booths in different parts of the city.As the Municipal Corporation has been suffering heavy losses on account of the non-renewal of trade licences by 25,000 traders, industrialists and other business houses in protest against the Rs100 per day as the late fee, the House will proposing charging Rs2,500 as the late fee per quarter.The other resolution to be introduced in the House include maintenance of parks by residents welfare associations and involving experts in horticulture works in 500 parks within the municipal limits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-to-discuss-extending-contract-of-sanitation-workers-268022
14-06-2021||---||Panchkula new cases in single digit after over 3 months||Panchkula, June 13The district daily case count reduced to single digit since February 23 when it started witnessing an upward trend in the second wave. While seven persons tested positive today, one person succumbed to the virus.At least 494 cases have been reported this month so far. While 8,922 cases were reported in May, the district had logged 8,014 infections in April. Panchkula witnessed its Covid case peak in the mid-May and since then, the number of new cases has been falling with each passing day. At 0.80 per cent, the district today also recorded the lowest-ever positivity rate since the pandemic broke out. The cumulative positivity rate is 8.68 per cent.14 fatalities this monthThe district recorded 14 fatalities this month so far, a significant downward trend compared to the last month when as many as 142 deaths took place.Active casesThe active caseload, which had gone up to 2,544 on May 15, has come down to 154. With 98.30 recovery rate, as many as 29,942 patients have recovered from the disease so far.People told to remain cautiousEven though there is a reduction in the daily Covid cases, the Health Department has asked people to remain cautious and follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour. “I congratulate each one of us for the successful management of the second wave. Dedication and commitment of health teams were par excellence! No need to lower the guard. Wearing of mask, social distancing and vaccination will help minimise the severity of the anticipated third wave,” said Chief Medical Officer Dr Jasjeet Kaur.City sees 3 deaths, 54 casesChandigarh: The city reported three deaths and 54 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday. The active cases now stand at 520 and the toll at 792. As many as 71 patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours. TNSFour die in Mohali, 49 infectedMohali: Four fatalities due to Covid were witnessed in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 1,022. Meanwhile, 49 fresh cases surfaced till Sunday evening, taking the overall tally to 67,788, while 175 more patients have been cured. Among the new cases, 16 came from Mohali (urban), one each from Banur and Kurali, two each from Gharuan, Boothgarh, Lalru and Dera Bassi, 11 from Kharar and 12 from the Dhakoli area of Zirakpur. As of now, 65,977 patients have been cured in the district. There are 789 active cases. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-new-cases-in-single-digit-after-over-3-months-268025
14-06-2021||Sandeep Rana||Unkempt back lanes a nuisance for house owners in city||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 13Back lanes, which are otherwise a good facility, are becoming a nuisance for residents of the city.Area residents have been complaining about poor upkeep of these service lanes. In some sectors, there are dedicated back lanes between rows of houses. However, garbage, horticultural waste and debris dumped there have spoiled these. The waste is dumped in service lanes and remains there for many weeks. Rain further compounds the problem for residents. Residents also rued that the lanes were becoming a breeding ground for mosquitoes and also causing foul smell making it tough for them to live.While residents blamed the Municipal Corporation for not regularly cleaning the area, civic body officials ask residents to act responsibly and not dump waste in the back lanes.Charu Jain, a resident of Sector 21, said, “In the back lane of her house, debris has been lying for many days. We have asked the MC to remove it or take action against the person who is dumping the debris. However, nothing has happened yet. MC workers don’t clean the area regularly.”Waste was found dumped in Sectors 21, 22, 11 and 19.Hitesh Puri, chairman, CRAWFED, said, “We have been getting complaints from RWAs of Sectors 19 and 21 that back lanes are in a miserable state. Though there are two gates on both sides of the lanes, these are never opened for cleaning. Several months would pass before MC workers come to clean the area. If the MC fails to take care of these lanes, it should allow their maintenance by the house owners concerned.”MC Medical Officer of Health Dr Amrit Warring said, “We are getting these back lanes cleaned every week. We have recently formed a team of 25 staff members for the purpose. I would urge residents not to throw waste here or we will have to start a challaning drive.”Passing the buckWhile residents blame the Municipal Corporation for not regularly cleaning the area, civic body officials ask residents to act responsibly and not dump waste in the back lanes.About the lanesThe back lanes in certain sectors are called service lanes as sewerage and water pipelines are laid there. If any repair work is to be done, workers can enter the house from the rear side and carry out the job.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/unkempt-back-lanes-a-nuisance-for-house-owners-in-city-268026
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Monsoon’s here,  early this time||The monsoon arrived in the city today, around 10 days earlier than expected. According to the Chandigarh Meteorological Department, the monsoon was evident from the regular rain and it had arrived earlier this year.Shivinder Singh, a senior official of the Met Department, said the city was likely to witness a normal monsoon. Meanwhile, 20.6 mm of rainfall was reported today.The maximum temperature came down to 33.9°C, five degrees below normal. The minimum temperature also fell to 21.7°C, three degrees below normal.According to weatherman, cloudy sky and light rain is expected during the next three days. Light to moderate rainfall (1-3 cm) at many places with isolated heavy rainfall (6-7 cm) is likely to continue over Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh over the next 48 hours. Isolated thunderstorm with lightning and gusty winds (30-50 kmph) is expected during this period. Thereafter, rain and thunderstormactivity is likely to increase from early morning hours of June 15 to 16. During the two days, light to moderate rainfall (1-5 cm) is expected at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall (7-12 cm) at some places. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/monsoons-here-early-this-time-268035
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Dug-up roadsides pose deep trouble||Residents from several parts of the city have complained of telecommunication companies leaving the roadside area outside their houses dug up. They allege that the firms fail to the level and repair the patch after their work is done.Rain compounds the problem as water accumulates in these pits, posing a risk to road users. The residents rue that these pits have becoming a breeding ground for mosquitoes and flies. Besides, these present an ugly picture of the so-called smart city. At some places, horticulture waste and garbage can be seen stuck inside the pits.Advocate Divyanshu Jain, a resident of Sector 21, said, “We submitted a complaint to the local councillor, but nothing happened and the situation is still the same. It is a big problem in our neighbourhood, but nobody bothers. The Municipal Corporation has failed to do its bit.”In a random check, it was found that several sectors, including 44, 8, 21 and 18, are bearing the brunt of the “apathy” of the firms. “Telecommunication companies dig up the area for laying cables without informing owners of houses outside which the work is carried out. There is no deadline for the completion of the work, leaving the residents in the lurch,” said Rakesh Kumar, a Sector 8 resident. The MC, which has to restore the area, does not seem to be doing enough. MC Chief Engineer Shailender Singh said, “We restore the area once the work is completed.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dug-up-roadsides-pose-deep-trouble-268037
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh’s wife Nirmal Milkha Singh, former captain of Indian Volleyball team, dies of Covid-19||Former Indian women volleyball team captain Nirmal Kaur, who is the wife of sprint legend Milkha Singh, died at a Mohali hospital due to complications related to Covid-19 infection she had contracted last month. She was 85 and is survived by his husband, one son, and three daughters."We are deeply saddened to inform you that Mrs Nirmal Milkha Singh passed away after a valiant battle against Covid at 4 pm today," a statement from the spokesperson of the Milkha family said."A backbone of the Milkha Family, she was 85 years old. It is tragic that the Flying Sikh Milkha Singh ji could not attend the cremation which was conducted this evening itself as he is still in the ICU (of PGIMER in Chandigarh) himself." Nirmal was brought to Fortis Hospital at Mohali on May 26, two days after Milkha was admitted to the same facility due to Covid-pneumonia.Milkha was discharged on the request of the family a week later but Nirmal remained at the hospital, battling the dreaded infection. Milkha was later admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of PGIMER here and he is currently "stable and continues to improve".   A former Director of Sports for Women in the Punjab Government and ex-captain of the Indian national volleyball team, Nirmal had fought a valiant battle till the very end, the family spokesperson said."The family has expressed its grateful thanks to everyone for their solidarity and prayers right through the battle which gave them the strength to face it bravely."This is the family's complete statementIt is to inform you that Mrs Nirmal Milkha Singh passed away after a valiant battle against Covid at 4 pm today. Former Director of Sports for Women in the Punjab Government and former Captain of the Indian Women’s National Volleyball Team, Nirmal ji fought a valiant battle till the very end.A backbone of the Milkha Family, she was 85 years old. It is tragic that the Flying Sikh Milkha Singh ji could not attend the cremation which was conducted this evening itself as he is still in the ICU himself.The family has expressed its grateful thanks to everyone for their solidarity and prayers right through the battle which gave them the strength to face it bravely.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-singhs-wife-nirmal-milkha-singh-former-captain-of-indian-volleyball-team-dies-of-covid-19-267930
14-06-2021||---||WW-2 veteran and MVC recipient in 1965 war Brig Raghubir Singh passes away at 99||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 13Brigadier Raghubir Singh who was decorated with the Maha Vir Chakra (MVC) for gallantry in the 1965 Indo-Pak war, passed away today at the age of 99. The Rajputana Rifles battalion that he had commanded played a key role in the battle of Asal Uttar in the western sector during the war.Commissioned in April 1943 as a Second Lieutenant in the Hazari Guards of the erstwhile state forces of Jaipur, he participated in the Burma campaign of the Second World War, 1947-48 Kashmir operations after Independence and the 1971 Bangladesh liberation campaign.In 1965, then Lieutenant Colonel Raghubir Singh was commanding 18 Rajputana Rifles (later 11 Mechanised Infantry) in the Khem Karan Sector in Punjab. “Between 7 and 10 September 1965, the unit was attacked by Pakistani forces. On 9 September at 2100 hours, in moonlight, the enemy forces launched a ferocious attack with tanks and managed to over-run the forward company positions. Lieutenant Colonel Raghubir Singh, anticipating the enemy's assault, left his command post and regardless of personal safety moved up to those companies past three enemy tanks. He entered the positions under intense enemy artillery fire and established contact with the company commanders. This example of courage, determination and leadership on the part of the Commanding Officer inspired the men to defy the enemy tanks and under his command they destroyed 20 enemy tanks,” his citation for the MVC states.During the Korean War in 1954, he was posted as Chairman of the Neutral Nations Representative Commission (NNRC) as part of the peace keeping force and in the 1958-59 Israel – Egypt war, he served with the United Nations Emergency Force.During the 1971 Indo-Pak War, he was posted as the Provost Marshal in the Military Police, where his responsibilities included handling over 93,000 Pakistani prisoners of war in various camps.After being commissioned, Brig Raghubir Singh transferred to the Sawai Man Guards of Jaipur state forces that was raised in 1934 by his father’s younger brother, Col Ranjit Singh, who had been awarded the Order of the British Empire. The state forces were amalgamated with the Indian Army after Independence and some of the units of the Jaipur state were merged with the Rajputana Rifles. His family belonged to a martial clan of Rajasthan. Fondly addressed as ‘Dadosa’ he is survived by his son Maj Sangram Singh Rajawat (Retd).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ww-2-veteran-and-mvc-recipient-in-1965-war%C2%A0brig-raghubir-singh%C2%A0passes-away-at-99-267922
14-06-2021||Vibha Sharma||Monsoon arrives in Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana, 15 days ahead of schedule||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 13The Southwest Monsoon on Sunday covered the entire Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh and parts of north Haryana, Chandigarh and north Punjab, at least 15 days ahead of its scheduled arrival over the region.According to the IMD, the seasonal rain has covered the “entire Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, and some parts of north Haryana, Chandigarh and north Punjab today, June 13”.Conditions are favourable for its further advance “into most parts of Madhya Pradesh, remaining parts of east Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, some more parts of west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab over the next 48 hours”, it added.Marking fast progress due to weather conditions in the northern Bay of Bengal since arrival over Kerala on June 3, the Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) is currently passing through Diu, Surat, Nandurbar, Bhopal, Nowgong, Hamirpur, Barabanki, Bareilly, Saharanpur, Ambala and Amritsar.Normally, the seasonal rain arrives in Delhi around June 28-29. Experts say the reason behind the sudden advancement is the formation of a low-pressure system over the northern Bay of Bengal, which has created conducive conditions for the advancement of monsoon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/monsoon-arrives-in-chandigarh-punjab-and-haryana-15-days-ahead-of-schedule-267828
