15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 40 new Covid-19 infections, three deaths||Chandigarh reported 40 new Covid-19 cases, a health bulletin from the union territory’s administration said on Tuesday.This is the lowest number of infections recorded in three months.Chandigarh now has 486 active cases, the bulletin said. Three deaths take fatality count to 797. The union territory recorded 1,608 tests over 24 hours.The UT also recorded 58 recoveries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-40-new-covid-19-infections-three-deaths-268855
15-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Kirron Kher, battling cancer, appears on Anupam, Sikandar's Instagram birthday video; have a look||Actor-turned-politician Kirron Kher—who has been undergoing cancer treatment—has shared a video, thanking her fans for their heartfelt wishes on her birthday. Kiron on Monday rang in her 69th birthday.  Her husband Anupam Kher and son Sikandar Kher shared a video message from her side on their Instagram account.Standing behind the camera, Anupam Kher was heard saying: "So a lot of people wished you on your birthday, you want to say something to them?" Replying to this, Kirron Kher said: "Yes, I want to say a big thank you. Thank you so much for all your good wishes, all your love and all your prayers. Thank you." Anupam then insisted she say 'Jai Ho' to which she obliged. He captioned the post: "Thank you everyone for your wonderful wishes for #Kirron on her birthday! Here she personally thanks all of you. Jai Ho!! @kirronkhermp #ThankYou #Birthday." Kirron was seen wearing a long-sleeved shirt with a polka dot design as she kept her hair loose.Meanwhile, Sikander Kher said in his video: "So, everybody, it's mom's birthday and I know how much love you give her so I just thought that she'd come here and cause I know you keep asking about her, so here she is, looking stunning."A post shared by Anupam Kher (@anupampkher)  He then turned the camera towards Kirron, who said: "Hi everybody! Thank you for all your wishes on my birthday. Sikander keeps giving me the messages. I'm so happy that you keep remembering me and send me so much love." Sikander's caption on Instagram read: "A message from mom to all of you #ma #Love."Taking to her Instagram account, Kirron also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for wishing her on her birthday. Sharing a note sent by hi, Kirron captioned the post: "Thank you so much, Prime Minister @narendramodi ji, for your heartwarming wishes on my birthday. I feel humbled."A post shared by Kirron Kher (@kirronkhermp)  Earlier, in April, Anupam had confirmed that Kirron was diagnosed with multiple myeloma, a type of blood cancer. He had tweeted, "Just so that rumours don't get the better of a situation Sikandar and I would like to inform everyone that Kirron has been diagnosed with multiple myeloma, a type of blood cancer."He had also added: "She is currently undergoing treatment and we are sure she will come out of this stronger than before. We are very blessed that she is being looked after by a phenomenal set of doctors. She's always been a fighter and takes things head on."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kirron-kher-battling-cancer-appears-on-anupam-sikandars-instagram-birthday-video-have-a-look-268854
15-06-2021||---||Annual award in memory of Aneesh Bhanot||Chandigarh, June 14 Chandigarh Chapter of Public Relations Council of India (PRCI) has announced an award in memory of Aneesh Bhanot, brother of Neerja Bhanot, who breathed his last on June 11.  During a virtual session, Vivek Atray, chairman of the council, announced the annual PRCI Aneesh Bhanot Award for Excellence in Online Campaign for a Social Cause. Jitender Bhargava, former Executive Director of Air India and friend of Bhanot’s journalist father, remembered his matter-of-fact attitude to life and his passion for achieving whatever he dreamed of.  Renuka Salwan, north zone head of PRCI, shared her long association with his family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/annual-award-in-memory-of-aneesh-bhanot-268614
15-06-2021||Naina Mishra||Only 6.4 pc population fully vaccinated in City Beautiful||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 14Only 6.4 per cent population of Chandigarh has been administered two doses of Covid-19 vaccine. The rate is double than country’s statistics as barely 3.6 per cent of the country’s population has been vaccinated to date.More than 28 per cent individuals in Chandigarh have received at least one dose of the vaccine. With the rise of more infectious Delta variant (B.1.617.2) in the country, concerns are brewing over the waiting time before getting the second dose as evidence is suggesting less efficacy of single dose against the Delta variant.Amid the rise of the Delta variant cases last month, the UK allowed the second dose of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine within eight weeks. Around the same time, India upped the Covishield dose gap to 12 weeks. The decision was based on the studies that found the Oxford-AstraZeneca and Pfizer vaccines were only 33 per cent effective against the Delta variant after the first dose, but the effectiveness went up to over 88 per cent after two doses of Pfizer vaccine with the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine coming in at 60 per cent.Dr Rajeev Jayadevan, scientific adviser to the Indian Medical Association, said: “In the UK, the reason for recently shortening the gap between the two doses of the vaccine to 28 days was an alarming rise in Delta variants cases. The nation wanted to speed up the vaccination process. Since Delta variant cases are acutely rising in all countries (more than 90 per cent in India as per the published data), the sooner we vaccinate our population with both doses of any available vaccine, the better the outcome will be. All mainstream vaccines work best after two doses are administered. The only exception to this rule will be those who have been infected in the past as in such cases, a single dose of vaccine gives excellent protection against variants.”Dr Jayadevan adds: “Sticking to a 28-day gap (or closest to it) will still provide greatest assurance of protection against Covid-19.”Dr Chandrakant Lahariya, public policy and health systems expert, said: “I will not suggest rushing into reconsidering the gap between the two shots of Covishield. The data from the UK is based upon the analysis of symptomatic mild cases only, while in India, the purpose of vaccination is to reduce the moderate to severe infections. Therefore, the UK data may not be very useful. Moreover, there is distinct advantage of people receiving at least one dose of vaccine. This is especially relevant as India’s vaccination drive is starting at a very different stage than the UK. After the second wave, a reasonable proportion of Indian population may have developed any form (symptomatic or asymptomatic) of infection and it is possible that one dose of Covishield in India may have higher effectiveness than reported from the UK.”“I will suggest that the Indian Government should urgently consider some effectiveness studies on infection followed by single dose of vaccine. The findings of such studies, along with other factors and evidence, should guide the decision on dosing interval reconsideration,” added Dr Lahariya.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-6-4-pc-population-fully-vaccinated-in-city-beautiful-268615
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Health Minister releases awareness comic||Home and Health Minister, Haryana, Anil Vij released a comic, “Kids, Vaayu and Corona: Covid Variants vs Vaccine Warriors”, to aware parents and children about the Covid-19 vaccine and immunisation.This comic is a joint publication of Panjab University, Chandigarh, and the PGI.Vij highlighted that routine immunisation saved millions of lives every year through vaccines. He stressed that this comic would raise awareness about the vaccine and how these worked by enhancing the body’s natural defence and providing protection against over 20 life-threatening diseases.The pictorial comic has been conceptualised and developed by Dr Ravindra Khaiwal, Additional Professor, Department of Community Medicine & School of Public Health, PGI, Chandigarh, and Dr Suman Mor, Chairperson and Associate Professor, Department of Environment Studies, Panjab University. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-health-minister-releases-awareness-comic-268616
15-06-2021||om page 1
||CoS, Western Command, visits centre||VN Sharma, president, RWA, Sector 40.  The road work had earlier started late due to a fund crunch being faced by the MC at that time. The civic body now has dedicated funds.  Road works at a cost of Rs80 crore were to be carried out during the financial year. However, little work could be carried out as the monsoon already arrived yesterday, which is early.  MC Chief Engineer Shailender Singh claimed, “Due to rain in May and June, our work got hit. We could complete only 25 per cent of the job. During the monsoon, though recarpeting work stops, but we may carry out some work if we get seven to 10-day dry spell.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cos-western-command-visits-centre-268617
15-06-2021||Naina Mishra||7K pupils in unrecognised schools ‘missing’ in child mapping survey||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 14The UT Education Department has identified more than 6,000 out-of-school children in 2020-21 in its child-mapping survey.However, the survey has apparently failed to identify over 7,000 students enrolled in the 91 unrecognised schools of the city. According to the survey, only 11,665 students were found studying in unrecognised schools in 2020. However, the department had identified more than 19,000 students studying in the unrecognised schools during the inspections held in September 2019.The number of children enrolled in unrecognised schools remained somewhat same – 12,377 — in the survey for 2019. In 2018, around 11,243 children were found in unrecognised schools.In September 2019, the Education Department had chalked out a plan as per which, only 3,340 students from 37 unrecognised schools were to be adjusted to the full capacity in government schools of the city. More than 15,899 students from 54 unrecognised schools would have still been left out.A maximum number (more than 4,000) of students are enrolled in 15 unrecognised schools at Mauli Jagran. Around 1,700 students are also studying in eight unrecognised schools in Maloya.Education Secretary SS Gill could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.The latest child mapping survey has shown a decline in the “dropout” and “never-enrolled” children from the previous years despite the Covid-19 lockdown that wreaked havoc on many migrant families, which were forced to leave the city. Children from such migrant families were studying in government schools.The Right to Education Act mandates that an out-of-school child should be admitted to an age-appropriate class and provided with special training to enable the child to come up to the age-appropriate learning level. Both “dropouts” and “never-enrolled” children come under the category of ‘out-of-school children’. These are mainstreamed by the UT Education Department every year through special training centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7k-pupils-in-unrecognised-schools-missing-in-child-mapping-survey-268618
15-06-2021||Mohali||Bootlegger disguised as milkman held||The police nabbed a man allegedly with 144 bottles of illicit liquor kept in milk containers on his bike. He has been identified as Mandeep Kumar (36), a resident of Khera village in Phagwara.  Shivdeep Singh Brar, Phase 1 SHO, said: “The suspect was nabbed during a nakka near the Community Centre in Phase-1. On seeing the cops, he, disguised as a milkman, tried to flee but was caught. The liquor was meant to be sold in Chandigarh, but he was probably smuggling it to Phagwara. He has been booked under the Excise Act.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bootlegger-disguised-as-milkman-held-268619
15-06-2021||Mohali||Criminal intimidation: Suspect in judicial custody||Kharar resident Baljit Singh was today sent to judicial custody after he was arrested on the charges of  criminal intimidation and trespassing. Manjeet Singh, cousin of late Ludhiana DSP Harjinder Singh, who died of post-Covid complications in Ludhiana, had lodged a complaint against the suspect that he allegedly threatened the complainant at his house in Sector 70, where the deceased’s family is currently putting up. The police reached the spot, but the suspect allegedly argued with them and was booked for trespassing and deterring a person from discharging his duty as public servant. A case was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/criminal-intimidation-suspect-in-judicial-custody-268620
15-06-2021||---||Mohali village shows the way in vaccination||Mohali, June 14Leading the district in Covid vaccination, Bhajouli village created a record today by covering hundred percent 18+ population.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said: “All villages are doing by and large good work in vaccination. Five of our villages - Tarouli, Rasoolpur, Barsalpur, Madanheri and Bahadurgarh - have successfully covered 100 per cent 45+ population, while Bhajouli is leading the district by vaccinating the entire 18+ population.”“The population of Bhajouli village is 536. Out of this, 356 residents are above 18 years of age. Barring two persons, who have gone abroad, all eligible persons have been vaccinated with at least one dose of vaccine,” he said.Dayalan said the village panchayat had thus emerged as pioneer among the local civic bodies to be eligible for a special development grant of Rs10 lakh, announced earlier by Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh for villages achieving cent per cent Covid vaccination target in Punjab.Congratulating the village panchayat and the residents, he urged other villages of the district to put in their best efforts under the ‘Corona Mukt Pind Abhiyan’ to get hundred per cent people vaccinated.Dayalan, while appreciating the hard work done by healthcare workers and the local administration, which persuaded the eligible beneficiaries and organised special camps, said they hoped that more villages of the district would also soon attain 100 per cent vaccinated status.Eligible for special development grantDeputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the village panchayat had emerged as a pioneer among the local civic bodies and was eligible for a special development grant of Rs 10 lakh, announced earlier by Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for villages achieving cent per cent Covid vaccination in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-village-shows-the-way-in-vaccination-268621
15-06-2021||Deepankar Sharda
||Intermediate players seek nod to practise at sports complexes||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 14 Ahead of Tuesday’s war room meeting, intermediate and leisure activity players (general public) are expecting permission to practise at various sports complexes of the city. UT Administrator and Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore had allowed opening of sports complexes from June 1, but only for professional players. Out of action for the past two months, these intermediate and leisure activity players demanded that the UT Administration should allow them to use complexes, since relaxations had been given in a majority of the cases. As per the set trend, such players have been allowed to use the complexes for two hours each in the evening and morning sessions as per the footfall (number of players) and availability of time slots. However, keeping in mind this pandemic, the members demanded that even one hour of training is enough to get trained. “Since relaxations have been given in a majority of the areas in Chandigarh, the UT Administration should think on allowing usage of sports complexes too. Physical fitness is important in combating this virus. The Administration, just on the lines of previous experience, should allow us to use these complexes under set timings,” said Sandeep, a badminton player. “We will surely open sports complexes for intermediate and leisure activity players, but at the right time and depending upon the situation. We have been receiving numerous requests and we are closely monitoring the situation,” said Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director, Sports, UT. Among all facilities, swimming, badminton, lawn tennis, squash and gyms attract most of the memberships. These facilities are also one of the most revenue-earning areas of the UT Sports Department. All these facilities have been allowed to be used by professional players only as of now. “The number of Covid cases is also decreasing on a daily basis. Moreover, playing sports will help us in developing a good immune system. We are ready to follow all guidelines. The department had allowed us to use these complexes when the cases came crashing during the first wave of the pandemic,” said Pritam, a squash player. The department had recently allowed opening of gyms (under the Sports Department) for members and players. Out of the 18 sports complexes, under the Sports Department, a majority of these offer facilities for intermediate players and leisure activity professionals. “The Administration should also think on the lines of opening swimming pools. It’s been over one year that these pools are closed to general public,” said Darpan, a swimming enthusiast.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/intermediate-players-seek-nod-to-practise-at-sports-complexes-268622
15-06-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Insurance company fined for deficiency in service||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 14Not paying the maturity amount of a policy in accordance with the minimum amount guaranteed is deficiency in service. Stating this, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, UT, not only directed an insurance firm to pay the balance amount of Rs59,095 to a consumer, but also directed it to pay a compensation of Rs25,000 for deficiency in service and unfair trade practice.Rajesh Garg, a resident of Sector 21, approached the commission after the company failed to give him the promised amount after the maturity of the policy.In the complaint, Garg said he took a single premium policy from Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company Limited for Rs1 lakh on April 2, 2010. The policy was to mature on March 28, 2020. On maturity, the complainant was entitled to at least 170 per cent of the unit price payable on March 28, 2020. However, there was neither any response or credit of the amount by the due date.The company claimed that the maturity amount was calculated as per the stipulations in the policy and a cheque dated March 31, 2020, for Rs1,55,460 was prepared, but it could not be delivered to the complainant due to the lockdown. A fresh cheque was dispatched to the complainant, which was received by him on August 13, 2020. The firm denied any deficiency of service.The complainant said the maturity amount had not been calculated appropriately and the payment of Rs1,55,460 was in contravention of the terms of the policy. According to him, a total of 9865.6675 units were allocated to him on March 31, 2010, and the maturity amount had been calculated by the company as per the number of units at the time of maturity i.e. 7148.3561.After hearing the arguments, the commission noted that the firm had not given any justification or basis for reduction of the number of units from 9865.6675 at the time of allocation till the time of maturity. In view of the facts, the complainant is held entitled to receive Rs2,14,555. Since the complainant has already received Rs1,55,460, the company is liable to pay him the balance amount of Rs59,095.The commission said the act of the firm in not paying the maturity amount in accordance with the minimum amount guaranteed at the time of inception of the policy amounts to unfair trade practice and deficiency in service. In view of this, the firm is directed to pay the balance amount of Rs59,095 to the complainant. It was also told to pay Rs15,000 as compensation for deficiency in service, unfair trade practice and harassment and Rs10,000 as litigation expenses to the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/insurance-company-fined-for-deficiency-in-service-268623
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Bail plea of mobile ‘snatcher’ rejected||A local court has denied bail to an accused, Asif Ansari, booked for allegedly snatching a mobile from a city resident.Ansari was arrested on May 17 on the complaint of Lalit Sood, a resident of Sector 40, Chandigarh. Sood had alleged that the accused and his accomplices snatched his mobile phone when he was going towards Phase 1 in Mohali on his bicycle on May 5.The counsel of the accused claimed that he was falsely implicated in the case. He said the trial would take a long time and the accused would abide by all terms and conditions if granted bail. The public prosecutor opposed the bail arguing that the snatched mobile phone of the complainant was recovered from a co-accused and the motorcycle used in the crime was also recovered. The court denied bail stating that if the accused was released on bail, he might hamper the investigation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bail-plea-of-mobile-snatcher-rejected-268624
15-06-2021||---||GMSH-16 to enhance ICU bed capacity to 22||Chandigarh, June 14Over the prediction of a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, has decided to ramp up its critical care facilities.Dr VK Nagpal, Medical Superintendent, GMSH, said they had decided to enhance their ICU bed capacity from eight to 22. He said a decision in this regard was taken during the peak of the Covid second wave.He said all beds in the new facility would be equipped with ventilators, which they had already received. After completion of the civic work by the UT Engineering Department in the next 15 days, these ventilators would be installed in the new facility, he said, adding that the facility would be made fully operational in a month or so.A UT engineer said the civil work would cost nearly Rs60 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmsh-16-to-enhance-icu-bed-capacity-to-22-268625
15-06-2021||---||Officers sit pretty in city, ‘overstay’ deputation||Chandigarh, June 14Contrary to the norms, several inter-cadre officials have “managed” to stay in the City Beautiful beyond the period of their deputation.Even after completing their tenure, several officials on inter-cadre deputation from Punjab and Haryana have been given extension in the UT Administration and never returned to their parent state.Rubinderjit Singh Brar, a PCS officer who holds the charge of Director, School Education-cum-Higher Education, joined the UT Administration on deputation in August 2015.Recently, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had constituted a 13-member committee to work out an objective criteria for the assessment of Class XII students after their board exams were cancelled in view of the pandemic. Brar was named as one of the members of the panel.As per the inter-cadre deputation policy, an official on deputation can stay in Chandigarh for a maximum period of three years. However, a former officer said the deputation period could be extended by two years in extraordinary circumstances, but with the approval of the Central Government.In a similar case, NP Sharma, Chief General Manager, Chandigarh Smart City Limited, who had joined the UT Administration on deputation from Punjab in 2004 as an SDO, managed to stay in the city despite getting promotions. He was promoted as an Executive Engineer (XEN) in the UT, but was never sent back to the parent cadre despite the repatriation policy of the UT Administration.According to the UT policy on repatriation of deputationists to the parent state on promotion, an officer or official who is on deputation with the UT Administration should not be retained on the promoted post in the Administration after his or her promotion in the parent state and he or she should be reverted to their parent state immediately.Still on deputation with the Municipal Corporation (MC), Sharma was not repatriated to the parent state for the cooling off period of two years and was further promoted as Superintendent Engineer (B&R), MC.Sources said Sharma was also given the additional charge of Chief Engineer, MC, for a year.Similarly, Rakesh Kumar Popli, a PCS officer, joined the UT Administration in 2016 and is at present posted as Additional Commissioner, Excise and Taxation. KPS Mahi also joined UT Administration in 2016 and at present, he is posted as the Additional Deputy Commissioner. Navjot Kaur joined the UT in 2015 and at present, is posted as the Director, Social Welfare, Women and Child Development.On giving extension to certain officers beyond the deputation period of three years, UT Adviser Manoj Parida said, “Frequent transfers do not allow officers to specialise and develop domain knowledge. We screen all and allow only those officers long tenures who are outstanding."Recently, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had to write to the Central Government to provide three-month extension in service to two senior UT officers – Home Secretary Arun Gupta and MC Commissioner KK Yadav – whose deputation period had ended in May last year, as it was not advisable to relieve the officers amid the Covid rage in the city.What the policy stipulatesAs per the inter-cadre deputation policy, an official on deputation can stay in Chandigarh for a maximum period of three years. However, a former officer said the deputation period could be extended by two years in extraordinary circumstances, but with the approval of the Central Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/officers-sit-pretty-in-city-overstay-deputation-268626
15-06-2021||---||Two unidentified bodies found||Chandigarh, June 14Two unidentified bodies were found in the city today.The police ruled out any foul play behind the deaths. A decomposed body of an unidentified man was found in the forest area in Sector 33. The police said the victim seems to be in his mid-thirties. "The victim seems to be a vagabond, who is suspected to have died around 10 days ago," said a cop.In another incident, body of an unknown person was found in Dhanas. Both victims didn't have any injury marks.The police shifted the bodies to a mortuary and initiated an investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-unidentified-bodies-found-268628
15-06-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Tributes pour in as city mourns its pride||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 14Local sports fraternity today mourned the death of Nirmal Milkha Singh, one of the founding members of the UT Sports Department.Nirmal, who breathed her last on Sunday evening after fighting Covid-19, will always be remembered as one of the strongest pillars of sports infrastructure in the city.While the Chandigarh Volleyball Association announced to name a tournament after her, the UT Sports Department decided to propose a tournament in its annual calendar.“We have decided to conduct a junior (U-18) volleyball championship for boys and girls in her memory. The annual tournament will be named after her. This is the least we can do in the memory of our former president and former patron,” said Vijaypal Singh, Secretary, Volleyball Federation of India and Chandigarh Volleyball Association. He added, “The volleyball court at the Sector 26 Police Lines is also the brainchild of Nirmal. She proposed to have this court so that police personnel could spend quality time post-duty hours.”Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director, Sports, UT, said a proposal would be sent to the higher authorities to remember Nirmal’s contribution forever. “It is a huge loss for the sports fraternity of Chandigarh. The department will propose an annual championship (hockey and volleyball) named after her,” said Saini.“I have a special regard for her as she was just like a younger sister of my father the late SN Vohra. She always called him ‘Praaji’,” said Anil Vohra, general secretary, Hockey Chandigarh.“I still remember my first meeting with her. After we got selected to the national shooting team, we did not receive our kits. We directly went to her (Nirmal’s) office and she not only resolved our issues but offered us a diet. We were unknown to her but she still treated us so well,” said Dr Aman Mann, Dean, Research, DAV College, Sector 10.“The association hosted many championships, national games and three Asian championships under her supervision. The city still enjoys the infrastructure built under her guidance and support,” said Rajiv Sharma, honorary secretary, Chandigarh Rowing Association.“The city has lost a gem. I have served under her. She was an extraordinary person who believes in promoting sports and welfare of sportspersons at any cost,” said Inder Pal Singh, former roller skating coach, UT.The nuptial knotNirmal, who was born in Sheikhupura (Pakistan), met Milkha Singh in Sri Lanka in 1956. While Nirmal was leading the Indian volleyball team, Milkha had gone there to compete in an athletics meet. Later, they met at the College of Physical Education, Patiala. In 1960, she had joined as deputy physical education instructor at Lady Irwin College, Delhi. The then Punjab Chief Minister Pratap Singh Kairon is said to have intervened to get Milkha and Nirmal married.Milkha unaware of her deathThe condition of Milkha Singh, who is getting treated at the PGI, is said to be stable. He is maintaining a good saturation level. However, he will continue to be treated at the ICU ward as he has shown a slight improvement in the past few days. Sources said Milkha had not been told about Nirmal’s death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tributes-pour-in-as-city-mourns-its-pride-268632
15-06-2021||Amit Bathla||Hospitals give in, to refund extra amount||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 14Following the instructions of Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, three major private hospitals in the district – Alchemist Hospital, Paras Hospital and Ojas Hospital – have agreed to revise the “inflated” bills issued to Covid patients and refund the overcharged amount as per the guidelines of the Haryana Government.The Panchkula administration had issued show-cause notices to the hospitals and asked them to come for a personal hearing to consider their perception on the matter.“The process of reconciliation pertaining to 18 test bills will be completed in two days. After reconciliation, hospitals will be given a week to refund the overcharged amount. June 23 is the deadline for releasing the funds to Covid patients and their families,” said the Deputy Commissioner. According to senior officials, the hospitals differed on the amount to be refunded during the personal hearing today.If overcharged, approach admn“Anyone with allegations of overcharging by private hospitals for Covid treatment can approach the district administration. Their complaints will be resolved on a priority basis,” said BB Singhal, member of the Haryana State Pharmacy Council and member of the committee looking after such issues.After receiving several complaints of overcharging, Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta had recommended the formation of a panel to look into the matter.A district-level eight-member committee, led by ADC Mohammad Imran Raza, was constituted. Gupta had also written to Health Minister Anil Vij requesting for an audit of bills issued by private hospitals.In June last year, the Haryana Government had issued an order capping the daily package rate for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals between Rs 8,000 and Rs18,000.Self-audit suggested||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hospitals-give-in-to-refund-extra-amount-268633
15-06-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Active cases in Mohali dip 92.54% in one month||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 14The district has witnessed a steep decline of 92.54 per cent in active cases of Covid-19 in the past one month. There were 10,109 active cases on May 15 while the figure stood at 754 today.From April 15 to May 14, the district had witnessed a 108.9 per cent increase in active cases when the current infections jumped from 5,225 to 10,914. The district has witnessed about 82.23 per cent decline in daily cases during the past two weeks. From 197 cases on June 1, the daily count dropped to 35 today.Amid the second wave of Covid-19, the district had seen 254 positive cases on March 31, which gradually increased to 860 on April 15. On May 10, the district had witnessed the highest 1,382 cases. From then on, the district had witnessed a gradual decline in the number of new cases. Sources said strict restrictions on the movement during the lockdown and barring large gatherings at events, including marriage functions, resulted in a decline in the daily case count.Similary, the district witnessed an increase in the recovery rate by 4.45 per cent during the past 14 days. From 94.71 per cent, the recovery rate has gone up to 97.32 per cent.On April 15, the district Covid toll stood at 487, which increased to 748 on May 14. Till now, 1,022 people have succumbed to the virus in the district. Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said a declining trend in the number of new cases was being witnessed in the district during the past few weeks and it could be due to the lockdown and travel restrictions imposed by the state government. However, she added that people should not take the virus lightly and continue to follow the Covid guidelines strictly. The Civil Surgeon said they should wear a mask and maintaining social distance.She said people suffering from mild cough, fever and sore throat should get themselves tested for Covid-19. She said people should also get themselves vaccinated, which was going on at 55 government centres in the districtAt 35, lowest cases since Feb 23 in MohaliMohali: The district on Monday witnessed 35 fresh cases of Covid-19, the lowest since February 23 when 20 cases were reported. Meanwhile, three patients succumbed to the virus, taking the total number of deaths to 1,025. Among the new cases, 10 came from Mohali (urban), one from Lalru, two from Boothgarh, three from Banur, four from Kharar and six from the Dhakoli area of Zirakpur. The district has so far seen 67,823 cases and 66,044 recoveries. There are 754 active cases. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/active-cases-in-mohali-dip-92-54-in-one-month-268636
15-06-2021||---||Just 2 cases in Panchkula||Panchkula, June 14Panchkula reported only two fresh Covid cases on Monday, taking the overall tally to 30,461.The district also witnessed one fatality. A 62-year-old man from Sector 23 with comorbid conditions succumbed to the virus. The Covid toll now stands at 364.While 29,974 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 123 cases are still active.Third drive-through vaccination todayPanchkula: The third drive-through vaccination camp will take place at Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector 3 between 8 am and 4 pm on Tuesday. SDM Rakesh Sandhu has been appointed the officer-in-charge for the drive.Over 3k vaccinatedAs many as 3,031 people were vaccinated on Monday. So far, 2.34 lakh doses have been given in the district. — TNSUT sees two deaths, 50 fresh casesChandigarh: The city on Monday reported two deaths and 50 new cases of Covid-19. The active cases now stand at 507 and the toll at 794. As many as 61 patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/just-2-cases-in-panchkula-268646
15-06-2021||Sandeep Rana||Brace for a bumpy ride on city roads this monsoon||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 14With the onset of the monsoon, the road recarpeting work, that was going on at a slow pace, will now come to a halt.The full-fledged work will now start after the monsoon around September as the rainy season is not conducive to carrying out recarpeting work.Though the local Municipal Corporation had claimed that it would identify and first recarpet the worst-affected roads, some badly broken roads have been left out by it.In a random check, it was seen that the road separating Sector 55 and 56, which connects Chandigarh and Mohali, is in a shambles. The Sector 55 stretch has big potholes and one has to drive slowly to avoid accidents.“It has been over a year since this stretch has been crying for repairs. One cannot cross this road. People avoid entering this stretch. Though inner roads in our area were recently recarpeted, no heed was paid to this particular stretch,” said Joginder Singh, general secretary, Residents Welfare Association (RWA), Sector 56.Another road stretch at the furniture market in Sector 52-53, which also connects the two cities, also has several potholes. The condition of several roads in the Industrial Area, Phase 1, near the CTU workshop and on the rear side of the Sector 40 market are also in bad shape.“During rain, water gets accumulated on these roads, inconveniencing residents. The condition of the roads is worsening, but the MC has failed to carry out repair work before the monsoon,” said VN Sharma, president, RWA, Sector 40.The road work had earlier started late due to a fund crunch being faced by the MC at that time. The civic body now has dedicated funds.Road works at a cost of Rs80 crore were to be carried out during the financial year. However, little work could be carried out as the monsoon already arrived yesterday, which is early.MC Chief Engineer Shailender Singh claimed, “Due to rain in May and June, our work got hit. We could complete only 25 per cent of the job. During the monsoon, though recarpeting work stops, but we may carry out some work if we get seven to 10-day dry spell.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/brace-for-a-bumpy-ride-on-city-roads-this-monsoon-268647
15-06-2021||---||Gang of robbers busted, 5  held||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, June 14The police claimed to have busted a gang of highway robbers with the arrest of its five members while two are still at large. The gang looted trucks loaded with scrap and iron coming from other states to Punjab either by killing its driver and cleaner or throwing them on roadside after tying their hands and legs.Addressing mediapersons, the SP (Investigation) JS Jallah, said the the Sirhind CIA staff arrested five members of the highway robbers’ gang, who were identified as Rajiv Kumar, Sanjeev Kumar, Sanjay Sharma, Ravi Kumar and Rahul Kumar, all residents of other states and presently living in rented accommodations in Mandi Gobindgarh. Their two accomplices Bittu and Manish were at large, the SP added.Narrating their modus operandi, the SP said the gang used to keep a close watch on roadside dhabas. Whenever they noticed a truck loaded with scrap or iron from other states parked at any dhaba, they used to follow it, the SP added.When the truck approached any deserted place the gang used to stop it and drag its driver and cleaner out of the vehicle, the SP said. After injuring them and tying their hands and legs the gang used to take away their truck, replace its number plates and sell the loaded material to their known junk dealers in Mandi Gobindgarh, the SP added.The gang looted a truck loaded with scrap in Sangrur district on the Sunam-Bhawanigarh road recently.The police recovered the car, iron rods, sickles and sticks used in the incident, the SP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gang-of-robbers-busted-5-held-268650
15-06-2021||---||2 chain snatchers held in Sirhind||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, June 14The Sirhind CIA staff in a joint operation with the Khamano police have nabbed two chain snatchers identified as Sukhwinder Singh and Lakhwinder Singh, both residents of Khamano, and recovered Rs 20,500 from them.The Sirhind CIA staff in-charge, Gabbar Singh, said the duo was involved in four incidents of chain and earring snatchings in the district. The police arrested them on a tip-off, he added.The CIA staff also arrested two peddlers identified as Rajinder Singh and Jaspreet Singh, both residents of Khamano, he added. Both were uncle and nephew and involved in the supply of drugs, he said. Earlier, too, they were booked for bringing drugs from other state in their truck, he added. The police got a tip-off that they were bringing poppy husk from out of state, he said. The police intercepted their truck and recovered 4 kg of poppy husk from the vehicle, he added.Meanwhile, the Bassi Pathana police arrested two peddlers and recovered 400 buprenorphine injections and 40 bottles of syrup from them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-chain-snatchers-held-in-sirhind-268651
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Man arrested with heroin||Man’s body found hangingChandigarh: The decomposed body of a man was found at his house in Maloya on Monday. The victim reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself around three days ago. The police have ruled out any foul play. The victim has been identified as Rajesh (48), who was staying alone in the house. The police found the body after the victim’s brother, who stays next to his house, complained of foul smell emanating from the house. The police entered the house and found the victim hanging. “He was depressed,” the police said. Inquest proceedings have been initiated into the matter at the Maloya police station. TNSChaduni partake of 'chabeel langar'Chandigarh: BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni on Monday arrived in the city to partake of Shaheedi Gurparb 'chabeel langar' at the Sector 22 Aroma light point and at the Sector 38 gurdwara. In Sector 38,, while addressing the devotees, Chaduni hailed the sacrifice of Guru Arjan Dev. "Guru Arjan Dev's sacrifice inspires us to sacrifice our lives for this dharam yudh," he said, pointing at the ongoing farmers' agitation. He announced, "On July 3, a massive car rally will leave the tricity for Singhu border." TNSDelegation meets former MPChandigarh: The Makaan Bachao Samiti has urged the authorities to allow need-based changes by the allottees of the Chandigarh Housing Board on the Delhi pattern. A delegation of the samiti, led by president Kamal Kishore Sharma, met Satya Pal Jain, ex-MP and a member of the National Executive Committee of the BJP. The delegation submitted him a memorandum addressed to Home Minister Amit Shah and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, urging them to allow need-based changes. Jain has forwarded the memorandum to both. TNSUTCA registration ends todayChandigarh: The registration of cricketers (men and women) with the Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA), Chandigarh, for all categories to participate in the selection trials for the season 2021-22 will end on June 15. The interested players can log on to www.chandigarhcricket.in to register themselves. TNSTwo held with stolen bikesDera Bassi: The police have arrested two youths and recovered two stolen motorcycles from their possession. The suspects have been identified as Vikas Kumar, alias Babbu, and Ravi, residents of Dera Bassi. A case was registered against them on Sunday. The duo was sent to two-day police remand. TNSOver 150 donate blood at campsChandigarh: On the occasion of World Blood Donor Day, the Department of Transfusion Medicine organised two blood donation camps at Government Medical College and Hospital, Chandigarh, and Bridge Market, Sector 17, here. The theme of this year’s World Blood Donor Day is ‘give blood and keep the world beating.’ The camp at the GMCH was inaugurated by Prof Jasbinder Kaur, Director-Principal, GMCH-32. Over 150 persons donated blood in both camps. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-arrested-with-heroin-268674
