17-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 32 new Covid-19 cases; 3 deaths||Chandigarh on Thursday reported 32 new cases of Covid-19 taking the total number of positive cases in the city to 61,310.The number of active cases fell to 432 as 96 people were discharged including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.Three more deaths were reported in patients suffering from co-morbidities as the death toll reached 802.As many as 60,076 people have recovered from the virus so far.The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours are 1,820.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-32-new-covid-19-cases-3-deaths-269913
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to plant 175,000 saplings this fiscal||The Chandigarh administration on Thursday rolled out an action plan to plant 175,000 saplings in the city, which is popularly known as 'City Beautiful, in this fiscal.An announcement in this regard was made by UT Administrator V.P. Singh Badnore while unveiling the Greening Chandigarh Action Plan-2021-22 prepared by the Department of Forest and Wildlife.Speaking on the occasion, Badnore said the people of the city, who are traditionally nature lovers, would whole-heartedly support and participate in the endeavour to preserve its ecological wealth."Today being World Day to Combat Desertification and Drought, it is an appropriate day for the release of the action plan. This day particularly focuses on turning degraded land into healthy land. Restoring degraded land also brings economic resilience and increases food security. It helps the biodiversity to recover," he said.Manoj Parida, Adviser to the Administrator, said that in recent years, global warming is showing its adverse impacts. Due to this, the importance of trees has been understood and acknowledged manifold, he said."With the invaluable contribution of the nature-loving residents of Chandigarh and other stakeholders, the city has been able to maintain the balance between nature and technological advancements," he said.Principal Secretary (Forests) Arun Gupta said that in Chandigarh, the forest conserves a variety of flora and fauna, which form a rich biodiversity besides playing a vital role in environmental stability.Chief Conservator of Forests Debendra Dalai said that the city boasts to have preserved 46 per cent of its geographical area under forest and green cover.A short film on the Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary was released on the occasion. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-plant-175-000-saplings-this-fiscal-269907
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh ‘stable and improving’||Legendary Indian sprinter Milkha Singh is “stable and improving” under the constant supervision of a medical team at the PGIMER here after having recovered from Covid-19, which he contracted last month.“He is stable and improving. He is constantly being monitored by a medical team,” PGIMER officials told PTI on Thursday.The 91-year-old was on Wednesday shifted out of Covid ICU to another section of the PGIMER hospital, a statement from his family had said describing his condition as “stable”.Another statement issued by the family on Thursday said, “Milkha ji continues to battle and we remain hopeful”.Milkha’s wife Nirmal Kaur (85), who had also contracted the virus days after her husband tested positive, passed away at a private hospital in Mohali on Sunday due to Covid-related complications.Kaur was a former national women’s volleyball team captain.Milkha was admitted to PGIMER on June 3 after his oxygen levels dipped at home following treatment at the Fortis Hospital in Mohali for a week.The legendary athlete is a four-time Asian Games gold medallist and 1958 Commonwealth Games champion but his greatest performance remains the fourth-place finish in the 400m final of the 1960 Rome Olympics.He also represented India in the 1956 and 1964 Olympics and was bestowed the Padma Shri in 1959. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-singh-stable-and-improving-269900
17-06-2021||New Delhi||Sputnik V shots to be available at Fortis' Gurgaon, Mohali facilities from Saturday||Private hospital chain Fortis Healthcare on Thursday announced that Sputnik V, the third anti-coronavirus vaccine approved for use in India, will be available at its Gurgaon and Mohali facilities as part of a limited pilot roll-out from Saturday.The vaccine stock has been procured directly from Dr. Reddy's Laboratories according to government guidelines, it said."The two-dose vaccine will be available at Fortis Memorial Research Institute, Gurugram, and Fortis Hospital, Mohali," the private hospital chain said in a statement.In the coming days, the vaccine will be available at more Fortis hospitals across 11 cities as part of the phase-wise pilot project.Dr Ashutosh Raghuvanshi, MD and CEO, Fortis Healthcare, said, "Fortis is actively working towards ensuring that as many Indians as possible are fully vaccinated. To date, our units were only providing Covaxin and Covishield.""However, we are pleased to announce that Fortis, in collaboration with Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, is among the first to provide a third vaccine option, at Fortis Memorial Research Institute and Fortis Hospital Mohali, with the dual objective of expanding and scaling up the vaccination drive and lowering the infection risks to future mutations of the virus."Earlier, Delhi's Indraprastha Apollo Hospital and Madhukar Rainbow Children's Hospital had also said they will start administering the Russian Covid-19 vaccine by June 20.The Centre has fixed the price of the vaccine at Rs 1,145 per dose.The maximum price of Covishield for private Covid-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) has been fixed at Rs 780 per dose, while that of Covaxin is Rs 1,410 per dose.Russia's Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology has developed the vaccine and the Russian Direct Investment Fund is marketing it globally.Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy's Laboratories, the marketing partner for the vaccine in the country, has been importing the shots from Russia. Over a period of time, the vaccine is also going to be manufactured in India.Sputnik V uses two different viruses that cause the common cold (adenovirus) in humans. It employs a different vector for each of the two shots, given 21 days apart.According to Gamaleya and the RDIF, Sputnik V has demonstrated an efficacy rate of 92 per cent. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sputnik-v-shots-to-be-available-at-fortis-gurgaon-mohali-facilities-from-saturday-269890
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Two arrested for house thefts||Workshop on herbariumChandigarh: The department of botany and add-on course in floriculture and landscaping of Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women, Sector 36, organised an online workshop on 'Insight into a Herbarium and Herbarium Methodology'. The resource person for the workshop was Dr Lal Babu Chaudhary, Senior Principal Scientist and Curator of Herbarium and Professor at AcSIR Plant Diversity, Systematics & Herbarium Division, CSIR-National Botanical Research Institute, Lucknow. Chaudhary gave a comprehensive account of herbarium and the techniques involved in its preparation. TNSCity lad brings laurelsChandigarh: Local lad Karanveer Handa has been selected to join regular four-semester MBA course in IESE Business School, Barcelona, Spain, a globally fourth ranking MBA programme. Handa, an alumnus of St Stephen's School and GGDSD College, is a charted financial analyst by profession. TNSAthletics assn to issue certificatesChandigarh: The Chandigarh Athletics Association has announced that it would issue certificates of session 2020-2021 to athletes who won first three positions, respectively, at the State Athletics Meet 2020-21. The athletes can collect their certificates from the Sector 7 Sports Complex on June 17 from 3.30 pm to 5.30 pm. The athletes must bring their residence proof of Chandigarh only or their identity cards of school/college/university/institution/department, date of birth certificate and passport size photos. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-arrested-for-house-thefts-269725
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Man found dead at railway station||A naked body was found on the premises of the Chandigarh railway station in Daria today.The victim was identified as Sandeep (30). The GRP registered an FIR under Section 302 of the IPC and the body was sent for a post-mortem examination to the Sector 6 Civil Hospital in Panchkula, said Raj Kumar, SHO, GRP, Chandigarh.“When we arrived on the spot, we saw a naked body of a man, who was identified as Sandeep by his father. He had deep bruises on his face and head,” said Kumar.He said: “The man was a resident of Rajasthan and was living in a colony in Daria with his father. The body was found near the road facing the tavern here. We are investigating the case.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-found-dead-at-railway-station-269721
17-06-2021||Amit Bathla||In 18 months, P’kula MC sees six commissioners||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 16After the transfer of Rajesh Jogpal from the post of the Commissioner of the local Municipal Corporation in December 2019, the state government has given the civic body six chiefs in a span of a year and a half.Jogpal held the position for two years and three months and was promoted to the Indian Administrative Service from the Haryana Civil Service during this period.Sumedha Kataria succeeded Jogpal as the MC Commissioner. However, she was replaced in less than six months, before her retirement later in the year. On similar lines, Mahavir Singh was transferred within five months and RK Singh before seven months.Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, the former DC, held the additional charge of the MC Commissioner for just 17 days, from May 19 to June 4, before being transferred to Gurugram.Sharandeep Kaur Brar, a 2009-batch IAS officer, was appointed the MC Commissioner on June 4, but she didn’t join the office. She subsequently got transferred as the Director, Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare, and Director, Citizen Resources Information Department, Haryana, on June 11.At present, Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh holds the additional charge of MC Commissioner.The frequent transfers took place when the civic body had a major challenge before it — the management of the Covid-19 pandemic. From sanitation to disposal of biomedical waste to conducting last rites of Covid victims, civic bodies, apart from the Health Department, play a crucial role in the fight against Covid-19.“Frequent transfers adversely affect the functioning of the Municipal Corporation as it denies bureaucrats the opportunity to settle down into an official role. If officers will keep coming and going, it will lead to instability in the working of the civic body,” said a resident.Difficult to handle additional work?When asked how difficult it is for an officer to handle the additional workload and justify two posts at one time, Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, who holds the additional charge of MC chief, replied, “This is something subjective. Someone may find it easy to work with an additional charge while other may not. But yes, with additional duties, we have to work harder to execute those responsibilities. However, I come from a background where I have worked a lot more!”Transfer prerogative of govt, says former chiefA former MC Commissioner, who wished not to be identified, said, “Transfer of any bureaucrat is a prerogative of the government. As and when the government wants, it can transfer whosoever it feels right.” The officer, however, admitted that instability and insecurity left a detrimental impact on the officer’s morale. Without naming anybody, the officer accepted the influence of “political bosses” in transfer of civil servants.Official should not be shifted for at least one year: GuptaHaryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta said in his opinion, bureaucrats should be given at least a year after being appointed to a new position to perform in a better way, barring exceptional cases like “administrative exigency” or corruption charges. “Frequent transfers hamper the working of the system,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-18-months-pkula-mc-sees-six-commissioners-269460
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Dug-up pathways irk Sector 8 traders||Visitors and shopkeepers complain of pathways dug up for about three months for laying optical fibre cables in the Sector 8 inner market. Shopkeepers said tiles outside their shops were broken and the area was dug up over the past three months by different telecommunication companies for laying cables. However, neither the cable work was completed nor the dug-up area was restored. Rajesh Kumar, a local shopkeeper, said, “It has been three months now and the work is still not completed. The rain has aggravated our problem. These pits are filled with rainwater. Foul smell emanates from the stagnant water. At present, the work is stopped, but the area has not restored.” “It will become a breeding ground for mosquitoes and flies. The shoppers, who are coming here, have to face a tough time. We have repeatedly requested the authorities to restore it, but to no avail. There must be a timeline for the start and completion of such works,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dug-up-pathways-irk-sector-8-traders-269461
17-06-2021||---||Youth’s murder: Accused denied anticipatory bail||Chandigarh, June 16A local court has rejected the anticipatory bail application an accused in a murder case.Barinder, the applicant, is one of the four persons facing the charge of the murder of a youth, Sandeep of Maloya, in the Industrial Area last year.Sandeep was taken to a hospital by the police in a serious condition where he was declared dead. A case in this connection was registered under Sections 302, 323, 34 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code at the Industrial Area police station on August 24, 2020. Three persons have already been arrested in the case.Barinder’s counsel AS Gujral argued in the court that the police had falsely implicated the accused in the case even as he was not present at the spot when the alleged incident took place. Gujral claimed that the accused was named by the complainant in the case only because of an old enmity. Moreover, the petitioner was not named in the challan. The investigation in the present case had already been completed, the counsel added.On the other hand, the public prosecutor claimed that the accused was involved in Sandeep’s murder and his custodial interrogation was required. The public prosecutor said non-bailable warrants had already been issued by the court against the accused. In case bail was given, the accused might influence the complainant and the witness, the public prosecutor added.After hearing the arguments, the court rejected anticipatory bail application of the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youths-murder-accused-denied-anticipatory-bail-269462
17-06-2021||Sandeep Rana
||On tech hunt, MC team visits Delhi waste processing plants||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, June 16 Mayor, councillors and officials of the local MC team today visited two waste-to-energy processing plants in Delhi. The MC is visiting different processing plants to finalise the technology for its own processing plant in Sector 25. At present, city’s plant is being run by the MC itself with old machines and processing is way too less. Since the civic body has planned to hire an agency with new technology, it is exploring and inspecting different plants in neighbouring states. In the coming days, it has also planned a visit to a plant in Ambala. Councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali, who was part of the team that visited the plant today, said: “We have checked the waste-to-energy plants in Delhi. Both are efficiently generating electricity from garbage. One plant is processing around 2,700 metric tonnes of waste per day while the other is processing 2,000 metric tonnes of waste a day.” Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said: “The technology was good. One firm is generating 25 mega watt electricity per day and the other 23 mega watt a day.” It was one year ago that the MC took over the plant from Jaypee Group, but it is yet to decide on the technology to be used at the plant. Following this, the tendering process to hire a firm and putting up machinery to process the garbage will also take time. Meanwhile, those around near the dumping ground are living in hell-like conditions. As per the IIT-Roorkee report, the existing plant can at best handle 60 to 65 TPD (tonne per day) waste. The city produces about 450 tonnes of waste per day. The unprocessed waste is being thrown at the dumping ground causing trouble to residents. Area councillors failed to visit Delhi plants Local councillor Farmila and councillor Rajesh Kalia, who have been creating hue and cry over the issue of waste processing, failed to visit the plants. Both had earlier agreed to pay a visit to the plants. Farmila said she had pain in her legs so she couldn’t go. Also, councillors Arun Sood, Devinder Singh Babla and Davesh Moudgil, who had also agreed to go, did not turn up citing one or the other reason. Shakti said other than the Mayor, Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora, councillors Bharat Kumar, Jagtar Singh, Chandrawati Shukla, Shipra Bansal, Haji Mohd. Khurshid Ali and Hardeep Singh visited the Delhi plants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/on-tech-hunt-mc-team-visits-delhi-waste-processing-plants-269463
17-06-2021||---||Chandigarh asks Mohali to clean Sukhna choe in its area||Chandigarh, June 16 To avoid a repeat of the last year’s flooding downstream the Sukhna choe in the Baltana area of Zirakpur, the UT Engineering Department has written to the authorities in Mohali to clean the choe in their area. On August 23 last year, two of the three floodgates of Sukhna Lake were opened after its water level reached the danger mark of 1,163 feet. The opening of the flood gates led to a flash flood in Sukhna choe, which carries water to Ghaggar river. As a result, the choe overflowed in Baltana and flooded the area. The water entered the Baltana police post and the MC Park in its vicinity. As the situation turned worse, the police had to remove the records and other important documents to a safer location, but some files and papers got damaged in the flood water. Later, the police post was vacated completely as the water level rose to around 5 feet.  Farmers and local residents feared that if the water level increased further, it could cause damage to the houses and fields near the rivulet. An official of the UT Engineering Department said the work on cleaning the choe in the city was nearly completed and if the cleaning work was not taken up in the Baltana area, it could again lead to flooding of the area. The Engineering Department has also deputed three sub-divisional engineers to keep a watch on the Sukhna water level. As the monsoon would advance, the water level of the lake would be recorded every two hours, the official said, adding that after the rain, the water level in the lake was today recorded at 1156.40 feet. Meanwhile, household waste and construction debris were illegally dumped into the N-choe – a seasonal rivulet which carries storm water of the city into the Ghaggar. Despite allocation of designated sites and door-to-door collection of garbage by the Municipal Corporation, waste was being dumped into the choe which could block the natural flow of storm water and lead to overflowing in the area, said LR Budaniya, an environmentalist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-asks-mohali-to-clean-sukhna-choe-in-its-area-269464
17-06-2021||---||Two antibody cocktail recipients back home||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 16Two Covid-19 patients who were the first ones to have received monoclonal antibody therapy in the tricity are back to their homes now.Subhedra Kaushal (84) and Mann Singh (62) were administered a cocktail of Casirivimab and Imdevimab at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 as part of the single-dose infusion-based treatment on Tuesday and then kept under observation.After they were kept under observation, they were discharged from the hospital yesterday only. Both patients are now fine and asymptomatic. They will be retested for Covid tomorrow and there are 90 per chances of them testing negative,” said Dr Reeta Kalra of the Civil Hospital.“My mother was discharged within hours after the infusion was complete. Her fever wasn’t going away from the past several days, but now she is doing completely okay. If the drug is made available at a large scale, it could be a game changer, especially for those with comorbidities. But not many people know about it,” said Dr Lalit, son of Subhedra Kaushal. Treating the two with the monoclonal antibody therapy was approved by a state-level three-member multi-displinary team.The therapy reportedly reduce the chances of hospitalisation by 70 per cent in patients with mild to moderate symptoms, said health officials. It is most suited for high-risk criteria patients within 10 days from onset of symptoms.The listed criteria includes 65 years or above, obesity with a body mass index of more than 35, chronic kidney disease, diabetes, immunosuppressive disease, currently receiving immunosuppressive treatment or if aged above 55 years with hypertension or cardiovascular disease or chronic lung disease.The therapy is not recommended if 10 days have passed since the onset of symptoms or if the patient is unaware of the date when he/she first got symptoms. The treatment is also not recommended where patient is already hospitalised due to severe Covid-19, require oxygen therapy due or for those on chronic oxygen therapy due to underlying non-Covid co-morbidity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-antibody-cocktail-recipients-back-home-269465
17-06-2021||---||Chandigarh ‘excellent’ in managing AEFI cases||Chandigarh, June 16The UT has been rated excellent in the management of adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, New Delhi.Besides, the states of Tamil Nadu and West Bengal were also adjudged excellent in the category.Chandigarh has reported 0.4 per cent AEFI cases as per the CoWIN portal.The states and UTs are ranked every quarter on the basis of their performance in AEFI surveillance (reporting, investigation and casualty assessment of cases). Weighted scores are given to each state and UT on the basis of their performance on a cumulative basis in a year.An eight per cent increase in the overall weighted score for AEFI surveillance processes was observed for the financial year 2020-21 (89 per cent) as compared to the fiscal 2019-20 (81 per cent)Chandigarh has reported 17 AEFI cases in the last financial year as against 41 reported in the fiscal 2019-20.A 54 per cent increase in submission of preliminary investigation record for the reported AEFI cases is observed in the financial year 2020-21 as compared to the fiscal 2019-20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-excellent-in-managing-aefi-cases-269466
17-06-2021||andigarh||Chandigarh Administration panel okays 5 loan applications||A district-level committee today approved five applications received under the Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises Scheme. During a meeting held under Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar in connection with the approval/recommendation of nine loan applications received under the scheme, the committee approved five which were forwarded to the lending institutions for the grant of loan. Brar said the remaining four applications were returned for the removal of deficiencies. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-panel-okays-5-loan-applications-269467
17-06-2021||Patiala||Mafia trying to grab land, says SGPC||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has alleged that the land mafia in Patiala is trying to illegally acquire the land of the Khalsa College Trust.  Jagir Kaur, SGPC president, today said the committee would not tolerate illegal acquisition of its land and as such, the matter would be raised with the Chief Minister as well. She alleged that the land mafia active here was trying to acquire the SGPC’s land with the help of political interference. “We will meet Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on the matter. I also urge the Punjab DGP to address the matter and direct police officials in Patiala to assist the SGPC in the same,” she said. “The land mafia wants to illegally acquire a considerable chunk of the whole land,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mafia-trying-to-grab-land-says-sgpc-269468
17-06-2021||Mohali||2 bodies found on railway tracks||The railway police found the body of a youth on the Kharar-Chandigarh tracks near Saneta village last morning. The police said the youth appeared to be a migrant labourer in his twenties. Meanwhile, another unidentified body was found on the tracks near Janetpur village. The deceased appears to be in his thirties. The nearby police stations have been informed and the bodies shifted to the mortuary of the Kharar civil hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-bodies-found-on-railway-tracks-269469
17-06-2021||---||PU opens libraries to all its students||Chandigarh, June 16 Panjab University has announced the opening of libraries for all students, said Dr Jivesh Bansal, Librarian.  “As per recommendations of a meeting of the committee held on June 15, approved by the Vice-Chancellor, the departments’ libraries will be opened for the students of their respective departments following proper Covid-19 protocols,” stated a communication.  It added: “The outer reading hall of the library will be opened from 8 am to 9 pm for all students with 50 per cent seating capacity on a first-come, first-served basis. The reading hall on the first and third floor will be opened for research scholars only for 9 am to 8 pm with 50 per cent of the total capacity. Entry of students will be allowed strictly on the basis of having a library ID card and following Covid-19 protocols. On the day of curfew/lockdown, the library will remain closed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-opens-libraries-to-all-its-students-269470
17-06-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Development of PU sports among top priorities of VC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 16Road to retain the prestigious Maulana Abul Kalam Azad (MAKA) Trophy, for the third consecutive time, seems not to be easy for Panjab University (PU), amid the Covid-19 crisis and internal politics.However, the Vice Chancellor, Prof Raj Kumar, claims to have included promotion of the university sports in his priority list.After the death of former Director (Sports), PU, Dr Parminder Singh Ahluwalia, the charge (additional) was assigned to Prof Prashant Kumar Gautam. Soon after, objections were raised over Gautam’s appointment.“We are going to appoint a regular Director Sports at the earliest. Sports (in PU) is high on my list of priorities. I can assure that sufficient funds will be made available for all requirements,” said the VC.The controversy to grab the post of Director (Sports) is not new. However, it was for the first time (in the last decade) that the charge was assigned to a person from another department. In the absence of a regular Director, the charge was usually handed over to the Chairman, Physical Education Department, or Deputy Directors, who staked their claim to the post soon after Ahluwalia’s death.Over filling other posts on a regular basis, the VC said: “Apart from two (Director Sports, Registrar) positions, there are a number of academic and administrative positions which keep on falling vacant and the selection to these posts is a routine activity and it shall be expedited.”Online examsOn introducing new technology for conducting online exams, he said: “The challenge of conducting an online exam is a matter of concern for all. The methodology and the technology are still evolving. The Covid-19 salutation was a great shock and surprise for all of us, naturally nobody was prepared for this situation. We are confronted with this enormous challenge and making all efforts to develop a system which is reliable, credible and at the same time student friendly.”Following Disaster Management ActOn students’ issues regarding the opening of university amid pandemic, he said: “The issue is not PU specific. Under the Disaster Management Act, one has to follow the decisions taken by the government. The impact of this pandemic is all pervasive and there is nothing so much PU specific. We shall use the lessons learnt to upgrade.” On managing to pay full salaries despite revenue shortage, he said: “There has been some shortfall in the revenues. The university also receives grants from the union and state government. So, there is no serious concern in this regard.”Challenges in first tenureProf Raj Kumar said: “I have taken a number of initiatives to redefine the focus, improve the quality and functioning. The process of reform and change is continuous. In all institutions, some stakeholders do become the agents of change while others may be inert. Given the challenges and the ground work done, the impact shall be visible. The endeavour shall be to mobilise the additional resources to meet the financial constraints and to fill vacant positions both teaching and non-teaching. Streamlining the functioning of various academic and administrative bodies is my top priority. The aim shall be to strengthen the mechanisms and processes of integration, and crystallise the initiatives while making them more inclusive and skill-oriented.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/development-of-pu-sports-among-top-priorities-of-vc-269471
17-06-2021||---||Tap potential of students: PU VC||Chandigarh, June 16The Vice-Chancellor of Panjab University, Prof Raj Kumar, addressed more than 100 assistant professors of the university at a virtual meeting. He stressed the faculty was the pillars of the university which played a great role in the enhancement of perception.“The need of the hour for the university is to bring in a professional attitude by changing the mindset and involving more corporate perspective into teaching. Creation of a niche for PU not only at the national level but also at the international level, giving research orientation to students right from the beginning of their career are some important points to follow. It is important for the faculty to tap the potential of the students,” said the VC.He also urged the faculty to take multi-disciplinary projects and focus on patents and citations. He said a nodal officer had been appointed by PU for the filing of patents. They were also asked to explore collaborations with a focus on commercial deliverables.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tap-potential-of-students-pu-vc-269472
17-06-2021||---||3 oxygen plants to come up at Mohali institute||Mohali, June16Design and site plan for the installation of three medical oxygen plants (pressure swing adsorption plants) and the requisite lines at Dr BR Ambedkar Institute of Medical Sciences, Mohali, has been finalised. Site preparations will be complete within a fortnight.A special committee has been constituted to coordinate and review the progress on a day-to-day basis so as to ensure a timely installation of the plants, said Aashika Jain, ADC(G).Meanwhile, a recce of the makeshift hospital site has been done. The vendor and the installation of pre-fabricated structures for the setting up of the 100-bed makeshift hospital is expected to be complete by the month-end.Orders have been placed for two PSA plants at the Civil Hospital, Kharar, one at Community Health Centre, Dhakoli, and five at the District Hospital, Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-oxygen-plants-to-come-up-at-mohali-institute-269473
17-06-2021||---||Varsity issues instructions for online examinations||Chandigarh, June 16Panjab University has issued instructions for the students appearing for the online semester examinations starting on June 28. The instructions are also available on the notice board of the examination website at the https://exams.puchd.ac.in/show-noticeboard.php?nbid=1.All further updates would be available on the website only, said Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examinations.He said the undergraduate and postgraduate theory examinations of even semesters will start on June 28 for all classes (except 2nd semester) while the 2nd semester examinations will be starting on July 9. However, the important points for students includes, regular students of colleges/departments/centres will be issued roll numbers from their respective institutions, and private and USOL candidates can download their roll numbers from the university’s websites: ugexam.puchd.ac.in and pgexam.puchd.ac.in.The question papers will also be available on these sites. Dr Bhushan added: “Undergraduate students can use 20 A4-size sheets and postgraduate students can use 24 A4-size sheets, and one side of the sheet will be used for writing the answers.“To maintain confidentiality, the format of the first page of the answer sheet has been modified and it will be available on the website. The students have to strictly follow that format only. The time for submission/uploading of a single PDF answer sheet will be 60 minutes after the duration of the exam and authorities have allowed re-evaluation and rechecking of answer sheets as per university rules.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/varsity-issues-instructions-for-online-examinations-269474
17-06-2021||---||CSIO, IIT join hands for research works||Chandigarh, June 16The Central Scientific Research Organisation (CSIO) here and the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar, will work in a collaborative manner to pursue the development and commercialisation of products in the field of agriculture and water by complementing each others’ capabilities and resources.A memorandum of understanding (MoU) in this regard was signed by Prof Anantha Ramakrishna, Director of CSIO; and Prof Rajeev Ahuja, Director, IIT Ropar, today. At the IIT, the Technology and Innovation Foundation for the Agriculture and Water Technology Development Hub (AWaDH) will carry out activities under the MoU.The CSIO is engaged in research, design and development of intelligent scientific and industrial instruments in the area of agrionics, medical devices, optics, photonics, public safety, computational instrumentation, calibration and certification, while AWaDH falls in the framework of the National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber Physical Systems to carry out extensive research and development in the domain of agriculture and water.Prof Ahuja said the MoU would promote and encourage inter-institutional movement of faculties and researchers related to product and technology development in the crucial areas of agriculture and water.Prof Ramakrishna said the tie up would also facilitate exchange of students for summer and winter internships and research thesis.Pact to promote faculty movementProf Rajeev Ahuja, Director, IIT Ropar, said the MoU would promote and encourage inter-institutional movement of faculties and researchers related to product and technology development in the crucial areas of agriculture and water.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/csio-iit-join-hands-for-research-works-269475
17-06-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Accused bought share in SCO with money obtained in house deal: Police||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 16The Chandigarh police have alleged that two accused of the alleged property grab case of Sector 37 here purchased shares in an SCO from the money they allegedly obtained from the deal of the house. The police have made the claim in a reply to the bail application of one of the accused, Satpal Dagar.While opposing the bail, the police claimed that the new facts came to light during the investigation into the case and it had begun a probe into the matter. The police claimed that during the investigation, the police received a certified copy of the sale deed with respect to SCO number 2427-28 in Sector 22, Chandigarh, from the office of the Sub-Registrar, Chandigarh, on June 4. The police alleged that “from a perusal of the sale deed, it was revealed that accused Khalendra Singh and Dagar had purchased 20 per cent share in the SCO of Sector 22, Chandigarh, and the consideration amount of the sale deed was paid from the ill-gotten amount obtained in the deal pertaining to the present case.” The police said they had sought the details of the transactions related to the property from the bank. But the bank sought one-week time to reply to their questions. In view of this, the police sought adjournment of the hearing on the bail application of Dagar.On the plea of the police, the court has now fixed the next hearing on the bail application for June 21. In the reply, the police said the present evidence was vital for adjudication of the bail application.Meanwhile, Dagar denied his role in the house grab case. His counsel Vishal Garg Narwana claimed that the money trail chart annexed with the charge sheet was a false and incomplete document. Narwana claimed that Dagar had a business of puff-panel manufacturing. Dagar had been giving and taking money from Khalendra Singh for the past many years. He said the police concealed this fact.The police alleged in the charge sheet that an amount of Rs16 lakh was transferred in the account of Dagar from the joint account of another accused Khalendra Singh and Rahul Mehta from the deal. The police also alleged that Dagar brought another accused, Gurpreet Singh, as a proxy before the office of the sub-registrar and had an active role in the case.Meanwhile, the court also adjourned the hearing in the bail application of another accused Sanjeev Mahajan for June 21 after the police sought time for filing the reply.The police claimThe police claimed that during the investigation, the police received a certified copy of the sale deed with respect to SCO number 2427-28 in Sector 22, Chandigarh, from the office of the Sub-Registrar, Chandigarh, on June 4. The police alleged that “from a perusal of the sale deed, it was revealed that accused Khalendra Singh and Dagar had purchased 20 per cent share in the SCO of Sector 22, Chandigarh, and the consideration amount of the sale deed was paid from the ill-gotten amount obtained in the deal pertaining to the present case.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accused-bought-share-in-sco-with-money-obtained-in-house-deal-police-269476
17-06-2021||Sandeep Rana||What a waste! Despite two-bin vehicles, rehris still picking garbage||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 16Six months after the Municipal Corporation deputed 490 two-bin waste collection vehicles, worth crores of rupees, to replace the existing door-to-door garbage collection through rehris, carts continue to ply in several areas.Last year, the MC had deputed nearly 100 such vehicles in UT villages, while 390 vehicles were later bought for a whopping Rs29 crore and deputed in different sectors in a phased manner from January this year.These were bought to replace the existing rehris, but the latter are still in use, putting a question mark over the plan of the civic body to spend a huge amount on such vehicles when these are not being properly utilised.Kuldeep Singh Gill, president of the Residents Welfare Association (RWA), Sector 21-B, said, “MC vehicles are parked at a particular spot and rehris lift waste from our houses. The collectors then segregate the garbage and take dry waste while the wet is thrown in the vehicles. Some rehris are directly dumping waste at the Sehaj Safai Kendras (SSKs). Why does the MC allow private collectors to throw waste at its SSKs.”Joginder Singh, president, RWA, Sector 38-A and B, said, “Rehriwalas lift waste and throw it in the vehicles. They segregate the waste in an open area and keep the dry waste dumped in big bags. Due to the sorting of the waste in the open, residents have to bear with the foul smell. Besides, it is an eyesore.”JJ Singh, president, RWA, Sector 48, said, “The old system of waste collection through rehris is still on in the entire Sector 48. The only difference is that the waste is given to vehicles.”Hitesh Puri, chairman, CRAWFED, said, “We have been getting such complaints from Sector 22, 47, 48, 33, 21 and 38. In Sector 22, I have seen waste being lifted by rehris and later thrown in vehicles. What is the use of these vehicles.”Earlier, the rehris used to directly throw the waste in the SSKs and from there trucks used to transport it to the processing plant at Dadu Majra. Now, the rehris first dump the waste in the two-bin vehicles, which further throw it at the SSKs.Sorabh Arora, MC Joint Commissioner, said, “There is some issue in Sector 21, but we have not come across any instance from other places in which carts are plying. Besides, due to a court case and other issues, we have not deputed vehicles in southern sectors.”Chief Sanitary Inspector Mohinder Pathak said the waste collection through vehicles had been started only in Sector 1-30, 31-38, 38 (West), 46, 47 and 48.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/what-a-waste-despite-two-bin-vehicles-rehris-still-picking-garbage-269477
17-06-2021||Naina Mishra||42% health workers in Chandigarh still not fully vaccinated||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 16Nearly five months after a nationwide inoculation drive was started for them in mid-January, at least 42 per cent healthcare workers (HCWs) are still not fully vaccinated in Chandigarh as they have failed to take the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.A total of 70.2 per cent of the total registered HCWs have taken their first dose.Similarly, many frontline workers (FLWs), who were among the first to be prioritised by the government in the first phase of vaccination, have failed to take their second dose. Around 37 per cent of this priority group has not taken the second dose, while 75.6 per cent FLWs have taken their first dose.While the national average of the first dose administration among HCWs is 82 per cent, the national average of the second dose among them is only 56 per cent. For FLWs, the national average of the first dose coverage is 85 per cent, but the national average of the second dose coverage for FLWs is only 47 per cent.The vaccination for healthcare workers started on January 16 and for the FLWs, the drive started on February 2. The gap between two doses during this period was 28 days.The Union Health Secretary highlighted the low vaccination coverage among the HCWs and FLWs, especially regarding the second dose, terming it a cause for concern.The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare today asked states and UTs to prepare effective plans for expediting the second dose administration for the HCWs and FLWs. The states have been asked to dedicate special time slots or sessions for the exercise.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “Many healthcare workers who received the first dose may have got their second dose in the open category and not the HCW category. The data needs to be studied minutely to identify who all have not received the second dose.”City sees 41 cases, 2 deaths Chandigarh: The city reported 41 fresh Covid cases and two deaths on Wednesday. The active case tally now stands at 462 and the toll at 799. As many as 63 patients recovered from the virus. TNSFour fatalities, 44 new cases in MohaliMohali: Four patients died while 44 fresh cases were reported from the district on Wednesday. As many as 89 patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. The district has so far reported 67,920 positive cases and 662 are still active. The death stands at 1,033. TNSNo fatality, 16 cases in Panchkula districtPanchkula: The district on Wednesday reported 16 fresh Covid cases. There was no fatality. While the overall case tally has reached 30,497, the death toll stands at 366. As many as 29,985 patients have recovered from the disease so far. The active caseload is 146. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/42-health-workers-in-chandigarh-still-not-fully-vaccinated-269478
17-06-2021||---||Husband held for dowry death||Chandigarh, July 16Five days after a 25-year-old woman committed suicide at Dhanas, the UT police have arrested her husband for dowry death.Victim’s father Bilguram Gupta, a resident of Mauli Jagran, had complained to the police that his daughter, Pooja, was being harassed by her husband Budh Ram, alias Deepak, and his family for dowry.Pooja had got married to Budh Ram in 2016. She was expecting a baby.The complainant said in 2019, his daughter had complained against her in-laws at the Sarangpur police station for demanding dowry. However, the matter was settled at that time. However, her in-laws allegedly kept harassing her for dowry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/husband-held-for-dowry-death-269479
17-06-2021||Panchkula||Gang of thieves busted, 7 held||With the arrest of seven suspects, the police today busted a gang involved in theft and snatching cases in Panchkula city and the surrounding areas such as Barwala, Raipur Rani and Dera Bassi.The crime branch of the Sector 26 police also recovered eight motorcycles, 11 mobile phones, and seven tractor batteries from their possession. All suspects were produced in a local court today, which sent them to judicial custody.Inspector Aman Kumar said four FIRs had been registered against the suspects at different police stations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gang-of-thieves-busted-7-held-269480
17-06-2021||---||Despite virus threat, 50 events in Panchkula||Panchkula, June 16Though the threat of a third wave of Covid-19 looms large, Panchkula will celebrate the seventh International Day of Yoga by organising 50 yoga events across the district on June 21.As per the plan of the district administration, each event will have 50 participants with strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocol in place. Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh today presided over a meeting in this regard.He discussed with officials the preparedness for the day for its successful conduct. The main event will take place at Red Bishop Hotel in Sector 1. Apart from the main programme, events will be organised at colleges, schools, parks and other suitable places.The District Development and Panchayat Officer is the nodal officer for organising the events in rural areas of the district.The Deputy Commissioner directed officials to strictly follow Covid-19 guidelines such as wearing of masks and social distancing during the 45-minute programme.“Adequate arrangements for drinking water, security and traffic management should be made at the venues so that the yoga participants do not face any inconvenience,” he said.According to a press notice, prior to the main event on June 21, yoga training and rehearsal programmes will be organised from June 18 to 20 at select places for 50 persons each, in which instructors from the Patanjali Yog Samiti and yoga instructors and PTIs of the Education Department will impart yoga training to the participants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/despite-virus-threat-50-events-in-panchkula-269481
17-06-2021||Naina Mishra||OPDs shut, pandemic adds to non-Covid patients’ pain||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 16The pandemic played havoc with the lives of non-Covid patients as the healthcare system remained inaccessible with physical OPDs shut and elective surgeries delayed at city hospitals.Mukul Sharma (30), a resident of Chandigarh, said, “My mother was diagnosed with breast cancer in 1998. Since then, she had been visiting the PGI every year for a follow-up. However, now, almost two years have passed and she has not visited the doctor due to Covid. She has not been able to follow up her treatment. I called up at the PGI reception, but was told follow-ups were not being done and only serious were being treated, that too after teleconsultation with the doctor concerned.”Another city resident, Narender Chauhan, said, “My father’s surgery is pending as elective operations are not being performed at the PGI.”Kanwaljit (37) said, “My joint got dislocated in February last year. The whole year, I was in terrible pain as there was no access to doctors and the PGI was closed. As there was no OPD, I got online consultations, but these did not make much of a difference.”“I had an open heart surgery in February 2020 and soon after, the lockdown began and follow-up sessions were almost gone as mostly these were being done through videoconferencing, which wasn’t much of a help,” said 75-year-old Balvinder.PGI mulls opening OPDsThe PGI held a meeting on Wednesday to discuss the opening of OPDs and operation theatres (OTs) in view of a decline in the cases. Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said, “We are going to continue with the same routine as of now because we don’t want to spread transmission. OTs will be opened as per the requirement.”Dr Jasvinder Kaur, Director, GMCH, Sector 32, said, “We have extended teleconsultation from 9 am to 1 pm, and those who need physical examination will be called. We will open OTs soon and patients whose surgeries are pending will be contacted.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/opds-shut-pandemic-adds-to-non-covid-patients-pain-269482
