18-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||39 new Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh; 2 deaths||Chandigarh on Friday reported 39 new cases of Covid-19 as the active cases in the city come down to 431.The total number of cases so far in the city is 61,358.Two people died from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours both of whom were suffering from co-morbidities as the death toll has reached 804.A total of 47 patients have been discharged including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.As many as 60,123 people have recovered from the virus so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/39-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-2-deaths-270454
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Retired ITBP canines find new role as therapy dogs near Chandigarh||After spending the prime of their lives sniffing out explosives and undertaking guard duties, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police Force’s (ITBP) retired K-9s are undertaking a new, compassionate role. They are being used as ‘therapy dogs’ for patients as well as for children with special needs.The dogs, settled at a specially established retirement home at the ITBP’s Basic Training Center at Bhanu, near Chandigarh, started visiting ITBP hospitals a few days ago to lend emotional support to personnel admitted there.At present, there are 10 retired ITBP dogs at the home, which was set up last year. Another 20 dogs are expected to be moved there shortly for their post-retirement life.“Trained and affectionate dogs have a strong emotional and therapeutic impact and provide patients with a welcome break from the otherwise monotonous hospital routine,” an ITBP officer said.“The playful connect established between the dogs and the special children have also been remarkable,” he added.The ITBP is now planning the dogs’ visit to a local school for special children after tying up with an NGO.Though the concept of therapy dogs is old, it is a novel venture in India. The role of a therapy dog is vastly different and at most times at odds with the combat duties, the K-9 is trained for.From being ferocious and aggressive, they now need to be docile, affectionate and playful.“Our dogs are well trained and do not attack unless ordered to by their handlers,” an ITBP veterinary officer said. “If their handler is friendly with someone, it filters down to the animal which also has its own instinct to sense the situation and behave accordingly,” he added.The ITBP is studying the psychological and medical aspects of the man-dog engagement, based upon which the role of therapy dogs could be expanded and extended to other forces as well as a handling policy and standard operating procedures would be worked out.The Central Armed Police Forces, which function under the Ministry of Home Affairs, deploy about 3,500 dogs for internal security duties. In addition, the Armed Forces also have their own dogs for security-related tasks.Recently, the ITBP raised a new unit of assault dogs, comprising Belgian Malinois and the German Shepherd breeds, which have been trained to work in packs of four to pin down enemy troopers if the force’s patrol teams are attacked.The lead dog in this group is trained to attack the neck area or the jugular vein of the prime attacker, and the remaining three dogs neutralize other members of the adversary group.They are also trained to leap into vehicles or enter buildings and disarm persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/retired-itbp-canines-find-new-role-as-therapy-dogs-near-chandigarh-270423
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||No lockdown in Chandigarh this Sunday||Chandigarh Administration said on Friday there would be no lockdowns this Sunday—a development that comes days after the union territory allowed shops to open up for longer hours as the city continues to report a significant decline in infections.The UT administration said on Sunday that Administrator VP Singh Badnore has decided to call off a general lockdown on Sunday as previously announced but night curfew will remain in force from 10:30 pm to 5 am.Sukhna Lake will remain open to the public only from 5 am-9 am, and 6 pm-8 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-lockdown-in-chandigarh-this-sunday-270402
18-06-2021||---||2 neighbours among four held for Chandigarh boy’s kidnapping||Chandigarh, June 17The UT police have arrested four persons for kidnapping a 15-year-old boy and demanding a ransom of Rs50 lakh from his family. Two of the suspects, brothers, have turned out to be the victim’s family friends, who knew that the family was planning to get the victim’s sister married and it would have cash to pay the ransom.Remanded in 4-day police custodyDeteriorating financial condition during the lockdown forced the suspects to commit the crime. The police said Pankaj, who had suffered losses in some online schemes, was the mastermind. The suspects were produced in a court, which remanded them in four-day police custody.UT SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said the suspects had been identified as Vishal Gupta and Pankaj Gupta, brothers, who were residing in the neighbourhood of the victim in Kishangarh, Rajat (21) and Mukesh Kumar (23), a resident of Ram Darbar. Vishal, Pankaj and Mukesh worked as recovery agents with RBL Bank.The fifth suspect, Ajay Sharma, a resident of Baltana, was at large. The white Breeza car, owned by Ajay’s brother, that was used in the crime is yet to be recovered.The police said Vishal and Pankaj, being the victim’s neighbours, knew that the marriage of the victim’s sister was scheduled for October and thought the family would have cash and jewellery.The duo shared the information with the other suspects, who then hatched a conspiracy to kidnap the boy.On the day of the incident, three suspects reached Kishangarh and as soon the victim went for cycling, they kidnapped him and took him towards Panchkula and Baltana. Inspector Neeraj Sarna, SHO of the Mani Majra police station, said the other two suspects, Pankaj and Vishal, accompanied the victim’s father to the police station. “When the kidnappers were calling the victim’s father, they were present there to show sympathy and get information about the police action,” the SHO added.Pankaj even spoke to the kidnappers on behalf of the victim’s father and assured them that money was being arranged. The police said Pankaj informed the kidnappers about the police tracking their movement following which they decided to release the boy without taking a ransom.The police said the CCTV footage of the route taken by the kidnappers was scrutinised, which led them to a location in Baltana. There, the police found the footage of a white Breeza. However, on verifying the number of the car, it turned out to be fake. The police further scruitnised the cameras and found the footage of the same vehicle bearing another number plate, which was a genuine number that led them to Ajay’s house in Batlana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-neighbours-among-four-held-for-chandigarh-boys-kidnapping-270177
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Adviser Parida transferred to Delhi||After a stint of nearly two and a half years with the Chandigarh Administration, UT Adviser Manoj Parida has been transferred to Delhi. A 1986-batch AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram and Union Territories) joint cadre officer, Parida has been appointed as the Chairman, National Authority of Chemical Weapons Convention, in the rank and pay of a Secretary to the Union Government, under the Cabinet Secretariat. He is scheduled to retire in February next year.‘Happy Covid in city under control’I am happy to get a chance to serve in the Government of India at the Secretary level. However, I am happier that at least Covid is under control in UT when I am leaving. -  Manoj ParidaParida had joined on December 26, 2018, as Adviser to the UT Administrator. The transfer order was issued after the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet gave its approval at a meeting today.“I am happy to get a chance to serve in the Government of India at the Secretary level. However, I am happier that at least Covid is under control in Chandigarh when I am leaving,” said Parida.Who all are in the reckoningSeveral names are doing the rounds in bureaucratic circles for the post of the UT Adviser. The names include Maninder Bains, an IAS officer of the Assam cadre (he was earlier posted here as the Chairman of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB); Renu Sharma, a 1988-batch IAS officer, at present posted as the Additional Chief Secretary (Transport), Delhi Government (she was recently suspended for violating the lockdown orders to contain the Covid-19 pandemic); Dharmender Sharma, at present posted as the Director General, Election Commission; Satya Gopal, posted as Additional Secretary, Delhi Government (he was also earlier the Chairman, CHB); and Chetan Bhagat Sanghi, posted as Chief Secretary, Andaman and Nicobar Islands. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-adviser-parida-transferred-to-delhi-270178
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||3 deaths, 32 cases in Chandigarh||3 die in Mohali, 38 casesMohali: Three more persons succumbed to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 1,036 in the district. Meanwhile, 38 fresh cases and 70 recoveries were reported till Thursday. TNSNo fatality, 8 +ve in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Thursday reported eight fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 30,505. With no fresh fatality, the toll remained at 366. The recovery rate stands at 98.37 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-deaths-32-cases-in-chandigarh-270179
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to move SC against stay||The UT Administration has decided to move the Supreme Court against the Punjab and Haryana High Court stay on the power privatisation process.On a petition filed by the UT Powermen Union, the HC had, on May 28, stayed the tendering process of the Electricity Department. A senior officer said they would file a writ petition in the SC against the stay order of the HC to fast track the process.Recently, the UT Administration had opened technical bids of six companies — Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NESCL (NTPC), Adani Transmission Ltd, Tata Power and Torrent Power. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-move-sc-against-stay-270181
18-06-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh administration offers one-time settlement on water dues||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 17The UT Administration has okayed a one-time settlement of outstanding water bills.According to a public notice issued by the MC, the Administration has given a go-ahead to offer one-time settlement to water bill defaulters. In case the dues are deposited in one installment, 10 per cent rebate on the total outstanding amount will be given to the defaulter. In case the dues are deposited in two and three installments, then seven and five per cent rebate, respectively, will be provided to the consumer. The offer will be available till August 17 this year. On August 31 last year, the MC House had approved the agenda to give water bill defaulters three months to pay their dues under a one-time settlement scheme. It has now got the final nod from the Administration. Water bills of a whopping Rs41.60 crore are pending for several years, of which Rs37.44 crore is the principal amount and Rs4.16 crore surcharge.MC to recover Rs41.60 crAccording to the civic body, nearly Rs28 crore of the total dues pertain to domestic connections, Rs1.7 crore to industrial units and Rs7.29 crore to commercial establishments. The MC also has to recover Rs4.54 crore from different government departments.“It should be taken as a golden chance. We will take a legal course against the defaulters not availing themselves of the one-time settlement offer,” said a senior officer of the public health division.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said, “Those who failed to pay earlier for some or the other reason should take an advantage of the offer now.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-offers-one-time-settlement-on-water-dues-270189
18-06-2021||Sandeep Rana||‘Fleecing’ in name of rituals at Sector 25 crematorium||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 17Even as cremation charges have been fixed at the Sector 25 cremation ground, some people have complained that they are being fleeced in the name of rituals.We do not force anyone to pay. It is their will. We have to pay the staff and feed our children too. Our fourth generation is serving here and seeing the attitude of people towards priests, my next generation is not going to carry on the service. - Gulshan Sharma, PriestOfficialspeakMayor Ravi Kant Sharma said, “Wood is costly these days and it is priced at only Rs3,000. However, one can bring ‘samagri’ from outside too. For other rituals, one may pay or refuse.”According to the Municipal Corporation, an amount of Rs3,000 for wood and Rs1,500 for ‘samagri’ has been fixed for the last rites. Besides, one may donate to the priest performing the cremation ritual as per one’s wish.However, some people complained that they were charged for various other things.Sunil Ohri, a resident of Sector 38, said, “Last month, my uncle was cremated at the Sector 25 ground and I had a bad experience. Apart from the cost of wood and ‘samagri’, all of us were asked to shell Rs500 each. Due to Covid restrictions, only seven of us were present and we all paid.”“When we went to collect the ashes the next day, my cousin was asked to pay for 10-day food of the priest and also perform “dashami” there. They are just fleecing people who are already in deep sorrow. We paid around Rs10,000 for the cremation and collecting the ashes,” he added.A woman not wishing to be named, who had come for the cremation of her aunt, lamented, “It is sad. They ask for money for every ritual. At that point of time, one does not find it appropriate to say no to the priest. This system should stop. There should be a fixed minimal amount for everything. Information about all charges to be collected by the staff should be given before the cremation.”Gulshan Sharma, a priest and incharge of the centre, said, “We do not force anyone to pay. It is their will. We have to pay our staff and feed out children too. People pay only for puja. Our fourth generation is serving here and seeing the attitude of people towards priests, my next generation is not going to carry on the service.”Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said, “Wood is costly these days and it is priced at only Rs3,000. However, one can bring ‘samagri’ from outside too. For other rituals, one may pay or refuse.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fleecing-in-name-of-rituals-at-sector-25-crematorium-270216
18-06-2021||---||Around 1.75 lakh saplings to add to city’s green cover||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 17To further increase the green cover, nearly 1.75 lakh saplings will be planted in the city this financial year.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today released the “Greening Chandigarh Action Plan, 2021-22”, prepared by the Department of Forests and Wildlife, Chandigarh.The target of plantation assigned to the Forest Department is 75,000 saplings, for the horticulture wing of the Engineering Department, it is 40,000 saplings and for the Municipal Corporation, it is 60,000 saplings, besides the target of free distribution of saplings among the public in the city.On the occasion, the Administrator appreciated the work done by the departments and said people of Chandigarh, who were traditionally nature lovers, would whole-heartedly support and participate in the endeavour of the Forest Department in preserving the ecological wealth of the city. He said today being “World Day to Combat Desertification and Drought”, was an appropriate day for the release of this action plan for the people of Chandigarh. “This Day particularly focuses on turning degraded land into healthy land. Restoring degraded land brings economic resilience and increases food security. It helps the biodiversity to recover,” he added.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said in recent years, global warming had shown its adverse effects, due to which the importance of trees had been understood.Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary (Forests), UT, said forests were the source of wellbeing and recreation.Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forest, UT, said the City Beautiful boasted of having preserved 46 per cent of its geographical area under forest and green cover. To further increase the green cover in the UT, the action plan had been prepared. At the end, a short film on the Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary was released by the Administrator.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/around-1-75-lakh-saplings-to-add-to-citys-green-cover-270217
18-06-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Chargesheet filed against all accused||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 17The UT police have filed a chargesheet against the accused who allegedly vandalised two vehicles in Sector 38 (West) and fired gunshots into the air on April 8, 2021.In the chargesheet, the police claimed the accused wanted to create terror among people in the area to extort money from them.The FIR was registered on the complaint of Devinder, a resident of Sector 38, against five accused at the Maloya police station. The complainant reported to the police that some miscreants smashed the windscreens of his Tata Safari and his neighbour’s car, which was parked near his house, on April 8. The cameras installed outside the house were also broken.When he checked the CCTV footage, he found that five persons riding a Scorpio, bearing a Haryana registration number, had smashed the windscreens of both cars. The suspects were armed with sticks and swords. He alleged that the miscreants also threatened them and fired shots into the air before fleeing from the spot.The police had arrested the accused three days after the incident. Those arrested included Abhishek, Raj Kumar, Monu, alias Marodi, Mukesh, alias Gullu, and Harshdeep.The police alleged that Harshdeep was driving the vehicle used in the incident. They claimed that the accused were members of a Haryana-based gang, which entered the city to spread its network.The police recovered country-made pistols and a sword from their possession. The chargesheet has been filed against the accused under Sections 147, 149, 336, 427 and 50 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act 1959. The police later added Section 307 of the IPC against the accused.The court has now fixed June 22 as the next date for the appearance of the accused. The police also alleged that several cases were registered against the accused in various police stations in Chandigarh and Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chargesheet-filed-against-all-accused-270219
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Book on artillery battles released||A new book, “With Honour and Glory: Five Great Artillery Battles”, that weaves a coherent narrative of the evolution of artillery and the lessons to be imbibed from the historic battles in which big guns played a decisive role has been authored by Maj Gen AJS ‘Abdo’ Sandhu (retd).The book has been published under the aegis of the United Services Institute of India’s Centre for Military History and Conflict Studies. It was released by Lt Gen Raj Shukla, GOC-in-C, Army Training Command, who is the senior-most serving officer of the Indian Army’s Regiment of Artillery.Spanning iconic artillery battles across four continents and 136 years, it includes the battles of Gettysburg (1863), Vimy Ridge (1917), Bir Hacheim (1942), Chhamb (1971) and Tololing/Tiger Hill (1999).The project to write a book of such depth and span was conceived by the Directorate of Artillery, Army HQs, and handed over to the USI for execution. The first print of the book has been distributed by the Directorate of Artillery to the School of Artillery, Devlali, and all formations and regiments of the artillery, and the second print will soon be made available in the public domain. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/book-on-artillery-battles-released-270220
18-06-2021||Panchkula||Speaker flags off  mini-buses in Panchkula||Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta flagged off 10 mini-buses of the Haryana Roadways from the Sector 5 bus stand here today with a view to providing economical, accessible and better transport facilities to the citizens.Initially, these buses will ply on five routes - Chandikotla to Chandigarh, Sector 17; Jalauli to Saketri; Singhpura to Chandigarh, Sector 17; Singhpura to Saketri; and Kalka to Saketri. To begin with, those routes have been chosen where either there is no bus facility or a few buses are plying.“With the introduction of the local bus service, better transport facilities will be available for passengers on all these routes. These buses will also cover the railway station passing through various sectors,” said Gupta.As Gupta’s official vehicle entered the bus stand for the flag-off ceremony, workers were seen manually cleaning stagnant water within the terminus.Surprise visit to DTO officeMeanwhile, Gupta made a surprise visit to the office of District Transport Officer on the bus stand premises. During his visit, he gave necessary instructions to officials to improve the functioning of the office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/speaker-flags-off-mini-buses-in-panchkula-270221
18-06-2021||Mohali||SAD’s Jaspreet is Kharar MC chief||In a major setback to the Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal’s (SAD) Jaspreet Kaur Longia, Councillor from Ward No. 19, was elected as the president of the Kharar Municipal Council on Thursday.Gurdeep Kaur and Jasbir Singh Rana have been elected as the senior vice-president and the vice-president, respectively. Longia had contested on the SAD ticket, while Gurdeep and Jasbir had contested as Independents. Out of the total 27 seats, the Congress had won 10, SAD eight, while one seat went to the AAP and the remaining eight seats were won by Independent candidates in the Kharar MC elections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sads-jaspreet-is-kharar-mc-chief-270222
18-06-2021||---||Teachers threaten self-immolation||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 17High drama continued as at least six contractual employees remained atop the Education Secretary’s office building with bottles full of petrol in their hands and threatened self-immolation if no one from the ministry concerned came to have a dialogue with them.Among those atop the building were Satinder Kang, Kulvinder Nardu, Samarjit Mansa, Kulbir Fazilka and Beant Singh Patiala.Hundreds of contractual teachers from all over Punjab continued to join the protesting teachers outside the Punjab School Education Board complex here, demanding regularisation of their service and a hike in their salaries.A meeting of their delegation was held with Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla at noon today, which continued till 3 pm. Panchayati Raj Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Education Secretary Krishan Kumar and the OSD to the CM, Capt Sandeep Sandhu, were also present at the meeting. However, there was no outcome of the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-threaten-self-immolation-270223
18-06-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula introduces ‘eco mart’||The Panchkula Municipal Corporation, in collaboration with NGO Haryana Nav Yuvak Kala Sangam, today introduced an ‘eco mart’ to promote the sale of eco-friendly products.The store, which is located in Sector 14 near the MC office building, is part of the civic body’s initiatives to keep the city clean and green.Eco-friendly products available for sale here include biodegradable bags and crockery, envelopes prepared from maize grains, and recycled paper products such as pencils, notepads, visiting cards, etc..According to officials, once dumped, these biodegradable envelopes will automatically merge in the soil.People can also purchase mini-dustbins for their cars from the exclusive store. The dustbins are available in two different sizes. Small dustbin will be available for Rs100 and the larger one for Rs180.A home composter had also been prepared with the help of the NGO and its price has been kept at Rs800 per unit. People can also avail of consultancy services for waste water management and solar energy at the store.Meanwhile, the civic body began the work of installing 300 sets of colour-coded dustbins across the city. Of the total 300 sets, 75 will be installed near chemist shops in the market so that medical waste can be properly disposed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-introduces-eco-mart-270225
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Rain forecast for three days in Chandigarh||Milkha’s health improving: PGIChandigarh: Former Indian sprinter Milkha Singh is said to be stable and improving under the supervision of a medical team at the PGI. “He is stable and improving. He is constantly being monitored by a medical team,” read a media bulletin issued by PGI. The 91-year-old has been shifted out of the Covid ICU. “Milkha ji continues to battle and we remain hopeful,” read a statement issued by his family. TNSSputnik V jab from tomorrowMohali: Sputnik V, a Russian Covid vaccine, will be available as part of a limited pilot roll-out at Fortis Hospital here from June 19. Announcing this, a Fortis Healthcare stated that the two-dose vaccine stock had been directly procured from Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, as per the government guidelines. A hospital spokesman said the price per dose for Sputnik V, as fixed by the government, was Rs1,145, including administrative charges. TNSTwo swindlers in police netChandigarh: Two swindlers have been arrested by the cyber cell of the UT police for duping a Sector 27 resident of Rs59,999, posing as RBL Bank executives. The accused have been identified as Ashish (23) and Nikhil (24), both residents of Delhi. They were produced in a court on Thursday and remanded in eight-day police custody. TNSAdvit brings laurels to cityChandigarh: Advit Agrawal (10), a student of Strawberry Fields High School, Sector 26, has brought laurels to Chandigarh by bagging top rank in the MaRRS International Spell Bee Championship (under category II). MaRRS International Spelling Bee is one of the Spelling Bee competitions held in Asia for schoolchildren. The objective of the competition is to enhance the spelling and literary skills of children by encouraging them to explore the English language. The eleven rounds of the competition go beyond just spellings and test almost all elements of the English language. TNS2 oxygen systems at Mohali HospitalMohali: The district unit of the Indian Red Cross Society installed two medical oxygen supply systems of 45 LPM capacity at the Civil Hospital in Phase 6 here on Thursday. The Deputy Commissioner said the society had provided funds amounting to Rs40 lakh by M/S Sonalika Social Development Society, Hoshiarpur, Punjab, under its corporate social responsibility. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rain-forecast-for-three-days-in-chandigarh-270227
18-06-2021||Chandigarh/New Delhi||Chandigarh adviser Manoj Parida transferred, to head central body||Senior Indian Administrative Service officer Manoj Kumar Parida was on Thursday appointed as Chairman, National Authority of Chemical Weapons Convention, in the rank and pay of Secretary to the Union government, under the Cabinet Secretariat.Parida joined the UT Administration on December 26, 2018, as Adviser to the Administrator, UT. After a stint of nearly two and a half years with the Chandigarh Administration, he has been transferred to Delhi. "I am happy to get a chance to serve in Govt of India at Secretary level. But I am happier that at least Corona is under Control in Chandigarh when I am leaving," wrote Manoj Parida. The 1986-batch AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram and Union Territories) joint cadre officer is among six IAS officers who have been given new responsibilities after the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet gave its approval in its latest meeting on Thursday.B. Anand, a 1987 Tamil Nadu cadre batch officer, has been appointed as Secretary, Ex-Servicemen Welfare in the Ministry of Defence after the superannuation of incumbent, 1984 batch officer Ravi Kant on June 30.He is currently holding charge of Secretary, National Commission for Minorities, under the Ministry of Minority Affairs.Renuka Kumar, a 1987 batch Uttar Pradesh cadre officer, has been appointed as Secretary, Minority Affairs upon the superannuation of 1986 batch IAS officer Pramod Kumar Das on June 30.Special Secretary, Minority Affairs S. K. Dev Verman, a 1988 batch officer, has been appointed as Secretary, National Commission for Minorities, in the rank and pay of Secretary by temporarily upgrading the post.Indevar Pandey, a 1988 batch West Bengal cadre officer, who holds charge as Secretary, Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances, and Pensions and Pensioners Welfare, has been appointed as Secretary, Women and Child Development upon the superannuation of 1987 batch officer Ram Mohan Mishra on June 30.Special Secretary, Agricultural Research and Education and Secretary, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Sanjay Kumar Singh, a 1987 batch officer, has also been appointed as Secretary, Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances, and Pensions and Pensioners Welfare. — With IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-adviser-manoj-parida-transferred-to-head-central-body-269891
