19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh's 7-year-old Bhavisha bags 1st runner-up position in Super Kid Model Hunt||Bhavisha, a seven-year-old from Chandigarh's Tri-city region who had made it to the top three contestants of Super Kid Model Hunt, and now has claimed the 1st runner-up spot after facing tough competition from fellow participants. The Super Kid Model Hunt auditions were conducted across India Level, receiving around 2,000 participation, inquiries out of which 200 considered for audition invitations, and a further, 70 qualified as successful nominations for 'SUPER Kid MODEL HUNT 2021'.Winners were chosen based on their performance at auditions, which involved a brief camera Interactive still photo shoot session. Each participant was clicked in six different modes or poses needed to capture in a given time of 10 minutes and further adjudged based on its outcome, their confidence, reaction to instructions received, understanding & time taken in delivering the same.Super Kid Model Hunt was conducted by Ora-Pota Kids Club, a virtual institution with the Ideology.“PARTICIPATION IS ONE BIG ADVENTURE” offers various scopes of kids participation, mainly based on Arts & Entertainment.In recent time, many projects are being published featuring kids under the flagship of Ora-Pota kids club.Anil Kadian, Creative Director, Ora-Pota Kids Club, who is a published writer as well, further adds that “winners of SUPER Kid MODEL HUNT will be provided with multiple opportunities and platforms of featuring in upcoming projects of the club. The honouring Ceremony winners along with Top 60 successful nominations would take place soon”.Winners:Pavit, from Rohtak, is the winner of Super Kid Model Hunt 2021.Bhavisha, from Chandigarh, is the 1st runner-up.Daksh, from Yamunanagar, is the 2nd runner-up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-7-year-old-bhavisha-bags-1st-runner-up-position-in-super-kid-model-hunt-270942
19-06-2021||---||Chandigarh loses its most precious gem||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 18After struggling for nearly a month, legendary Indian sprinter Milkha Singh passed away at the PGI here tonight. The Flying Sikh breathed his last at 11.30 pm.“With extreme sadness we would like to inform you that Milkha Singh ji passed away at 11.30 pm on June 18, 2021,” read a statement issued by the Milkha family.“He fought hard but God has his ways and it was perhaps true love and companionship that both our mother, Nirmal ji, and now dad have passed away in a matter of five days,” read the statement.Milkha’s wife, Nirmal Milkha, a former captain of the Indian women’s volleyball team, died on June 13 due to complications related to Covid-19. “We are deeply indebted to doctors at the PGI for their valiant efforts and the love and prayers we received from across the world,” the statement added.Earlier in the day, Milkha’s health deteriorated due to fever, followed by desaturation and low pulse.Legendary Indian sprinter Milkha Singh was admitted to the ICU of the Covid hospital at the PGI on June 3, 2021, and was treated for Covid there till June 13, said PGI spokesperson Prof Ashok Kumar. “After putting up a valiant battle with Covid, Milkha Singh tested negative. However, due to post-Covid complications he was shifted out of the Covid hospital to a medical ICU. Despite best of the efforts by the medical team, Milkha Singh ji could not be retrieved,” said Prof Kumar.Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, expressed condolences on the demise of the “most revered sporting icon”. “He will be remembered for his exceptional accomplishments on and off the field and his endearing and humane personality,” he said.A True Love storyWith Milkha dying five days after his wife Nirmal passed away, the never forgetting love story continues. While Nirmal was leading the Indian volleyball team in Sri Lanka, Milkha had gone there to compete in an athletics meet. Later, they met at the College of Physical Education, Patiala. The then Punjab Chief Minister Partap Singh Kairon is believed to have intervened to get Milkha and Nirmal married. Since then, the couple was never separated.Had special place in hearts of indians: PM}In the passing away of Milkha Singh ji, we have lost a colossal sportsperson, who captured the nation’s imagination and had a special place in the hearts of countless Indians. Anguished by his passing away. Narendra Modi, PMIndia has lost its star: Rijiju}India has lost its star. Milkha Singh ji has left us but he will continue to inspire every Indian to shine for India. Kiren Rijiju, Union Sports Minister||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-loses-its-most-precious-gem-270813
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration lifts Sunday lockdown||After nearly one and a half months, residents will be able to enjoy their weekend, as the UT Administration has decided to lift the Sunday lockdown. With a significant decline in the number of Covid-19 cases, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has decided to call off a general lockdown on Sunday. However, the night curfew will continue to remain in force from 10:30 pm to 5 am.2 deaths, 39 cases in ChandigarhChandigarh: The city reported 39 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Friday. The active case tally now stands at 431 and the toll at 804. As many as 47 more patients recovered from the virus. TNS12 cases, one death in Panchkula districtPanchkula: The district on Friday reported 12 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 30,517. It also witnessed one death. A 64-year-old woman from Konna, who was suffering from diabetes mellitus type 2 and hypertension, succumbed to the virus. The death toll now stands at 367. While 30,016 patients have recovered so far, 134 cases are active. The recovery rate is 98.35 per cent. TNSSukhna Lake will remain closed during the day, but will remain open for morning and evening walkers from 5 am to 9 am and 6 pm to 8 pm on Sunday.The development came days after the UT Administration allowed the shops to remain open for longer hours, from 10 am to 7 pm.With a sharp increase in coronavirus cases, the UT Administration had on April 16 decided to impose weekend curfew in the city to prevent further spread of the virus.As the number of corona cases continued to drop further, the Administration had on May 24 allowed all shops to open from 9 am to 3 pm and later, the timings were extended. Later, the curfew restrictions were lifted on Saturdays.Charanjiv Singh, president, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said they were now hopeful of regular shopping hours in the coming week. Diwakar Sahoonja, chief spokesperson of CBM, said they were hopeful of early steps by the Administration towards pending demands of financial assistance and compensation for losses incurred by traders due to lockdown, self-assessments of pending taxation cases and bringing need-based changes in building bylaws of commercial properties. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-lifts-sunday-lockdown-270817
19-06-2021||---||Over 4 months on, Mohali case count under 25||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 18More than four months after the beginning of the second wave of Covid-19, the district witnessed less than 25 fresh cases in a day. The district reported 24 cases during the past 24 hours. On February 18, 27 persons were tested positive for the virus.Meanwhile, one patient died on Friday, taking the total number of deaths due to Covid to 1,037. It was on March 30 when the district saw single death. As many as 107 patients were cured of the disease on Friday.Among the new cases, four each came from Mohali (urban) and Dera Bassi, two each from Boothgarh and Gharuan, five from Dhakoli and seven from Kharar. No fresh case was reported from Lalru, Kurali and Banur.The district has so far reported 67,982 cases and 66,402 recoveries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-4-months-on-mohali-case-count-under-25-270818
19-06-2021||Naina Mishra||Judicious use a shot in the arm for Chandigarh on vaccination front||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 18The city has been able to use every last drop of the Covid-19 vaccine lately, preventing wastage. At least 8,600 more people received jabs than the vaccine available for the 18 to 44 age group.Even 12 shots from a vial: UTOne vial or bottle of the vaccine contains enough doses to vaccinate 10 individuals. The manufacturer adds one dose extra as a ‘wastage factor’. The medical staff have been able to use the extra dose as well. Our health staff were able to procure even the 12th dose from the vial with judicious use.— Arun Gupta, UT Principal Health SecretaryHealth personnel have successfully administered up to 11 doses from a majority of the vials, allowing the UT to vaccinate more people than the actual number of doses provided.The wastage is minus 7 per cent for the doses given to the 18 to 44 category in Chandigarh. “We had about 8,600 extra doses in the procurement supply for the 18-44 age group. After June 21, we will be able to calculate the overall wastage in the common pool,” said UT Principal Health Secretary Arun Gupta.Gupta said, “One vial or bottle of the vaccine contains enough doses to vaccinate 10 individuals. The manufacturer adds one dose extra as a ‘wastage factor’. The medical staff have been able to use the extra dose as well. In most cases, a small amount gets lost when filling the needle for each patient. The wastage dose is included to compensate for this loss. The staff were trained not to waste the vaccine while filling the needle. Our health staff were able to procure even the 12th dose from the vial with judicious use.” “Initially, our wastage was 2 per cent, but we gradually changed our technique due to which we were able to use the last drop of each dose,” he said.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, explained, “We used to collect the doses left at each vaccination centre and take these to the GMSH-16 centre. To save these doses, we used to vaccinate those needing it by registering them on the site. This way, we did not waste a single dose.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/judicious-use-a-shot-in-the-arm-for-chandigarh-on-vaccination-front-270820
19-06-2021||---||Dera Bassi mill owner gets Rs1.36-cr power bill||Tribune News ServiceDera Bassi, June 18A Bhankharpur flour mill owner was shell-shocked to see his power bill of Rs1.36 crore for the billing cycle of April-June (60 days) on June 16. “Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has charged excessively high amount for 2,088 units, which in normal circumstances would have been in the range of Rs8,000 to Rs10,000,” said Satpal Singh Kalra, a Bhankharpur resident.“The PSPCL has given my flour mill a small power connection with load upto 20 kW. It is not possible to consume electricity amounting to Rs1,36,07,800 through this connection. Only they can tell what has gone wrong,” he added. The flour mill owner is worried how the bill would be rectified and how many rounds he will have take of the PSPCL office for none of his fault. In Zirakpur, some residents are worried as the PSPCL has not sent them bills for close to three months now. Residents said it would be difficult for them to pay bill of three months together.It was also uncertain whether late fee would be charged from consumers getting monthly bills. “Also, the rate per unit changes according to the consumption,” said Girish Sharma, a Baltana resident.PSPCL officials said this time, the bill delivery had been delayed due to a change in software. The delay would not have any effect on the rate slab.“The PSPCL has failed to ensure uninterrupted power supply here. Frequent power outages, unscheduled power cuts and voltage fluctuations have become a norm this summer,” said Laxmi, a resident of Victoria City, a housing society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassi-mill-owner-gets-rs1-36-cr-power-bill-270821
19-06-2021||---||Nine inspectors among 15 cops shifted in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 18Fifteen cops, including nine inspectors, were today transferred by the UT Police Department.Inspector Juldan Singh, who was the SHO of the Mauli Jagran police station, has been transferred to the security wing, while Inspector Rohit Kumar, who was in the traffic wing, has been posted as the SHO of the Mauli Jagran police station. Inspector Amanjot Singh, SHO of the Sector 39 police station, has been transferred to the operation cell. He has been replaced by Inspector Karam Chand, who was in the security wing.Inspector Chiranji Lal, who was the SHO of the Maloya police station, has been transferred to the traffic wing. Inspector Om Parkash, who was the in-charge of the Burail police post, has been posted as the SHO.Inspector Sukhdweep Singh, who was in the traffic wing, has been transferred to the security wing.Inspector Hari Om, who was on promotion, will be posted at the cyber crime investigation cell. Inspector Jaiveer Singh Rana, who was the in-charge of the Neelam police post, Sector 17, has been transferred to the Economic Offences Wing (EOW).Inspector Mini Bhardwaj, who was posted at the Sector 49 police station, has been transferred to the Recruitment Training Centre (RTC).Sub-Inspector (SI) Vivek Kumar, who was posted at the Sector 39 police station, has been transferred to the Neelam police post as the in-charge. SI Parmod Kumar, who was in the EOW, has been posted as the in-charge of the Daria police post.SI Sudesh Kumar has been transferred from the Industrial Area police station to the Burail police post as the in-charge.SI Gurdarshan Singh has been transferred from the PCR to the RTC and SI Chander Mukhi has been transferred from the Sarangpur police station to the PGI police post as the in-charge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nine-inspectors-among-15-cops-shifted-in-chandigarh-270822
19-06-2021||---||Himachal youth found dead in PG room at Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 18A 24-year-old youth youth was found dead at his paying guest (PG) room at Dashmesh Colony in Balongi. The deceased has been identified as Arvind Banyal, a native of Hamirpur (HP).Preliminary investigation revealed that the youth was a patient of diabetes. His blood sugar levels shot down drastically due to which he lost consciousness and died, Balongi police post in-charge Rajpal Singh said. The police said the youth shifted to the house on Tuesday saying that he was joining a job in Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/himachal-youth-found-dead-in-pg-room-at-mohali-270823
19-06-2021||---||No early second dose for people going abroad for marriages||Mohali, June 18Mohali Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur today clarified that the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine would not be administered before 84 days to international travelers who want to go abroad for a wedding or a private event. What Mohali Civil Surgeon saysMohali Civil Surgeon Adarshpal Kaur said people who intend to visit abroad for attending marriages and other private functions, and who had permanent residency there and want to return, were visiting her office for getting the second dose but this facility was not meant for such persons.Dr Kaur said the vaccine was being administered to only three categories of international travelers – one who has to travel abroad for education, to take up jobs in foreign countries and athletes and sportspersons who have to participate in the Olympic Games to be held in Tokyo or the staff accompanying them.“This facility has not been given to any other category except the above three categories,” said Dr Kaur.She said the people who intend to visit abroad for attending marriages and other private functions, and who had permanent residency there and want to return, were visiting her office for getting the second dose but this facility was not meant for such persons.The Centre had recently tweaked the interval rules between the two doses of Covishield for international travelers. Earlier, the second dose of Covishield could be administered only after 84 days, but the government had given relief to the above categories saying that the vaccine could be given after 28 days and before 84 days.Regarding documents to be submitted for getting permission for the second dose, the Civil Surgeon said these included a copy of the first dose certificate, passport and visa. Aspirants can get attested these documents from the SDM, Circle Revenue Officer, BDPO, MC EO, Labour Inspector, AETC/ETO/Excise Inspector, SHO, RMO and elected representatives of the local and urban bodies, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-early-second-dose-for-people-going-abroad-for-marriages-270826
19-06-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula targets to vaccinate 20K on Monday||The city will observe a ‘Mega Tikka Day’ for all above the age of 18 on Monday, targeting to vaccinate around 20,000 people in a single day.As per today’s vaccine bulletin, a stock of 27,360 doses is available for the 45-plus category and 9,780 doses are available for the 18-44 age group.On Monday, the Centre’s new plan to provide free vaccination to everyone above 18 years of age will come into force, allowing local health officials to club the distribution of both categories.The district will also receive 9,000 more doses by tomorrow. The CMO, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said: “One of the major strategies in the prevention of the anticipated wave is timely vaccination. We have now adequate stocks of vaccines. All site in-charge are requested to mobilise beneficiaries for the vaccination drive on Monday.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-targets-to-vaccinate-20k-on-monday-270827
19-06-2021||---||PU scholars protest outside office of  Vice-Chancellor||Chandigarh, June 18More than hundred research scholars staged a protest outside the Vice-Chancellor’s office at Panjab University here today to press for their demands.The protesting scholars’ sought extension in submission of thesis, besides allowing hostels to all the scholars. They also pressed for considering lockdown period as zero for the hostel stay.Student representatives of various parties urged the PU administration to fulfil the demands of scholars at the earliest and stop harassing them by calling their parents and respective guides.After protesting at the VC office for an hour, students decided to march towards the VC house. However, they were stopped at the gate and rounded up by the Chandigarh Police.As per a PU statement, “The university authorities advised the protesting students outside the Vice-Chancellor’s office to have a dialogue with the authorities but some protestors entered into a scuffle with the security and police personnel and tried to break the barriers. In this, one police personal was also injured.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-scholars-protest-outside-office-of-vice-chancellor-270830
19-06-2021||---||Minister hands over Rs10-cr grant to Mohali civic body||Mohali, June 18A sum of Rs65 crore has been provided to the local Municipal Corporation for development works in the past two months. This was stated by Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu while handing over a grant of Rs10 crore to the MC under the Punjab Urban Environment Improvement Programme, Phase III.Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu, Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi and Commissioner Kamal Garg were present on the occasion.Balbir Singh Sidhu said the MC had initiated development works worth Rs16.38 crore, of which Rs10 crore was being spent on the construction of a road over the sewer line alongside the main road here while the remaining amount would be used for various development works in other wards. He said works worth Rs22.79 crore have been approved by the Finance and Contract Committee and their tenders had been invited. These works would start next week.The minister said the PSPCL owed Rs30 crore to the MC which was collected through municipal tax on its bills. He had talked to Venu Prasad, Chairman, PSPCL, and the latter had assured that Rs25 crore would be provided to the MC next month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minister-hands-over-rs10-cr-grant-to-mohali-civic-body-270831
19-06-2021||---||RLA to resume RC, DL services from June 21||Chandigarh, June 18With dip in Covid-19 cases, the Registrating and Licensing Authority (RLA) here has decided to start all the services related to registration certificates (RC) and driving licenses (DL) with effect from June 21.Services related to new learner’s license and renewal of learner’s license and test for regular driving license will, however, start from June 28.The applicants who desire to book an appointment for getting RCs or DLs can visit www.chdtransport.gov.in or call on 1860-180-2067.The portal for booking an appointment will be made functional with effect from June 20, 10 am onwards, said an RLA official.The booking of appointments for new learner’s license or renewal of learner’s license and regular driving test will be made functional with effect from June 27, 10 am onwards.No applicant or person will be entertained without online appointment, said the official.Earlier, the RLA had resumed the public dealing on June 1 for services including the registration of new vehicles, other state vehicles, NOC of vehicles and renewal of the RC.Services related to issuance of international driving licenses, NOC for driving license and renewal of driving license also re-started from June 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rla-to-resume-rc-dl-services-from-june-21-270832
19-06-2021||---||IMA protests violence against docs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 18Indian Medical Association, Chandigarh, today observed black day to protest the violence against doctors.Dr V Kappal, president, IMA, Chandigarh, said: “We have written to the Prime Minister, urging him to enact a law against violence faced by the doctors.” Doctors across the country today staged a symbolic protest against the violence faced by them.“The doctors in Chandigarh are protesting symbolically with black badges and through public awareness during this pandemic time, as we do not want any disruption in health services,” he said.“The private sector is providing 75 per cent of services to the citizens across the country, but they are subjected to violence in a vast majority of cases,” Dr Kappal pointed out.Dr Nitin Mathur, secretary, IMA, Chandigarh, said a non-bailable act should be enacted to discourage the miscreants.“There are enough laws to deal with alleged negligence, violence is not a solution,” said Dr Mathur.Dr RS Bedi, former national vice-president of the body, said the incidence of violence against doctors in India was the “highest in the world”.He urged people to go for family insurance to avoid sudden out-of-pocket expenses. “Studies have shown that this sudden expenditure is the main cause of anger and frustration leading to violence,” said Dr Bedi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ima-protests-violence-against-docs-270833
19-06-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Directions of HC committee for release of prisoners not mandatory||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 18While upholding the decision of a trial court, Swati Sehgal, Additional Sessions Judge, has said that the directions of the High Powered Committee of the Punjab and Haryana High Court for the release of undertrial prisoners are not mandatory in nature, rather it is left to the discretion of the court concerned to consider whether undertrial prisoners are to be released on interim bail or not.Arshad, a resident of Meerut, UP, filed a revision petition before the Sessions Court after his bail plea was dismissed by the trial court on the ground that his case does not fall within the criteria prescribed by the High Power Committee of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Arshad is facing charges under Sections 419 and 420 of the IPC read with Section 120-B IPC. The police alleged in the FIR that the accused, in a conspiracy with the co-accused, cheated the complainant by way of impersonation and induced the latter to disclose his credit card number, OTPs and caused him a financial loss of Rs4 lakh.He filed a bail application seeking relief of interim bail for 90 days before the trial court in compliance with the directions of the Supreme Court in Suo Motu Writ Petition (Civil) No.1 of 2020 and the directions issued by the High Power Committee. The counsel for the accused argued that the application for relief of interim bail was wrongly declined by the Magistrate holding that the case of the revisionist does not fall in the criteria prescribed in the above guidelines, as the offence for which he is lodged in the Jail is punishable for more than seven years.The counsel for the revisionist argued that a perusal of the FIR revealed that no offence attributed to the revisionist is punishable with punishment of more than seven years.The public prosecutor argued that the allegations levelled against the revisionist were serious and grave in nature.After hearing of the arguments, the court said the opening line of the directions of the High Powered Committee of the Punjab and Haryana High Court for the release of undertrial prisoners clearly revealed that the directions were not mandatory in nature, rather it was left to the discretion of the court concerned to consider whether undertrial prisoners were to be released on interim bail or not. The revisionist is charged under sections 419, read with Section 120-B, and Section 420, read with Section 120-B, IPC. The cumulative sentences in both provisions provide imprisonment beyond seven years. Thus, also the benefit of recommendations of the High Powered Committee for the release of undertrial prisoners cannot be granted to the revisionist.Keeping in view the magnitude of the offence and that the white-collar crime was committed in a calculated manner by the accused, the interim bail of the accused was declined by the trial court and the bail application was declined by ASJ, Chandigarh. In view of this, there is no illegality in the order passed by the trial court holding that the case of the revisionist does not fall in the criteria of guidelines as prescribed by the High Powered Committee, the court further says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/directions-of-hc-committee-for-release-of-prisoners-not-mandatory-270835
19-06-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Intermediate players have a reason to cheer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 18Awaiting the UT Administration’s approval for practising at sports complexes, intermediate and leisure activity players have a reason to cheer as the Sports Secretary, UT Administration, has ensured to take up the matter in the next war-room meeting.Intermediate players of various age groups have been demanding re-opening of sports complexes, which were shut for all during the partial lockdown. However, since relaxations have been given at various fronts, these players have been demanding permission to practise.“Definitely, we will try (permitting intermediate players) in the next war-room meeting,” said KK Yadav, Secretary Sports.Earlier, the UT Administrator and Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore had allowed opening of sports complexes from June 1, but only for professional players. These players are likely to be allowed to use the complexes for two hours each in the evening and morning sessions as per the footfall (number of players) and availability of time slots.Sources, meanwhile, claimed that the decision to open swimming pools, for fully vaccinated persons, is also likely to be taken up with the higher-ups for approval. The swimming pools are also shut for over a year now. Besides swimming, badminton, lawn tennis, squash and gyms attract most of the memberships. These facilities are also one of the most revenue-earning areas of the UT Sports Department. All these facilities have been allowed to be used by professional players only as of now. The next war-room meeting is likely to be held on June 22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/intermediate-players-have-a-reason-to-cheer-270837
19-06-2021||---||Consumer panel asks CBI to arrest contractor||Mohali, June 18After the Mohali police failed to arrest contractor Malkit Singh, who has been accused of duping consumers of huge amounts of money, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to nab him.Commission president SD Sharma said: “We feel that the very purpose of the Consumer Protection Act will fail if such type of accused are allowed to eat up the money of innocent complainants.”Earlier, the counsel for a complainant had argued that Malkit Singh – proprietor of M/s Gill Contractor – who is living within the jurisdiction of Mohali district, was not being arrested by the police despite several non-bailable warrants being issued against him.In more than 39 cases non-bailable warrants have been issued against Malkit Singh, claimed the complainant.“It is proved that Malkit Singh, who is intentionally evading the service of warrants of this Commission, is bent upon to cheat the process of law,” stated the commission.“It is not possible to prosecute and convict him under Section 72 of the Consumer Protection Act, 2019 unless or until he is brought to the commission,” the commission observed.“Despite our several orders to the district police Mohali in several cases, arrest of Malkit Singh could not be effected. We have no alternative except to take the services of some other agency to seek the arrest of this person and to invoke the rule of law in these cases,” it added.The commission ordered that the arrest warrants related to all the 39 cases be sent to the CBI Director with a request letter to help the District Consumer Commission to ensure the arrest of Malkit Singh, who was roaming freely within the jurisdiction of Mohali district even after usurping the money of various complainants.The commission has fixed August 28 as the next date of hearing in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/consumer-panel-asks-cbi-to-arrest-contractor-270839
19-06-2021||---||Covid shot mandatory for cricketers: UTCA||Chandigarh, June 18The UT Cricket Association (UTCA) today clarified that it would be mandatory for Chandigarh cricketers to get Covid vaccination for the current BCCI cricketing season and to play in any of the UTCA matches.The UTCA is going to organise a special Covid vaccination camp on June 21 at the Sector 16 Cricket Stadium here. The last date of registration for the camp is June 19, stated the UTCA, adding that the registration is mandatory for vaccination.Apart from the current cricketers, the camp will also benefit the former cricketers, support staff, administrators, vendors, suppliers and all the people associated with the sport and their families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-shot-mandatory-for-cricketers-utca-270842
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali resident dies in mishap||Youth arrested with pistolChandigarh: A 19-year-old youth has been arrested by the crime branch of the UT police with a country-made pistol and a live cartridge. The suspect has been identified as Gaurav, a resident of Dadu Majra village. The police have registered a case at the Maloya police station. TNSThieves strike at two housesChandigarh: Two house thefts have been reported from different parts of the city. In the first incident, complainant Navneet Kumar Paruti, a resident of Sector 51, reported that jewellery items and Rs25,000 were stolen from his house on June 16. The police have registered a case at the Sector 49 police station. In the other case, Hori Lal, a Sector 56 resident, reported that an LED, three pots with artificial flowers and other items were stolen from his house on June 15. The police registered a case at the Sector 39 police station and later arrested the suspect, identified as Vishal, alias Chundi. TNS No mandatory attendanceChandigarh: Keeping in view the unprecedented Covid-19 situation and the problems of students, Panjab University has suspended the mandatory condition of attendance for those appearing for even semester examinations for all its teaching departments, all affiliated, constituent colleges as well as regional centres for the session 2020-2021 only, said Prof VK Sinha, Dean, University Instructions. He added this should not be made a precedent in future. However, the teachers shall submit their attendance record in the office of their departments concerned as usual. TNS‘Plant a sapling on your b’day’Mohali: "Plant a sapling on your birthday" was launched by Ivy Group of Healthcare across all six hospitals of the group in Mohali, Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Bathinda, Khanna and Nawanshahr on Friday. Dr Kanwaldeep and Dr Japnit Singh, medical director and director, respectively, of the group, planted saplings at the Mohali hospital. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-resident-dies-in-mishap-270844
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Flying Sikh Milkha Singh dies of Covid complications||Milkha Singh, the Flying Sikh, has flown — and it’s clear that there will be none like him again. The 91-year-old’s fight with Covid-19 ended late Friday night at the PGI, where he had been undergoing treatment for the dreaded virus which took his wife Nirmal’s life five days ago.He will be cremated at 5 pm on Saturday with full state honours.His mortal remains have been kept at his Sector 8 residence. Milkha Singh, who tested positive for Covid-19 on May 20 after a domestic help at his residence was found infected, was initially admitted to a Mohali hospital before being brought home on May 30. However, he was admitted to the PGI after his oxygen levels fell.Also read: Milkha’s death brings the curtain down on the extraordinary story of this remarkable athlete, whose exploits were retold to the new generation through cinema with the movie Bhag Milkha Bhag.Born in Gobindpura — now in Pakistan — on November 30, 1928, Milkha was violently uprooted from his birthplace by the Partition when riots took the lives of his parents, two sisters and a brother.His life changed for the better when Milkha joined the Army, and it was in this institution that his amazing talent was identified and nurtured.Milkha became the first Indian athlete to win a gold medal at the Commonwealth Games in the 400m division at Cardiff in 1958.The same year, he did the 200m-400m double at the Tokyo Asian Games.His most famous race, however, is the 400m final at the 1964 Olympic Games, where he was one of the favourites to get a medal — which he missed by a whisker, ending up fourth.After his career ended, Milkha became a sports administrator.He is survived by one son — golfer Jeev Milkha Singh — and three daughters.In the passing away of Shri Milkha Singh Ji, we have lost a colossal sportsperson, who captured the nation’s imagination and had a special place in the hearts of countless Indians. His inspiring personality endeared himself to millions. Anguished by his passing away. pic.twitter.com/h99RNbXI28  India mourns the sad demise of legendary sprinter Shri Milkha Singh Ji, The Flying Sikh. He has left an indelible mark on world athletics. Nation will always remember him as one of the brightest stars of Indian sports. My deepest condolences to his family and countless followers. pic.twitter.com/HsHMXYHypx  Upset and saddened to hear of Milkha Singh Ji’s demise. It marks the end of an era and India & Punjab are poorer today. My condolences to the bereaved family & millions of fans. The legend of the Flying Sikh will reverberate for generations to come. Rest in peace Sir! pic.twitter.com/7yK8EOHUnS  Saddened to hear about the demise of Shri Milkha Singh Ji. A legendary sportsman, he will be dearly remembered.My sincere condolences to his family, loved ones and fans across the world.  Your life, your struggle, your story will continue to give wings to millions of Indians for generations to come. Rest in peace, Flying Sikh #MilkhaSingh. 🙏🏼@JeevMilkhaSingh pic.twitter.com/yRMHQhr5Ac||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/flying-sikh-milkha-singh-dies-of-covid-complications-270461
19-06-2021|| New Delhi||Jaipal encounter: SC asks Punjab & Haryana HC to hear plea for second autopsy||The Supreme Court on Friday set aside the order of Punjab and Haryana High Court dismissing the plea filed by slain gangster Jaipal Singh Bhullar's father seeking directions to the Punjab government to conduct a second autopsy of his son's body.   The high court, which had declined the plea on the ground of territorial jurisdiction, was asked by the apex court to consider the plea again on June 21. HC dismisses plea for 2nd post-mortemA Vacation Bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and MR Shah also directed the Punjab government to make appropriate arrangements to preserve the body, which has been taken to Firozpur in Punjab from Kolkata. “The impugned order is set aside. The High Court is requested to hear the matter on Monday (June 21). The Punjab government shall make necessary arrangements for the storage of the dead body,” the Bench said. Bhullar and another gangster Jaspreet Singh, involved in killing two policemen recently in Ludhiana, were gunned down by a Kolkata police team in a shootout in the city on June 9 after receiving "pin-pointed" information from their Punjab counterparts. Kin refuse to cremate gangster Jaipal Singh Bhullar, want autopsyThe high court had dismissed the plea of the slain gangster's father saying the matter is not under its jurisdiction as the encounter took place in Kolkata.During the hearing in the apex court, advocate Ishma Randhawa, appearing for Bhullar's father Bhupinder Singh claimed it was a fake encounter and the deceased was killed by custodial torture. She contended that Singh has seen the body of Bhullar, which she said had gone blue and bones were broken. Randhawa said that his father had gone to Kolkata on his own and brought back the body to Firozpur in Punjab.Dreaded gangster Jaipal Bhullar, aide Jaspreet killed in Kolkata encounter“I am not seeking a CBI probe into the encounter but all I want is a second autopsy to ascertain the fact whether he was killed in custodial torture or not. I have the right to know under Article 21 of the constitution to know how my son was killed,” she said. On Thursday, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had dismissed a petition filed by Bhullar's father seeking directions to the state of Punjab to conduct a second autopsy of his son's body either at PGIMER here or AIIMS, New Delhi. The court had also dismissed another plea for preserving Bhullar's body at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). Bhullar's family hasn't yet conducted his last rites. Bhullar's father Bhupinder Singh, in his petition had sought directions to the state of Punjab to conduct a second post-mortem of his son's body either at the PGIMER, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, or some independent medical institute to ascertain the nature of injuries. Bhupinder Singh, a retired Punjab police inspector, has alleged that his son was tortured before being gunned down. Earlier on Monday, the Ferozepur deputy commissioner had rejected the request of Bhullar's family for a second post-mortem. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jaipal-encounter-sc-asks-punjab-haryana-hc-to-hear-plea-for-second-autopsy-270403
19-06-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Milkha Singh’s health deteriorates||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 18Former Indian sprinter Milkha Singh’s health deteriorated on Friday, according to highly placed sources."He was fine till Thursday evening. However, late in the night, he had fever and also de-saturation. His health is not sinking, but he is also not stable," said the source.His daughter, Mona Milkha Singh, who is a doctor, is also closely monitoring his health, the source said.On Wednesday, Milkha Singh was shifted out of the Covid ICU to another section of the PGI hospital.The 91-year-old contracted the virus last month. His wife, Nirmal Milkha Singh, succumbed to Covid on June 13.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-singhs-health-deteriorates-270375
