20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 22 new Covid cases; no deaths for first time in 82 days||Chandigarh reported a new low of 22 Covid cases in the last 24 hours, a health bulletin from the UT administration said on Sunday.The UT also reported no deaths for the first time in 82 days.  The report showed 1,775 tests were conducted over the last 24 hours.The UT now has 353 active cases. Chandigarh also reported 70 recoveries on Sunday, the bulletin showed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-22-new-covid-cases-no-deaths-for-first-time-in-82-days-271471
20-06-2021||Panchkula||Haryana: Farmers protest ahead of Khattar's arrival at Panchkula event||A group of farmers on Sunday held a protest hours before Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar was to attend an event here, with police taking some of the protesters into preventive custody before the CM's arrival.Shortly before Khattar was to inaugurate a wellness centre at Thapli Nature Camp here, some farmers carrying black flags to protest against the new agri laws used alternate routes in an attempt to reach closer to the venue, police said.A small group among them tried to cross the police barricades put up near the camp, but when police stopped them, they squatted on the road.Later, the protesters were put into a police bus and taken into preventive custody.There was heavy police deployment in the area as Khattar was to reach the venue after inaugurating a few adventure sports activities in the Morni area.Some of the protesters said they were holding a peaceful protest, but police used force to disperse them.They alleged a group of farmers, including some elderly, who were squatting on the road, were picked up and bundled into a police bus.Protesting farmers have been opposing public functions of the BJP-JJP leaders in the state over the farm laws issues.Several farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since November last year demanding that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops.However, the government has maintained the laws are pro-farmer. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-farmers-protest-ahead-of-khattars-arrival-at-panchkula-event-271464
20-06-2021||Pradeep Magazine||Sports journalist Pradeep Magazine on the legend of Milkha Singh||Ramrod-straight, upright, wiry and brimming with confidence, Milkha Singh never looked his age. He never aged. Looking at him, it was hard to imagine that he was a man in his nineties. Nothing seemed to have changed from his youthful days, except maybe his greying hair, which he used to dye.Milkha and wife Nirmal were made for each other, so deeply did they seem to understand each other.He did not know how old he was, having had to flee his village in Multan during the bloodbath of Partition, leaving behind his parents and siblings who were killed in the riots. His official date of birth — November 20, 1929 — was a later-day invention to maintain records in his job applications. He was a child of that traumatic period of Indian history when its very survival and identity were under threat. Hungry, without any means of living, Milkha struggled on the streets of Delhi in 1947, seeking menial jobs in grocery stores, polishing shoes and even being jailed for travelling ticketless in a train.His story of that struggle and deprivation that could not deter him from becoming the leading athlete of his times has been dramatically encapsulated in the film ‘Bhaag Milkha Bhaag’, which reintroduced him to a new audience and has made him a household name for even the present generation.The legend of Milkha is well documented and needs no retelling, yet there are so many dramatic elements to it that each time you hear or narrate them, something new gets invented. So much of it sounds like a film script, written in the typical Bollywood masala style to captivate the audiences. Yet, it is all real.When we were growing up in the India of the Sixties and Seventies, we had two superheroes — Milkha Singh and Dara Singh. While Dara Singh was the epitome of power and strength, Milkha was the essence of speed. If anyone tried to show off his physical powers, people would taunt him and say: “Do you think you are Dara Singh?” And if anyone would boast about running fast, they would sneer at him and say: “Do you think you are Milkha Singh?” Even for those who had no interest in athletics or sports, Milkha had become that mythical figure who could run faster than the gods.The epithet ‘Flying Sikh’ is believed to have been given to him by Pakistan President General Ayub Khan in Lahore, where he beat one of the best runners in Asia, Abdul Khaliq, in 1958. And this sobriquet struck a chord among the Indian masses — now he was no longer just a speed merchant difficult to beat, but had also added wings to his sprinting legs. He was now the best runner in Asia and the Commonwealth countries, winning gold medals in their top events. He was by then being counted among the best 200m and 400m runners in the world and one of the favourites for the gold in 400m at the 1960 Rome Olympic Games. In a photo-finish, he came fourth, missing out on a medal by a whisker.Despite that loss, which remains the best finish in track and field for an Indian in the Olympics even now, his legend endured. He was already beyond the human realm in the popular Indian imagination. His Olympics timing stood as a national record for the next 38 years and his winning 77 of the 80 races he ran is a feat not to scoff at.His exploits had seeped so much into our minds that it won’t be wrong to say that he, much like Dara Singh, was a “Superman” in India’s collective conscience.Chandigarh diariesIt was this “Superman” I interacted with from the early 1980s during my Chandigarh days, where I started my journalistic career. Milkha was then Director (Sports) with the Punjab Schools Department, and his wife — the affectionate, genial and hospitable Nirmal Milkha Singh — was Director (Sports) with the Chandigarh Administration. Nirmal was an achiever in her own right, having captained the Indian volleyball team, and the couple was made for each other, so deeply did they seem to understand each other. In a conversation, if she thought he was about to say something improper or was on the verge of losing his cool, she would immediately interject and just say “Sardarji”, and Milkha would immediately cool down. The bond was so strong that Milkha survived for barely five days after Nirmal succumbed to Covid-19.He was a modest man but fully aware of his status and achievements. He knew what the name Milkha meant — the very definition of overcoming adversity and triumphing against all odds. He would regale us with stories of his past with the relish of a child, never flinching from explaining in detail his impoverished past and his complete lack of formal education. We would gather around him in parties and ask him to recount some of the more engaging tales for the newer audiences who were not aware of those nuggets. He would always oblige. He would call us rookies “Kakey” (child) and relate his embarrassing and triumphant moments with great relish.One of our favourite stories was his response to Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru when he offered him the job of Director (Sports) in Punjab. He was not aware of such designations, nor of the hierarchies in jobs. All he knew was that ‘Afsar’ means someone important, and so he told the PM: “No I don’t want to become director, make me Afsar.” Despite having heard this story many times over, we all, including him, would break into peals of laughter every time he related it.He would always blush when we would ask him about that famous quip of his, “No, no, I am Milkha Singh”, on being asked by a woman: “Are you relaxing?” This incident was real and happened during one of his races abroad, where a white English-speaking woman saw him lazing around while sitting on the turf. Milkha would become red in the face when he told this story and acknowledge that he was taken aback at seeing a young woman approach him and thought she had mistaken him for someone else.It was hard to identify the Milkha we knew with the Milkha we had created in our imagination. He would speak fluent English, something he must have worked hard on during his later days, and his manners were urbane and he would carry himself with élan. There were no traces of bitterness in him of a past which could have scarred the best of us. He had learnt the ways of the world well. He was now a golfer, playing regularly at the Chandigarh Golf Club, where his son Jeev mastered the game to become a successful professional golfer.He thought he was lucky to get into the Army after failing in his first two attempts. While doing his mundane chores, when working in the mess of his regiment, he would often see many jawans running around the ground. He would also notice them getting preferential treatment, be it better diet or time to train and rest. He had till then not known that there is a sport called running and the person who finished first is called the winner. What attracted him to sport was not the race itself but the perks attached to it.Milkha would always emphasise that the only way to succeed is to train and work hard, even if it means dying of exhaustion. He would give his own example, be it when he discovered what running is all about while in the Army or when training to become one of the best in his field. He would even vomit blood, as he would say, while working on his fitness and running.Thus began a career that was to blaze a trail on the running tracks of the world and ignite the imagination of a country in search of new heroes and icons.— The writer is a senior sports journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sports-journalist-pradeep-magazine-on-the-legend-of-milkha-singh-271266
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Shrine Donation box stolen||Snatcher flees with purseChandigarh: A Sector 41 resident reported that an unknown person riding a motorcycle snatched her purse containing Rs500 and a mobile phone near Radhe Market, Sector 41, on June 18. A case under Section 379-A of the IPC has been registered. TNSBiker injured in road accidentChandigarh: A resident of Palsora Colony, Inderjeet, alleged that a biker hit him near Heera Singh Chowk here while he was going on a two-wheeler on June 17. The complainant, who suffered injuries, was admitted to the PGI. A case has been registered against the biker, Balak Ram of Kishangarh. TNSMan held with whisky bottlesChandigarh: The police arrested a Mauli Jagran resident, Sonu, and recovered 30 quarters, 14 halves and three bottles of whisky from his possession near Mauli Complex on Friday. A case under Section 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act has been registered at the Mauli Jagran police station. The suspect was later released on bail. TNSRefrigerator, car, silencer stolenChandigarh: Vikram Kumar, a Buterla resident, reported that an unknown person stole his car parked near his house on the night of June 15. In another case, Pipli Wala resident Joginder Dass reported that an unknown person stole the silencer of his car parked near his residence between June 2 and 11. In yet another incident, Baljit Singh, a Sector 25 resident, reported that an unknown person stole his refrigerator and some utensils from his house between June 8 and 18. Cases have been registered. TNSBag containing Rs1L stolen from carZirakpur: Sandeep Aggarwal, a Mohali resident, alleged that a bag containing Rs1 lakh and important documents was stolen from his car near the Patiala Chowk on the Chandigarh-Ambala National Highway around 5:30 pm here on Saturday. Complainant Nikhil Agarwal, son of the victim, stated that his father was going to his shop from his home. He stopped near the Patiala Chowk for some work. When he was about to leave, a man told him that smoke was coming out of the car’s bonnet. When he came out of the car, he did not notice anything. After reaching home, he found the bag missing. The complainant said the bag contained Rs 1 lakh, a cheque book, an Aadhaar card, a driving licence and other documents. Zirakpur SHO Onkar Singh Brar said the police had received a complaint and they were investigating the matter. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shrine-donation-box-stolen-271267
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara varsity co-hosts RISE event||Chitkara University co-hosted the Punjab edition of the “Redefining Institutional Strategy for Excellence (RISE)”. The event was conceptualised by the QS IGAUGE.The event provided a platform to the leaders in higher education to connect with their peer groups and discuss the current situation of education in their respective states.The aim of the event was to bring together the institutions within the state and also the ones outside to collaborate and brainstorm on the idea of quality in education. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chitkara-varsity-co-hosts-rise-event-271164
20-06-2021||Mohali||Bhavisha shines||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bhavisha-shines-271165
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Two die, 23 +ve in Chandigarh||12 weeks on, no fatality in MohaliMohali: After about 12 weeks, no fatality was reported due to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours in the district. Earlier, it was on March 27 when no fresh case of death due to the virus had surfaced. Meanwhile, 28 persons tested positive till Saturday evening, taking the total number of cases to 68,010, and 82 patients were cured. Among the new cases, four came from Mohali (urban), one each from Lalru, Boothgarh, Gharuan and Banur, two from Dera Bassi, seven from Dhakoli and 11 from Kharar. No new case was reported from Kurali on Saturday. TNSOne death, four fresh cases in P’kula districtPanchkula: The district on Saturday reported one fatality and four new cases of Covid-19. A 60-year-old man from Sector 11, who was suffering from hypertension, succumbed to the virus. While the overall tally reached 30,521, the death toll stands at 368. The active caseload is 115. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-die-23-ve-in-chandigarh-271166
20-06-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||23 forged documents submitted to get file processed, says SIT||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 19The Special Investigating Team (SIT) of the Chandigarh Police has alleged that 23 forged documents purporting to be signed by Rahul Mehta were submitted to get the file of house number 340, Sector 37-A, Chandigarh, processed by the Estate Office.While opposing the bail application of one of the accused Satpal Dagar, the SIT, in its reply filed before the court, said the ownership of the house in Sector 37 was transferred in the name of Rahul Mehta after forging the documents. The SIT said several documents, which were shown to be signed by Rahul Mehta, were procured through forgery as he was not in Chandigarh at that time and was shifted to Apna Ghar Ashram, Bharatpur.As per the FIR, some of the accused allegedly sold a house after transferring it in the name of Rahul Mehta in Sector 37 fraudulently. The police alleged that the accused first entered the house of Rahul Mehta forcefully and later took signatures after torturing him.The SIT says the house in Sector 37 was originally allotted to Santosh Mehta, wife of Ved Prakash Mehta, on February 8, 1978. Santosh Mehta executed the will of the house in the favour of her sister Sushila Kumari. An application was moved by Sushila Kumari, wife of Jagdish Narayan, on November 5, 1986, to get the house transferred in her name to the Estate Office after the death of Santosh Mehta.Later, Ved Prakash Mehta also applied for the transfer of the house in favour of himself and his sons - Rahul Mehta and Mohit Mehta - being a natural heir of Santosh Mehta, but Ved Prakash Mehta died before the house was transferred.The SIT says initially an RTI application was also filed with a fake signature of Rahul Mehta on February 2, 2017, vide which a certified copy of the entire file pertaining to the house was sought. The SIT says after getting the information and submitting the forged documents, the house was transferred in the name of Rahul Mehta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/23-forged-documents-submitted-to-get-file-processed-says-sit-271155
20-06-2021||---||Two Mohali institute alumni commissioned as pilots in IAF||Chandigarh, June 19 Two alumni of the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Armed Forces Preparatory Institute (AFPI), Mohali, were commissioned in the rank of Flying Officer into the Indian Air Force at the Air Force Academy, Dundigal, near Hyderabad, today. Flying Officer Preetinder Pal Singh Bath has joined the fighter stream, while Flying Officer Sehaj Sharma has opted for the helicopter stream. They were awarded their flying wings by the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, who reviewed the combined graduation parade (CGP). Preetinder had joined the AFPI in 2015 and the National Defence Academy (NDA), Kharakvasla in 2017. He belongs to Pathankot where his father Rajinder Singh is a lecturer and mother Amanpreet Kaur is a teacher. Sehaj had joined the AFPI in 2014 and then proceeded to the NDA as an Air Force cadet. His father Dharvinder Sharma is a Senior Assistant in the Indian Red Cross Society in Amritsar. Parents of the newly commissioned officers were not invited to witness the parade due to Covid restrictions. Though the pandemic placed severe constraints upon the training infrastructure, the Air Force Academy completed the prescribed syllabus within the stipulated period and logged a total of 20,500 flying hours over the last one year, which is the highest ever in its history.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-mohali-institute-alumni-commissioned-as-pilots-in-iaf-271156
20-06-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali Mayor, Deputy meet Secretary over staff shortage||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 19Concerned over the shortage of staff in the Mohali Municipal Corporation, Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu and Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi today met AK Sinha, Secretary of the Local Bodies Department, Punjab, to approve the resolution for appointment of staff.Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu told Sinha that development works in Mohali city were hit as the corporation was facing staff shortage. Due to staff crunch, the corporation was facing problem in providing facilities to the people. Mohali was a constantly evolving city and many more areas would be brought under the corporation in near future.Amarjit Sidhu said the Municipal Corporation had also passed resolutions to fill vacancies. He requested the Secretary, Local Government Department, to pass these resolutions and send these back so that the vacancies could be filled.He said it had been decided to carry out the work given to the Public Health Department by the Municipal Corporation itself. The Mayor said for this, employees of the Public Health Department could be hired on deputation.Assuring the Mayor of full support, Sinha said he himself had been the Chief Administrator of GMADA and also the Administrator of the Municipal Corporation, so he was well aware of the problems of Mohali. He lauded the decision of the Mayor to take over the charge of the Public Health Department and said it would enable timely completion of important tasks.Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi said later they also met the Director, Local Government Department, and requested him for cooperation regarding the work of the Mohali Municipal Corporation. He said the Director, Local Government, also assured the Mayor and the Deputy Mayor that full support would be extended to the Municipal Corporation. MC Commissioner Kamal Garg was also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mayor-deputy-meet-secretary-over-staff-shortage-271157
20-06-2021||---||‘Delhi solution’ sought for need-based changes||Chandigarh, June 19The CHB Residents’ Welfare Federation has sought regularisation of need-based changes made to the houses built by the Chandigarh Housing Board on the basis of the “Delhi solution”.In a memorandum submitted to the Chandigarh Housing Board Chief Executive Officer, federation chairman Nirmal Datt said conceding the growing numbers and shrinking space in individual dwelling units, the UT Administration had already increased the covered area in the Marla Houses from 60 per cent to 70 per cent. Datt said in the last 40 years, nearly 90 per cent people in the CHB houses made additions/alterations to their dwelling units.“To let it be is to encourage chaos and to punish almost 4 lakh people for this with demolition/cancellation will be a calamity,” he said, adding that the issue can be sorted out if “the 1999 Delhi Solution – a comprehensive and fully practical solution for a messy situation – is adopted” in Chandigarh.Datt said the Delhi Solution was a four-pronged resolution which suggests concession in covered area should be given and that much additional coverage should be duly regularised.It also says that one-time usage charges should be taken for the already existing excess coverage within the plot area but without regularising the coverage and stipulating the user will have no legal right over the excess coverage area.The solution also highlights that one-time usage charge should be taken for already existing excess projections out of the plot area but without regularising such projections. It also stipulates that the user will have no legal right over these projections.The solution further states that four mandatory documents – ownership proof, no-legal-hassle certificate for the dwelling unit, total construction map, and structural security certificate should be taken from the owner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delhi-solution-sought-for-need-based-changes-271158
20-06-2021||---||OPD services for non-Covid patients at PGI from tomorrow||Chandigarh, June 19In view of dip in the number of Covid-19 patients, the PGI has decided to scale up the elective outpatient services from June 21 to facilitate non-Covid patients.Giving details, Prof Ashok Kumar, official spokesperson, PGI, said, “Teleconsultation will continue to remain the initial point of contact of patients and doctors. Patients will be evaluated first through teleconsultation. Only those requiring further evaluation and examination will be called to the OPD by appointment from June 21. Patients coming without an appointment will not be entertained.”“Considering patients waiting for surgeries suspended in view of Covid, the PGI is also planning to resume the same and one floor of the main OT will be fully functional very soon. This will ensure requisite physical distancing among patients/attendants visiting the OPDs,” he said.The PGI has asked patients to visit OPDs with prior appointment only and ensure that only one attendant accompanies a patient. The protocol will be followed in all OPDs of the PGI, including New OPD, Advanced Eye Centre, Advanced Cardiac Centre and Advanced Paediatrics Centre.The institute is also providing regular elective outpatient services through teleconsultation and in physical form for cancer patients, obstetrics and those requiring semi-urgent medical or surgical care. The primary aim of the PGI is to prevent exposure of patients with comorbidities to the Covid-19 infection.Where to contact||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/opd-services-for-non-covid-patients-at-pgi-from-tomorrow-271159
20-06-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal
||10 booked for blocking highway, holding protest without consent||Tribune News Service Zirakpur, June 19 The police booked Ranjit Singh and nine others for blocking the national highway and staging a protest without taking due consent here this morning. Traffic on the Chandigarh-Ambala National Highway was affected near Cosmo Mall for around 20 minutes when a family blocked the road around 7.30 am, alleging that its land was acquired for the construction of the road in 2005, but no compensation has been paid yet. Traffic police in-charge Ombir Singh rushed to the spot with police force and calmed down the family members. Naib Tehsildar Puneet Bansal too reached the spot and assured the family to hear the matter. Ranjit Singh, a member of the protesting family, complained that 3,300 yards of land was acquired from his uncle, Bahadur Singh, for four-laning of the Chandigarh-Ambala National Highway in 2005, but due to the alleged negligence of the department concerned, the family has not received compensation even after 16 years. Zirakpur SHO Onkar Singh Brar said: “Patiala resident Ranjit Singh and nine others have been booked for staging a protest on the highway without taking prior consent. Naib Tehsildar Puneet Bansal and the Duty Magistrate were asked to visit the spot at the time of the incident.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-booked-for-blocking-highway-holding-protest-without-consent-271160
20-06-2021||---||Trans-Ghaggar residents protest over Jhuriwala dumping site||Panchkula, June 19 The Trans-Ghaggar Residents Sangharsh Committee today staged a protest over the new dumping site in Jhuriwala. The protestors were supported by the Congress party workers. Opposing the shifting of the dumping ground from Sector 23 to Jhuriwala, residents said the proximity of the new dumping site to residential areas would have repercussions in the form of degradation of air and groundwater and threat to flora and fauna. The residents had earlier given a week’s time to the administration to look into their demands or face protest. Former Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan, Kalka MLA Pardeep Chaudhary, Shivalik Vikas Manch president Vijay Bansal and former Mayor Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia were among those who extended their support to the protest. BR Mehta, senior vice-president, RWA, Sector 25, said, “This dharna is to remind the Haryana Government and the Panchkula Municipal Corporation that they are violating the 2013 orders of the NGT, which clearly directs against the dumping of any solid waste at the Jhuriwala site.” Questioning Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta’s stand on the issue, protestors said in 2018, even the BJP leader had recommended to shift the proposed solid waste management plant to a place much away from the residential area. Warning the state government, the protestors said if the authorities won’t pay heed to their concerns, they would approach the High Court and intensify their agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/trans-ghaggar-residents-protest-over-jhuriwala-dumping-site-271161
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Prof Singh’s collection of poems launched||The Panjab University Alumni Association (PUAA) launched Prof Archana R Singh’s book “Kavita to Kahi Nahi”, a collection of her poems, at a function organised on Friday evening. Dean University Instruction  Prof VR Sinha, who presided over the event, said: “Poetry is the most versatile form of literary works and writing poetry is the strongest form of art.” He admired Prof Singh for possessing unusual sensitivity and insight. A message from Bollywood actor Ayushmann Khurrana was read on the occasion. He said: “These are not just poems but in simple words, a deep thinking. I am speechless after seeing her in poet’s role, and as her student, I am proud of her.” On the occasion, Prof Singh, Director Public Relations, PU, Renuka Salwan and actress Saumya Joshi read poems from the book. Prof Archana said the compilation of this book was not easy, but the lockdown gave her time. The collection contains 58 poems, put together under six chapter headings. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prof-singhs-collection-of-poems-launched-271162
20-06-2021||Ambala||Two arrested for doing recce||The CIA-2 unit of the Ambala police has arrested two youths in connection with the murder case of Diwakar, alias Jeetu, who was shot dead over an alleged enmity near Hathi Khana temple in Ambala Cantonment on June 15. The suspects - Mohit (19) and Kunal (18) of Ambala Cantonment - were produced before a court, which sent them in three-day police remand. As per information, both accused had done recce of Diwakar for shooters. Diwakar of Kumhar Mandi in Ambala Cantonment was returning after tying his cattle near the Hathi Khana temple on foot when he was shot dead by two motorcycle-borne assailants, who fled from the spot after killing him. Jeetu was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment, where he died. The incident was recorded on a CCTV camera. CIA-2 in-charge Subhash Kumar said: “Both suspects had done recce on the instruction of Saurabh. Efforts are being made to nab other accused.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-arrested-for-doing-recce-271151
20-06-2021||Amit Bathla||Plaints related to inflated bills continue to pour in||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 19With the district administration cracking down on private hospitals over complaints of excess charging for Covid-19 treatment, complaints continue to pour in before the eight-member committee looking into the issue.The panel examines the evidence provided by the complainants to corroborate their claims before taking action on case-to-case basis.Even though Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh confirmed the administration had received more complaints of overcharging, he didn’t share the exact number.“We will reveal it to the media once we examine them,” the DC said in response to a query by the Chandigarh Tribune.BB Singhal, member of the Haryana State Pharmacy Council and the committee examining the grievances, said the complaints related to excess billing by private hospitals were being received at different levels.“Some file the complaint to Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, while others approach the office of the Deputy Commissioner and the Civil Surgeon. As per the protocol, these complaints are forwarded to the committee for examination before any action is taken,” Singhal informed.Recently, the DC had appealed the Covid patients and their family members to lodge complaints with the district administration in case of overcharging by private hospitals for Covid treatment, assuring them of redressal on a priority basis.The next meeting of the committee will now held on Monday.Wary of the action by the administration, private hospitals have already agreed to pay back the excess amount in a time-bound manner.So far, allegations of overcharging have been made against Paras Hospital, Alchemist Hospital and Wings Hospital.The district administration had also asked the hospitals to conduct a self-audit of all Covid related bills and submit the report to the committee for cross checking.Formation of panelAfter receiving several complaints of overcharging, Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta had recommended the formation of a panel to look into the matter, following which a district-level eight-member committee, led by ADC Mohammad Imran Raza, was constituted.Gupta had also written to Health Minister Anil Vij, requesting for an audit of bills issued by the private hospitals.In June last year, the Haryana Government had capped the daily package rate for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals between Rs 8,000 and Rs 18,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/plaints-related-to-inflated-bills-continue-to-pour-in-271152
20-06-2021||Sandeep Rana||Huge waste collection charges shock residents||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 19City residents got a shock when they received water bills with huge waste collection charges today. Some of the residents got bills ranging from Rs 3,000 to 4,000.The residents, who used to pay around Rs 100 per house per month for waste collection, were left bemused by the huge bills.The MC has started clubbing waste collection charges with water bills in a phased manner in different sectors.Jagdish Walia, a resident of Sector 21, received a waste collection bill of Rs 3,375.“I have a three-floor house. We live on ground floor and have rented out the first and second floor. Earlier, each of us used to pay Rs 100 per month for garbage collection. We are in a shock and fail to understand how come they have send such a hefty bill. If they have conducted any survey, it should be right,” said Walia.“Rehris are used to collect the waste and the MC, which has failed to use its two-bin waste vehicles, is sending hefty bills to residents,” said Sector 21 resident Mohinder Paul Gupta, who got Rs 1,575 garbage collection bill today.“Money is not the issue, but the waste management is. We are sick and tired of this new system. Waste collectors do not come for many days. The MC should let the RWAs to do the job,” Gupta added.Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman of the Federation of Sectors Welfare Association Chandigarh (FOSWAC), said “People are already suffering due to the bad policies of the Municipal Corporation and today it has lend another blow to the residents. We strongly object to the move and will hold a press conference to highlight the issue. We will also meet the MC officials in this regard.”The latest bill mentions the charges up to June 15 with arrears, but the residents are confused over its duration. Just two months back the MC had issued a public notice asking people not to pay garbage collection charges to the old collectors.Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora was unavailable for comments.The civic body which claimed to have started the waste collection through its 490 newly bought two-bin waste vehicles, has failed to implement the idea in most of the Sectors.In a random check, it was found that in many areas of Sectors 21, 22, 45, 47, 48 and 38 the waste collection was done through carts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/huge-waste-collection-charges-shock-residents-271153
20-06-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh Administration failed to fulfil legend’s wish||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 19As an athlete, former Indian sprinter Milkha Singh did whatever he could to bring laurels to the nation and Chandigarh, but the UT Administration failed to give him what he wanted the most — ‘one synthetic track’ for local athletes.During an interaction on July 13, 2015, Milkha had stated: “I wish to see the first synthetic track in my hometown before I leave this world.”This wish of Milkha went with him to the next world, as the Administration kept on lingering the synthetic track project in files. The project has been under planning for over a decade.“Yes, it’s disheartening. The project is under consideration. However, we will follow up on this vigorously. We will surely do something big in his name,” said Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director, Sports, UT.Not only the UT Administration, but the local Chandigarh Athletics Association is also to blame for the delay in the execution of the project. Its members hardly took any initiative in the past 10 years to get a synthetic track here. Despite a series of meetings of the Administration, the UT Engineering Department and the Sports Department, nothing fruitful came out. The project to lay an athletics field was first said to be finalised for the Sector 46 Sports Complex. The project site was later shifted to the Sector 7 Sports Complex, but no concrete step was ever taken.“This is absurd on the Administration’s part. The right way to honour such a legend is to give him respect and make him an inspiration for youngsters. It’s a shocker for a majority of the local residents that despite having all facilities, the officials failed to have a synthetic track. The Administration, specially its top officials, should give it a thought,” said Parminder, a sports lover.After making verbal promises, the project to lay an all-weather synthetic track, made of polyurethane, was finally put on paper in 2012. The plan remained limited to the files for the entire one year.In 2013, when the movie, “Bhaag Milkha Bhaag”, was released, the authorities restarted the process. It was decided to create a full-fledged 10-lane track. However, lack of space restricted the planners to think on a seven-lane track.The Sector 46 Sports Complex was shortlisted to have the synthetic track. The planning committee, at that time, raised the need for acquiring some area of the Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46, touching the boundary of the sports complex, to make enough space to lay the turf. The project site was later shifted to the Sector 7 Sports Complex. An estimate of Rs3.90 crore was submitted for the eight-lane synthetic turf project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-failed-to-fulfil-legends-wish-271146
20-06-2021||Shona Manco||A life lived well||How do you pay tribute to a legend? Great men leave behind a legacy — not just of their achievements, but also of a life lived exceptionally well.A man “who has gained the respect of intelligent men and the love of children” is a success, wrote Robert Louis Stevenson. Milkha Singh is revered in the sporting world — and he had the love and respect of young and old in the golfing community of Chandigarh.Milkha uncle, as he was fondly called by everyone at the Chandigarh Golf Club, is already being missed by all. His greetings were genuine in utterance and loud and clear when we crossed him on the golf course — “Sat Sri Akal beta. Sab theek?” He was certainly larger than life and my 52-year-old golfing friend spoke for everyone when, on hearing of Milkha uncle’s death, he remarked: “I was a huge fan.”Milkha Singh will be missed the most by his son Jeev, three daughters and the rest of the family. Ironically, Sunday marks the final round of the US Open, which traditionally concludes on Father’s Day — due to the belief that a father and the game of golf have a lot in common. The ethos of honour, honesty and respect are essential to both. For Jeev, Milkha Singh will always be his “friend, guide and hero”, adored by millions for his joie de vivre.His dedication to fitnessI remember that as a youngster on the course and later as a journalist, I often heard him explain his warm-up routine, which included a run on the course before teeing off. Throughout his life, he maintained his dedication to fitness and was a slave to routine. “He would run down the first fairway and back every morning before we teed off. And he never sat anywhere on the course while we waited for the green to clear,” says Grewal. On the eighth hole, a short Par-3 where everyone ends up waiting, he would practise his chip shots.Inspiration to allIn his signature red turban and matching tie, Milkha Singh was an inspiration for all. His positivity coloured everything he did and his good nature ensured people felt welcome in his presence.Golf was his life’s great passion. My first assignment as a journalist was to cover a game of golf between Milkha Singh, RS Mann and IS Bindra. They played a round on a crisp spring morning in April 2000 with Montek Singh Ahluwalia. Anecdotes from their four-ball have long been the talk of the club and no one knows this better than his playing partner of 45 years, RS Mann — Mann Saab, as Milkha Singh fondly and respectfully referred to him.“This is a time for mourning and I will definitely miss my friend. There was never a time when we both played golf on the same day and did not play together. He brought camaraderie, enthusiasm and competitiveness to our game of golf,” Mann reminisces.Alamgir Grewal, who joined their four-ball 22 years ago, says: “Mann uncle visited him at the hospital recently and they discussed their last game and if any debts remained to be settled. Milkha uncle told him that they were clear but another member of the game owed him eight matches!” That was the intense passion Milkha and his mates brought to their games — something that will be bitterly missed.“I will never be able to tee off from the first tee without remembering Milkha uncle,” says Alamgir. “Even after the first lockdown, he was the person who got us all back onto the golf course. His passion for life was unmatched.”And so was his physical strength, despite his years. Alamgir recalls the driver Milkha Singh used off the tee. It was one of Jeev’s, and hence, the specifications allowed for the latter’s physical build and swing. “None of us could hit it,” Alamgir says. “But Milkha uncle whacked it hard and never missed.”Ravibir Singh, president of the Chandigarh Golf Club, where the club flag is flying half mast, says, “Milkha Singh ji was omnipresent on the golf course. His passion for his regular game of golf was unmatched as he was on the course every morning. He will be immensely missed on our hallowed greens, by all our members and support staff.”So how do you pay tribute to a legend? While you can never truly do justice to such a great legacy, you mourn a nation’s loss but celebrate a life that is a source of inspiration. This goes also for those who saw him in flesh and blood every day and played with him — his golfing buddies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-life-lived-well-271147
20-06-2021||His last words||A generous host||"I am fine. Hope to recover soon. Reading books and spending time with family." Milkha SinghDeepankar ShardaTribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 19Clad in his favourite attire – a red turban, blue blazer, red tie and a matching pocket square, and grey trousers —Flying Sikh Milkha Singh (91) was consigned to flames by his son Jeev Milkha Singh and relatives at the cremation ground in Sector 25 today.He died just five days after the death of his wife Nirmal Milkha Singh (85).Unaware about his wife’s death, Milkha was confident of meeting her after recovering from Covid at their residence in Sector 8, but the destiny had some other plans as it reunited them in the heavens.A popular person among local journalists, Milkha would treat all reporters and seasoned writers the same as his own children.A special picture“This is a very special picture. Pandit ji had declared it a national holiday in 1960 when he defeated Pakistan’s champion in Lahore. I wish I could have made it a national holiday but I cannot do it. I have announced state holiday and he will get a state funeral,” said Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh. He would frame the photo (of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and Milkha Singh) and put it at his farmhouse.He would ask about their future plans, never hesitate from spotting mistakes and would always ask reporters to stay for a longer time to listen to his memories. “You should work on writing about players’ problems and ask authorities to find a solution. Progress is a two-way thing, if you won’t write, they won’t come to know,” said Milkha during his first meeting with this reporter in 2010. As years passed, the bonding grew and he would always encourage writing more and more about sports. He would often call journalists to his place and would act as a perfect host. In his last days, he was confident of defeating Covid and rejoining his routine life. His residence, “Milkha’s”, in Sector 8 is nothing less than a museum having memories of his gold at Cardiff, double gold in the 1958 Asian Games, record-smashing run at the 1960 Rome Olympic Games.Love for golfMilkha’s love for golf was never hidden from anyone. He would wake up early and go for golf alone, rather than waiting for his friends. The greens of the Chandigarh Golf Club were like his second home and the caddies and members were like part of a family. He once landed himself in an ugly twist of turns when he tried to stop a brawl and was booked in 2013. He thereafter liked to play alone for the love of the game (golf).The trioThe trio of legends Milkha Singh, Nirmal Milkha Singh and Balbir Singh (Senior) co-workers and friends for life lived in the same city but never bid adieu to each other in final days. Milkha headed school sports in the Education Department (Punjab) while Hockey Olympian Balbir Singh was in the State Sports (Punjab) Department. Nirmal Milkha Singh also worked as Director, (Women) Sports. Milkha could not attend the cremation of Nirmal as he was fighting for his own life, and last year, Balbir Singh breathed his last and due to Covid, the Milkha couple was not able to attend the cremation.Past storiesIn 1958, when the then Prime Minister Pt Jawaharlal Nehru asked Milkha Singh what he wanted for becoming the first Indian to win an individual gold medal in athletics in the Cardiff Commonwealth Games, Milkha requested a “national holiday” in the country.Love for fitnessAt the age of 91, Milkha kept his fitness level as good as a young player. During Covid-19, he would spend his day by attending a gym session with son Jeev Milkha Singh, followed by jogging, stretching, skipping and weight training exercises. On normal days, he would play golf or jog daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-generous-host-271148
20-06-2021||---||Chandigarh bids adieu to Milkha Singh||Chandigarh, June 19Condolences poured in from people of all walks of life during Milkha Singh’s final journey today.The funeral procession, taken out from his residence in Sector 8 to the Sector 25 cremation ground, witnessed thousands of fans saying the final goodbye to their hero. He was cremated with full state honours. Earlier, his mortal remains were kept at Sector 8.“I met him in the 1970 Scotland Commonwealth Games. Both Milkha and Nirmal were there. He was happy to know that I represented Chandigarh at the national circuit. Our friendship started on a good note. He and Nirmal were Director Sports (Punjab) and I was coaching in Chandigarh,” said Wing Commander Satish Bhatia, former Olympian and national badminton champion.Last visit of caddiesCaddies of Milkha couple and Jeev Milkha Singh also paid their last tributes to Milkha. Caddies Arun, Monty, Raju Pal and Gurwinder Singh, who are known to be close to Milkha family, were also present at his residence. “Sir (Milkha) used to treat us as his family members. They would never hesitate to ask for golf tips. He was an avid golfer and a very helpful person. Our association started way back in the early 1990s. I will cherish his memories,” said Monty. Gurwinder, popularly known as Ambarsariya, has his share of tales to tell. “He was an inspiration for all of us. There was never a day when he had not sat with us and motivated us to work hard in life. Pre-Covid pandemic, he was a regular for golf. May he find peace in almighty arms,” said Gurwinder.A tribute by long runnerChanan Singh Dhaliwal, a long runner from Phallewal (Ludhiana) had specially reached here to pay tributes to Milkha. He also ran for a few kilometres with Milkha’s procession. “He was an icon for all the athletes. I wanted to honour him in his style,” said Dhaliwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bids-adieu-to-milkha-singh-271149
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh cremated with state honours||Iconic sprinter Milkha Singh was on Saturday cremated with full state honours here, marking the end of an era in which his pioneering accomplishments on the track galvanised a newly-independent India.Milkha, who was 91, was bid a tearful adieu. His son and ace golfer Jeev Milkha Singh lit the pyre. Punjab Governor and Chandigarh Administrator VP Singh Badnore, Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Haryana’s Sports Minister Sandeep Singh were among the dignitaries who attended the last rites. A police contingent reversed arms and sounded the last post in the sprinter’s honour. Milkha was also given a gun salute.The Punjab Government declared a one-day state mourning and a holiday as a mark of respect to the legend. A wreath was laid on behalf of PM Narendra Modi. Wreaths were also laid on behalf of the Army. The body was carried in a bedecked vehicle. People turned up along the route to the cremation ground to pay their last respects.Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju said Milkha Singh’s last wish was to see India win an Olympic gold in athletics. “Today, Milkha ji is not among us, but we will fulfil his wish,” he said.Athletics Federation of India Secretary Ravinder Chaudhary attended the last rites. Chandigarh Athletics Association (CAA), of which he was the founder president, also paid tribute. The Padma Shri awardee, who was nicknamed ‘The Flying Sikh’ for his achievements, is survived by Jeev and three daughters.The legendary athlete was a four-time Asian Games gold medallist and the 1958 Commonwealth Games champion. But his greatest performance remained the fourth-place finish in the 400m final of the 1960 Rome Olympics. — TNSIndia pays tributes to Flying SikhDemand for Bharat Ratna for the iconAs the nation mourned the death, social media exploded on Saturday with Bharat Ratna demand for the track and field icon. TNSMilkha Singh Chair at Patiala sports varsityPunjab CM Amarinder Singh announced Milkha Singh Chair at Patiala sports university. “The flag will fly at half mast,” he said. TNSCricket team wears black armbandsSouthampton: The Indian cricket team on Saturday wore black armbands as a mark of respect to the Flying Sikh. PTIParamjit remembers his role modelParamjit Singh, who in 1998 broke Milkha Singh’s 400m national record, 38 years after the latter set it in the Rome Olympics for a fourth place finish, recalled: “Milkha Singh ji was kind and generous. I was invited for a dinner at his place after I broke his record”. PTIRandhawa recalls race of his lifeIt was the race of his life but at the end of it, Milkha Singh was distraught. At the 1960 Rome Olympics, he missed the podium by 0.1 second, an “unforgettable heartache he carried for the rest of his life,” recalled hurdler Gurbachan S Randhawa. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-singh-cremated-with-state-honours-271154
20-06-2021||Tribune Web Desk||India bids farewell to legendary Flying Sikh Milkha Singh||Chandigarh, June 19India's legendary “Flying Sikh” Milkha Singh, who died at the PGIMER late on Friday night after a month-long battle with Covid-19, was cremated with full state honours at the Sector 25 cremation ground here today.A police contingent accorded the 91-year-old legendary track and field athlete the guard of honour and his son and ace golfer Jeev Milkha Singh lit the pyre.Milkha was bid a tearful adieu in the presence of his family members and several dignitaries, including Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju.Punjab Governor and Chandigarh Administrator V P Singh Badnore, Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, Haryana’s Sports Minister Sandeep Singh were among the other dignitaries who attended the last rites.Prof Jagat Ram, Director of PGIMER where Milkha was admitted, was also present.A police contingent reversed arms and sounded the last post in the sprinter’s honour. Milkha was also given a gun salute.The Punjab Government had declared a one-day state mourning and a holiday as a mark of respect to the legend.Earlier, a wreath was also laid on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  Wreaths were also laid on behalf of the Army.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had earlier in the day said the Punjab government will accord state funeral to Milkha Singh.Earlier, the funeral procession started from Milkha’s Sector 8 residence.His body was carried in a bedecked vehicle, with common people turning up along the short route to the Sector 25 cremation ground to pay their last respects to the legend.Interacting with reporters after the cremation, Rijiju spoke about Milkha’s last wish was to see India win an Olympic gold in athletics.“Today, Milkha ji is not among us, but we will fulfil his wish. He has given a big message,” he said.When asked if any award would be instituted in his name, Rijiju said these things will be discussed with family at an appropriate time and whatever needs to be done by the Sports Ministry in this regard will be done.“We have told the family that right from the Prime Minister to Governor Sahab, who is present here, we are with them in their hour of grief. Entire nation is with them,” he said.He said he was also carrying the message of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the family.Governor Badnore said Milkha “was our pride”.“Whenever I used to meet him, sometimes even in the golf course here, he would meet with great affection. Not only Chandigarh, Punjab and India, but Milkha ji’s demise is a loss to the entire world.  He was an inspiration for millions,” said Badnore.Milkha died on Friday night after a month-long battle with COVID-19. He had lost his former national volleyball captain wife Nirmal Kaur to the same ailment on Sunday.The Padma Shri awardee, who was nicknamed ‘The Flying Sikh’ for his achievements, is survived by Jeev and three daughters.The legendary athlete was a four-time Asian Games gold medallist and the 1958 Commonwealth Games champion but his greatest performance remained the fourth-place finish in the 400m final of the 1960 Rome Olympics.His timing of 45.6 sec at the Italian capital remained the national record for 38 years before Paramjeet Singh broke it in 1998.He also represented India in the 1956 and 1964 Olympics and was bestowed the Padma Shri in 1959. —with PTIEarlier, a number of VVIPs visited his family in Chandigarh to offer condolences.Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amrinder Singh, Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Sodhi, Health Minister Balbir Sidhu, Sports Director DPS Kharbanda along with other officials visited Milkha Singh's residence to pay tributes to the late legendary athlete.Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal also visited the Milkha family's residence around noon on Saturday while Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju and Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VPS Badnore will pay tribute to the former international sprinter around 2 pm. I'm leaving for Chandigarh to attend the funeral of #MilkhaSingh Ji. I'm carrying the message of Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi Ji for the family and will pay my tribute to the pride of India, the legendary #FlyingSikh 🙏 https://t.co/UX5ssnnLY8  "Have directed that Late Milkha Singh Ji will be given a State Funeral by our Government. Also Punjab will observe one day of State mourning as a mark ofrespect to the departed legend," said @capt_amarinder @thetribunechd||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/india-bids-farewell-to-legendary-flying-sikh-milkha-singh-270916
20-06-2021||Tribune Web Desk||In pics: The inspirational journey of the Flying Sikh||Chandigarh, June 19The legend of Milkha Singh is one of the most inspiring stories in Indian sports. Here are some rare pictures that capture the amazing journey of the legend who rightly earned the sobriquet of the Flying Sikh.Also read: Milkha Singh: An unmatchable romance with a near missFlying Sikh Milkha Singh dies of Covid complications at 91 Bollywood mourns demise of Milkha SinghPart of me is still refusing to accept that you are no more: Farhan Akhtar remembers Milkha Singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-pics-the-inspirational-journey-of-the-flying-sikh-270463
20-06-2021||New Delhi||Milkha Singh: An unmatchable romance with a near miss||The track, to him, was like an open book in which Milkha Singh found the "meaning and purpose of life". And what a life he made for himself. Before his 91-year-old body lost to COVID-19 on Friday after fighting it for a month, Milkha won the kind of battles that not many would have survived, forget about living long enough to tell the world about them. Also read: Flying Sikh Milkha Singh dies of Covid complications at 91In Pics: The inspirational journey of the Flying SikhBollywood mourns demise of Milkha SinghPart of me is still refusing to accept that you are no more: Farhan Akhtar remembers Milkha Singh"Don't worry, I am in good spirits...I am surprised, How could I get this infection?...I hope to get over it soon," Milkha had said in his last interaction with PTI before being hospitalised.One of independent India's biggest sporting icons was a tormented man but refused to let that come in the way of accomplishments which were unheard of in his era.He saw his parents being butchered during partition, indulged in petty crimes to survive in refugee camps of Delhi, went to jail for those and failed three attempts at joining the Army.Who could have thought a man like that would get the sobriquet of 'The Flying Sikh'? But Milkha earned it and earned it with a master-class on how to be bigger and better than one's circumstances.He "revered" the track like "the sanctum sanctorum in a temple where the deity resided." To him running was both his God and beloved as he created his own little fairytale out of what what could have easily been a tale of horrors.To talk of medals, the legendary athlete was a four-time Asian Games gold-medallist and the 1958 Commonwealth Games champion but his greatest performance was a near miss, the fourth place finish in the 400m final of the 1960 Rome Olympics.His timing at the Italian capital remained the national record for 38 years and he was bestowed the Padma Shri in 1959.But more than anything else, Milkha was the one who put Indian athletics on the world map by winning the gold in the then 440 yards race of the 1958 British and Commonwealth Games.He became the first Indian athlete to win an individual gold in a Commonwealth Games, which led to then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru declaring a national holiday on his request.Milkha put his career record at 77 wins out of 80 races. He also claimed to have bettered the 'Olympics record' of that time in a race in France, but with sketchy records available, it is difficult to confirm just like his actual date of birth which is officially November 20, 1929.  He lost the race of his life in the Rome Olympics, finishing the 400m final in 45.6 seconds, 0.1 second short of the bronze medal mark. Hard to believe but he had slowed down in a colossal error of judgement as he wanted to preserve himself for the final 150m. He remained tormented by that miss, one of the only two incidents in his life, which he described as unforgettable -- the other being the killing of his parents in Pakistan."The one medal I had yearned for throughout my career had just slipped through my fingers because of one small error of judgement," Milkha wrote in his 160-page autobiography that coincided with the release of a blockbuster biopic on his life 'Bhaag Milkha Bhaag'.However, his timing at the Italian capital remained a national record for 38 years till Paramjeet Singh broke it in 1998 at a national meet in Kolkata.Milkha had promised to give a cash prize of Rs 2 lakh to the one who breaks his record, he eventually did not because the flamboyant star believed that Paramjeet's feat would have counted for something only if he had achieved it in a foreign competition."Mera record todne wala India mein paida nahi hua (the one who can break my record is not born yet in India)," he had famously said in 1991 and he hung on to that belief even when that record was shattered.A self-proclaimed village 'bumpkin' from the undivided Punjab's Govindpura, Milkha's run for a better life started as a 15-year-old when he escaped from Pakistan to Delhi after witnessing a bloodbath that claimed his parents during the partition. His approach to life in the refugee camp was irreverent. He worked as a boot polish boy, a shop cleaner near the old Delhi Railway Station and in between stole goods from trains to make ends meet.The petty crimes landed Milkha in jail and he was bailed out by sister Ishvar, who sold her jewellery to get him released.Milkha tried to step up in life by making repeated attempts at joining the army. He got through on his fourth attempt in 1952 and that proved to be the turning point which he so desperately wanted and needed. He was posted in Secunderabad and ran his first race -- a cross country of five miles -- there when army coach Gurdev Singh promised an extra glass of milk to those who finished inside top-10.He finished sixth and later got selected for special training in 400m. The rest, as they say, is well-documented history.He won the selection trial the 1956 Olympics despite that he had been brutally assaulted by his rivals a day before that race.Milkha disappointed at the Games as he failed to get past the preliminary heats but benefited from the experience and was able to persuade 400m gold winner Charles Jenkins to share his training methods.In his autobiography, he had claimed that he trained so intensely after that disappointment that he would vomit blood and would fall unconscious on many occasions.His life and career story is incomplete without the 1960 Indo-Pak sports meet where he outran Pakistani Abdul Khaliq before the Rome Olympics.Khaliq was considered the fastest man in Asia at that time, having won the 100m gold in 1958 Asian Games. After winning 400m gold in the same Games, Milkha had also beaten Khaliq in the 200m final.At first, Milkha refused to go to Pakistan as he did not want to return to a country where his parents were butchered but was persuaded by Prime Minister Nehru to face his demons.He beat Khaliq in the 200m race in Lahore and was christened 'The Flying Sikh' by then Pakistan President General Ayub Khan who congratulated him during the awards ceremony.Milkha retired from athletics after the 1964 Olympics, two years after winning the gold in 400m and 4x400m relay events at the Asian Games held at Jakarta.Before that he had already taken up the job of deputy director of sports in the Punjab government in 1961 on the insistence of then chief minister Pratap Singh Kairon. He quit Indian Army and also shifted his residence to Chandigarh from Delhi.In 1991, he introduced a compulsory games period in schools and also set up sports wings in schools in the districts to tap talent at the grassroot level.He got married to Nirmal Kaur, captain of the Indian volleyball team, in 1963. They met for the first time in 1956 in Sri Lanka when they were there for their respective national duties.The couple was blessed with three daughters and a son, golfer Jeev Milkha Singh.It was quite stunning that an athlete of Milkha's stature was offered the Arjuna award, instituted in 1961, only in 2001.He famously turned it down, saying the honour was not of the "stature of the services he rendered to the nation".In fact, Milkha was a sum total of way more than his several races and medals. He was also much more than that near miss in Rome.He was India's love affair with the track, the one that this country can never get over. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-singh-an-unmatchable-romance-with-a-near-miss-270462
