21-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 14 new Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh on Monday reported 14 new cases of Covid-19 to take its total caseload to 61,444 while no deaths were reported.The total number of active cases has come down to 311 as 56 patients were discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.The death toll in the city is 806.As many as 60,327 patients have been cured till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-14-new-covid-19-cases-271930
21-06-2021||---||Delta strain was predominant during second Covid wave in Chandigarh, reveals PGI||Chandigarh, June 21PGI director Jagat Ram on Monday said that during the second wave delta (B.1.617.2) and alpha (B.1.1.7) variants were found present among 61 per cent and 30 per cent of the samples, respectively, which were sent for whole genome sequencing to NCDC, New Delhi.Majority of these samples (92 per cent) belonged to Chandigarh residents. Thus, during the second wave in the UT, delta strain was the main circulating strain, he said.Giving details, he said, “The Department of Virology has been carrying out Covid testing by RTPCR since March 2020 and till date more than 2.5 lakh samples have been tested. To study whether there is a change in the circulating strain in Chandigarh during the second wave, 25 stored positive samples of the period May 5 to May 24 were sent for whole genome sequencing to NCDC.”“Majority of these (92 per cent) belonged to residents of Chandigarh. During the second wave, delta variant (B.1.617.2) and alpha variant (B.1.1.7) were found present among 61 per cent and 30 per cent, respectively. In two samples, sequencing could not be performed due to low content of genomic material, inferring that during the second wave in the UT delta strain was the main circulating strain,” Jagat Ram said.Dean (Academics) GD Puri said the samples sent were of the patients admitted to the Nehru Hospital Extension Block where severe and critical Covid cases were admitted; and all samples belonged to the delta strain.Eighty per cent of the patients who had died of Covid had the alpha strain. Fortunately, no case of delta-plus variant was reported in the samples sent, Puri said.Jagat Ram advised the public to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour and to opt for vaccination in increased numbers in order to break the transmission chain completely and to halt the impending threat of third wave keeping in view the emerging and fast spreading delta and delta-plus variants.He said the positive cases in Chandigarh had come down but there was no room for complacency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delta-strain-was-predominant-during-second-covid-wave-in-chandigarh-reveals-pgi-271887
21-06-2021||---||Dharam Pal appointed Adviser to Chandigarh Administrator||Chandigarh, June 21Dharam Pal has been appointed Adviser to the Chandigarh Administrator.Pal is an IAS officer of the AGMUT 1988 cadre.This was stated in a Ministry of Home Affairs order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dharam-pal-appointed-adviser-to-chandigarh-administrator-271862
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||'Dad was my best friend, guide, mentor', Jeev remembers Milkha Singh||Ace golfer and late Milkha Singh's son Jeev Milkha Singh on Monday paid tributes to the sprint legend, who died of Covid complications last week, saying he would need a lifetime of resilience to deal with the loss of his best friend, guide and mentor.Milkha, one of independent India's biggest sporting icons, died here on Friday after battling the infection for a month.The 49-year-old Jeev said Father's Day on Sunday was "another sad reminder of what I've lost"."Dad was much more than my father - he was my best friend, my guide, my mentor," Jeev, who was in Dubai when Milkha tested positive for Covid and reached here in a couple of days to be with him, said in a tweet."I hope I've the same resilience and inner strength to overcome all odds. I really need it now. And I will need it for the rest of my life," he added.Milkha was cremated here on Saturday evening with full state honours with Jeev lighting the pyre. Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju, Punjab Governor and Chandigarh Administrator VP Singh Badnore, Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Haryana's Sports Minister Sandeep Singh were among the dignitaries who attended the last rites.The family's tragedy was compounded by the loss of Milkha's wife and former national volleyball captain Nirmal Kaur just five days before the legendary sprinter's death. Nirmal had also been battling Covid."Somehow, I don't remember much of dad's funeral procession, but one sight I will never forget. A military van coming to a stop and these soldiers getting out and giving dad the salute."The Milkha family has always been grateful to the Indian Army, and I want to thank them again," said Jeev.Jeev had earlier described his mother's death as the "loss of family's backbone". The seasoned golfer thanked people for the outpouring of support."I lost my mom and dad. But what has been even more emotional is the thousands of messages we have been getting from people as if they have lost someone of their own," he said."Thank you to all dad's fans and well-wishers for supporting us at this time,” he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dad-was-my-best-friend-guide-mentor-jeev-remembers-milkha-singh-271842
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||In pictures: Chandigarh, Mohali residents mark Yoga Day||As India is celebrating the seventh International Day of Yoga, residents, bureaucrats and ministers across Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh and Mohali performed Yoga to mark the occasion on Monday.Also read: Yoga remains 'ray of hope' as world fights Covid: ModiIn Himachal Pradesh, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, state ministers and residents gathered to perform Yoga in Shimla.Also read: In pictures: India celebrates 7th International Day of Yoga; President, Union ministers perform yogaIn Chandigarh, people performed yoga at a green belt in Sector 38 West, Chandigarh to celebrate International Yoga Day.Government officials gathered over a video conference to mark International Yoga Day in Mohali. Also read: Gurugram residents mark Yoga DayIn Haryana's Gurugram, residents participated in the International Yoga Day organised by the distinct administration at Tau Devi Lal Stadium.Also read: CM Jai Ram Thakur leads Yoga Day celebrations in Himachal's Shimla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-pictures-chandigarh-mohali-residents-mark-yoga-day-271841
21-06-2021||Naina Mishra||At 31.6%, Chandigarh first dose vax coverage sixth in country||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 20The City Beautiful has administered over 44,000 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine in the week ending June 18, which is the highest since the vaccination programme began in the UT on January 16.‘Can jab all in 2 months’If we continue to vaccinate at the same pace, we will be able to jab the eligible population of the UT in the next two months. -  Arun Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, UTWith more than 31 per cent first dose vaccination coverage of the population, the city stands sixth in the country. The first dose coverage is even double the national average – 16 per cent. At 64 per cent, Lakshadweep has the highest number of vaccination coverage as far as the first dose is concerned followed by Ladakh, Sikkim, Goa and Himachal Pradesh.Arun Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, UT, said, “Over 31 per cent of the UT’s entire population is vaccinated with the first dose. But, if we exclude the below-18 population, which is roughly about 40 per cent as per the 2011 Census, we can say that we have vaccinated about 50 per cent of the eligible beneficiaries for the first dose. Besides, about 70 per cent of the beneficiaries above 45 years of age have also been vaccinated in Chandigarh.”“If we continue to vaccinate at the same pace, we will be able to vaccinate the eligible population of the UT in the next two months. Our coverage for the first dose is good because there is no hesitancy in the 18 to 44 age group. The vaccine was introduced for this group in the second wave when the cases were at peak, which boosted the vaccination drive,” added Gupta.Now, the UT Health Department aims at vaccinating 10,000 beneficiaries every day before the third wave hits the region.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “We have been vaccinating over 7,000 beneficiaries daily and aim at inoculating over 10,000 beneficiaries daily so that we cover a majority of eligible beneficiaries before the third wave strikes. After June 21, vaccine will be counted in common pool and more slots can be opened for beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-31-6-chandigarh-first-dose-vax-coverage-sixth-in-country-271723
21-06-2021||Naina Mishra||Covid testing at private labs cost Chandigarh Administration over Rs71 lakh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 20Covid-19 testing at private laboratories cost the UT Administration nearly Rs71 lakh in the second wave, an RTI query has revealed.“A payment amounting to Rs71,87,000 has been made to Atulaya Laboratories for RT-PCR testing by the National Health Mission, UT, till June 10,” read the RTI response to a query sought on the funds reimbursed to private laboratories in Chandigarh by the UT Administration for providing the RT-PCR report within 24 hours in the past two months.No death in Chandigarh after 82 days, 22 infectedChandigarh: The city reported a new low of 22 fresh Covid cases in the past 24 hours. No Covid death was reported for the first time in 82 days. Before this, it was on March 30 when the city had reported zero fatality. The UT has so far recorded 53 deaths in June, whereas 275 deaths were recorded in May. In the past one week, 2.8 per cent of the samples tested positive. TNSNo fatality in Mohali, 27 test positiveMohali: The district on Sunday reported no fresh fatality while 27 persons tested positive for Covid-19. Meanwhile, 47 patients were cured during the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, six came from Mohali (urban), one each from Lalru and Banur, three from Boothgarh, four each from Dera Bassi and Dhakoli and eight from Kharar. No case was reported from Kurali and Gharuan. TNSTwo deaths, 5 new cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Sunday reported two deaths and five new cases of coronavirus. While 30,054 patients have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 102 cases are still active. The recovery rate is 98.45 per cent. TNSFailing to expand the RT-PCR testing capacity in government institutions, the UT Administration had roped in private testing laboratories to meet the target set by the Union Health Ministry. The ministry had asked the UT to increase the share of RT-PCR tests to 80 per cent of the total tests.The UT Administrator directed the PGI authorities to enhance the sample testing to 1,200 per day and the GMCH, Sector 32, was asked to increase the capacity to 400 RT-PCR tests per day, but the capacity could not be stretched beyond 950 samples a day. The turnaround time in RT-PCR Covid reports was more than three to four days in government laboratories, which was causing a delay in contact tracing and a rise in the infection spread. Consequently, on the pattern of Haryana, the UT Administration had to rope in private players to help increase the ratio of the RT-PCR testing ratio as per the instructions of the Centre.The UT Administration had decided to pay Rs500 per sample to private laboratories to give the Covid-19 report within 24 hours.The UT Health Department sent samples collected by it to private laboratories and reimbursed them for it. Principal Health Secretary of the UT Arun Gupta said, “The decision to rope in private facilities in the second wave was the need of the hour. The turnaround time of RT-PCR was exceeding three days. We reimbursed private laboratories for taking our samples and giving the report on time. The practice has been stopped now as the government laboratories of the PGI and the GMCH have enhanced their capacity of RTPCR testing.”GMSH-16 yet to buy gold standard RT-PCR machineGovernment Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, is yet to purchase a gold standard RT-PCR machine that can augment the capacity of tests and decrease reliance on other health institutes for Covid tests. On the contrary, the general hospital in the neighbouring district of Panchkula, which earlier used to be dependent on Karnal for Covid testing, has set up its own laboratory and has a capacity of testing around 2,000 samples a day. The GMSH-16 has a TrueNat machine that gives results in three to four hours, but is only meant for testing of emergency cases and not mass-scale testing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-testing-at-private-labs-cost-chandigarh-administration-over-rs71-lakh-271753
21-06-2021||Amit Bathla||Farmers gather to protest against CM, detained; let off after 5 hours||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 20Around 50 farmers belonging to different organisations, who assembled at Thapli to protest against Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar before his arrival for an inauguration of a Panchkarma Wellness Centre, were detained by the police.Khattar was to reach the venue after overseeing the demonstration of adventure activities at Tikkar Tal in the Morni area.The protesters were subsequently taken to the Crime Branch police station, Sector 26, in four police vehicles.To express solidarity with those detained, hundreds of their supporters subsequently gathered outside the Crime Branch, demanding their immediate release. Anticipating the protest gathering steam, the police had to release the detained farmers after five hours. The supporters welcomed them. No FIR or police action was taken. Farmers claimed a compromise was reached after the police apologised for their ‘misbehaviour’.While agitating farmers have accused the police of high-handedness as they were protesting ‘peacefully’, the police said as the protesters were marching towards the Chief Minister’s helipad by breaching the barricading, they had to round them up.Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Mohit Handa said the police had issued protesters a warning, but they remained adamant on marchng towards the CM’s helipad despite VVIP security concern. “Hence, we had to detain them,” he said before the release of the detainees.Congress workers, led by former Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan, had also reached outside the Crime Branch in the evening.Some farmers, through a video message, had appealed to people to gather in large numbers outside the Crime Branch police station to support them.What had happenedProtesting farmers, some of them holding black flags, were seen sitting on the road surrounded by the police in Thapli before the CM’s arrival. The police were grabbing people to clear the protest site, leading to minor scuffles. A Sikh farmer, who was among the protesters, alleged that the police pulled off his turban.The protesters also raised slogans against the BJP governments – both at the Centre and the state - over farm laws. Raj Gill, the only woman among those detained, accused cops of misconduct. “There was no woman cop to pick me up. When I protested, two women cops in plain clothes came and put me into a bus,” she said. Condemning the incident, Congress national spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the Khattar government was the most unpopular and anti-people government in the history of Haryana. He added that farmers would soon send the BJP-JJP out of power.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-gather-to-protest-against-cm-detained-let-off-after-5-hours-271754
21-06-2021||---||Dream of Morni as tourism hub being realised: Khattar||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 20Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today said his dream of developing the Morni hills as a tourism hub was now being realised.Khattar was in Morni to review adventure sports facilities such as paragliding, hot air balloon, parasailing, power motor, e-hydrofoil, jet scooter and boating.He himself experienced some of the activities. He was accompanied by Union Minister Rattan Lal Kataria, Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, state Tourism Minister Kanwar Pal and Minister of State for Sports Sandeep Singh among others.Speaking to mediapersons, the Chief Minister said people had to travel far away to Manali for adventure sports activities. By starting such activities in the Morni hills, people would not only get an opportunity to indulge in exciting activities, but it would also lead to the economic development of the surrounding areas.Paragliding club to be named after MilkhaThe Chief Minister announced that that a paragliding club would be named after Flying Sikh Milkha Singh.He said nine one-day trekking routes had been prepared for adventure sports activities in the area. Soon after finalising night stay arrangements, two-day trekking routes would also be finalised.Later in the day, the Haryana Chief Minister inaugurated the Panchkarma Wellness Centre at the Nature Camp, Thapli, in the Morni area. Manohar Lal Khattar said the state had set a target of planting three crore saplings in the near future.Extra marks for students for plantationEmphasising on the concept of ‘Oxy Van’, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced a new policy in which extra markswill be given to students who cater and nurture saplings from Class VIII to Class XII.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dream-of-morni-as-tourism-hub-being-realised-khattar-271755
21-06-2021||Deepankar Sharda||In Milkha couple’s death, golfer son Jeev loses his teachers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 20If life is a lesson, parents are the one who teach you to live it in a perfect way.With the death of Milkha couple – Milkha Singh and his wife Nirmal Milkha Singh – world has lost two icons, but the 14-time winner on the international circuit, Jeev has lost his teachers.He was a friendMy parents have always told me to work hard. My father was a friend, a very good friend, but when he needed to be a father, he was.-  Jeev Milkha SinghAshes immersedJeev immersed the ashes of his father Milkha Singh in the Sutlej river at Kiratpur Sahib on Sunday. He was accompanied by other members of the family. The ashes were immersed after performing religious ceremonies.Message to mediaThis is just a small note to thank you for the honour given to our parents, Nirmal Milkha Singh and Milkha Singh, through your columns and channels. Your words are like a silver lining in this period of grief. – FamilyThe winner of six Asian Tour titles, four European Tour titles, and four Japan Tour titles, took to social media to pen down a tribute to his parents.“The relationship between a child and parents never changes. It doesn’t matter how old you get or where in the world you end up living or how much you have accomplished in life. The relationship remains simple – it’s one of unconditional love,” Jeev wrote in his Instagram post.“As parents, you have been the strength and backbone of our family since as far as I can remember. Together you have nurtured and supported each one of us with so much love and care, while somehow inspiring an entire nation to dream big and believe that anything is possible if you work hard and dedicate yourself...”“...you have touched so many lives over the years and the impact you have made on this nation will long be remembered,” Jeev pointed out.“Being around you has taught me how to be a better father, brother, husband and has made me (grow) into a more compassionate and empathetic human being. I love you with all of my heart mom and dad. It’s not going to be easy without you, but I know you’ll be up there, together, protecting us as you have been all our lives,” he added. Jeev though is not the only one who was inspired by his parents, there are several other tales which are hard to describe in a few lines.Harpreet loses ‘second parents’For 19-year-old Harpreet, he lost his second parents. The hockey player, who caught the generosity of Milkha couple after the Tribune highlighted his plight while working as a labourer to help his family, is devastated by the loss. “I lost my second parents,” said Harpreet. “If I had any problem, they were just a call away.”The couple had promised to take care of Harpreet, the best goal scorer in the 3rd Khelo India U-21 Games, and sponsored him under the Milkha Charitable Trust.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-milkha-couples-death-golfer-son-jeev-loses-his-teachers-271756
21-06-2021||---||Headless body found near Punjab CM’s farmhouse, 2 arrested||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 20Two suspects have been arrested in a gruesome murder of a Nagal resident, whose headless body was found partially buried in Siswan close to the Punjab Chief Minister’s farmhouse this morning. The police said the deceased had been identified as Nagal resident Sucha Singh (40), who was missing from his house in the village since June 12.‘Efforts on to nab third suspect’Two suspects have been arrested and efforts are being made to arrest the third one. All facets of the case are being investigated thoroughly.- Satinder Singh, Mohali SSPThe suspects have been identified as Parole residents Jagir Singh, alias Ghola, Satnam Singh Satti and Des Raj. The sword used in the murder had been recovered, said the police.The deceased and the suspects were known to each other and were taking liquor when arguments began over some financial matter between Sucha Singh and prime suspect Jagir Singh, alias Ghola. Later, the suspects beheaded the victim and buried his body. The police are yet to recover the severed head of the deceased.The deceased has two daughters and a son, who identified the body and found slippers near the spot. The deceased was a herder, who used to graze sheep and goats in a nearby forest.Eyewitnesses said the police had been searching for the person for the past few days. Today, they took the help of the deceased’s pet dog in their search operation and found the headless body buried in earth near the boundary wall of the high security farmhouse.Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said, “The suspects have been booked under Sections 302 and 201 of the IPC at the Mullanpur police station.Two suspects have been arrested and efforts are being made to arrest the third one. All facets of the case are being investigated thoroughly.”Mullanpur SHO Satinder Singh said two persons have been arrested in the case. A case was registered under Section 346 of the IPC to which Section 302 of the IPC has been added now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/headless-body-found-near-punjab-cms-farmhouse-2-arrested-271757
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Two nabbed for snatching phone||The UT police have arrested two miscreants for allegedly snatching a mobile phone.The suspects, identified as Nawabdin, alias Aman (28), and Balwinder Kumar, alias Ballu (26), both residents of Patiala district, have been arrested in a snatching case registered at the Sector 34 police station last year. The police said the snatched phone had been recovered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-nabbed-for-snatching-phone-271758
21-06-2021||As Covid cases have come down||Opening OPDs need of the hour, but caution a must||It’s been more than a year that OPDs are non-functional, making the condition worrisome for many non-infected patients. The upsurge of pandemic can’t be ignored, but effective measures can make OPD services available.Harnoor Kaur, KhararGear up for elective surgeriesResidents suffered tremendously as many patients of cardiology, nephrology, or of other serious ailments could not get their surgeries done during the second Covid wave. All hospitals should resume surgeries suspended with strict standard operating procedures in place. The hospital should allow only one attendant per patient at the hospital.SK KhoslaOPDs are ‘Right to LIFE’Interaction through OPDs helps in creating efficient working relationship that is real, reliable and robust besides an effective doctor–patient relationship involving both parties. OPD interaction promotes good outcomes by creating an empowered, engaged, and active partnership with patients who feel heard and accurately understood by their doctors. The onus on government hospitals increases manifold keeping in mind the aspect of ‘Right to Life’ and ‘social security’ guaranteed by the Constitution of India, especially when a majority of the patients are from poor and illiterate background.Pushpa Kewal, Karnal (Haryana)Hospitals ray of hopeIn the present demographic profile of our society, government hospitals serve as a ray of hope for life for a big chunk of population. It is high time for government hospitals to get a nod for starting elective surgeries.Dr BharatFocus on emergency healthcareThe pandemic has affected the working of outpatient department treatment. As cases have dropped, hospitals should adopt data intelligence to prioritise patients in dire need of healthcare. The delay in opening of OPDs may further lead to healthcare complications or resulting in another catastrophe. Only emergency services should be dealt on a priority basis and other medical services could be provided through telecommunication.Charu Malhotra, MohaliCommon man hit hardWith doctors and staff busy in Covid care and cure, OPDs shut and elective/pre-planned surgeries suspended, the common man was hit hard. Tele-consultation is not everyone’s cup of tea and there can be no easy substitute for doctor-patient direct interaction. The GMSH-16 and GMCH-32 have resumed two-three elective surgeries per day and the number will increase in the due course. The PGIMER is mulling following the suit. Covid is not leaving us anytime soon and universal vaccination is a distant dream. The recent decline in cases is the result of forced regulations and SOPs. Laxity and complacency in letting down our guard will only invite reimposition of curbs and closures.Lalit BharadwajStart OPDs sans delayThere is no denying the fact that the Covid cases have gone down drastically in Chandigarh and elsewhere in the country. In view of the improved situation, the city government hospitals should start the OPDs and elective surgeries for the patients not affected by the Covid. Moving pictures of the wanton neglect of the patients with serious ailments reveal how much they have suffered during the virus-induced lockdowns with the government-run hospitals discontinuing OPDs. Many of them had even died due to the unavailability of OPDs. Equally imperative for these hospitals is to ensure that the Covid protocols are not allowed to be violated at any cost, to keep a check on much talked about third wave of the pandemic, touted to be the most dangerous, if reports/ advisories and alerts from governments and experts are to be believed, we cannot afford to lower our guard at any point in time.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhThe poor are sufferingWith the decline in Covid cases, the hospitals should start OPDs and other suspended procedures as the poor citizens are suffering for want of free treatment at government hospitals. Early restoration of facilities will improve the general health of people suffering from chronic as well as acute problemsBharat Bhushan SharmaAllow limited appointmentsNow is the right time to start surgeries and OPDs for patients. The government should allow limited online/offline appointment to avoid rush.Avinash goyal, ChandigarhSeveral lives lostMany families that could not afford expensive treatment in private hospitals have lost their dear ones due to the non-availability of medical treatment during the pandemic. This should be an eye-opener for the government for future medical crises. If not all, at least bare minimum OPD facilities and critical operations should be made available in government hospitals for patients.Dr Anil Kumar YadavAllay the fears of patientsThe government should also first strive to allay the fears of non-Covid patients, who need medical attention, but who dread going to hospitals, because they fear getting infected with Covid. Online mode of consultation with the doctor should still be the preferred mode in cases that are not severe.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhCan’t ignore chances of Covid resurgeGovernment hospitals should not start OPDs and elective surgeries for patients because if we ignore the covid cases, we may soon be affected with another mutant.Adish Sood, AmlohContinue online consultationPandemic has wreaked havoc on the lives of non-Covid patients as healthcare system remains inaccessible with physical OPDs shut. Video-conferencing and telecommunication routine should be continued as of now because the spread of transmission should be put to an end once and for all. We need to learn from our previous mistakes as nation cannot afford another lockdown.Garv bhupesh, PanchkulaPatients with deadly diseases ignoredThose with diseases such as HIV and cancer have been denied the access to hospitals. They are facing quite a bit of hardship with most OPDs and operation theatres closed. Now, keeping in view the decline in Covid positive cases across the country, the hospitals should ramp up their activities towards restarting OPDs and elective surgeries for which many patients are in queue as they were asked to be on hold due to Covid operations in almost all government and private hospitals. The government and managements of private hospitals should ensure that the staff and specialist doctors are resourced for OPDs and surgeries.Sanjay ChopraDistance Covid facilities from othersIt is high time that non-Covid OPDs are made functional, along with selective surgeries. For more than a year, people have been devoid of medical care. Non-Covid treatment areas or hospitals should distance themselves from Covid treatment centres and if possible, staff and doctors of Covid and non-Covid OPDs should be segregated.Bubby SoinSerious cases being neglectedPatients with chronic disease and those who need immediate attention such as chemotherapy, dialysis and surgeries are being neglected and forced to bear pain. Now, as vaccination is available and health being the topmost priority for any individual, government should open hospitals.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliRestore services in A phased mannerAs Covid cases are decreasing, it is high time that all OPDs and elective surgeries should be restored in a phased manner to relieve many patients suffering from other diseases. All precautions and preparedness for the probable Covid third wave should be kept in mind.Suresh VermaVaccinate all staffYes, the government must start the OPDs as soon as possible. Many people are dying of diseases other than Covid. The government must make sure that the hospital staff and doctors are fully vaccinated. Covid preventive and safety guidelines should strictly be followed. The elective surgeries can be postponed and only essential surgeries should be done.Antra Rakheja, ChandigarhOpening OPDs a mustMany people can only afford treatment in civil hospitals. As the Covid cases are dropping, the opening of OPDs should be a must. This will ensure that the poor are diagnosed with the disease on time and can be cured accordingly.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhDoctors’ safety importantElective surgeries and OPDs should be started but with utmost precautions and there should be pre-registration to avoid untoward rush and priority should be given to more deserving patients with other ailments. Utmost safety of the doctors is required as the country is bracing for the third wave. Any error in their safety will lead to lack of doctors in future as we have already lost many doctors in the last two waves.Dr Hemant agnihotriOpen OPDs at the earliestNow when the pandemic is showing a little downward trend and relaxations are being extended for opening of markets, malls and restaurants, OPDs at government hospitals should be opened invariably at the earliest. This is very urgent and need of the hour. Doctors at many of the private hospitals cannot have the same expertise as that of doctors at the PGI and other government hospitals.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhOPDs a reliefMany of those suffering from other diseases are unable to get proper treatment due to the closure of general OPDs. General OPDs and elective surgeries should be started in order to relieve other patients suffering from other severe diseases.Gurleen KaurSpecial desks for the elderlyPeople above 60 years need immediate attention. They must be given a respite to their remote telephonic prescription mode and oral checkups. Covid turbulence has subsided now and round-the-clock efforts are needed through special desks of senior and junior doctors to address health grievances of the grey population.Rajpartap Singh, ChandigarhSurgeries a risky affairNo doubt cases are going down in Chandigarh but we still have a long way to go. OPDs shall be resumed but elective surgeries are still a little risky for the time being as it will put people who are not infected at a risk. People shall get vaccinated and play their part in this fight. Careless attitude of people will lead to nothing but spreading this deadly virus causing danger to the doctors and other patients.Dhanika Single, ChandigarhPatients have sufferedWith a gradual decline in Covid cases over the past few days, it shall be in the fitness of things to open OPDs and elective surgeries in government hospitals. This is also important in view of the fact that a lot of patients with chronic ailments such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension and chronic kidney disease, who require regular check up, have suffered due to the closure of OPDs. Ensure that strict observance of Covid appropriate behaviour is practised.Dr Dinesh Kumar Verma, Panchkula.Put a cap on visitorsAs the Covid cases are dropping on a daily basis, OPDs at all government hospitals, including the PGI, must be opened with only limited visitors allowed each day. For the sake of humanity, authorities must consider partial functioning of OPDs.Harsimran Singh ThuhaOPDs risky, start surgeriesThe second wave of covid 19 has taken an unprecedented toll on human lives and the third wave is impending. It seems people have not learnt any lesson from the catastrophic potential of the virus. People can be seen violating covid protocols with impunity during gradual relaxations even during the lockdown. Under such circumstances, opening OPDs will pose a risk. However, elective surgeries cannot be kept pending for long and can be started on the pattern of private hospitals involving high-priority non-Covid patients after RT-PCR, HRCT-chest scans are done.Sunil KhannaAvoid routine OPD visitsTeleconsultation is the best way to support patients. Though services must be resumed with proper precautionary measures, routine visits to OPDs must be avoided.Anita K Tandon, KhararSituation conducive to surgeriesDue to the closure of OPDs, especially at government hospitals, the poor had to suffer a lot. They cannot afford to pay private doctors due to the exorbitant fee charged by them. Also, patients in need of the surgeries must be operated upon now as the conditions are conducive to those who are not infected by Covid-19. Medical emergency cases too need to be dealt with at the earliest to save the precious lives as we have already lost many to the pandemic. Hope the Administration will soon initiate these services.Bir Devinder Singh BediCaution in the keyWhen the worst of the second Covid wave is now behind us, healthcare for patients as well as surgeries need to be given a priority. OPDs need to be opened, but in doing so, the hospital staff must ensure that Covid protocol is strictly followed by all.SC LuthraPoor need govt hospitalsWith coronavirus cases declining in the city, some private hospitals here are seeing an increase in non-Covid patients returning to medical facilities and conducting elective surgeries that were put on hold. It is important to start elective surgeries and routine work at government hospitals because the cases are going to pile up. Government hospitals provide low cost treatment to the poor so they must be opened for all.Vijay Malia ChandigarhWorsening health conditionsSenior citizens are more likely to have chronic health problems. Due to the closure of OPDs, condition of many patients has worsened. OPD services for non-Covid patients should have been run at least once a week. Though telephonic appointments are available, most of the patients prefer physical consultation. With the decline in Covid cases, the tricity administration should allow resumption of OPD services.Col Balbir Singh Mathauda (retd)Immediate medical attention soughtThe Covid-19 caseload is on the decline for last one month. The city hospitals must take up elective surgeries and start OPD services for patients. However, due caution should be maintained. Patients with serious ailments like cancer, diabetes, heart disease, need immediate medical attention.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd)Loot by pvt hospitalsThe poor and middle class have suffered a lot during this pandemic. It is the need of the hour to start OPDs and elective surgeries without further loss of time. This will provide some relief to common man in general as private hospitals are looting the public.AK Jindal, PatialaQUESTIONWhat steps should the UT Administration take to prevent a third wave of Covid from hitting the City Beautiful?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/opening-opds-need-of-the-hour-but-caution-a-must-271766
21-06-2021||---||PGI sends fresh samples for genome sequencing to Delhi||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 20Amid rising concerns over the Delta variant and its mutation into highly infectious Delta plus, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, has sent a fresh batch of new samples for genome sequencing to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), New Delhi.‘Delta plus’ variantThe ‘delta plus’ variant is a mutated version of the more aggressive B.1.617.2 strain that drove the second wave of infection in India. It is characterised by K417N mutation in the spike protein of SARS-CoV2 virus that causes Covid-19 disease. The ‘delta plus’ variant is resistant to the monoclonal antibody cocktail recently authorised in the country.This time, we have picked the samples of severely ill patients and also of those who died due to the infection. Besides, samples of paediatric patients, who suffered from Covid for long, have also been sent for genome sequencing. It will help us find out the connection between the severity of the disease and the variant.- Prof Mini P Singh, Virologist at the PGIHowever, instead of picking random samples, this time the institute has picked the samples of severely critical Covid-19 patients who were admitted to the ICU wards late in the month of May.Prof Mini P Singh, virologist at the PGI, said: “This time, we have picked the samples of severely ill patients and also of those who have died due to the infection. Besides, samples of paediatric patients, who suffered from Covid for long, have also been sent for genome sequencing. It will help us find out the connection between the severity of disease and the variant.”As many as 70 per cent of the 60 samples sent by the PGI for genome sequencing in March turned positive for the UK variant of Covid-19. The highly transmissible B.1.617 variant of Covid-19 has been found in five of the 23 samples sent by the institute in May.The highly transmissible Delta variant or B.1.617.2 was also found in Chandigarh, according to genomic characterisation study conducted by scientists from the National Centre for Disease Control and the CSIR, Delhi.The ‘delta plus’ variant is a mutated version of the more aggressive B.1.617.2 strain that drove the second wave of infection in India. It is characterised by K417N mutation in the spike protein of SARS-CoV2 virus that causes Covid-19 disease. The ‘delta plus’ variant is resistant to the monoclonal antibody cocktail recently authorised in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-sends-fresh-samples-for-genome-sequencing-to-delhi-271769
21-06-2021||---||Health remains priority of our govt, says Balbir Sidhu||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 20Emphasising that the health facilities will be provided in every corner of the district, Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today said the development works being carried out under the leadership of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh across the state would not be stopped at any cost.Sidhu was speaking during the foundation stone laying ceremony of the primary health centre at Saneta village. The state-of-the-art facility will be build at a cost of Rs 2.96 crore.“Rs 2.96 crore will be spent on the primary health centre and the building will be completed in six months. The PHC will have a separate budget for equipment, furniture and other requirements,” said Sidhu.He thanked the Saneta residents, including sarpanch Bhagat Ram and other panchayat members for giving 22 kanal land for the PHC.The minister also said there would be no shortage of land to turn the PHC into a major hospital in future.“With the formation of this PHC, the nearby villages will also get easy access to health facilities. A long-standing demand of the residents has been met with the start of this project,” he said.Sidhu said his government was giving top priority to the health facilities.“Five new government medical colleges are being set up at Mohali, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Malerkotla, which will provide a major impetus to the medical education in the state,” he informed.A medical college is being started at the site of Civil Hospital in Phase 6, Mohali, and it has been proposed to set up the hospital at Sector 66, for which the process of acquiring nine acres of land from GMADA is almost complete, Sidhu added.“In order to make health facilities accessible to all, the provision of health facilities in rural and urban areas will be further strengthened. There is also a proposal to set up a PHC at Aerocity, Mohali,” said the minister.Talking about the Covid pandemic, Sidhu said there was huge awareness among the people about the vaccination now.“The state government is working day and night to vaccinate maximum number of people in the state. The government has also increased the Covid testing,” he said, adding that due to the efforts of the government the cases have started to decline.Sidhu, meanwhile, appealed to the people to take all the precautionary measures against the corona infection and follow the instructions issued by the Punjab Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/health-remains-priority-of-our-govt-says-balbir-sidhu-271771
21-06-2021||---||No let-up in encroachments at Mani Majra motor market||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 20Despite anti-encroachment drives in Mani Majra motor market, widespread violations continue in the area.Corridors and roads are blocked with repair items while parking lots are full with dumped vehicles. Parking space, it seems is closed for the commuters as they are blocked by vehicles needing repairs.Ravi Kumar, a Mani Majra resident, said, “It is a nuisance. It looks like all corridors and parking lots are owned by the mechanics. They have done massive encroachments.”“The MC should hold regular anti-encroachment drives here. One drive will not help,” added Sarla Devi, another resident.In case of a fire accident, the encroachments at the motor market can lead to a tragedy, said yet another resident. “In such a scenario, fire tenders will not be able to reach the affected building as the parking lots and corridors are already blocked.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-let-up-in-encroachments-at-mani-majra-motor-market-271772
21-06-2021||Sandeep Rana||MC invites expression of interest to shortlist architectural consultant||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 20The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation has invited expression of interest (EOI) for shortlisting architectural consultant for designing the multi-level parking near Rana Ki Haveli in Mani Majra.July 2 last dateThe interested candidates have been asked to submit their proposals, along with approach and methodology, on or before 4 pm on July 2.The consultant will prepare the conceptual design, provide technical data and highlight the economic viability of the project.The interested candidates have been asked to submit their proposals, along with approach and methodology, on or before 4 pm on July 2.Following the selection of the consultant, the civic body will float a tender to finalise a company to build the parking lot on a public-private partnership (PPP) mode.It will be the second multi-level parking built by the Chandigarh MC.The first multi-level parking was set up in Sector 17 at a cost of Rs 48 crore a few years ago. However, it has not been as successful as was anticipated and most of the parking lot remains unoccupied.“The situation is different in this particular location as there is scarcity of parking space, not only for the visitors, but for the local residents as well,” said an official.Besides solving the parking issue in the area, the MC is also eying a huge revenue by way of successfully running the parking lot.As per officials, the 24x7 parking lot would be used for commercial vehicles during the day time and residents can park their vehicles at the site during night hours.Area councillor Jagtar Singh said a temporary parking lot was being operated from the site as well. The multi-level parking facility is expected to have space for 1,000-1,200 vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-invites-expression-of-interest-to-shortlist-architectural-consultant-271773
21-06-2021||Deepankar Sharda||127 faculty members likely to get promotions soon||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 20As many 127 faculty members awaiting promotions from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor and Associate Professor to Professor under the Career Advancement Scheme (CAS) will receive approval within a few days, confirmed sources. Suggestion was sought from Satya Pal JainAmid the absence of the Senate and the Syndicate, a suggestion was sought from Satya Pal Jain, Additional Solicitor General of India, who maintained that the Vice-Chancellor had the power to approve these promotions under Article 14 in anticipation of the approval from the Syndicate/Senate.Amid the absence of the Senate and the Syndicate, a suggestion was sought from Satya Pal Jain, Additional Solicitor General of India, who maintained that the Vice-Chancellor has the power to approve these promotions under Article 14 in anticipation of the approval from the Syndicate/Senate.“An advice has been sought from the Additional Solicitor General of India, who has suggested that promotions should be made. The process will start soon and the letters will be issued within matter of days. Official announcement is also likely to take place in a few days. The Registrar has already been informed and the proceedings have been started. The teachers will get their dues,” said a source.“...it has been suggested that the Vice-Chancellor can approve this (CAS promotions) under Article 14 in anticipation of the approval from the Syndicate/Senate,” the source added.Last month, the Panjab University authorities have sought cooperation from the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) on smoothening of procedure for CAS promotions as the latter has been raising issues against the delay.“This is overall good news for the Panjab University campus and will be appreciated by all. There has been an unexpected delay for giving these promotions. I hope the relief will come soon,” said a faculty member.After a protest, Panjab University Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar had formed an 11-member panel last year.“The delay was due to the non-existence of the Senate/Syndicate and also due to the pandemic as the officials failed to meet time and again. The patience of faculty members should be appreciated and will be fruitful,” said a senior official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/127-faculty-members-likely-to-get-promotions-soon-271774
21-06-2021||---||AAP protests poor road condition, alleges corruption||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 20Aam Aadmi Party workers today staged a protest against the “poor quality road” laid between Hallo Majra Chowk and Ram Darbar and accused the BJP-led Municipal Corporation of “corruption”.“Residents of Ram Darbar and Hallo Majra had been inhaling dust for four years. After continuous protests by the AAP, the BJP government had to build this road. But the road was built using substandard material,” said AAP leader Virendra Singh Veeru.“The BJP councillor had assured that this road will last 50 years, but it collapsed in just 50 days. This clearly proves that corruption has been done in the construction of this road,” he said.Another AAP leader, Ramesh Kumar Tank, said, “If the road continues to break like this, a major accident can happen.”“It is unfortunate that the BJP leaders in power are not concerned about the life of common people. We demand a probe into the works being done by the BJP-ruled MC,” added AAP organisation secretary Vikram Singh Pundir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-protests-poor-road-condition-alleges-corruption-271775
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||PU VC interacts with associate professors||Panjab University Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar held an online interaction with associate professors here today.He urged the participants to work collectively towards achieving the top NAAC rating and sought cooperation of all in this endeavour by updating databases, informing achievements, keeping documentary evidence for evaluation, etc.The VC advised the faculty members to work towards interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary research, write new projects, new start-ups, start PhD programme in a completely new research area, think of innovative ideas and get patents.Professor Kumar also urged all to create a bond with their students and strengthen decision making for the smooth working of the system.Prof Ashish Jain, Director, IQAC, informed that the NAAC visit was due in July next year.He requested all the faculty members to report their achievements, lectures delivered, public lectures, projects, patents and other achievements to their respective departmental IQAC cells for updating the same on the IRB portal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-vc-interacts-with-associate-professors-271776
21-06-2021||Mohali||RBU starts pathway programmes for US, Canada||Rayat Bahra University (RBU) has tied up with Eton College, Canada, to start several courses where students will spend two years at the RBU and two years at the University in Canada.A unique feature of the programme is that the students can begin their Canadian programme at Eton College, India, and adapt to the Canadian education model.The students can save 60 per cent money in the first two years by studying at the Eton College, Indian campus, at Rayat Bahra University.RBU Chancellor Gurvinder Singh Bahra said it was a joint venture of the RBU and Eton College, Vancouver.The Chancellor said it was a joint delivery programme, where the students would spend two years at Eton College, India campus, and two years at City University, Capilano University, Royal Roads University and Vancouver Community College. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rbu-starts-pathway-programmes-for-us-canada-271777
21-06-2021||Panchkula||‘Mega Tika Day’ in Panchkula  today||Three booked under Excise ActZirakpur: The police have arrested three suspects with 72 bottles of illicit liquor meant for sale in Chandigarh only. The police have also seized a car. The suspects have been identified as Sagar Sharma, a resident of Panipat, Rahul Grover, a resident of Hisar, and Fatehabad resident Gaurav Batra. Sagar parked his car on the rear side of Vintage Hotel, Singhpura Chowk, Zirakpur, and sold liquor at exorbitant prices after bringing it at cheaper rates from Chandigarh and Haryana. The trio has been booked under the Excise Act. TNSMoot court contest heldChandigarh: The University Institute of Legal Studies, Panjab University, organised an Intra-Department Moot Court Competition. The team comprising of Tanya Singla, Supriya Aggarwal and Shourya Mehra from BA LLB (third year) was adjudged the winner. Akshit Pathania was adjudged the best speaker of the final round. The student conveners for the competition were Diya Singla, Prakhar Sharma and Sachin Rateria. The vent was conducted under the guidance of Prof (Dr) Rajinder Kaur, Director, Dr Pushpinder Kaur, Associate Professor (Law), and Dr Sabina Salim, Assistant Professor (Law). TNS1,000 families get ration kitsChandigarh: Volunteers of Robin Hood Army, Chandigarh, on Sunday distributed food grains among the needy people across the tricity. People, who lost their source of income due to the second wave of the Covid pandemic, were given the help. Around 1,000 families from Chandigarh (Sector 38-West), Mohali, Zirakpur, Kharar and Panchkula were given ration kits in the past two days. The next drive will be undertaken in July. TNSUTCA backs idea of supporting IOAChandigarh: UTCA president Sanjay Tandon on Sunday supported the idea of providing financial assistance to the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) to help Indian athletes in the upcoming Tokyo Olympics. Tandon said the sporting talent of the country had a great opportunity to give their best in the Olympics. Tandon was speaking during a virtual meeting of the north zone cricket associations. The meeting was chaired by BCCI president Sourav Ganguly. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mega-tika-day-in-panchkula-today-271778
21-06-2021||New Delhi||Monsoon advance to be slow in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/monsoon-advance-to-be-slow-in-punjab-haryana-chandigarh-271786
21-06-2021||New Delhi||Monsoon over Delhi, Chandigarh, Punjab among others likely 'to be slow': IMD||Further advance of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Delhi, Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh and Punjab is likely to be slow.India Meteorological Department (IMD) made the forecast on Sunday based on large-scale features showing no favourable condition.The wind pattern by the numerical models also do not indicate any favourable condition for sustained rainfall over the region during the forecast period, the IMD said.Under the influence of a low-pressure area over southeast Uttar Pradesh and neighbourhood, the weather department said fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls very likely over east Uttar Pradesh and Bihar during next 24 hours and significant reduction in rainfall activity thereafter.Under the influence of a Western Disturbance as a trough in mid tropospheric levels and monsoonal easterlies, it predicted widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls over Uttarakhand during next 24 hours and significant reduction in rain fall activity thereafter.Moderate to severe thunderstorms accompanied by frequent cloud to ground lightning is very likely over east Uttar Pradesh and Bihar during next 24 hours, the IMD further said."This may cause injuries leading to casualties to people and animals staying outdoors," warned the IMD. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/monsoon-over-delhi-%C2%A0chandigarh-punjab-among-others-likely-to-be-slow-imd-271438
21-06-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Five defence officers set to face General Court Martial in DeMo scam||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 19A Brigadier, Colonel, Lieutenant Colonel, Captain and Warrant Officer are set to face a general court martial (GCM) in a case of alleged illegal exchange of old currency notes worth Rs 6 lakh with legal tender at the 1 Central Base Post Office in New Delhi after the 2016 demonetisation.They are also accused of preparing 5,944 forged forms with fake IDs for the exchange, carried out on November 9, 2016, a day after PM Narendra Modi declared old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes invalid. According to the chargesheet, Brigadier Suresh Gupta, the then Director (Operation and Technical), Ministry of Defence, and nodal officer of the Army Postal Service Base Circle, allegedly abetted the exchange of old currency notes and the preparation of the forged forms for exchange between December 12, 2016, and January 10, 2017.Brigadier Gupta is also accused of pressurising Brigadier MK Khan, the then Director, Army Postal Service Headquarters, Western Command, for not submitting an investigation report into the “scam”, interference in the post office’s internal functioning and allowing his son to have unauthorised access to treasury cash book of the 1 Central Base Post Office (CBPO). Colonel Subhash Chandra, then Commandant, 1 CBPO, is also facing trial. The GCM of Brigadier Gupta and Colonel Chandra will start on June 28.The second set of officers includes Lt Colonel Sudhir Kumar Singh, Captain Gagan Bawa and Warrant Officer G Rajendran, whose GCM is taking place separately and is starting on June 26.Lt Colonel Singh, then Officiating Commandant of 1 CBPO, is accused of knowingly furnishing false data related to the withdrawal of exchanged currency and making a false statement that the notes had been exchanged after proper identification. He has retired, but is attached for trial.Facing 12 charges, Captain Bawa, who was Base Post Master at 1 CBPO, is accused of abetting Warrant Officer Rajendran in the exchange of the old notes. He allegedly intentionally omitted to submit a report on the withdrawal of old series notes. He is also accused of improperly allowing Rajendran to deposit Rs 2.20 lakh brought by Naib Subedar Suresh Rajput, who too is under scanner for disciplinary proceedings. The Warrant Officer is facing seven charges.Defence counsel Rajesh Sehgal, representing all the accused but Colonel Chandra, said, “We have approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court and our contention is that the convening order of the GCM has become time-barred by the law of limitation under the Army Act as over three years have passed since the knowledge of the alleged offence. The Army Rule 180 has also been violated. The High Court has even issued a notice to the Army authorities.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-defence-officers-set-to-face-general-court-martial-in-demo-scam-271194
