22-06-2021||Lalru||Man kills wife after argument, hides body in cupboard||A man strangled his 30-year-old wife to death and then stuffed her in a cupboard in Lalru Mandi, police sources said on Tuesday.Police arrested Jasbir Singh, who’s originally from Patiala’s Masingan village, after they found the body of his 30-year-old wife Rama Rani in a cupboard in the couple’s house on June 20.  The woman’s father Rambaklal Pal, a native of Uttar Pradesh’s Unnao, had filed a missing person’s report after he found his daughter missing.The couple has been married for 10 years and has two daughters.  Police sources said the suspect killed the victim, who worked at a factory, after an argument.He will be brought before a magistrate's court on Wednesday, the sources said.Mohali SP (Rural), Ravjot Grewal said:” Police found the body of Rama Rani with injury marks on her neck and froth coming out of her mouth. Police have registered a case under Section 302 against the suspect Jasbir Singh on June 21 and handed over the body to kin after the postmortem”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-kills-wife-after-argument-hides-body-in-cupboard-272434
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reported 22 new Covid cases||Chandigarh reported 22 new Covid-19 cases, UT bulletin said on Tuesday.Chandigarh reported no deaths for the second straight day since March.UT now has 278 active cases.  Its fatality count stands at 806.Meanwhile, the UT recorded 56 people recoveries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reported-22-new-covid-cases-272420
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Weakening of monsoon notwithstanding, rain surplus in region so far||Notwithstanding the weakening of the south-western monsoon that is still to cover some part of Punjab and Haryana, rains over the region during this season so far have been above normal.The Monsoon arrived over the region about 15 days in advance and has covered most parts of the country, but prevailing climatic conditions have been withholding progress into its last phase.A bulletin issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday evening states that further progress of monsoon is unlikely during the next 7 days. Analysis of predictive models up to June 30 indicates mid-latitude westerly winds dominating over north India during the next week.A Western Disturbance as lies over north Pakistan and adjoining Jammu and Kashmir and its associated meteorological developments are likely to enhance rainfall along the east coast during 24-26 June. These are not favourable for enhancing monsoon activity over central and northwest India, IMD said.Forecasts based on model consensus show less probability of formation of low pressure systems over core monsoon areas as well as over north Bay of Bengal till June 30 and further weakening of lower levels easterly winds over northern plains of India, IMD added.At present, the northern limit of southwest monsoon continues to pass through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar, which is about the same as it was on June 14.According to data compiled by the IMD, cumulative rainfall during this year’s southwestern monsoon across the country has been 37 per cent above the long period average (LPA) so far.As far as the region is concerned, rain was 66 per cent above the LPA in Haryana for the period from June 1 to June 22. In Punjab and Himachal Pradesh it was above the LPA by 51 per cent and 29 per cent, respectively, for this period. Barring four districts in Punjab and two each in Haryana and Himachal, all parts of these states have received surplus rainfall so far.The IMD has predicted that under the influence of western disturbance and upper tropospheric westerlies, the current spell of isolated light to moderate rainfall is very likely to continue over the western Himalayan region and adjoining plains of northwest India during the next five days. A gradual rise in maximum temperatures by 3-4 degrees Celsius over most parts of northwest India is also expected during the next three days||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/weakening-of-monsoon-notwithstanding-rain-surplus-in-region-so-far-272415
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Cycle taken away forcibly by two in Chandigarh||Kidnapping: Fifth accused nabbedChandigarh: Fifth accused in the case pertaining to 15-year-old boy’s kidnapping has been arrested by the police. Ajay Sharma (26) of Zirakpur had absconded while four other accused, including the victim’s two neighbours, were nabbed a day after the kidnapping. Ajay had used his brother’s vehicle in the crime. The boy was kidnapped from Mani Majra on June 15. TNS271 cricketers vaccinatedChandigarh: As many as 271 cricketers were jabbed with the Covid-19 vaccine at a camp organised by the Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA), Chandigarh, in collaboration with the UT Health Department. Current and former cricketers, support staff, UTCA administrators, vendors, suppliers, employees of the Sports Department, their families and other beneficiaries benefited from the camp. TNS177 shopkeepers, staff inoculatedChandigarh: The Traders Welfare Association, Sector 21, and the Mithai Association, Chandigarh, in coordination with the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal and the Chandigarh Business Council, organised the second vaccination camp for 18+ category at Government Model School, Sector 21, here on Monday. As many as 177 shopkeepers and the staff members were vaccinated with the first dose of the Covid vaccine. TNSSector 8 mini-Covid care centre shutsChandigarh: In view of a sharp decline in the number of Covid patients, the UT Administration has allowed Sathya Sai Gramin Jagriti, running a free 50-bed mini-Covid care centre at the Sports Complex, Sector 8, here, for the past more than four weeks, to close down. The Trust was, however, asked to maintain all its facilities at the centre for the next three months so as to ward off any apprehension of a third wave raising its hood. Trustee Amar Vivek Aggarwal and chairman Satish Garg stated that around 180 patients were provided care and treatment at the centre. TNSNormal working hours at PUChandigarh: Panjab University authorities, in accordance with the orders by the Directorate of Higher Education, and the recommendations of an internal committee, approved to resume normal working hours with full strength at the university. The office timings will be resumed to normal working hours (9 am to 5 pm) with full strength. TNSVC okays faculty promotionsChandigarh: A day after The Tribune reported that 127 faculty members will get their due promotions under the Career Advancement Scheme, the Vice-Chancellor of Panjab University approved the promotions on Monday. “The Panjab University Vice-Chancellor, Prof Raj Kumar, has approved the promotions of 127 faculty members under the Career Advancement Scheme. PU faculty will soon get the letters,” said a PU spokesperson. TNSPanel to look into complaintsChandigarh: The Municipal Corporation here has constituted a grievance redressal committee to look into the hefty waste collection bills received by the residents. The panel will look into the grievances regarding these charges. The committee will be headed by Dr Amrit Pal Warring, Medical Officer of Health (MOH). Sanitary Inspector Jagjit Singh will be the member convener. In case of any grievance, a resident can call on 0172-2773340 or mail at sihqmohali@gmail.com. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cycle-taken-away-forcibly-by-two-in-chandigarh-272193
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Cops detain elderly protester for 6 hours in Chandigarh||The police rounded up a protester at Matka Chowk, Laabh Singh (aged around 80), who has been protesting the farm laws since March 6. Laabh sits on the divider at the Matka Chowk all day long in a makeshift tent.Today, he was rounded up at about 10:45 am and released from the Sector 17 police station at 5 pm after a large number of protesters swarmed the police station and demanded Laabh’s freedom to dissent.Previously, the police tried to forcefully remove him from the site on April 12. “I think, the higher-ups are miffed with the protesters at Matka Chowk, because on June 18, we gheraoed Haryana CM ML Khattar’s car as it was passing through the Chowk. Babaji’s arrest is a fallout of that grudge, probably,” said Prateek Maan of the Naujawan Kisan Ekta.Satnam Singh Tanda of the Kisan Ekta, Chandigarh, said: “At 10 am, DSP (Central) Krishan Kumar came and met us at the chowk. We were asked to remove babaji’s tent by 11 am. While the members of the Kisan Ekta and I sat down for a meeting to discuss over the issue, the police sneaked up on babaji and took him to the police station at 10:45 am. After much debate, the police agreed to have his tent near the chowk, but towards the Rose Garden’s side, instead of the divider.”Krishan Kumar, DSP Central, did not respond to texts and phone calls. Duty magistrate Pradhuman Singh said: "I've been told that he was sitting in front of Matka Chowk and they want him to shift away from there." — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-detain-elderly-protester-for-6-hours-in-chandigarh-272189
22-06-2021||---||Bail denied to accused facing charge of snatching cellphone||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 21A local court here rejected the bail application of an accused facing the charge of snatching a mobile phone from a resident.Krishan, 21, was arrested after a case was registered on June 2 under Sections 379A, 34 and 411 of the IPC at the Sector 39 police station here on the complaint of a resident who alleged that someone had snatched his mobile phone.During the course of investigation, the accused was held and the police claimed that the snatched mobile phone, along with a motorcycle used in the crime, was recovered from his possession.The counsel for the accused though argued that the petitioner had been falsely implicated in the case.The case had been registered against unknown persons, the petitioner has no connection with the offences as alleged in the FIR, said the counsel.The alleged recovery has been foisted upon the petitioner, the counsel added.The assistant public prosecutor opposed the bail application saying that the petitioner is a very clever and sharp minded person.The offence under Section 379A IPC is punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to 10 years and with fine, which may extend to Rs 25,000.After hearing the arguments, the court dismissed the bail application of the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bail-denied-to-accused-facing-charge-of-snatching-cellphone-272187
22-06-2021||---||Jain urges Chandigarh Administration to notify MC wards for reserved categories||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 21Former Member of Parliament Satya Pal Jain has urged the Chandigarh Administration to notify the reservation of wards for the upcoming Municipal Corporation elections.“Identify the wards reserved for women, SC and general categories,” Jain said in a statement here today.In December 2020, the Administration had carried out the delimitation exercise and increased the number of wards from 26 to 35, informed Jain.The civic body elections are scheduled to be held in December 2021.“Though a period of six months has passed, the Administration is yet to conduct the draw of lots and has not identified which ward is reserved for which category,” said Jain.“This has created uncertainty and is impeding the developmental activities,” he added. Jain insisted that the identification of wards should not be delayed any further.“This will enable people to make up their mind about their representatives and also enable different political parties to identify their candidates for the upcoming MC elections,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jain-urges-chandigarh-administration-to-notify-mc-wards-for-reserved-categories-272186
22-06-2021||Mohali||Free vaccination: 2,183 aged above 18 get jab on Day 1 in Mohali||On the first day of free Covid vaccination for people aged above 18 years of age, a total of 2,183 beneficiaries were inoculated here today.With this, a total of 42,741 persons, including construction workers and their family members, have been vaccinated till date in Mohali district. Out of this, 72 persons have received the second jab.No healthcare worker (HCW) was vaccinated today. A total of 13,292 HCWs have taken the first dose, while 6,717 have been administered the second dose so far.A total of 449 frontline workers received the first dose, while 126 received the second dose today. So far, 2,14,606 frontline workers have been administered the first dose, while 14,975 have received the second jab.In the 45+ age group, 418 persons received the first dose, while 160 got the second dose today. So far, 1,05,282 persons have got the first jab, while 13,771 got second dose in this age category. In the 60+ age group, 150 persons received the first dose, while 54 got the second jab today. Till now, 68,987 persons have got the first dose, while 26,569 received the second dose. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/free-vaccination-2-183-aged-above-18-get-jab-on-day-1-in-mohali-272184
22-06-2021||---||Notice to Paras Hospital, Panchkula, for violation of ‘medical ethics’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 21The Director General, Health Services (DGHS), Haryana, has issued a show-cause notice to Paras Hospital, Sector 22, Panchkula, for violation of “medical ethics” and overcharging a Bathinda resident for Covid treatment.The patient, Dr Kapil Garg, had got admitted on April 12 and died on May 3. His widow Arti Garg was forced to deposit Rs13.81 lakh, as per the complaint.As per the inquiry committee, comprising its chairman, Dr Shaleen, the hospital overcharged the patient by over Rs1.5 lakh.The inquiry committee observed that the hospital charged at Rs6,000 per day for the High Dependency Unit (HDU) and Rs10,000 per day for the ICU. Also, the hospital charged Rs 80,000 for doctor visits during the stay of the patient.“It is very well understood that treating doctor will visit the admitted patient for treatment purposes and doctor visiting charges cannot be charged by the hospital from the admitted patient when the patient is already being charged for the room at Rs6,000 per day (for High Dependency Unit) and Rs10,000 per day for the ICU. This should be a part of the room charge only. Hence, an amount of Rs80,000 amounts to overcharging by the hospital,” said the inquiry committee.On physiotherapy charges when the patient was on ventilator and immobile, the committee observed that the “Physiotherapy charges charged by the hospital amounting to Rs30,100 should be the part of the ICU room charge and this amounts to overcharging by Paras Hospital.”It added, “The ventilator charges billed on to patient for being more than 8 hours on a ventilator are beyond comprehension and logical reasoning. Hence, Rs43,500/- on account of the patient being on a ventilator for more than 8 hours amounts to overcharging by the hospital.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/notice-to-paras-hospital-panchkula-for-violation-of-medical-ethics-272182
22-06-2021||---||Delta variant found in 60% samples, reveals PGIMER||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 21During the second wave, the Delta variant (B.1.617.2) comprised 60 per cent of the samples sent for genome sequencing to the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, by the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh.PGI Director Prof Jagat Ram said a majority of these samples (92 per cent) belonged to city residents. “Delta strain was the main circulating strain in the second wave in Chandigarh, while Alpha variant (B.1.1.7) was found to be present among 30 per cent of the samples,” said the PGI Director.Opt for vaccination in increased numbersProf Jagat Ram has advised people to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour and also opt for vaccination in increased numbers so as to break the transmission chain completely and halt the impending threat of a third wave keeping in view the emerging and fast-spreading Delta and Delta plus variants.Prof Jagat Ram said: “The Department of Virology, PGI, has been carrying out Covid-19 testing through RT-PCR since March 2020. Till date, over 2.5 lakh samples have been tested. To study whether there was any change in the circulating strain in Chandigarh during the second wave, 25 stored positive samples from May 5, 2021 to May 24, 2021 were sent for whole genome sequencing to the NCDC, New Delhi.”Prof GD Puri, Dean (Academics), PGI, confirmed that among the samples sent from the Nehru Hospital Extension Block where severe and critical Covid patients were admitted, all 10 samples belonged to the Delta strain. However, 80 per cent of the patients who died of Covid-19 harboured the Alpha strain. No case of Delta plus variant was reported in the samples sent.Out of the five samples of those who died of Covid-19 at the PGI, Alpha variant was found in four samples. Commenting on the severity of the variants, Prof Mini P Singh from the Virology Department, PGI, said the sample number was too small to ascertain which strain was more severe.With this backdrop, Prof Jagat Ram advised people to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour and also opt for vaccination in increased numbers so as to break the transmission chain completely and halt the impending threat of third wave keeping in view the emerging and fast-spreading Delta and Delta plus variant. “A major sign of relief is the cooling down of the second wave and the total toll of positive patients is low in Chandigarh, but still there is no room for complacency,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delta-variant-found-in-60-samples-reveals-pgimer-272180
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Tricity residents stretch it out to mark International Yoga Day||Desh Bhagat UniversityDesh Bhagat University organised an online webinar and events “Yoga for Wellness” and “Be With Yoga, Be at Home”. The students and faculty members actively participated in the virtual sessions conducted by yoga experts.Chitkara UniversityMore than 500 students and faculty members of Chitkara University celebrated the day through the online and offline modes, to highlight the importance of fitness. Dr Madhu Chitkara, Pro-Chancellor, Chitkara University, congratulated the participants for conducting a successful event.Dhanwantry College-46Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital, Sector 46, started a seven-day yoga camp. During the virtual session, the guest of honour, BCCI treasurer Arun Dhumal, highlighted the benefits of yoga.PGGC-46The day was celebrated through an online session on the theme, “Yoga at Home” and “Yoga with family”, at Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46.GCYEH-23Government College of Yoga Education and Health organised a series of activities over the month to mark Yoga Day.MCM DAV-36Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women celebrated the day virtually.PGGCG-42The Olympic Movement Society of the Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Sector 42, organised “Yoga for well-being”.Wellness activitiesThe 7th International Day of Yoga was celebrated by Department of Health, Chandigarh. Wellness activities were conducted in all health and wellness centres. Covid 19 patients admitted to the GMSH-16 also participated in yoga activities.Railway staff celebrate dayEvery person of Rail Parivar of the Ambala division celebrated International Yoga Day by practising yoga asana with their families at home. Those who were on duty at their respective stations celebrated the day at their respective stations by performing asanas while maintaining Covid-19 protocol, to spur physical and mental health.Department of PostsThe Department of Posts, Chandigarh Division, organised various activities to mark Yoga Day. All employees were encouraged for taking online pledge to make yoga an integral part of their daily lifestyle on the web portal “pledge.mygov.in”.ITBP staff perform asanasThe 7th International Yoga Day was observed at Indo-Tibetan Border Police Force’s Transport Battalion at Chandigarh in which officers and other personnel from the Western Command, Composite Hospital and the unit participated. The programme was led by SS Mishra, Inspector General, Western Command.50 yoga events heldPanchkula: At least 50 events were organised in Panchkula to mark 7th International Yoga Day. The main event was held at Red Bishop in Sector 1. It saw the participation of Union Minister Rattan Lal Kataria, Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta, DC Vinay Pratap Singh among others.SMHS (SCV) Govt CollegeMohali: SMHS (SCV) Government College, SAS Nagar (Mohali), under the guidance of Principal Jatinder Kaur, celebrated the day by holding a virtually session on the theme ,”Yoga at Home, Yoga with Family”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tricity-residents-stretch-it-out-to-mark-international-yoga-day-272177
22-06-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula cop makes obscene gestures, booked||The Panchkula police have booked its own official for allegedly making obscene gestures at a woman and beating her up.The suspect is a Head Constable, identified as Vikramjeet (38). He is posted in the proclaimed offender unit of the district police and is yet to be arrested.The victim, who hails from Shimla, alleged that she had come to Panchkula for some official work.”It was late Friday night when I, along with my sister-in-law and two children, was walking in a hotel park in Sector 21. The cop was not wearing his uniform and was under the influence of alcohol. He made vulgar gestures at me and then came near me, harassed me and then beat me up,” the complainant told the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-cop-makes-obscene-gestures-booked-272175
22-06-2021||---||Siswan beheading: Four-day police remand for two||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 21Two suspects arrested in the gruesome murder of a Nagal resident, whose headless body was found partially buried in Siswan close to the Punjab Chief Minister’s farmhouse, have been sent to four-day police remand.The police are yet to recover the severed head of the deceased and a hunt is on for the third suspect, Jagir Singh, alias Ghola.“Satnam Singh and Des Raj were produced in a court and sent to four-day police remand,” said Mullanpur SHO Satinder Singh.The deceased, Nagal resident Sucha Singh (40), and the suspects were known to each other. The suspects beheaded the victim after an arguement and buried his body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/siswan-beheading-four-day-police-remand-for-two-272165
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||SUV jumps red light, rams into Skoda car, leaves 5 hurt||Five persons, including the son of a former Punjab MLA, were injured after a speeding Toyota Fortuner, being driven by a 19-year-old youth, jumped the red light and rammed into a Skoda Rapid at the Sector 8/9/17/18 light point last night.According to the police, the Skoda was heading towards the road separating Sector 8 and 9 when the Fortuner, coming from the Matka Chowk side, hit the vehicle and dragged it for several metres. Both vehicles were badly damaged in the accident.Meanwhile, four persons riding the Skoda, identified as Congress leader Rahul Singh Sidhu, son of former Congress MLA Harnirpal Singh Sidhu, Deepinder Singh Brar, Harjinder Singh and Diljot Singh, were injured. They were shifted to the GMSH, Sector 16, from where Rahul was referred to the PGI. The others were discharged.The police said the youth driving the SUV, Kanwar Partap Singh, a resident of Fatehgarh Sahib district, escaped from the hospital after getting treatment even before the police arrived there. He was later arrested today and released on bail. — TNSCapt tweets, wishes Cong leader speedy recoveryThe Punjab Chief Minister, Capt Amarinder Singh, on Monday tweeted that he had asked the authorities that the best treatment should be given to Congress leader Rahul at the PGI. He wished him a speedy recovery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suv-jumps-red-light-rams-into-skoda-car-leaves-5-hurt-272155
22-06-2021||Sandeep Rana||50% yet to pay property tax in Chandigarh as last date nears||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 21With the last date for paying the property tax inching closer, only about 50 per cent taxpayers have done the needful.Those failing to pay the house and commercial tax by June 30 will not get any rebate and will also have to pay 25 per cent fine, along with 12 per cent interest, on the tax dues.At present, assessees are getting 20 per cent rebate on residential and 10 per cent on commercial tax.According to officials, about 60,000 people have cleared their house and commercial tax dues while the city has a total of 1.15-1.20 lakh assessees. The Municipal Corporation has recovered Rs28.50 crore against the target of Rs55 crore for the current fiscal.Rohit Gupta, MC Joint Commissioner, who heads the property tax branch, told The Tribune: “Over 50 per cent assessees have paid their property tax. Though June 30 is the last date to pay with rebate, payments can be made even after that.”An official said: “Due to the Covid restrictions, Sampark centres remained closed for several days due to which the payment process slowed down. We are confident that the numbers will now increase.”Those failing to pay by the due date are served notices by the corporation. If one fails to pay the tax even after the final notice, suitable action is taken. In case of house tax, water connection can be snapped while in the case of commercial category, property can be attached.In the past few years, the civic body has attached some commercial properties due to the owners’ failure to clear the property tax dues. However, there has been no information from the corporation on water connection being snapped.‘Unable to make payment on the Sampark app’The Sampark app has not been accepting the payment of property tax for some days now, causing inconvenience to residents.“The app is accepting other payments such as water and electricity bill, but not the property tax. There is some issue between the Municipal Corporation and the Sampark regarding it,” said RK Garg, president of a senior citizen association.People can also make the payment on the Sampark website or at Sampark centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/50-yet-to-pay-property-tax-in-chandigarh-as-last-date-nears-272141
22-06-2021||---||Six more trains back on the track from Chandigarh station||Chandigarh, June 21The Ambala Division has restored three pairs of trains that were plying over the city station before the second wave of Covid.New Delhi-Kalka and Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi (train number 02011, 02012) chugged off today. “While New Delhi-Kalka Shatabdi, which has a capacity of 1,140 passengers, ferried 816 passengers and 127 people boarded the Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi,” said JP Singh, station superintendent.The New Delhi-Kalka (train number 2005) left from Delhi today and reached Chandigarh at night. Also, Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi Special (train number 02006) will leave from Kalka to New Delhi on Tuesday. Chandigarh-New Delhi Shatabdi Special (train number 02046) also plied over Chandigarh station today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-more-trains-back-on-the-track-from-chandigarh-station-272100
22-06-2021||---||PEC alumnus Dharam Pal is Adviser to Chandigarh Administrator||Chandigarh, June 21An alumnus of Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh, senior IAS officer Dharam Pal has been appointed as the Adviser to the UT Administrator.According to an order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, consequent upon repatriation from the Central deputation, Dharam Pal, a 1988-batch IAS officer of the AGMUT cadre, has been posted to Chandigarh as the Adviser to the Administrator with immediate effect.“Given the situation that we are facing, Covid-19 management and the health sector will be given priority, and these will be followed by education and infrastructure,” Dharam Pal, who will take over the charge of the UT Adviser on Wednesday, told The Tribune over the telephone from New Delhi. The management of the impending threat of a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic would be the most important thing at the moment, he added.Awaiting posting, Pal was posted as Additional Secretary, Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilisers, from July 22, 2017, to April 12, 2021, during deputation with the Central Government.A resident of Banga in Hoshiarpur district of Punjab, he did his Bachelor of Engineering (BE) in electronics and telecommunications from PEC during 1981-85 and MTech in computer controls and instrumentation from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi, during 1985-87. He also did a postgraduate diploma in disaster management from Indira Gandhi Open University during 2007-08.While serving as Principal Secretary (Home), Delhi Government, in 2015, Pal was removed from the Home Department by the Arvind Kejriwal government after he issued orders on the appointment of a Joint Commissioner of Police as the head of the Anti-Corruption Branch of the Delhi Government. Within 24 hours of the incident, the Central Government had issued his transfer and posting orders and he was posted as Joint Secretary, Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilisers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pec-alumnus-dharam-pal-is-adviser-to-chandigarh-administrator-272097
22-06-2021||Panchkula||Over 18K jabbed at Panchkula mega drive||As many as 18,724 people were inoculated at a mega vaccination drive conducted at 65 centres across the district today. While 15,725 people were administered Covishield, 2,999 people were given Covaxin.A special vaccination camp for industrial workers was organised at Amartex in the Industrial Area, Phase 1, by the Panchkula Chamber of Commerce and Industries with the assistance of the Health Department.At least 790 people were vaccinated at the special camp, against a target of 600. This came after a week-long vaccination drive for shopkeepers and their workers.Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, who inaugurated the camp, urged the industry representatives to organise more such camps to cover all industrial workers.According to senior officials, the district now has 22,180 doses of Covishield and 3,720 doses of Covaxin in the stock. Over 2.65 lakh doses have been administered in the district so far.However, only 55,502 people have been fully vaccinated since the vaccination programme began on January 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-18k-jabbed-at-panchkula-mega-drive-272088
22-06-2021||---||Walk-in jab for 18+ starts in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, June 21The UT Administration started the Covid vaccination for 18 years and above citizens in all government hospitals and dispensaries today.According to an official announcement by the UT Administration, “The citizens can avail of walk-in for on-the-spot vaccination facility. If citizens are not registered on the CoWIN portal, the staff at the vaccination centre will help them.”The citizens having no identity document or phone number will be vaccinated without the documents at the Mani Majra Civil Hospital, Gurdwara Sahib Kishangarh, HWC Dhanas and HWC Bapu Dhaam/Grain Market.Chandigarh sees 14 new casesChandigarh: The city on Monday reported 14 new cases of Covid-19, taking the caseload to 61,444. The number of active cases has come down to 311 as 56 more patients were cured of the disease. TNS11 cases in Mohali, 2 deathsMohali: The district witnessed only 11 cases on Monday, taking the case tally to 68,048. Two persons succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 1,039. Before this, no death had surfaced in the district for two consecutive days. As many as 69 patients were cured of the disease. Of the 68,048 positive cases reported so far, 66,599 patients have been cured. There are now 410 active cases in the district. TNSJust two cases in Panchkula district, one deathPanchkula: The district on Monday added two Covid cases to its tally. These too tested positive on Sunday. “They had earlier shifted to their farm in Ambala, but later returned to Panchkula. Hence, they were added to the overall tally on Monday,” said the Health Department. The district witnessed one death. The death toll now stands at 371. While 30,066 persons have recovered from the infectious disease, 91 cases are still active. The recovery rate is 98.48 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/walk-in-jab-for-18-starts-in-chandigarh-272080
22-06-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||In a first, Mohali to start vax on doorstep for old, infirm||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 21In a unique initiative, the Mohali administration is set to commence “home vaccination” for the old, infirm and the differently abled, making it the first district in the country to start need-based door-to-door inoculation.Ambulances with vaccination teams are being deployed in sub-divisions for vaccinating people on the doorstep, said Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan.To avail of the home vaccination facility, registration has to be done by filling details of a person to be inoculated on a Google sheet, he said. It was mandatory that there should be at least 10 persons in the area who are to be vaccinated, he said.“The pre-condition of a minimum 10 persons has been set to avoid vaccine wastage,” said Dayalan. “The facility is also being extended to women,” he said, adding that all 10 beneficiaries in the group should be women.“Though our priority remains the elderly and the differently abled, for the ease of people, if an RWA seeks home vaccination and does not have sufficient number of senior citizens, the service will be extended on the condition that at least half of the total beneficiaries are 60 plus or differently abled. The remaining five can include anyone over 18 years of age,” said Dayalan.“The door-to-door home vaccination facility is also being extended to organisations, associations, NGOs, RWAs and volunteers wishing to vaccinate over 30 persons at a given point of time at a given place,” said Dayalan. In such a scenario, beneficiaries need not be aged or infirm, he added.The Deputy Commissioner said the number of people to be vaccinated, locality and the contact person’s number had to be mentioned while registering for the vaccination drive. “A vaccination team will reach the site within 24 to 48 hours and will wait for 30 minutes after vaccinating people to observe any adverse reaction,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-a-first-mohali-to-start-vax-on-doorstep-for-old-infirm-272036
