23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh 43 Covid cases, one death||Chandigarh recorded 43 new Covid-19 cases and one death—the first in three days—a health bulletin from the union territory’s health department showed.Chandigarh now has 267 active cases. Fatality count now stands at 806.The bulletin showed 1,621 tests were conducted over 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-43-covid-cases-one-death-272949
23-06-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh Covid death count declines 68% in 20 days||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22The number of Covid-19 deaths has fallen by 68 per cent in the city in the past 20 days as compared to the last 20 days of May.While 53 persons succumbed to the virus this month, 168 fatalities were seen in the last 20 days of May. Chandigarh recorded no deaths in the past three days.The month of May remained the worst month on the Covid front with the city seeing over 17,000 cases and 275 deaths. During the month, the health infrastructure was overwhelmed as ICU beds with ventilators remained occupied, leaving patients struggling for critical care beds. On May 6, there was no ventilator bed vacant at the government hospitals in the city.Now, there are 37 ventilator beds vacant at the PGI and 20 at the GMCH-32. There were 956 total Covid beds available in the city today.In the last one week, 2.4 per cent of samples tested came back positive. The overall recovery rate of the city is 98.2 per cent. The cases of Covid-19 admitted to the PGI have also fallen.Dr Vipin Kaushal from the PGI said they had 98 Covid patients and nine of them belong to the city. While 59 are from Punjab, 23 hail from Haryana, four from Himachal Pradesh and three from other states.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said, “The fatalities have now reduced as low number of cases is being recorded. A lot of Covid patients are able to avail themselves of health facilities such as beds, which was missing during the last month due to the overwhelming second wave. Many patients also did not report to hospitals. But the Delta variant is very much there in the community and it’s even more dangerous. We must remain cautious so as to prevent the third wave and Covid deaths.”Bed availabilityNow, there are 37 ventilator beds vacant at the PGI and 20 at the GMCH-32. There were 956 total Covid beds available in the city on Tuesday.Overall recovery rate of city 98.2%In the last one week, 2.4 per cent of samples tested came back positive. The overall recovery rate of the city is 98.2 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-covid-death-count-declines-68-in-20-days-272734
23-06-2021||---||Kidnapping, murder of real estate firm employee solved, five in police net||Mohali, June 22With the arrest of five persons, the police claimed to have solved the kidnapping and murder case of Varun Sondhi, a real estate firm employee in Sector 82. The police also recovered a car, five motorcycles, two scooters and an iPhone from their possession.The suspects have been identified as Patiala residents Binder Singh (25) and Gurpreet Singh (24), Sohana residents Gurdeep Singh, alias Gaggi (29), and Kuldeep Singh (26) and Dera Bassi resident Ravinder Singh, alias Ravi (26).A case under Sections 302, 365 and 201 of the IPC was registered at the Sohana police station on June 19.On June 3, Panchkula resident Rakesh Kumar gave an application regarding the disappearance of his son Varun Sondhi at the Sohana police station. A case under Section 346 of the IPC was registered against unknown persons the same day. On June 9, the police recovered an unidentified body from Bhatiras village near Banur.On June 1, one of the suspects, Binder Singh, came to know that Sondhi would leave for home from the Sector 82 office with Rs8 lakh around 5 pm. He, along with his accomplices, hatched a conspiracy and waylaid him near the Chhat village light point.The suspects got into his car, threatened with him a weapon and kidnapped him. They strangulated Varun to death at night and dumped his body on the banks of SYL canal. The weapon used in the kidnapping was also dumped in a field. The suspects took his car and mobile phone and returned to Chhat village where they distributed the money among themselves.The police said the suspects were involved in vehicle thefts since long in Mohali, Dera Bassi, Zirakpur and the adjoining areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kidnapping-murder-of-real-estate-firm-employee-solved-five-in-police-net-272733
23-06-2021||---||Chandigarh: Big Bazaar charges Rs 19 for carry bag, fined Rs 100||Chandigarh, June 22It is the responsibility of the seller to bear all kind of expenses incurred in order to put goods into a deliverable state. Stating this, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, UT, has directed Big Bazaar to pay a compensation of Rs 100 to a consumer for charging Rs 19 for the carry bag. The commission also directed Big Bazaar to pay Rs1,100 as litigation cost to the consumer.Niraj Kumar, a city resident, approached the commission alleging that Big Bazaar charged Rs19 for a carry bag against his wishes. The complainant claimed that he purchased goods from Big Bazaar. When he went to a billing counter and requested a carry bag, he was charged Rs19 for the same. When he objected to it and told the cashier that it was illegal to charge for the carry bag, the cashier replied that they charge for it as per rule.The complainant alleged that the act of Big Bazaar amounts to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice.The counsel for Big Bazaar pleaded that the amount, which the complainant paid for the carry bag, was rightly charged. He claimed that the complainant had given his consent for a carry bag for an additional charge.The commission rejected the arguments of Big Bazaar. It said all kinds of expenses incurred in order to put goods into a deliverable state should be borne by the seller.The commission noted that big stores like the opposite party never allowed customers to carry bags within the store knowing very well that if they were allowed, then customers will not give consent for the purchase of carry bags. The opposite party is, therefore, taking advantage of its dominating position.The commission said the opposite party had failed to produce on record any cogent, convincing and reliable piece of evidence in the shape of any rules/instructions authorising it to levy additional charge for carry bags from consumers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-big-bazaar-charges-rs-19-for-carry-bag-fined-rs-100-272716
23-06-2021||---||Two DSPs transferred in Chandigarh, 6 get additional charge||Chandigarh, June 22Two DSPs were today transferred while six others were given additional charge along with their present postings. The shuffle took place as three DANIPS-cadre officers - Sukhraj Katewa, Krishan Kumar and Rajiv Kumar Ambasta - were today relieved from the Chandigarh Police.Dilsher Chandel, who was DSP (Communications), has been transferred to the IRB, along with the additional charge of the PCR. Charanjit Singh, who was posted in the traffic wing, has been transferred as the DSP (Central).Ram Gopal, who is presently DSP (CID), has been given the additional charge of the PRO. Uday Pal, who is posted as the DSP (Security), has been given the additional charge of the Crime Branch and the EOW.Sita Devi, who is DSP (Recruitment Training Centre), has been given the additional charge of the Communication Wing. Amarao Singh, who is presently DSP (Security) (Headquarters), has been given the additional charge of the Woman and Child Safety Unit. Rashmi Sharma Yadav, who is presently DSP (Cyber Cell) and DSP (Operations), has been given the additional charge of DSP (Headquarters). Meanwhile, Palak Goel, who is DSP (Traffic), has been given the additional charge of the District Commandant Home Guards (DCHG).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-dsps-transferred-in-chandigarh-6-get-additional-charge-272696
23-06-2021||Sandeep Rana||Town Vending Committee lying defunct for 3 months in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22The Town Vending Committee (TVC), which was formed in 2016 to look into the matters related to the street vendors here, has been lying defunct since March.The five-year tenure of the committee ended in March this year and it has not been constituted again. As such, the registered street vendors, who had several issues to raise during the pandemic, are feeling voiceless.Other than the Municipal Corporation Commissioner, Superintendent of Police, Chief Architect, different officials, NGO and RWA representatives and four street vendors were nominated to the panel.“There are several issues facing vendors, including the vending zones and payment, but no meeting of the TVC has been held in the past few months. We were hopeful of getting fee exemption for the month of May, but that has also not happened. The TVC should be formed again with 40 per cent vendor participation,” said Ram Milan Gaur, president of the Chandigarh Street Vendors Association.VN Sharma, one of the members of the now defunct panel and president of the Federation of Social Welfare Associations, said: “The vendors keep coming to me with different issues. It is sad that the TVC has not been set up till now. The vendors had a tough time due to Covid. There has been very thin presence in the markets in the last three months. The best MC can do is exempt the licence fee.”When contacted, MC Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora said: “The election process for setting up the TVC is on and it will be formed soon. We are also discussing the exemption in licence fee for the month of May.”The second wave of Covid-19 pandemic has turned nearly 2,400 registered vendors have turned defaulters as they failed to deposit their monthly licence fee to the Municipal Corporation.Many of them may even lose their vending licences.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/town-vending-committee-lying-defunct-for-3-months-in-chandigarh-272695
23-06-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Sports complexes open for intermediate players in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22After a wait of almost two months, intermediate players and leisure activity sports lovers will be able to use the facilities at the local sports complexes as UT Administrator and Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore gave the go-ahead for it at a war room meeting today.Intermediate players of various age groups have been demanding reopening of sports complexes that were shut for all during the partial lockdown. However, since relaxations have been given at various fronts, these players have been demanding the permission to practise. The matter was reported in these columns recently and Secretary Sports KK Yadav had assured of taking up the issue in the meeting.Dept to issue guidelines soon“Members are allowed to use the sports complexes, but they must adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour,” said a spokesperson.The UT Sports Department will issue guidelines, including SOPs to be followed, distribution of time slots for the usage of players and members, criteria for playing, and other details within a few days after which the players will be allowed to use the facilities.“After receiving an official notification from the UT Administration, the Sports Department will further assess the situation and issue proper guidelines before permitting intermediate players to use the facilities. The process will take a couple of days and coaches will supervise the arenas. If anyone found guilty of not following guidelines, his/her membership will be revoked,” said a senior official.Earlier, UT Administrator and Punjab Governor VP Singh had allowed opening of sports complexes from June 1, but only for professional players. Besides swimming, badminton, lawn tennis, squash and gyms attract most of the memberships. These facilities are also one of the most revenue-earning areas of the UT Sports Department.No decision on opening poolsThe Administrator, meanwhile, did not take any decision on opening of swimming pools for the general public (members). Limited pools of Chandigarh (under the UT Sports Department) are allowed to open for professionals. “Opening of swimming pools for the general public is not feasible right now considering the threat of this virus. It’s not advisable to allow larger gatherings at one place using common things. We can think of opening pools in the coming weeks, but it will surely take time,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sports-complexes-open-for-intermediate-players-in-chandigarh-272694
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Sector 22, hotel owner thrashed in Chandigarh, five arrested||The owner of Jullundur Hotel in Sector 22 here was thrashed by some persons who had come to attend a wedding function at the hotel. Five persons were arrested in this regard and later released on bail.Complainant Anita Wadhwa reported that her husband Gopal K Wadhwa was thrashed on June 19 after he objected to consumption of liquor, which was brought from outside.The complainant alleged that her husband returned home in Sector 22 which is close to the hotel and told her that some persons attending the wedding function are threatening him. In the meantime, a person called him back to the hotel claiming that they want to talk.The complainant stated that around seven persons started thrashing her husband. She intervened, following which they stopped thrashing her husband. The incident was caught on a CCTV camera installed outside the victim’s house.The police were informed about the incident, following which action was taken against the suspects under the preventive measures. Later, a case under Sections 323, 341, 506 and 147 of the IPC was registered.Five persons - Anshul Bajaj, a resident of Sector 22, Amit Lal Dhingara, a resident of Sector 56, and Bhushan Sood, a resident of Sector 23, Gagandeep Singh and Rajvinder Singh - have been arrested in the case. They all were later released on bail. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-22-hotel-owner-thrashed-in-chandigarh-five-arrested-272692
23-06-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Cleaning of Sukhna choe begins||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, June 22The drainage department of the Mohali Administration has begun the cleaning work of Sukhna Choe in Baltana after the UT Engineering Department wrote to the authorities concerned to clean the choe to avoid a repeat of the last year’s flooding.Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa said, “The drainage department is carrying out the work and it will be completed before the rainy season peaks.”The cleaning work started on Friday. The UT Engineering Department officials said the cleaning of the choe in the city was nearly complete and if the cleaning work was not taken up in the Baltana area, it could lead to flooding of the area.On August 23 last year, the excess water released from Sukhna Lake caused havoc in Baltana and other parts of Zirakpur. Around 5 am, the water came gushing into the Baltana, partially submerging a police post, marriage palaces, a municipal park, dairies and the cremation ground.Experts said neglecting the cleaning of Sukhna Choe and unauthorised constructions were the cause for flooding.Questions were also raised about the drain made by the municipal council at a level higher than that of the road, disrupting the natural gradient.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cleaning-of-sukhna-choe-begins-272689
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mishap triggers snarls in Chandigarh||An accident between three cars and a CTU bus on the road separating Sector 17 and 22 in Chandigarh led to traffic snarls for around two hours on Tuesday.The traffic on the road was disrupted that led to long queues of stranded vehicles.The police were informed and it was only after two hours that the vehicles were removed from the spot and normal traffic restored. tribune photo: manoj Mahajan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mishap-triggers-snarls-in-chandigarh-272686
23-06-2021||Zirakpur||24-year-old girl hangs herself  in Zirakpur||A 24-year-old girl was found hanging from the ceiling fan of her bedroom at Swastik Vihar Society on Patiala Road today. The deceased has been identified as Poonam, a native of Himachal Pradesh, who was staying in a rented house in the colony.Zirakpur SHO Onkar Singh Brar said information was received that the body of the deceased was hanging from a fan. She was working at a parlour, but did not leave the house yesterday, after which neighbours called up the police.Her body was found hanging from a fan in the bedroom when the police broke open the door. The body of the deceased has been kept in the mortuary of the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi, for a postmortem. The police have informed the family of the victim. The police said preliminary investigation revealed that it was a case of suicide. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/24-year-old-girl-hangs-herself-in-zirakpur-272682
23-06-2021||Panchkula||Two girls among three reunited with families in Panchkula||The Anti-Human Trafficking Unit (AHTU) of the district police reunited a mentally-challenged man and two children with their families.ASI Rajesh Kumar said he came to know about a mentally-challenged person, Lalaram (38), who was staying with someone at Tatapani near Shimla for the past 12 years. He said Lalaram told him about his father and the name of his village. The cop contacted the village sarpanch and sent Lalaram’s photo. Later, his wife and brother Ramesh identified him. Ramesh said Lalaram had been missing since 2009.In another case, Simpi, Welfare Officer of Kilkari Rainbow Home, Delhi, informed the ASI about a four-year-old girl found by the GRP in 2009. He said the girl told about her father, a truck driver, and that she was taken away by a person, Kaku, on the pretext of getting her sweets. She was later dropped at the railway station. The girl and her father identified each other via video calling.In third case, a four-year-old girl, who was kidnapped from the grain market in Rajpura in October last year, was found at the Ambala railway station and kept at the Children Home in Sector 15, Panchkula. During her counselling, the girl gave information about her mother. They identified each other through video calling. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-girls-among-three-reunited-with-families-in-panchkula-272679
23-06-2021||---||AAP protests ‘hefty’ waste collection rates in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, June 22Holding placards, AAP leaders and workers today protested at the entrance gate of the Municipal Corporation building against the “hefty” waste collection charges.Senior AAP leader Chandermukhi Sharma said: “After the water tariff hike, the waste collection charges are a huge blow to residents. The MC must review its decision. There is a total confusion among locals.”“City residents were shocked as they received water bills with huge waste collection charges. Some of the residents received bills as high as Rs3,000 to Rs4,000. The latest bill mentions the charges up to June 15 with arrears, but residents are confused over its duration,” said the protesters.The MC, which claimed to have started the waste collection through its 490 newly bought two-bin waste vehicles, has apparently failed to implement the idea in most of the sectors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-protests-hefty-waste-collection-rates-in-chandigarh-272678
23-06-2021||---||Students asked to take offline exams, say they want hostels||Chandigarh, June 22Panjab University has issued a circular, asking students of Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Science and Hospital, Sector 25, to take exams in the offline mode.“The undergraduate and postgraduate students of Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Science and Hospital, whose exams will start from June 28 in physical mode (as per the directive of DCI) may come back to the university for appearing for offline examination,” read the circular.Meanwhile, students objected to this short-notice call by the authorities and asked them to provide relief. Students said if they were being called for offline exams, the authorities should issue them hostels and they won’t be going back to their respective cities.“This is an absurd order. Many of us live in far-flung areas and it’s not possible to reach here within five or six days. They should give us ample time to settle down and should allow us to live in hostels. Once we come back, we won’t be going back to our native places as these are desperate times in view of the health safety,” said a student.As per the circular: “The eligible research scholars, who left for their home before the start of the second Covid wave, may come back to the university to resume their pending work. The final semester/year students, who have to complete their time-bound dissertation/project assignments, may also come back to the university to complete their work with stipulation that they shall leave the hostel immediately after completing their work. The other students, who were staying in the hostel before the second wave of Covid and now have no cogent reason to come back (as classes are being held in an online mode only) are advised to remain with their families at their native places.”Declare poll date, Ex-Senators write to PU VCChandigarh: Former senators have again written to the Panjab University Vice-Chancellor to hold Senate elections and declare the date of polling. Earlier in May, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had adjourned the hearing on a petition, stating that it was not possible to hold the Senate poll (scheduled for May 19) because of the pandemic till July. The matter was adjourned to July 8 for reassessing the situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/students-asked-to-take-offline-exams-say-they-want-hostels-272676
23-06-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Decision to retire prof at 60 years under Central Administrative Tribunal scanner||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), Chandigarh, has issued notices to the Director National Dairy Research Institute (NDRL), Karnal, Ministry of Agriculture and the Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) on the application of a professor.The professor had challenged the order of the NDRI to retire her at the age of 60. The English professor, Meena Malik, has challenged the order that reduced her retirement age from 62 to 60 by the university terming it as arbitrary and against the guidelines issued by the University Grant Commission (UGC). The Tribunal, while issuing the notices to the respondents, also directed the NDRI to maintain the status quo till the pendency of the application.Malik approached the CAT through her counsel DR Sharma. Sharma said the NDRI, in its communication dated December 27, 2019, had informed Malik that she would be superannuated at the age of 60 on August 31, 2021, instead of August 31, 2023, along with other officials of the administration. Sharma contended before the CAT that the NDRI was a Deemed University under the Ministry of Agriculture and was conferring postgraduate degrees, including the doctoral degrees and undergraduate degrees in the science subjects.The competent authority has issued an approval to grant the UGC pay scale to the applicant. She would be governed by the UGC norms as applicable to the science faculty. Dr Malik joined the NDRL on April 20, 1993, as an assistant professor in the university. The ICAR equated the post of the assistant professor with a scientist.She was further assessed for promotion by the selection committee after five years as per the UGC norms. The ICAR adopted the notification of the Ministry of the Human Resource Development dated December 12, 2008, prescribing 65 as the age of retirement, but restricted the age to 62 for scientists. Since Dr Malik is on the cadre strength of scientists, an entry was made in the service book that she will retire on August 31, 2023. But due to the alleged mischief played by subordinate staff, the case was referred to the ICAR that Malik was part of the technical staff and shall retire at 60. It was contended that the teaching faculty cannot hold technical post.Sharma further said the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court related with the similar matters will also be applicable in the case of other applicant as she belongs to the teaching faculty and is governed by the UGC norms. Dr Malik is entitled to continue up to the age prescribed by government in the rules, said Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/decision-to-retire-prof-at-60-years-under-central-administrative-tribunal-scanner-272672
23-06-2021||Saurabh Malik||Live-in partner who doesn’t legally end ties with wife lacks bona fides: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that a man, who did not legitimately end matrimonial alliance with the biological mother of his children before entering into a live-in relationship with another woman, apparently lacked bona fides.Justice Arun Monga was hearing a protection plea filed by a father of two, who is in a live-in relationship with a widow. On a pointed court query regarding the status of the previous marriage of the live-in partners, the counsel representing the couple told Justice Monga’s Bench that the male partner was married, but his wife had deserted him to live with another partner.He had a 19-year-old son and a 16-year-old daughter in the wedlock. Both were in his custody. The widow, on the other hand, had two sons, aged 12 and seven. The counsel submitted that the live-in relationship was merely for the sake of better upbringing of the four children. Elaborating, he added both petitioners had decided to live under the same roof for providing better co-parenting.Justice Monga asserted that the intention of both petitioners may have been noble, “one does not know though”. But what appeared to be incongruous on the male partner’s part was that he had not taken steps till date to file appropriate matrimonial proceedings seeking divorce on the grounds of desertion or otherwise as provided under the Hindu Marriage Act.Justice Monga observed the male partner claimed he was compelled to provide motherly care to his children through the woman partner since his wife had deserted him. “But from his inaction to legitimately end his matrimonial alliance from the biological mother of his children, there appears to be lack of bona fides on his part”.Justice Monga added that the grounds to interfere were not made out. However, it would be travesty of justice in case the woman was to suffer any risk to her life and liberty. As such, she deserved to be protected to that extent. This was to avoid any possibility of the woman being put to unnecessary perils.Before parting with the case, Justice Monga directed the Senior Superintendent of Police concerned to look into the widow’s threat perception. “In case, so warranted, provide her with the mobile number of a lady police official to whom she can approach, in case of any untoward incident at odd hours, in case, she feels any threat to her life,” Justice Monga concluded. What the judge saidJustice Monga asserted that the intention of both petitioners may have been noble, "one does not know though". But what appeared to be incongruous on the male partner's part was that he had not taken steps till date to file appropriate matrimonial proceedings seeking divorce on the grounds of desertion or otherwise as provided under the Hindu Marriage Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/live-in-partner-who-doesnt-legally-end-ties-with-wife-lacks-bona-fides-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-272668
23-06-2021||---||Multi-level parking at Punjab and Haryana High Court set to get delayed||Chandigarh, June 22The construction of a multi-level parking at the Punjab and Haryana High Court is set to get delayed, as the UT Administration is yet to conduct the study for obtaining environmental and eco-sensitive clearances for the project.The parking site falls within the eco-sensitive zone around the Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary which was notified in 2017. It is also within the buffer zone of the UNESCO World Heritage Site of Capitol Complex in Sector 1.The planThe UT Engineering Department had recently invited bids to hire a consultant to prepare an environment impact assessment report for obtaining environmental clearance and eco-sensitive clearance from the Ministry of Environment. An official concerned, however, said that it would take time to finalise the consultant.As per the drawing submitted to the High Court in January last year, the Engineering Department has planned three underground floors. In the first phase, the parking lot will have space for over 2,800 cars. In the second phase, installation of stacks has been proposed and parking could be expanded to over 5,000 cars.An official from the UT’s Department of Environment said a study would be required for obtaining the clearances from the Ministry of Environment.Nearly 10,000 lawyers and litigants, with 8,000 cars, visit the High Court daily. The court has a parking space for nearly 800 cars.On December 20, 2019, the High Court had directed the UT Administration to submit the layout for a multi-level underground parking lot, opposite the High Court Museum, within four weeks.The directions had come after the Administration had submitted that the site falls within the eco-sensitive zone.The High Court, however, was of the view that if parking couldn’t be constructed, how could a Tourist Information Centre come up on the same site.It further observed that amendments could be made in the Master Plan, and questioned how a green belt could come under heritage status.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/multi-level-parking-at-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-set-to-get-delayed-272666
23-06-2021||---||Covid protocol given the go-by at Sukhna Lake in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, June 22A possible third wave of Covid-19 could take place as people are not wearing mask and maintaining social distancing in the city. Though the UT Administration has failed to ensure the compliance of the Covid protocol at Sukhna Lake, the authorities today allowed boating in the lake with 50 per cent capacity.Amanjeet Singh, a resident of Sector 5, said the Administration should not allow residents to lower the guard as it would invite a possible third wave of the pandemic because the devastating second wave was yet to fizzle out.To prevent the impending third wave, the entire city was needed to be vaccinated and till then, residents or visitors need to follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour strictly, he said, and added that the Administration should restrict the entry of people at crowded places such as Sukhna Lake and the Sector 26 fruit and vegetable market, where people could be seen violating the Covid protocol.Expressing similar views, LR Budaniya, a social activist, said people going for routine work would not trigger a third wave of the pandemic, but those not wearing a mask or observing social distancing could cause it.Nobody could foretell the possible arrival of the third wave, but by following Covid-appropriate behaviour, its impact could be reduced considerably, he said. Budaniya added that the second wave of the virus had hit the country hard and residents should step out of their houses only when necessary so as to avoid another wave of the deadly virus.Meanwhile, UT Administrator VP Singh Bandore has directed the Director General of Police to take strict action against the violators of Covid protocol, particularly those not wearing a mask, at Sukhna Lake and other public places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-protocol-given-the-go-by-at-sukhna-lake-in-chandigarh-272659
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation team visits waste plant in Ambala||POA hall in Milkha’s memoryChandigarh: The Punjab Olympic Association (POA) will soon inaugurate a Hall of Fame at the Punjab Olympic Bhawan at Mohali in the memory of former legendary Indian athlete Milkha Singh. The statues of triple Olympic gold medallist Balbir Singh Senior and Olympic champion shooter Abhinav Bindra will be installed. TNSKidnapping accused heldChandigarh: Another accused in the 15-year-old boy’s kidnapping case was arrested by the UT police. The accused has been identified as Rohit Sharma (23), alias Happy. His brother Ajay, who was arrested earlier, had used Rohit’s Brezza car in the crime. The police said Rohit went underground after the case was registered. He took the car along and also destroyed evidence in the case. The victim was kidnapped on June 15. He was later released without any ransom. TNSYouth nabbed with heroinChandigarh: The UT police have arrested a 20-year-old youth while possessing heroin. According to the police, the suspect, Sagar, a resident of Dadu Majra Colony, Sector 38 (West), was nabbed from near his house while possessing heroin. A case has been registered. TNSValuables, cash, cards stolenChandigarh: Unknown persons stole valuables and cash from a house in Sector 42 here. According to the police, a woman reported that her purse containing gold ornaments, a pen drive, documents, credit and debit cards, locker keys and Rs3,000 was stolen from her house on intervening night of June 17 and 18. The police have registered a case. TNSBoy drowns in village pondLalru: A 10-year-old boy drowned in a pond at Humayunpur village near Lalru on Monday. He has been identified as Sonu. The boy, along with his friends, went for swimming. His foot slipped and he fell in deep waters. It took four hours to fish out his body. The police have recorded the statement under Section 174 of the CrPC. TNS25-yr-old hangs self to deathLalru: A 25-year-old man committed suicide by hanging himself near a gas plant in Alamgir. The deceased has been identified as Kuldeep Singh, a resident of Alamgir. The police said he used to work as a welder. He was mentally upset after suffering losses. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-team-visits-waste-plant-in-ambala-272641
23-06-2021||---||Man kills wife in Lalru, hides body in cupboard||Lalru, June 22A 30-year-old woman was allegedly strangled to death by her husband and her body dumped in a cupboard in the house in Ward No. 8, Lalru Mandi, the police said. The murder was committed on June 20 and the body of Rama Rani was found in the house a day later after her father complained to the police that his daughter was untraceable.The police arrested taxi driver Jasbir Singh, aged around 40 and a resident of Masingan village in Patiala. He will be produced in a court tomorrow.According to a statement of the deceased’s father, Rambalak Pal, a native of Unao in UP, the couple was having a strained relationship as the suspect doubted the character of the woman.The couple was married 10 years ago and had two daughters. The deceased used to work in a factory. The suspect, a resident of Ward No. 8 near Mittal Palace, allegedly strangled his wife to death after a domestic dispute and hid the body in the cupboard.Mohali SP (Rural) Ravjot Grewal said, ‘’The police found the body of Rama Rani with injury marks on her neck and froth in her mouth. A case was registered under Section 302 against suspect Jasbir Singh on June 21 and the body handed over to her kin after a postmortem.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-kills-wife-in-lalru-hides-body-in-cupboard-272629
23-06-2021||---||Hospital overcharges Rs 2.78L in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, June 22A panel headed by the SDM (South), UT, has found that Healing Hospital, Sector 34, overcharged Rs 2,78,000 from a patient and has directed it to refund the extra amount.The committee, comprising SDM (South) Satish Jain, the area Deputy Superintendent of Police, the Senior Medical Officer (Health) and the Drug Inspector (Health), examined the complaint made by Kunal Soni against the hospital for overcharging him for his father’s Covid-19 treatment.“The committee found that a sum of Rs2,78,000 was overcharged in the bill amounting to Rs3,69,000 by the hospital. It found that the actual amount of the bill was Rs91,000 approximately,” read an official statement released by the Chandigarh Administration.The committee directed the hospital authorities to refund the overcharged amount to the complainant within three days.The UT Administration had formed committees to check fleecing of patients by private hospitals in the city.Each committee was headed by the SDM of the respective area with a DSP, an SMO and a drug inspector as its members.Taking advantage of the sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases, several private hospitals allegedly overcharged patients for treatment.On receiving complaints, the UT Health Department issued notices to several private hospitals.The private hospitals were found charging extra for oxygen, medicines and tests even as these were part of the package notified by the UT Administration on April 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hospital-overcharges-rs-2-78l-in-chandigarh-272610
23-06-2021||Panchkula||1 death, 4 cases in Panchkula district||One more person succumbed to Covid-19 in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 372. A 32-year-old man, a resident of Nawannagar, succumbed to the virus. He had comorbidities. Four persons were found infected in the district on Tuesday, taking the case tally to 30,532. However, no case surfaced in Panchkula city. Of the 30,532 positive cases reported so far, 30,077 patients have been cured. There are now 83 active cases.2,578 inoculated in districtA total of 2,578 persons got the jab at 17 government and three private vaccination centres across the district on Tuesday. Of them, 751 persons got the second dose. Among those inoculated, 1,830 were aged between 18 and 44, 476 between 45 and 59 and 226 above 60. A total of 2,68,269 persons have been vaccinated in the district so far. Of them, 2,12,016 persons have got the first dose, while 56,253 persons have got the second dose as well.22 cases, no death in UTChandigarh: The city on Tuesday reported 22 new cases of Covid-19. For the third consecutive day, there was no fatality due to the virus. The total number of active cases has come down to 278 as 56 patients were reportedly cured in the past 24 hours. TNS2 deaths, 29 cases in MohaliMohali: Two more fatalities due to Covid-19 were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 1,041. It also saw 29 fresh cases, while 52 patients were cured of the disease. Among the fresh cases, six were reported from Mohali (urban), one from Kurali, three from Dera Bassi, eight from Dhakoli and 11 from Kharar. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-death-4-cases-in-panchkula-district-272590
23-06-2021||---||Chandigarh gives more relaxations, now shops to open till 8 pm||Chandigarh, June 22With the deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic on the decline, the UT Administration has announced further relaxation in restrictions imposed in the city to prevent further spread of the virus.After detailed discussions at a review meeting chaired by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, certain decisions were taken on additional relaxations.Extending the timings of shops by an hour, the Administration has now allowed all shops to remain open from 10 am to 8 pm, but the shop owners will have to ensure strict compliance with the Covid protocol.Similarly, all restaurants or bars can remain open with 50 per cent capacity from 10 am to 10.30 pm. Earlier, the restaurants and bars used to close by 10 pm.Consequently, the Administration has also reduced the timing of the night curfew by half an hour. Now, it will be in force from 11am to 5 am.The number of persons permitted to attend marriages/funerals and social gatherings has been enhanced from 30 to 50.Beopar Mandal hails moveThe Chandigarh Beopar Mandal has welcomed the announcement by the UT Administrator regarding allowing all shops to remain open till 8 pm.Charanjiv Singh, president of the mandal, said allowing regular shopping hours in the city by the UT Administration was a step in the right direction.UT to get 2 lakh doses of vaccine in JulyThe Central Government has allocated 1.5 lakh doses of the vaccine for the government sector and 50,000 doses to private hospitals in the city for July.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, said 4,59,935 doses of the vaccine had been administered in Chandigarh so far and the walk-in facility for the vaccination of those aged 18 and above had been started at all government hospitals and dispensaries in Chandigarh today.“At present, nearly 40,000 doses are available and 50,700 doses are to be received in the current month,” she said, adding that in July, 1.5 lakh doses for the government sector and 50,000 doses to private hospitals had been allocated by the Centre.“All three health institutions — the PGI, the GMCH and the GMSH — have opened physical OPDs. They have been advised to collect samples for Covid of non-vaccinated OPD patients, as they are more prone to the infection,” she said.Jab for senior citizens at homeUT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has advised the UT Director, Health Services, to form a team for at-home vaccination of senior citizens who are bed-ridden or suffering from acute illness and cannot move to the vaccination centres.Boating allowed at Sukhna with 50% capacity||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gives-more-relaxations-now-shops-to-open-till-8-pm-272554
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Chandigarh reduces night curfew by an hour, extends shop timings||The Chandigarh administration reduced night curfew by an hour and extended shop timings in the union territory till 8 pm in a development that comes as Covid cases from the second wave continue to fall in the city.New orders from the administration say shops can remain open from 10 am to 8 pm and that shop owners must ensure Covid protocols are strictly followed.What the order says:—Shops can remain open up to 8 pm—Night curfew will be imposed from 11 pm to 5 am—Restaurants and bars can function at 50 per cent capacity from 10 am to 10.30 pm   —Gatherings such as weddings and funerals can have up to 50 people, up from the previous 30—Sports complexes will be thrown open to members with strict adherence to Covid protocols—Boating will resume at Sukhna Lake at 50 per cent capacity||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-chandigarh-reduces-night-curfew-by-an-hour-extends-shop-timings-272410
