25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali’s Fortis hospital rolls out Sputnik V vaccine for general public||Private hospital chain Fortis Healthcare on Friday said it has rolled out the Sputnik V, the third anti-coronavirus vaccine approved for use in India, for eligible people.It said it rolled out the vaccine at Fortis Hospital in Mohali as part of its limited pilot soft launch.Around 200 people received the jab on Friday of the two-dose vaccine.The registration for the vaccination can be done through the CoWin and Aarogya Setu applications, a statement issued by the Fortis said.The vaccine stock has been directly procured by Fortis from Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, in accordance with the government guidelines and has been priced at Rs 1,145 per dose, it said.“While Fortis Hospital Mohali continues to administer Covishield and Covaxin vaccines, Sputnik V is also being made available to the public,” it said.Fortis Healthcare ramped up its vaccination drive after vaccines were opened to all age groups above 18.Zonal Director, Fortis Hospital, Mohali, Abhijit Singh said, “Ours is the first hospital in the region to start vaccination for Sputnik V for the general public.”           “The first day of the vaccination got a good response from the people as around 200 people were vaccinated till Friday evening,” he said.Notably, Russia’s Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology has developed the vaccine. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohalis-fortis-hospital-rolls-out-sputnik-v-vaccine-for-general-public-273901
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 34 new Covid cases, no deaths||Chandigarh reported 34 new Covid-19 cases, a news bulletin from the Chandigarh administration said on Friday.The UT recorded no new Covid-19 deaths.  Chandigarh now has 241 active cases. The fatality count stands at 807.  Some 2,019 samples were tested over the last 24 hours. Forty-five patients were released from hospitals and home isolation after recovery, the bulletin said.The UT’s positivity rate over the last week stands at 1.55 per cent.The bulletin also said that 7,12,000  people over 18 have been administered Covid-19 vaccines in total— 4,08,353 have got their first doses and 80,030 their second doses.ViolationsChandigarh Administration said 500 challans were issued in the union territory for not adhering to Covid protocol on Friday.A press note from the administration said: "After the directions of Adviser Sh. Dharam Pal, the drive against the violators of Covid Appropriate Behaviour has been intensified by the three SDMs in their respective zones in Chandigarh.   Today more than 500 challans have been issued by the teams of three  SDMs,  respectively”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-34-new-covid-cases-no-deaths-273893
25-06-2021||---||Army Chief visits Shimla-based ARTRAC, briefed on training initiatives||Chandigarh, June 25Chief of the Army Staff General MM Naravane visited the Shimla-based Army Training Command (ARTRAC) today, where he was briefed on a range of issues such as strategic-military futures, doctrinal corrections, operational challenges and preparedness, technological infusion and training pedagogy.He was apprised about a number of initiatives being undertaken to maximise the effectiveness of the Indian Army and steps taken to make professional military education (PME) more contemporary and responsive to current challenges, according to an official statement.General Naravane also called upon the Governor of Himachal Pradesh, Bandaru Dattatraya, and discussed issues of mutual interest with him.Later, the Army Chief and the President, Army Wives Welfare Association interacted with and honoured the next of kin of Sepoy Ankush, who had made the supreme sacrifice during the Galwan standoff in Ladakh during June 2020 and was decorated posthumously with the Sena Medal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/army-chief-visits-shimla-based-artrac-briefed-on-training-initiatives-273881
25-06-2021||---||Chandigarh assn welcomes Sri Lankan athletics team||Chandigarh, June 24The Chandigarh Athletics Association welcomed the Sri Lankan athletics team at the airport here today. The Sri Lankan team will participate in the 6th National Circuit Athletic Meet scheduled to be held in Patiala from June 25 to 29.Jaspinder Singh, Secretary, and Dr GP Pal, Senior Joint Secretary, Chandigarh Athletics Association, welcomed the team. Ravinder Chaudhary, Secretary, Athletics Federation of India, was also present during this welcome ceremony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-assn-welcomes-sri-lankan-athletics-team-273796
25-06-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Virus still around, tread cautiously: Civil Surgeon||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 24The sudden increase in Covid cases from 11 to 33 in the past couple of days in the district has caused concern among officials of the Health Department.Officials say the relaxations given by the administration were possibly the main cause behind the surge as people have now started moving out of their houses, resulting in huge gatherings in markets and other places.Relaxations may have led to rise in casesOfficials say the relaxations given by the administration are possibly the main cause behind the rise in the number of Covid cases as people have started moving out, resulting in huge gatherings in markets and other places.The district had witnessed a downward trend in Covid cases in the past one week. On June 20, the district had reported 27 Covid cases. The number further reduced to 11 on June 21. However, the district saw a sudden increase in the cases with 29 people testing positive on June 22 and 33 on June 23.Earlier with the decline in Covid cases, the death rate had also declined by 84.36 per cent as only 76 deaths were reported in three weeks of June, while 486 deaths were reported from May 11 to May 31.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said people were taking the Covid pandemic lightly after a decline in the number of cases in the district. People had now started moving out of their houses, resulting in huge gatherings in markets and other places. They should understand that the virus was still there. People should move out only in case of an emergency.‘Second wave not over yet’Ruling out the third wave of Covid-19, Dr Adarshpal Kaur said the second wave was not yet over. She said they were keeping a close eye on the situation. Preventive measures would be taken if the number of cases increased further.Ruling out the third wave of Covid-19, Dr Adarshpal Kaur said the second wave was not yet over. She said they were keeping a close eye on the situation. Preventive measures would be taken if the number of cases increased further.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/virus-still-around-tread-cautiously-civil-surgeon-273635
25-06-2021||---||Accused gets bail in Sec 38 firing incident||Chandigarh, June 24 A local court has granted bail to one of the accused, Harshdeep, alias Monu, arrested in connection with the Sector 38 firing incident. Harshdeep, along with four other accused, was arrested on April 10. The case was registered against the accused on the complaint of a Sector 38 resident. The complainant had reported that some miscreants smashed the windowpanes of his Tata Safari and his neighbour’s car, which was parked near his house, on April 8, 2021. The counsel, who appeared on behalf of the accused, argued that the allegations mentioned in the FIR as well as in the challan were totally false and frivolous. The petitioner had not committed any offence. The assistant public prosecutor strongly opposed the bail. After hearing the arguments, the court granted bail to the accused. The police had registered a case against the accused under Sections 147, 149, 336,427, 506 and 307 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Maloya police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accused-gets-bail-in-sec-38-firing-incident-273636
25-06-2021||---||Accused facing charges of duping many denied bail||Chandigarh, June 24  The court of Anshu Shukla, Additional Sessions Judge, has rejected the bail application of Ishtaque Ahmed, one of the accused facing charges of duping many high-profile people of the city, including two retired judges of the High Court, of several crores.  The accused was arrested on a complaint filed by Kuldeep Singh Grewal, a resident of Sector 27. Grewal named 10 persons, including two former judges of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, who were duped by officials of a private bank. He alleged that he, his family, his acquaintances and two former judges were cheated by the relationship manager from the Delhi branch of a private bank. He alleged that he has lost Rs52.50 lakh and the total amount lost by his closed relations/friends adds up to Rs6.60 crore.  Counsel of the accused argued before the court that he was falsely implicated in the case. Assistant Public Prosecutor opposed the bail application. He argued that in view of the huge amount involved in the case and the gravity of offence, the bail application of the petitioner may be dismissed.  After hearing the arguments, the court rejected the bail application of the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accused-facing-charges-of-duping-many-denied-bail-273637
25-06-2021||---||Chandigarh Adviser for action against violators||Chandigarh, June 24UT Adviser Dharam Pal today instructed the Director General of Police and the Deputy Commissioner to ensure an enforcement drive from tomorrow against those violating the Covid-appropriate behaviour.The Adviser said: “It has been noticed that Covid-appropriate behaviour is not being maintained in Chandigarh.” He appealed to public to maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour at all times, wear masks, maintain social distancing and get themselves vaccinated. Cops to crack the whip on violatorsAfter the UT Adviser’s directions, those found without mask and violating social distancing norms at Sukhna Lake may face action. The police are expected to crack the whip on them from Friday. Since the lake was opened, most people were seen not following Covid-appropriate behaviour. People not following norms in the markets will also face action.Earlier, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba reviewed the public health response to Covid-19 and preparedness of states/UTs through a video conference. The meeting was attended by the Chief Secretaries/Advisers to Administrators and Director General of Police of states/UTs. Inputs from various public health experts were shared with the states. They were asked to ensure strengthening of medical infrastructure, accelerating the pace of vaccination and ensuring the enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour.In a subsequent meeting with officers of the UT Administration, the Adviser directed the officials to ensure compliance with the directions given by the Cabinet Secretary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-adviser-for-action-against-violators-273638
25-06-2021||---||Police lathicharge para-athletes in city||Mohali, June 24Some of the special athletes (para-athletes) were injured as the police resorted to baton charge to disperse the protesters, including workers of the Aam Aadmi Party, today.The para-athletes had gone to Chandigarh to lay siege to the Punjab Chief Minister’s house and return their awards in protest. The protesters started their march from Mohali and when they reached the CM’s house, the police stopped them. The protesters raised slogans against the Punjab Government’s “anti-people” policies. After this, the police resorted to lathi charge to disperse the protesters and arrested some of them. Some of the para-athletes’s legs and arms were injured.One of the para-athlete, Kuldeep Singh, said he had made the country proud by winning various medal in various national and international sports events. He said the state government had not fixed any quota for the para-athletes while it had given jobs to the sons of the MLAs.Winner of the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Award, Sanjeev Kumar, said he had won more than 20 medals in badminton sports. He said the government officials had assured him several times, but had failed to provide any job.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA and Youth Wing president Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer said during its tenure, the government had given certificates to various sportspersons, but had shunned the amount of honour and the job they deserved. Taking a dig at the Capt government, Meet Hayer asked whether these awards alone would fill their stomachs and their needs. “Why doesn’t the government give jobs to the players? Instead, they are cracking down on the players demanding their rights, which should be condemned,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-lathicharge-para-athletes-in-city-273639
25-06-2021||Lalru||Lalru residents block highway||Lalru residents, including family members of a girl who committed suicide, today blocked the Ambala-Chandigarh national highway in protest against the police for not arresting the suspects for abetting 32-year-old’s suicide.Residents blocked the highway near the ITI Chowk by keeping the body of Kuldeep Kaur on the road in protest against the police for not arresting the two officials whose names were mentioned in the suicide note. The protesters said they would not lift the dharna until the police arrested the suspects.Kuldeep Kaur, who was working as a clerk in the Technical Education Department, had committed suicide by jumping before the Shatabdi train on the Ambala-Chandigarh railway track in Lalru on Wednesday.Malkit Singh, brother of the deceased, told the police that his sister was working in the Technical Education Department in Sector 36, Chandigarh. He alleged that his sister was being harassed for a long time by Superintendent Bhupinder Singh and Senior Assistant Arvinder Singh. He said they were physically abusing her. He said the Deputy Director of the department was also informed about this, but no action was taken against the two officers.The Railway Police had registered a case against Superintendent Bhupinder Singh and Senior Assistant Arvinder Singh, but not arrested them.The residents said they would not cremate the body until the suspects were arrested. The body has now been kept at the mortuary of the Civil Hospital in Dera Bassi.Dera Bassi DSP Gurbaksh Singh, DSP Railway Davinder Singh, SHO Railway (Patiala) Gurdarshan Singh and Lalru SHO Bhinder Singh Khangur arrived on the site. They assured the family members that the matter was being investigated and the suspects would be arrested soon.DSP Railway Davinder Singh said they were holding meetings with the family and officials and added that raids would be conducted to nab the suspects. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lalru-residents-block-highway-273640
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||‘0333’ auctioned for Rs 1.95 lakh||Non-fiction book releasedChandigarh: A book titled “What is my Identity?”, authored by Apoorva Kinra and Pareena Singh, students of the UILS, Panjab University, was released on Thursday. This young adult non-fiction book analyses the factual and historical significance of the LGBTQIA+ community coupled with the legal aspect, religion, flags, symbols and testimonies from people belonging to the rainbow community. TNSFour on mobike snatch purseChandigarh: Four miscreants riding a motorcycle allegedly snatched a purse at Maloya. According to the police, complainant Ram Kishore, a resident of EWS Colony, Maloya, reported that the suspects stopped him near the Maloya/Sector 39 turn and snatched his purse containing Rs4,500, an ATM card and documents. A case has been registered. TNSCity heritage sold for Rs1.01 crChandigarh: Four heritage items from the city have been auctioned in Bruxelles (Belgium) for Rs1.01 crore. Ajay Jagga, an advocate and member of the Heritage Protection Cell, UT, said a sofa designed by Pierre Jeanneret, a committee chair, a desk and a pair of arm chairs were auctioned in violation of the MHA orders. TNSHonour for PGI DirectorChandigarh: PGI Director Prof Jagat Ram has been conferred with the distinct honour of Honorary Fellow of All India Collegium of Ophthalmology (FAICO) Award by the All-India Ophthalmological Society (AIOS). The governing board of the AIOS Collegium unanimously recommended Prof Jagat Ram for being an outstanding stalwart of the Indian ophthalmology. The honour was bestowed upon him during the inauguration ceremony of the 79th annual conference held virtually on Thursday. TNSVillagers protestChandigarh: Residents of Khuda Lahora and Khuda Jassu villages have been protesting against the poor sewerage and drinking water system. “Drains are always overflowing, creating a breeding ground for mosquitoes. During the monsoon season, the situation gets worse,” said villagers. TNSSri Lankan team welcomedChandigarh: The Chandigarh Athletics Association welcomed the Sri Lankan athletics team at the airport here on Thursday. The Sri Lankan team will participate in the 6th National Circuit Athletic Meet to be held in Patiala from June 25 to 29. Jaspinder Singh, Secretary, and Dr GP Pal, Senior Joint Secretary, Chandigarh Athletics Association, welcomed the team. Ravinder Chaudhary, Secretary, Athletics Federation of India, was also present. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/0333-auctioned-for-rs-1-95-lakh-273677
25-06-2021||Kurukshetra||Mohali realtor shot in Pehowa||A Mohali resident was found shot dead in his car near a canal at Bodhni village in Pehowa today. The deceased has been identified as Sandeep Singh. Sources said the deceased used to work as a property dealer, besides operating a commission agent shop. Deceased’s wife Kuldeep Kaur said on June 21, Sandeep Singh told her that he was going with his friend Manjeet Singh for collecting a payment. Sandeep also took away his personal revolver, licence, clothes and car. On June 23, around 7 pm, Sandeep told her that he would reach Chandigarh in two hours. Later, his phone was found switched off and he did not return. Today, Sandeep’s body was recovered from his car near a canal at Bodhni village in Pehowa. Kuldeep Kaur alleged that Manjeet and his accomplice killed Sandeep using Sandeep’s revolver.A case has been registered against Manjeet Singh. The deceased suffered four bullet injuries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-realtor-shot-in-pehowa-273676
25-06-2021||Panchkula||Two drunk men enter salon, make obscene gestures, thrash policemen in Panchkula||Two policemen, including an ASI, were allegedly beaten up and their uniform torn by two men in an inebriated state at the Sector 25 market this evening. One of the suspects, identified as Sanju, was arrested. The second suspect remains at large and his identity is unknown. The incident took place around 7.30 pm.“After receiving a distress call from a salon owner that the suspects had entered the shop in an inebriated state and were making obscene gestures at the women staff, the police reached the spot. When the policemen tried to stop them, the suspects started beating up the two in the parking area of the market and tore apart their uniform,” the police said.Sanju was nabbed on the spot, while the second suspect managed to flee.The injured ASI, Rajendra Singh, was taken to the Sector 6 Civil Hospital for a medical examination and treatment.Didar Singh, in-charge of the Sector 25 police post, said they had registered a case in this regard and efforts were on to nab the second suspect. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-drunk-men-enter-salon-make-obscene-gestures-thrash-policemen-in-panchkula-273675
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||No death in Chandigarh, 19 new Covid cases||No fatality, 10 cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Thursday reported 10 fresh cases, taking the case tally to 30,550. With no new death, the Covid toll remained at 372. While 30,108 have recovered from the disease, 70 cases are still active. — TNSOne dies, 28 more test +ve in MohaliMohali: One more person succumbed to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the toll in the district to 1,044. Meanwhile, 28 new cases surfaced till Thursday, taking the tally to 68,138, while 36 patients recovered from the virus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-death-in-chandigarh-19-new-covid-cases-273674
25-06-2021||Panchkula||5-yr-old boy dies in Panchkula hit-and-run||A five-year-old boy was killed when a speeding car hit the tricycle he was travelling on near Dolphin Chowk here on Wednesday. The incident took place when the deceased, Abhay, along with his physically challenged father, was going towards a petrol pump to fetch water. The car rammed into their tricycle from the rear side and sped away. Both fell on the ground after the collision.The victim’s father, Gopal, who lives in a jhuggi in Bhainsa Tibba, MDC, Sector 4, told the police that they were taken to the Civil Hospital for treatment in another car. Doctors at the hospital declared Abhay dead. A case was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-yr-old-boy-dies-in-panchkula-hit-and-run-273673
25-06-2021||Naina Mishra||Hospitals in Chandigarh flag ‘faulty’ ventilators||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 24The efficacy of ventilators granted under the PM CARES Fund has come under the lens. Government hospitals in the city have reported technical issues with the ventilators provided under the fund during the second wave.A total of 44 ventilators were given to Chandigarh in the last week of May, of which 20 were given to the PGI, 10 to the GMCH, Sector 32, and 14 to the GMSH, Sector 16. These ventilators are from a Gujarat-based firm, Jyoti CNC.Report sent to Centre for actionAll three city government hospitals have now prepared a report based on the quality assessment of the ventilators as per which these were found “faulty” and submitted to the UT Health Department. The report has been further submitted to the Central Government for action.All three government hospitals in the city have prepared a report on the quality assessment of the ventilators as per which these were found “faulty” and submitted it to the UT Health Department. The report has been further submitted to the Central Government for action. Arun Gupta, Principal Health Secretary, UT, confirmed that the report had been sent to the Centre.Requesting anonymity, a senior health official said, “After the Centre sought information about the requirement for ventilators, city hospitals had asked for ventilators from ‘Hamilton’. However, the ministry asked to send a fresh requirement without mentioning the brand name. The ventilators were assessed by all three hospitals and technical issues were found in operating these.”“At a review meeting with the ministry today, it was decided to give toll-free numbers of the manufacturer to the hospitals so that the issue could be resolved,” said the official.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, Director, GMCH, said, “We have tested five ventilators of the 10 and found that these did not work properly. We have reported the issue to the Director, Health Services.”Not the first timeThis is not the first time when the UT has had to report issues with ventilators given under the PM CARES Fund. Last year too, the UT had written to the Centre over the quality of ventilators provided to them after the PGI raised the issue of substandard quality of the ventilators.Around 20 ventilators were received by the UT under the fund, of which 10 each were provided to the PGI and the GMCH. The PGI had reported faults with the ventilators. The manufacturer of the lot sent to the PGI was different from the one sent to the GMCH.At least 237 of the 320 ventilators received through the PM CARES Fund at three government medical colleges in Punjab were found defective and lying non-functional in early May.Critical Covid-19 patients were struggling to find ICU beds in city hospitals during the peak of the second wave in May. There were instances of patients dying while waiting for ventilators in the city hospitals. Officials say increasing the critical care beds in the city hospitals remains a challenge and faulty ventilators can hamper the preparations for dealing with the third wave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hospitals-in-chandigarh-flag-faulty-ventilators-273671
25-06-2021||Amit Bathla||3 Panchkula hospitals took Rs 22.53 lakh extra from Covid patients||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 24Three private hospitals forced as many as 19 Covid patients to pay a whopping Rs22.53 lakh more than the prescribed rates in the district during the second wave of the pandemic.As per rates fixed by the Haryana Government last year, the patients were charged in excess ranging from approximately 70 per cent to 381 per cent.Of the 19 cases, four pertained to Alchemist Hospital, three to Wings Hospital and 12 to Paras Hospital.The deadline of June 23 is already over, and the administration has claimed that most of the complainants have got their refund.On June 14, private hospitals had agreed to revise the “inflated” bills issued to Covid patients and refund the overcharged amount after a personal hearing with the district administration.They had been given two days for reconciliation of bills and a week to refund the overcharged amount.BB Singhal, member, Haryana State Pharmacy Council, and member of the district-level Covid bill monitoring committee, said, “In 19 cases cleared by the committee so far, 90 per cent of the refund amount has already been transferred to the bank accounts of Covid patients and their family members.”“Only a few complainants are yet to receive the refund, that too because of non-completion of bank formalities. Those who shared their bank or cheque details have already got their overcharged money back,” he said.Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, too, said a majority of the complainants had already got their refund. “The district administration has called a meeting of hospitals and Covid patients or their family members on June 29 for issuing admissible refund to those who are yet to receive it. Those who have already been refunded have also been invited to submit their feedback,” he said.The bill monitoring committee was formed on the recommendation of Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta after several complainants approached him. The committee, led by ADC Mohammad Imran Raza, meets on a regular basis. It continues to receive complaints related to Covid bills since its inception late last month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-panchkula-hospitals-took-rs-22-53-lakh-extra-from-covid-patients-273670
