26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 20 new Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh reported 20 new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, a health bulletin from the union territory’s administration said on Saturday.   The UT has reported no new deaths for the third consecutive day on Saturday.Chandigarh now has 220 active cases, with an average positivity rate of 1.55 per cent over the last week. The bulletin said 1,573 samples had been tested over the last week.Meanwhile, 4,17,038 people have received one dose of Covid vaccine in the city, while 81,714 are fully vaccinated, the bulletin showed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-20-new-covid-19-cases-274422
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Elderly couple injured as tree falls on house in Sector 15||Two elderly couple were injured on Saturday after a huge tree fell on their house in Sector 15.The house has been damaged badly.The incident was reported on Friday night after the gusty winds uprooted the tree and it fell on the house.Piyush, the couple’s son said, that they had urged the administration in vain to have the tree cut down in time because feared it might lead to such an accidnet.The tree was cleared in the morning by the administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elderly-couple-injured-as-tree-falls-on-house-in-sector-15-274391
26-06-2021||Mohali||Warrant against head of rival Namdhari sect Thakur Dalip Singh||The local court of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Mohali, issued non-bailable arrest warrant against head of rival Namdhari sect Thakur Dalip Singh on Friday.The court of Special Judicial Magistrate Amandeep Kamboj issued non-bailable arrest warrant as the CBI submitted in the court that he was not appearing and was not disclosing his present address.Thakur Dalip Singh has been named as an accused and is facing trial under Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC; the Explosive Substances Act, 1908, Arms Act and the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, 1967, along with accused Jagmohan Singh, alias Manga, of Gadaipur; Hardeep Singh of Bholath; Harbhej Singh of Sirsa and Palvinder Singh, alias Dimple, of Delhi. Palvinder is the former driver of Thakur Dalip Singh, the head of the rival faction of the Namdharis. He was arrested from Bangkok and deported to India on October 11, 2018.The CBI investigation had pointed out that the accused, in November-December 2015, entered into a criminal conspiracy to eliminate Uday Singh, head of the Namdhari sect, and Jagtar Singh, son-in-law of sect matriarch Mata Chand Kaur, in a blast at Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan in Jalandhar to be held on December 25, 2015. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/warrant-against-head-of-rival-namdhari-sect-thakur-dalip-singh-274255
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh  best Smart City among UTs||Punjab official deputed in city MCChandigarh: Inderjeet Gulati joined the local Municipal Corporation as Superintending Engineer (Building and Roads) on Friday. He was earlier posted in Punjab as Executive Engineer, PWD (Building and Roads). UT Home Secretary Arun Kumar Gupta on June 18 had issued orders for his deputation from Punjab to the MC here, initially for a period of one year or till further orders. TNSOne held with poppy huskDera Bassi: The police on Friday arrested a resident of Karkaur village here with 5-kg poppy husk. The suspect, identified as Sandeep Kumar, has been booked under the NDPS Act at the Dera Bassi police station. TNSAFPI felicitates alumni cadetsChandigarh: Maharaja Ranjit Singh Armed Forces Preparatory Institute (AFPI), Mohali, hosted a lunch to felicitate 16 alumni cadets who have been commissioned as officers in the armed forces during the past one month. So far, from the first eight batches, 162 cadets have joined the National Defence Academy (NDA) and other service academies. Of these, 85 cadets from the first five batches of the AFPI have been commissioned as officers. Amongst them, 68 have joined the Amy, eight have gone to the Navy and nine are in the Air Force. TNSWaterlogging: UT forms teamsChandigarh: Keeping in view the coming monsoon season, the Municipal Corporation on Friday constituted 18 teams to control flooding/ waterlogging in the city. Besides, a control room centre was also made operational round the clock in three shifts with telephone number 0172-2540200 at water filling station Sector 15 Chandigarh and with phone number 0172-2738082 at Mani Majra (Waterworks-II, MHC). TNSMohali docs stage protestMohali: On a call given by the Joint Punjab Government Doctors Coordination Committee, doctors on Friday held a protest against the 6th Pay Commission recommendations on delinking non-practising allowance from the basic pay. Patients were a harried lot as all OPD services, operation theatres, laboratory, blood bank and the X-ray wing remained closed throughout the day in all government hospitals and health centres of the district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-best-smart-city-among-uts-274182
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Drunken brawl led to youth’s murder, 2 held||Nine days after a youth, Sandeep, was found murdered at Daria, the GRP arrested Prakash Singh (26) and Rohit (21). Station house officer Raj Kumar said: “We rounded them up yesterday and started questioning them. They admitted to murdering Sandeep.”While Prakash owns a dhaba in Daria, Rohit, who earlier worked at a sweets shop in the same village, was staying in Haryana. “Three of them were drinking that night and got into a fight over something. They used a stick and some sharp weapon, which is used for cutting coconuts, to kill Sandeep,” said the SHO.Sandeep worked at the railway station as a Grade C technician. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drunken-brawl-led-to-youths-murder-2-held-274180
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Day of the Seafarer celebrated||The Three Bees Research Foundation (TBRF) celebrated the Day of the Seafarer by planting banyan, neem and peepal tress in the Sector 44-C market here today. Representatives of the Maritime Union of India (MUI), Mediterranean Shipping Company (MSC), Good Wood, Three Bees Shipping Pvt Ltd (TBS), TBRF and seafaring community participated in the plantation drive.“We salute the maritime community for their services during tough times,” said Capt KS Rai, co-founder, TBRF. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-of-the-seafarer-celebrated-274178
26-06-2021||Mohali||Rs 95L to be spent on development of 100 Mohali parks||The Mohali Municipal Corporation will spend Rs95 lakh on the development and maintenance of around 100 parks taken over from GMADA in Sectors 76 to 80 here. Tenders for these works have been passed.Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu stated this on the sidelines of inaugurating the work by planting saplings at a park in Sector 78 here. Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi and MC Commissioner Kamal Garg were also present. The Mayor said the condition of these parks, which were taken over from GMADA, was bad. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-95l-to-be-spent-on-development-of-100-mohali-parks-274176
26-06-2021||---||Property grab case: Another accused surrenders before Chandigarh court||Chandigarh, June 25Khailender Singh Kadiyan, one of the accused in the alleged property grab case of Sector 37, surrendered before a local court today. The court sent Kadiyan to three-day police remand.The police have so far arrested Sanjeev Mahajan, Satpal Dagar and inspector Rajdeep in the case. Arvind Singla, another accused, had already surrendered before the court.As per the FIR, the accused allegedly sold the house of Rahul Mehta fraudulently after allegedly abandoning him in Gujarat. The police said an imposter of Rahul Mehta was produced before the office of sub-registrar at the time of the execution of sale deed of the house.According to the chargesheet, the police have alleged that the general power of attorney of the House Number 340 in Sector 37 was first executed on April 27, 2017, and 33 per cent share of the house was transferred to Arvind Singla. The remaining 67 per cent share went to another accused, Kadiyan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-grab-case-another-accused-surrenders-before-chandigarh-court-274174
26-06-2021||Mohali||Prepared to deal with possible third wave: Mohali Civil Surgeon||Amid warnings of a possible third wave of Covid-19, Mohali Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said the District Health Department, with the cooperation of the district administration, was fully prepared to deal with any such crisis in future.Dr Adarshpal Kaur said: “Though the number of positive cases has come down drastically, the second wave is not over yet. However, if the third wave comes, we all need to be fully prepared to face it”.The Civil Surgeon said every person should get the vaccine without wasting time. Dr Adarshpal said it was important to take precautions even after vaccination. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prepared-to-deal-with-possible-third-wave-mohali-civil-surgeon-274173
26-06-2021||---||Passing-out parade for ITBP sports cadre constables held||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 25The Basic training Centre of the Indo Tibetan Border Police Force (ITBP), located at Bhanu, conducted a passing- out parade for 34 constables of the sportsman cadre today.It was the 23rd sports condensed batch to be trained at the centre. During the eight-week course, the recruits were trained in drill, weapons, map reading and field craft. Competitions and demonstrations were also part of the training curriculum.The parade, commanded by Constable Stanzin Gandun, was reviewed by Rajesh Sharma, Deputy Inspector General, ITBP. Congratulating the newly inducted constables, he expressed confidence that the training imparted here had laid a strong foundation for their future in the force.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/passing-out-parade-for-itbp-sports-cadre-constables-held-274172
26-06-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Now, Mohali's IISER develops coldest refrigerator||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 25Scientists at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Mohali, have used dilution refrigerator technology to achieve a low temperature of 10 milli Kelvin or -272.99 degree Celsius. It is almost 27,000 times lower than that of a refrigerator used at home and only 0.01 degree more than the minimum possible temperature that the laws of physics allow.The Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Mumbai, are the other two institutes that have achieved this feat earlier.A dilution refrigerator is a tool that is used to study experimental quantum physics at ultra-low temperatures. It works using helium gas in the liquid state.Associate Professor Goutam Sheet said: “At the microscopic level, i.e. when the size of an object is very small, like that of an electron, the physical properties of the object becomes “spooky” and cannot be perceived by common sense that we have developed from our experience in the classical world. Such properties can be understood using the ideas of quantum mechanics.”He added: “However, controlled investigation of quantum effects in an experiment is very difficult. The “quantum signal” in experiments is so small that it is usually hidden in the background of thermal vibrations and mostly remains undetectable. Therefore, minimising temperature is the key to exploring the quantum world.”There are many different ways temperature can be minimised. One example is the refrigerator we use in our home, where freon gas is compressed, circulated and decompressed in cycles to achieve low temperature.“However, the most effective refrigeration process for physics experiments is found to be forced evaporative cooling of cryogenic liquids. By adjusting the environmental parameters, the evaporation rate of a liquid can be increased, resulting in rapid cooling of the liquid itself. This is partly the same mechanism through which a cup of hot tea becomes cold if left for some time. The dilution refrigerator functions following a similar process, but using liquified helium, a rare gas,” said Professor Sheet.The feat will help in the study of quantum computers which are expected to be far more powerful than our workstations.“We are planning to use the dilution refrigerator for testing superconducting quantum bits, the key ingredients of a quantum computer,” he said.Along with Professor Sheet, his PhD students Soumyadip Halder and Mona Garg worked on the project.Halder said: “In near future, we will develop quantum computers.”“It is a big achievement for the lab. It will open new frontiers of science,” said Prof Devinder Mehta, Department of Physics, Panjab University (PU), Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-mohalis-iiser-develops-coldest-refrigerator-274170
26-06-2021||---||Chandigarh bags second rank in AMRUT implementation||Chandigarh, June 25Chandigarh has been ranked second among all states and UTs after Odisha for effective implementation of the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) in the country.In the national rankings released by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Chandigarh is placed second during an online event organised today to commemorate six years of the three transformative urban missions, Smart Cities Mission (SCM), AMRUT and PMAY-U, which were launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 25, 2015.Rs54.09-cr works approvedMC Commissioner KK Yadav said in Chandigarh, 12 projects costing Rs54.09 crore were approved. Works such as laying of new water supply lines in uncovered areas was underway.The event was presided over by Hardeep S Puri, Minister of State (Independent Charge), Housing and Urban Affairs, and was attended by key urban stakeholders from Central and state governments.MC Commissioner KK Yadav and Chief Engineer Shailender Singh received the awards online. Yadav said AMRUT is the first focused national water mission. All cities with population above 1 lakh are covered under it. Providing piped water supply and sewerage in cities is the major focus of the mission. Storm water drainage, non-motorised urban transport and green spaces and parks are minor components of the mission.In Chandigarh, 12 projects costing Rs54.09 crore were approved. 100% funding for these projects was provided by the Centre. Works such as Laying of new water supply lines in uncovered areas was under way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bags-second-rank-in-amrut-implementation-274169
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administrator opens mini-sports complex in Sector 27||Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore inaugurated a mini-sports complex in Sector 27 here today.Speaking on the occasion, Badnore said some projects got delayed due to Covid-19. Under the new UT Adviser, a 100-day programme would be made to review and overcome the delay.The Administrator also paid homage to Milkha Singh by observing a two-minute silence. He appreciated the efforts of the sports legend for bringing the name of Chandigarh on the world map in sports activities.UT Adviser Dharam Pal, area councillor Devinder Singh Babla and other senior officers were also present on this occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administrator-opens-mini-sports-complex-in-sector-27-274167
26-06-2021||---||2 nabbed for extorting Rs 5L from Kharar realtor||Mohali, June 25The police arrested two suspects for allegedly extorting Rs5 lakh from a Kharar realtor at an upscale coffee cafe in Shiwalik Shopping Plaza on Thursday afternoon.The suspects have been identified as Harjit Singh, alias Ganja, and Barinder Singh, alias Goldy. A case was registered against them under Sections 384, 385, 388, 506, 34 and 120-B of the IPC at the Kharar City police station on June 24. The duo had been sent to three-day police remand.Kharar City SHO Ashok Kumar said: “A case has been registered against the duo. The matter is being investigated by the CIA staff.”The complainant, Parveen Kumar, stated that the duo, in their late 30s, had been threatening him for the past four months. They had extorted Rs50,000 from him a month ago. Three days ago, the duo came in an SUV and took him along. They threatened him of dire consequences and took Rs1 lakh.On June 24, the duo asked the realtor to meet him at a coffee shop with Rs5 lakh. The 37-year-old realtor informed the police, who arrested the duo on the spot.Cases of extortion and theft are already registered against the suspects at various police stations, sources said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-nabbed-for-extorting-rs-5l-from-kharar-realtor-274166
26-06-2021||Sandeep Rana||Covid vaccination: Will involve RWAs, NGOs to jack up drive, says Chandigarh Adviser||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 25UT Adviser Dharam Pal today made a surprise visit to a vaccination centre in Sector 27 to check the arrangements.“I just wanted to see how things were going on without giving prior information to the staff there. I am happy that it was all systematic and social distancing and all (norms) were followed,” he said.The Adviser, however, said, “I thought there would have been more number of people getting vaccinated. We are planning to hold vaccination camps in colleges and with the help of NGOs and RWAs to increase the participation.”The Adviser made the surprise check soon after the inauguration of a sports facility in Sector 27.Vaccination is expected to pick pace next week as the Central Government has allocated 1.5 lakh doses for the government sector and 50,000 to private hospitals in the city for the month of July. A total of 50,700 doses are to be received in the current month.A senior official said as many as 4,88,383 doses had been administered in the city so far and walk-in facility for vaccination of the 18 plus was started in all government hospitals and dispensaries.The Adviser has already directed the health authorities not only to speed up vaccination, but also to ensure that all government vaccination centres remain open over the weekend. This is aimed at ensuring the maximum vaccination coverage before the coronavirus comes knocking again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-vaccination-will-involve-rwas-ngos-to-jack-up-drive-says-chandigarh-adviser-274159
26-06-2021||Panchkula||Farmers’ stir: Keep off these roads in Panchkula today||The police on Friday issued a traffic advisory in light of a proposed march by farmers from Nada Sahib Gurdwara to Raj Bhawan in Chandigarh on Saturday on a call given by Samyukta Kisan Morcha. The police have asked commuters to avoid routes, including national highways passing through the district, which could be affected between 10 am and 5 pm due to the proposed march. These routes are Yamunanagar to Panchkula (NH-7), Zirakpur to Kalka (NH-5), the road connecting Housing Board, Chandigarh, to Shimla highway via Old Panchkula. Those travelling from Chandigarh to Shimla can go via Nayagaon-Nalagarh route. Commuters coming from Yamunanagar can reach Chandigarh via Barwala-Dera Bassi route. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-stir-keep-off-these-roads-in-panchkula-today-274157
26-06-2021||---||6 booked for assault, attempt to extort Rs 31L from employee in Panchkula||Panchkula, June 25The police have registered an FIR against six persons for allegedly assaulting, intimidating and trying to extort Rs31 lakh from an employee of a private company. The police, however, said the claims by the victim were yet to be substantiated.Amit Meerchandani (30), a resident of Sector 7, alleged that one of his friends Anil Ajalkar, a resident of Maharashtra, took him to his flat in Manav Hut Society, MDC, Sector 6, here, to discuss a business deal.“Anil, along with his accomplices, held me captive, blindfolded me and subsequently beat me up mercilessly,” the complainant said.According to the FIR lodged at the MDC police station, the suspects later asked him to call his father to give them Rs31-lakh extortion money.“They threatened to kill the victim if he failed to pay the money. The victim called his friend, Vikas Goyal, to transfer Rs31 lakh to his bank account,” the FIR read.“I made him (Vikas) talk to Anil through a conference call. Vikas requested Anil to accept Rs5 lakh as initial payment until he arranges the remaining amount by next morning. Around 7 pm, I received a call from Vikas who asked me to collect the money from a location where his car was parked,” the complainant told the police.“Suspecting the involvement of the police, Anil, along with three accomplices, fled from the spot. Before leaving, they threatened Amit to keep his mouth shut else they will kill his parents. When the suspects left the spot, Amit came downstairs and found his friend Vikas with police officials. He was then taken to the police station and an FIR was registered on the basis of his complaint,” the FIR states.The victim also mentioned in the FIR that on June 22, the main suspect, Anil, along with some other persons, had blocked his way while he was on his way home from office in his car.“The suspects threatened to kill him and demanded Rs31-lakh extortion money. They asked him to fulfil their demand in two days,” according to the FIR. The case was registered against Anil Ajalkar, Raja, a gym trainer, Manjeet, Shavi Varma, Kapil Bhatt and an unidentified person.The police have arrested the main suspect, Anil. He was sent to one-day police remand. Inspector Sushil Kumar, SHO, MDC police station, said: “Initial investigation hints at a financial dispute between both parties.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-booked-for-assault-attempt-to-extort-rs-31l-from-employee-in-panchkula-274154
26-06-2021||---||3 held for robbing woman at knifepoint in Zirakpur||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, June 25The police have nabbed three youths allegedly involved in a knifepoint robbery of Rs6,900 from a woman near Dhakoli on June 23 evening. The suspects have been identified as Uttarakhand native Subhash Bharti (20), Allahabad native Prakash Kumar (19) and Magan Kumar (22). They were booked under Sections 386, 506 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Zirakpur police station on June 24. The knife and the auto-rickshaw used in the crime have also been recovered.According to the complaint, a woman boarded an auto-rickshaw from Zirkapur to the Kalka chowk in which there were already two passengers along with the driver. The trio threatened her at knifepoint and asked her for cash at a secluded place. They also forced her to transfer Rs6,900 from her UPI account into their account. The woman managed to jump out of the rickshaw near the Dhakoli railway gate and approached the police after reaching home. The police claimed that with the arrest of all three members this morning, they had cracked the case within 36 hours.The suspects were residing in Nayagaon, Sector 20 and the Khuda Ali Sher area. Subhash was outon bail in a robbery case registered at the Nayagaon police station, the police said.Mohali SP (Rural) Ravjot Grewal said, “In order to prevent such crimes in the future, the district police have contacted officials of the auto-rickshaw union and soon a person of the union will be appointed the nodal officer and his mobile phone number made public so that any auto-rickshaw rider can contact the nodal officer in time of need. It will also help in catching the culprits involved in loot or other crimes on time.”Knife used in the crime recoveredThe suspects have been identified as Uttarakhand native Subhash Bharti (20), Allahabad native Prakash Kumar (19) and Magan Kumar (22). They were booked under Sections 386, 506 and 34 of the IPC at the Zirakpur police station on June 24. The knife and the auto-rickshaw used in the crime have also been recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-held-for-robbing-woman-at-knifepoint-in-zirakpur-274149
26-06-2021||---||Vandals damage 15 vehicles at Mauli Jagran||Chandigarh, June 25A group of 20 miscreants, carrying armed weapons and sticks, went on the rampage and vandalised around 15 vehicles parked on the streets at Mauli Jagran on the intervening night of June 24 and 25. Seven persons have been booked and three have been arrested.The vehicles that were vandalised included a Bolero, a Swift, a Wagon-R, an auto, a Tata Tiago, an SX4 and an Alto. The miscreants also threw stones at the vehicles.Not the first time, struck last October tooThis is not the first time such an incident has been reported from Mauli Jagran. Last year, around 30 vehicles were vandalised by miscreants. In October last year, a group of around 50 miscreants, carrying sharp weapons and sticks, went on the rampage and vandalised around 30 vehicles at Mauli Complex in Mauli Jagran following an argument between a local resident and a meat shop owner.Chintu, driver of an auto that was vandalised by smashing its windscreen, said the armed miscreants came around 12.30 am and smashed glasses of at least a dozen vehicles.Sarojni, another resident, said everyone preferred to stay indoors as the suspects could have harmed them. This is a complete failure on the part of the police as the miscreants went on the rampage without any fear of getting caught, said a local resident.A vehicle owner, Rajpal, whose car was also vandalised, said he came to know about the incident in the morning only.The police were informed, who visited the spot. The footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area was scrutinised following which seven persons were identified.Inspector Rohit Kumar, SHO of the Mauli Jagran police station, said the incident was a fallout of rivalry between the suspects and few persons staying in the locality.A case under Sections 147,148, 149, 352, 380, 427 and 457 of the IPC has been registered at the Mauli Jagran police station and three youths, Sanjay, alias Lakhan (24), Ajay, alias Chuppa (19), and Vinay (22) have been arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vandals-damage-15-vehicles-at-mauli-jagran-274147
26-06-2021||---||70-yr-old posing as Chandigarh DC’s reader among 2 arrested||Chandigarh, June 25A 70-year-old fraudster, Varinder Kumar, has been arrested by the local police for impersonating as a reader of the Deputy Commissioner (DC), Chandigarh, and trying to dupe a person on the pretext of getting a booth allotted to him. Another person, Mandip, who helped him in preparing fake documents, has also been arrested.Complainant Subhash Goyal reported that his son Sushant Goyal was running a mobile shop in booth number 134-135, Sector 41. The complainant stated that his son was approached by Varinder, who introduced himself as Vinod, a reader of the DC. The suspect claimed that he could get booth number 133 adjoining the mobile shop allotted from the estate office for an amount of Rs52 lakh. On June 16, the suspect visited the complainant’s shop and stated that the allotment process had been initiated. He was asked to arrange 10 per cent of the allotment amount along with Rs2,500 as application fee.He got suspicious. On enquiry, he found that the suspect was impersonating as Vinod Kumar, who was working as a reader of the DC. The suspect had asked the complainant to come to the estate office with Rs11.82 lakh in cash.The police were informed, who nabbed the suspect. A case under Sections 419, 420 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered against him at the Sector 17 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/70-yr-old-posing-as-chandigarh-dcs-reader-among-2-arrested-274136
26-06-2021||---||Group rivalry case: Transgenders jam road in Kharar, allege police inaction||Kharar, June 25Traffic on the National Highway 21 in Kharar was affected for close to two hours after a group of transgenders blocked the busy road in protest against alleged police inaction in a group rivalry case this afternoon.A couple of transgenders staged a sit-in, raised slogans against the police and obstructed vehicular movement. The protesters staged a sit-in without the required permission on the national highway, damaged public property, indulged in rioting, obscene acts, criminal conspiracy and used criminal force to deter a public servant from discharging duty, said the police.A police force, including women cops, had to be summoned with Kharar DSP Rupinderdeep Kaur and Kharar City SHO Ashok Kumar facing a tough time controlling the protesters.Later, the police had to forcibly remove the protesters to clear the road for traffic.The police booked 10 persons by name, all Kharar residents, and three unknown persons under Sections 353, 186, 332, 283, 294, 160, 427, 148, 149 and 120-B of the National Highway Act and Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act at the Kharar City police station.A group rivalry over “supremacy and collection area” has been festering in the area for the past sometime. The two groups allege coercion, assault and use of arms against each other and have approached the police several times but to no avail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/group-rivalry-case-transgenders-jam-road-in-kharar-allege-police-inaction-274096
26-06-2021||Panchkula||No death, 5 new cases of Covid in Panchkula||The district on Friday reported five fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 30,555. With no fresh death, the toll remained at 372. The district recovery rate is 98.57 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-death-5-new-cases-of-covid-in-panchkula-274087
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees no death, 34 cases||The city on Friday reported 34 new cases of Covid-19 and no fatality. The total number of active cases has come down to 241 as 45 patients were cured. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-no-death-34-cases-274085
26-06-2021||Mohali||200 get Sputnik V at Mohali hospital||Nearly 200 persons received Sputnik V, the third vaccine approved for India, at Fortis Hospital here as part of the limited pilot soft launch. Registration for vaccination can be done through CoWIN and Aarogya Setu applications. The vaccine has been priced at Rs1,145, inclusive of administrative charges, as per the government guidelines. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/200-get-sputnik-v-at-mohali-hospital-274074
26-06-2021||Mohali||Mohali sees 21 new cases of Covid-19, one fatality||One more person succumbed to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the toll in the district to 1,045. Twenty-one fresh cases surfaced in the district, taking the case tally to 68,159, while 49 patients recovered from the virus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-21-new-cases-of-covid-19-one-fatality-274058
26-06-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh sees 124 Covid variants of concern||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 25The city has reported 124 variants of concern since February, revealed data tabulated by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare today.Ninety samples of Alpha and 34 of Delta variants have been recorded as of June 21. The neighbouring Punjab has reported 1,431 variants of concern and Haryana 945.As per the ministry’s statement, the Delta variant, which was first reported in Maharashtra, has increased transmissibility, stronger binding to receptors of lung cells, potential reduction in monoclonal antibody response and potential post-vaccination immune escape.When the cases started rising in the second week of March in Chandigarh, the PGI had sent 60 samples, including 45 from the city, to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on March 25. Of these, 31 were found having the Alpha variant, (B.1.1.7), while mutation was detected in 12 samples.The early phase of the upsurge was driven by the entry of the more transmissible B.1.1.7 (first detected in the UK) in Chandigarh. This was followed by seeding of the B.1.617 variant of concern – which too is highly transmissible – with the rapid expansion of B.1.617.2 sub-lineage (Delta variant) outpacing all other lineages in the samples of May.The highly transmissible B.1.617 variant of Covid-19 was found in five of the 23 samples sent by the PGI in April last week. B.1.1.7 was found in nine samples.To study whether there was any change in the circulating strain in Chandigarh during the second wave, the PGIS sent 25 stored Covid positive samples from May 5 to May 24 for whole genome sequencing. The Delta variant was found in 60 per cent samples.In India, a total of 21,109 variants of concern have been reported, with the Delta and Kappa variants having 77 per cent (16,297) share.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-124-covid-variants-of-concern-274031
26-06-2021||---||Over 500 Covid norm violators challaned in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 25A day after UT Adviser Dharam Pal asked officials to take against those violating Covid norms, more than 500 challans were issued in the city. As many as 55 challans were issued at Sukhna Lake.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar today held a meeting with all SDMs to review the Covid arrangements in the city. The DC directed them to ensure strict compliance with Covid-appropriate behaviour in their respective areas.The SDMs were further asked to depute incident commanders for issuing challans to those found without mask and not adhering to the Covid protocol. They were also asked to ensure that shop owners and their staff get themselves vaccinated. Market welfare associations can approach their area SDM if they intend to organise a vaccination camp in their markets provided the number of persons to be vaccinated is more than 100.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-500-covid-norm-violators-challaned-in-chandigarh-274002
26-06-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh readies for ‘third wave’, says can’t take chances||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 25“We are absolutely in no denial this time that there won’t be another Covid wave, which is why we are utilising this time to strengthen our infrastructure to control a possible third wave and are also trying to prevent it by vaccinating 7,12,000 people in Chandigarh by July-end,” said Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT.“To begin with, Chandigarh is all set to set up two PSA oxygen plants with 200 litre per minute capacity at any two civil hospitals – Sector 22, 45 or Mani Majra. This is being done to counter shortage of oxygen quota, due to which the UT was found wanting in the second wave,” said Dr Kang.The PGI will also set up three oxygen plants of 1,000 litre per minute capacity.UT’s big jab planChandigarh’s 57 per cent of the eligible population has been vaccinated with the first dose, while 11 per cent of the population has received the second dose. “As far as prevention goes, we aim to vaccinate 7,12,000 beneficiaries of the city by July-end and begin with mop-up rounds through house-to-house vaccination till August 15,” said Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT.Earlier, the UT Administration had to request the Centre to raise its oxygen quota from 20 MT to 35 MT. Of the 20 MT quota of oxygen, about 17 MT is directly used at the GMCH, Sector 32, the GMSH, Sector 16, and the hospital in Sector 48. The remaining 3 MT oxygen is given to a private vendor in Dera Bassi to refill oxygen cylinders of government hospitals of the UT Administration and private hospitals of the city.“Whether or not a third wave affects children, we do not want to be caught off guard and have decided to convert the Civil Hospital, Sector 45, into a tertiary care hospital with 12 paediatric ICUs and 30 oxygenated beds. We will equip this centre with BiPAP machines and step-down ICUs, and provide adequate manpower by hiring on a contract basis,” the Director said.The Health Department is also stocking oxygen concentrators, D-type cylinders and flow meters, which were in short supply during the second wave, to avoid shortage of these in a possible next wave.Dr Kang said, “We have also procured essential drugs such as remdesivir and tocilizumab among others and have already stocked these so that we do not face any shortage.”Faulty ventilators a hindranceThe PGI, the GMSH and the GMCH plan to increase their ventilator strength. However, 44 units provided under the PM CARES Fund have been found faulty. This will mar the preparation for a possible third wave as doctors do not want to risk patients’ life by using substandard ventilators. The hospitals were barely able to raise the ventilator bed count during the second wave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-readies-for-third-wave-says-cant-take-chances-273993
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana farmers to march towards Governor’s house on Saturday||Farmers from Haryana will march to the Governor’s house here on June 26 and submit a memorandum to mark the completion of seven months of their agitation against the Centre’s three new agri-marketing laws.The memorandum to the President will be sent through the Governor, said the BKU (Chaduni), a farmer union part of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leading the stir. Farmers camping at Delhi’s Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders will observe June 26 as the “Save Agriculture, Save Democracy Day” to mark the completion of seven months of their agitation.The BKU (Chaduni) said on the call of the SKM, farmers of Haryana will submit a memorandum to the state Governor in Chandigarh.The protesting farmers will assemble in the morning at Panchkula from where they will march towards the Raj Bhavan, it said.Meanwhile, keeping in view the farmers’ programme, tight security arrangements have been put in place by the Chandigarh Police.According to a statement issued by the Chandigarh traffic police, 13 entry and exit points in Chandigarh will remain closed on June 26 from 10 am to 6 pm.“In view of the law and order situation in the city, following entry/exit points will remain closed on June 26 from 10 am to 6 pm. These are Mullanpur barrier, Zirakpur barrier, Sector 5/8 turn, Hirsa Singh Chowk, Sector 7/8 turn, Lake turn, Sector 7 residence cut opposite PRB, Golf turn, Gursagar Sahib turn, Maulijagran bridge, Housing Board near bridge, Kishangarh turn and Matour Barrier,” the statement said.“Therefore, the general public is advised not to use these routes and to stay at home except in case of any emergency,” it said.Farmers have been protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.They have been camping at Delhi borders since November last year, demanding the withdrawal of these three laws and that a new law be made to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for their crops.Several rounds of talks between the farmers and the government have failed to break the deadlock over these contentious laws.The government last held talks with farmer leaders on January 22. The talks between the two sides came to a halt after a January 26 tractor parade by farmers in Delhi turned violent. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-farmers-to-march-towards-governors-house-on-saturday-273917
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police withdraw order on closure of 13 entry and exit points due to farmers' protest||Few hours after the UT police issued a traffic advisory regarding closing 13 entry and exit points in the wake of farmers’ protest on Saturday, the police decided to withdraw the decision. There will be no restrictions in movement of traffic through these points.The police department issued the statement that “press release issued by Traffic Police Chandigarh stands withdrawn. Public is requested to follow the traffic diversions and cooperate with the police”.Earlier on Friday, Chandigarh Police announced that 13 entry and exit points in the city will remain closed on Saturday (June 26) in view of farmer’s protest.Mullanpur Barrier, Zirakpur Barrier, Sector 5/8 turn, Hira Singh Chowk, Sector 7/8 turn, Lake turn, Sector 7 residence cut opposite PRB, Golf turn, Gursagar Sahib turn, Moulijagran Bridge, Housing Board near bridge, Kishangarh turn and Matour Barrier entry point will remain closed from 10 am to 6 pm, the Chandigarh Traffic Police had said in the statement.चंडीगढ़ पुलिस को बताना चाहता हूं जो आपके बेरीकेट हैं वह हरियाणा के बेरीकेट से बड़े नहीं है आप बोल रे किसानों को चंडीगढ़ में इंटर ना होने देंगे जे बरम निकाल दो,निवेदन करता हूं किसानों को अकाली दल या कांग्रेश मत समझना,किसान हैं रास्ता बनाते चले जएंगे@DgpChdPolice||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-withdraw-order-on-closure-of-13-entry-and-exit-points-due-to-farmers-protest-273888
