27-06-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Farmers throng Chandigarh roads||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 26A large number of farm activists, along with leaders of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), marched into Chandigarh this afternoon through the barricaded Sector 51-52 road where they braved lathicharge and water cannons.Traffic jams in city, people back protestersThe traffic situation in the city remained chaotic, but people supported the farmers. At the lights opposite the Sector 46 gaushala, Anmol Gupta, who is a chocolatier, said: “I had to go for an important assignment, but I’m stuck here instead. It doesn’t bother me as I support our farmers. They’ve been waiting for seven months now.”On a call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the march was intended to culminate at the Raj Bhawan, but was cut short as DC Mandip Brar arrived at the Sector 8 traffic lights (formerly Press Chowk) to accept a memorandum from the leaders.to clear the road.Starting from Gurdwara Amb Sahib in Mohali, a total of 32 farmer organisations of Punjab set out for the Governor’s House, but were met with barricades at Chandigarh-Mohali border. On crossing the barricades, a senior leader of BKU and SKM, Balbir Singh Rajewal, said: “One has often noticed that the Chandigarh Administration closes its doors on protesters of any organisation or party from Punjab. This city is the state capital; what’s the use of it being a capital if it shuts its doors on the people of Punjab, especially when they want to address an issue, that too peacefully? They aren’t understanding, people are angry.”Thousands of people skipped over the barricades, faced the police’s lathis and tore through the water cannons to march ahead. “The police backed off once they saw the numbers. We were an army of 32 organisations, unarmed people, just wanting to give a memorandum to the Governor, but still the police used water cannons and lathis, which is sad as our approach is always peaceful,” opined Satnam Singh Tanda, a member of the Kisan Ekta Chandigarh.The police also tried to stop the farmers at the Aroma lights, but in vain. A leader of the BKU, Baldev Singh Sirsa, said: “We met barricades at three points in Chandigarh and even though many women protesters accompanied us, I didn’t see a single woman police personnel at the barricades.” Sirsa said the UT Administration parked CTU buses at the Sector 17-18 lights where the DC came and collected the memorandum. “Even there, the police used lathis on protesters, but we didn’t react. Today, we have let the Chandigarh Administration and the Centre know that we will stop at nothing.”At about 2:30 pm, senior leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal and Ruldu Singh Mansa handed the memorandum to the DC. At the chowk, Mandip Brar said: “I assured the farmer leaders that the memorandum will be delivered to the Governor and they assured us that they’ll march back peacefully.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-throng-chandigarh-roads-274687
27-06-2021||Vishav Bharti||12 years on, reclaim lost space in City Beautiful||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 26More than 12 years after the entry of protesters in Chandigarh was banned, the farmers of Punjab, led by leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, today reclaimed the lost space.After 2009, it was for the first time that such a large number of farmers wereseen marching on the roads of Chandigarh as they were on their way to the Raj Bhawan to hand over a memorandum to the Governor of Punjab. Before this, such a large march of farmers was witnessed on roads of Chandigarh in 2009 when the BKU (Ugrahan), along with other farmers’ unions, protested the privatisation of the PSPCL. When the police tried to stop them from heading towards the Raj Bhawan, it led to bloody clashes. It ended in injuries to a large number of farmers and policemen, and 42 farmer leaders were booked under various sections.Following that protest, the entry of any protester was banned in Chandigarh. Only rallies were allowed in the rally ground in Sector 25, which unions would often equate with “shouting to the dead” due to the proximity of the space to the cremation ground. But the march organised today seemed to have demolished the barricades erected over a decade back.“We have reclaimed the lost space. It is our capital, we will decide on which spot we want to hold protest at,” says farmer leader Manjit Dhaner of the BKU (Dakunda).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/12-years-on-reclaim-lost-space-in-city-beautiful-274688
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Delta Plus variant now found in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Administration said on Saturday that it had found one Delta Plus variant (AY.1) of Covid-19 in one of the random 50 samples sent for genome sequencing among cases that were reported in the Union Territory in May and June.No one in family hospitalised“The 35-year-old and all his family members, including two elderly persons and a child, had a mild disease. None of them were hospitalised and all have fully recovered. None of them was vaccinated,” said Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT.The sample of a 35-year-old resident of Vikas Nagar in Mauli Jagran, who tested Covid positive on May 22, has been detected with the Delta Plus variant.“The 35-year-old and all family members, including two elderly persons and a child, had a mild disease. None of them were hospitalised and all have fully recovered. None of them was vaccinated,” said Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT. The samples of four direct high-risk family contacts who tested positive in May were sent to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for whole genome sequencing today. Also, 29 samples collected in the period of June were sent to the NCDC on June 22, the results of which are awaited.Dr Kang added: “This is very old sample, at present, there is no increase in cases at Vikas Nagar and vaccination camp is being held daily there for the past seven days.”A total of 50 random samples of residents for the May-June period were sent to the NCDC lab, New Delhi, on June 4 for genomic sequencing.A variant of concern (VOC) has been detected in 35 samples, of which one Alpha variant (B.1.1.7), 33 Delta variant (B.1.617.2) and one Delta plus variant (AY.1) has been reported in the samples sent for genome sequencing.The Delta Plus variant has increased transmissibility, stronger binding to receptors of lung cells and potential reduction in monoclonal antibody response. As many as 52 cases have been reported an India with three deaths. A maximum of cases have been reported in Maharasthra, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh.Meanwhile, In view of the circulation of new variant of Covid-19 in the community, the UT Health Department has asked citizens to follow Covid appropriate behaviour i.e. wearing of masks, following social distancing, hand hygiene and sanitisation etc. “It is also advised to avoid 3C’s i.e. close contact, closed and crowded places. All those eligible for vaccination should get vaccinated at the earliest,” read an official statement of the UT Health Department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delta-plus-variant-now-found-in-chandigarh-274689
27-06-2021||---||Tree falls on house, elderly couple hurt||Chandigarh, June 26An elderly couple was injured after a big mango tree fell on their house in Sector 15 this afternoon.The tree was shaking for the past many days. However, the authorities did not do the needful. That is why the incident has happened.- A woman in their neighbourhoodSunita Devi (60) had remained stuck under the uprooted tree for about two hours before she was rescued. She got stitches on her head and leg. Kamal Kishore (62) also got stitches on his head. The old couple, who retired from government service, was admitted to the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, and was later sent home.According to their son Piyush Garg, the incident happened around 3:30 pm during a storm. “My mother got up to shut the window when the tree fell on our house. The house wall got broken and the window got dislodged hitting my father on the head. The tree fell on my mother,” he told Chandigarh Tribune.“My mother had remained stuck under the tree for two hours. People tried to move the huge tree, but in vain. We called up horticulture and fire officials. They reached in half an hour. They, too, initially could not remove the tree as they did not have tools required for the job. Later, the other part of the wall was broken and my mother could be rescued,” shared Piyush.He said an air-conditioner, bed, wall and a window were damaged in the accident. “We had sent a complaint to the UT Administration in 2017 through an email. They had forwarded it to the horticulture wing. The staff came and pruned the other tree, not this one. Thereafter, we and our neighbours complained many times, but in vain,” he said.A woman in their neighbourhood said: “The tree was shaking for the past many days. But the authorities did not do the needful. That is why the incident has happened.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tree-falls-on-house-elderly-couple-hurt-274692
27-06-2021||---||Mohali resident robbed of car, Rs90K at gunpoint||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, June 26Three unidentified robbers snatched a car and Rs90,000 from a Mohali resident at gunpoint on the Aerocity road last night. Cops scanning CCTV footage to get clueOn a statement of the complainant, the police have registered a case against the three unidentified robbers at the Zirakpur police station and initiated investigations into the matter. Zirakpur SHO Onkar Singh Brar said the police were scanning the footage of CCTV cameras along the way to get any clue to solve the case.ASI Jaswinder Singh said: “Vijay Sharma a resident of Sector 66, Revenue Park Colony, owns a shop in Mohali. He was opening a new store at the City Centre on the Aerocity road. He came to Zirakpur last night for some work. While he was returning to Mohali from Zirakpur, he parked his car on the roadside to relieve himself. When he returned, two men pulled out their pistols and threatened him to sit inside the car”.“The robbers turned off his cellphone as he sat in the car. He was asked to drive the car towards the Airport side. The duo threatened him to handover the cash at gunpoint and took Rs80,000 from him and Rs10,000 kept in his bag. They later took him towards the Morinda side and dumped him on the road before fleeing with his car,” the ASI said.The suspects could not be identified as they were wearing a face mask, claimed the victim.On a statement of the complainant, the police have registered a case against three unidentified robbers under Sections 379-B, 506 and 34 of the Arms Act at the Zirakpur police station and initiated investigations into the matter.Zirakpur SHO Onkar Singh Brar said the police were scanning the footage of CCTV cameras along the way to get any clue to solve the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-resident-robbed-of-car-rs90k-at-gunpoint-274693
27-06-2021||---||Chandigarh residents protest MC’s garbage collection policy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 26City residents staged a protest against the garbage collection policy of the Municipal Corporation at Sector 21 here today.The protest was organised by the Federation of Sector Welfare Association Chandigarh (FOSWAC) and the Citizens’ Association, Sector 21.Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman, FOSWAC, said the corporation was hell-bent on disturbing the peaceful life of residents as it started a new garbage collection scheme by purchasing around 400 new vehicles. The garbage collection charges were around three times of what various RWAs used to collect from residents for the job, he claimed.He flayed the corporation for ‘arbitrarily’ imposing different rates in their water bills. Some residents’ got garbage collection charges around Rs4,500, Bittu said. He said showing garbage collection charges in water bills was very complicated as most houses had single meter and the owners were facing problem in recovering charges from tenants and co-owners.JS Gogia, general secretary, FOSWAC, said the corporation was on looting spree, adding that it was spending public money unwisely.Pardeep Chopra, secretary, Citizens’ Association, Sector 21, said in the name of the National Green Tribunal, the MC spent crores on purchasing over 400 diesel vehicles without caring for the pollution created by them, thus defeating the purpose of making the city pollution-free.He said residents apprehend that the MC would hand over the garbage collection work to some private contractor, who would then exploit them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-protest-mcs-garbage-collection-policy-274694
27-06-2021||Amit Bathla||Hospitals charged insured patients 2-3 times higher||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 26As the price capping order for Covid treatment doesn’t apply to insured patients, private hospitals in the district raised bills of their treatment from two to three times higher than the package rates prescribed by the Haryana Government.Further, in violation of 60 per cent reservation of beds for uninsured patients, the hospitals gave admissions to a majority of patients covered under health insurance just to evade the last year’s instructions from the state government that restricted them from superfluous and indiscriminate charging in Covid bills, the district-level Covid bills monitoring committee observed.It was because the capping order had clearly specified that for fully insured patients, hospitals can charge insurance policy rates.“A close analysis suggests that only 30 to 35 uninsured patients were allowed for treatment in private hospitals when the Covid was at its peak. More admissions from insurance category gives hospitals a free hand to overcharge patients,” said a panel member.“As per package rates, the daily charges should be around Rs20,000-Rs22,000 but in many cases, it was as high as Rs65,000 per day,” said BB Singhal, member, Haryana State Pharmacy Council, and member of district-level Covid bill monitoring committee.He said the hospitals added “superficial” charges in Covid bills to fleece patients.“Tests and medical examinations were conducted repeatedly, in some cases even every day, against the protocol just to inflate bills,” he said.“We further observed that irrespective of severity of the illness, the hospitals had fixed a daily target of charging a certain amount from patients,” Singhal added.Patient’s kincharged Rs14.5LPardeep Sood, a resident of Sector 15, whose father expired while receiving treatment at Paras Hospital, said he had to shell out Rs14.5 lakh from his pocket for his father’s 30-day stay at the hospital from November 30 to December 30.“The hospital had raised a bill of Rs18.5 lakh, of which Rs3 lakh was claimed through insurance. Further, Rs1 lakh was reduced after intervention from the insurer. But at last, we had to pay Rs14.5 lakh,” he said.In this particular case, the average daily charges settled at Rs61,000 per day.According to officials, the final bill of late Jagdish Chand Sood mentioned at least 27 chest X-ray were conducted during his 30-day stay in the hospital.“If we go by the bill, the patient had been exposed to X-ray machine almost on a daily basis,” they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hospitals-charged-insured-patients-2-3-times-higher-274703
27-06-2021||Mohali||Punjab Assembly elections: Poll duty staff to get vaccine on priority||The district administration has decided to vaccinate the employees, who will be put on poll duty in the Punjab Assembly elections to be held next year, on a priority basis.Disclosing this, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said heads of all departments had been issued directions in this regard. Keeping in view the preparations for the Assembly elections, work related to continuous revision of voters’ list was underway. Work of special summary revision was also about to begin soon.He said BLOs, supervisors, booth-level officers, data entry personnel, master trainers, electoral literacy club (ELC) in-charge, coordinators for specially abled voters, women voters and migrant workers were working in this regard.Dayalan said apart from this, the district electoral officer and electoral registration officers also employ a large number of staff in connection with the electoral work from time to time.The Deputy Commissioner said employees who had been put on duty for preparations related to the Assembly elections and the employees to be deputed as polling staff would be vaccinated against the Covid-19 on a priority basis. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-assembly-elections-poll-duty-staff-to-get-vaccine-on-priority-274715
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||No death, 20 infected in Chandigarh||One dies, 17 test  +ve in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Saturday reported 17 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 30,572. The district also witnessed one Covid death, taking the toll to 373. A 57-year-old man from Sector 20, who had no comorbid condition, succumbed to the virus. While 30,128 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 71 cases are still active. The recovery rate is 98.54 per cent. — TNSMohali sees one death, 20 casesMohali: One more person succumbed to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the toll in the district to 1,046. Meanwhile, 20 fresh cases surfaced in the district till Saturday evening, pushing the toll to 68,179, while 47 patients recovered from the virus. Among the new cases, 11 came from Mohali (urban), two each from Dera Bassi, Gharuan and Kharar and three from Dhakoli. No new case was reported from Boothgarh, Lalru, Banur and Kurali. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-death-20-infected-in-chandigarh-274717
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||GYM management fined for deficiency in service, unfair trade practice||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed a gym, operating under brand name “The Code Fitness”, to pay compensation to a city resident for deficiency in service. It has also directed the gym management to refund the fee for the period when no service was provided to the consumer.Ujjwal Sood, a city resident, approached the commission alleging that the management closed the gym and did not refund the fee for the period when it did not provide the services.Sood said he took gym membership from August 29, 2019 to August 27, 2020, after paying Rs15,000. The management later informed him that it was not able to provide services w.e.f. January 15, 2020, and offered to refund the balance amount.Sood said on January 16, he applied for the refund. However, despite requests, the management failed to refund the remaining amount. Despite notices, no one from the gym management appeared before the commission.After examining the records, the commission in its order said the act of the gym management in not providing proper services and thereafter not refunding the balance amount to the complainant proved deficiency in service and unfair trade practice.The commission said the complainant made a lot of efforts and also shared his bank account to get the refund, but the management failed to do the needful. In view of this, the gym management was directed to refund Rs7,870 to the complainant, along with interest @ 9 per cent per annum w.e.f. February 16, 2020, till realisation. It also directed the management to pay Rs3,000 as compensation for causing mental agony and harassment and Rs3,000 as cost of litigation to the complainant. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gym-management-fined-for-deficiency-in-service-unfair-trade-practice-274719
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Fake bill case: Court denies bail to cop||A local court has dismissed the bail application of a senior constable of the Punjab Police, Manish Kumar, who was arrested for allegedly withdrawing money in lakhs by submitting fake medical bills of other Punjab Police personnel.The accused had been working at the medical reimbursement department of the police. A case was registered against the accused on the complaint of Senior Constable Virender Singh.The police arrested the accused on March 20, 2021. The counsel of the accused claimed that the petitioner had been falsely implicated in the case. The Assistant Public Prosecutor opposed the bail application.He said the cheated amount — Rs,96,056 — had been recovered from the petitioner. After hearing the arguments, the court rejected the bail plea. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fake-bill-case-court-denies-bail-to-cop-274720
27-06-2021||---||Vaibhav shines in city cricket academy’s win||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 26Vaibhav Kalta scored a quick fire 201 off 133 balls to help Century Cricket Academy, Chandigarh, beat Sunrise Cricket Academy (A team) by 163 runs in the 1st Dinesh Verma Memorial U-19 Cricket Tournament in Dera Bassi today.Batting first, Century Cricket Academy posted 344/2 in 40 overs. Kalta posted 201 off 133 balls, studded with 27 boundaries and five sixes. His innings was supported by Akshit Rana (73) and Vishal (37). Adhiraj Singh (1/70) was the sole main wicket taker for the bowling side.In reply, Sunrise Cricket Academy could score 181/6 in 40 overs. Adhuraj Singh (39), Arnav Bansal (37), Markanday (33) and Krishnanshu Sharma (29) were the major run scorers for the side. Anshul Negi claimed two wickets, while Manhar Bawa, Vansh, Sanskar and Aman Garg took one wicket each.In another match, the Ropar District Cricket Association registered a one-run win over YMCAP Cricket Academy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaibhav-shines-in-city-cricket-academys-win-274721
27-06-2021||Patiala||Health of unemployed teacher protesting atop mobile tower in Patiala deteriorates||The health of the ETT/TET pass unemployed teacher, who has been protesting atop mobile tower for the past 98 days, to draw government’s attention has deteriorated.Members of the ETT/TET Pass Unemployed Union today met the protesting teacher atop mobile tower. The union said the government would be responsible for any eventuality.Notably, the teacher had started fast-unto-death atop a mobile tower since the past one week after the matter of giving government jobs to two sons of the Congress MLAs had come to the fore. The union said the protesting teacher was unable to speak due to weakness.Deepak Kamboj, president, ETT/TET Pass Unemployed Teacher Union, said, “It is shameful that a teacher has been protesting atop a mobile tower for the past 98 days and the government is not even trying to hold talks. If anything happens to the teacher, the government will be responsible.”Union members, who went atop mobile tower to meet the protesting teacher, took his blood samples for health check up. Lab reports of samples revealed that the teacher was suffering from hypoglycemia, low blood sugar level.Health experts said the teacher needed immediate health intervention to save his life. If the situation worsened the teacher might face visual disturbances, seizures and loss of consciousness, they added.Deep Banarsi, a teacher union leader, said, “The blood sugar level of the protesting teacher has dropped to 40. The government should set aside their ego and convince him to come down by giving him written assurance.”—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/health-of-unemployed-teacher-protesting-atop-mobile-tower-in-patiala-deteriorates-274722
27-06-2021||Karam Prakash||Delta Plus patient in Patiala district recovers||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 26The Health Department has stated, “Contrary to the Central Government’s claims about Delta Plus variant, a 27-year-old man, who contracted this virus in the district, has already recovered from the disease sans any severity of the infection.”The Central Government stated that the Delta plus variant caused stronger binding to receptors of lung cells and potential reduction in monoclonal antibody response. However, district health officials informed that the infected person did not require even hospitalisation.It has been learnt that the 27-year-old unvaccinated resident had tested positive on May 11. Health officials said patient’s sample was sent for viral genome sequencing on May 15.Consequent upon the late results, which came almost after 40 days, there was no room for health officials to curb the spread of the virus.The Central Government has predicted increased transmissibility of the Delta Plus variant. However, no one from the high-risk contacts of the positive patient has been found infected with the virus.All three high-risk contacts, who happen to be patient’s family members, did not show any Covid symptoms.Meanwhile, health officials today sent four more samples of the Covid positive patients from the same area where Delta Plus case was found.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said, “The patient has already recovered and is healthy. However, we will collect more samples from the area where Delta Plus variant has been detected.”“We will also ramp up sampling along with vaccination in the district,” he added.Meanwhile, district epidemiologist, Dr Sumeet Singh, said people should be more alert and follow Covid appropriate behaviour.When asked about Delta Plus variant, he said, “It is too early to comment on the basis of one isolated case. However, vaccination will definitely be helpful against any variant of the virus.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delta-plus-patient-in-patiala-district-recovers-274724
27-06-2021||Panchkula||2 black fungus patients cured at Panchkula hospital||Two Covid black fungus patients – Mohammad Harroom (66) and Rajesh (35) – recovered at the Civil Hospital here today. They were being managed at the hospital with administration of amphotericin–B under supervision of Dr Rajesh Raju. Mohammad Harroomm belongs to Jammu and Kashmir. Earlier, his four brothers had succumbed to Covid back in Jammu and Kashmir. He said, “I have no words to thank the Civil Hospital team for saving my life.”The Principal Medical Officer, Dr Suveer Saxena, said the post Covid ward of the Civil Hospital was working to bring people back to their normal health. “Two other patients with 25/25 CT score have survived Covid due to intensive care provided by the hospital team. It is so satisfying,” he added.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-black-fungus-patients-cured-at-panchkula-hospital-274725
27-06-2021||---||Cops hold cycle rally to create awareness on drug abuse||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 26To encourage fitness and create awareness, the police organised an anti-drug cycle rally with a message “Say no to drugs”. People from different age groups took part in the rally.The rally was flagged off by the Patiala Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Sandeep Kumar Garg. He also took a round on the bicycle to encourage participants to stay fit.The rally started from the Police Lines and went towards Baradari, Sherawala Gate, Fountain Chowk, YPS roundabout, turned towards Thapar University and then back to the Police Lines.SP (H) Dr Simar, SP Palwinder Cheema, DSPs Gurdev Dhaliwal and Saurabh Jindal and other officials also took part in the rally.The SSP said the main purpose of the rally was to create awareness on drug abuse so that the city could be drug free.“If anybody wants to get admitted in rehabilitation centre, he/she can contact the police. We are already holding awareness seminars in subdivisions to educate public about the ill effects of drugs,” the SSP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-hold-cycle-rally-to-create-awareness-on-drug-abuse-274728
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||75 PGI docs become associate professors||Thirteen professors of the PGIMER have been awarded senior professor grade (HAG) and 75 assistant professors promoted to associate professors under the assessment promotion scheme. The decision was taken after the governing body of the PGIMER approved the agenda regarding promotions of 75 assistant professors to associate professors duly recommended by its standing selection committee during interviews held recently.With this, assistant professors now become eligible to be promoted as associate professors after three years of regular service. Assistant professors assessed by the selection committee during the interview on various parameters and those found ‘fit’ have been recommended for promotions.Around 40 per cent professors are eligible to be designated as senior professors (HAG grade). The departmental promotion committee during its meeting held in February had recommended promotion of 13 professors to senior professors, which was approved by the governing body.Dr Prema Menon, additional professor, Department of Paediatric Surgery, and Dr Parag Wamanarao Barwad, associate professor, cardiology, have now been promoted as professor.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/75-pgi-docs-become-associate-professors-274729
27-06-2021||Amit Bathla||Farmers stopped at Housing Board lights||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 26After a long march from the Nada Sahib gurdwara, thousands of farmers, who were going to the Raj Bhawan in Chandigarh to submit a memorandum over the three farm bills, had to stop at the Chandigarh entry point near the Housing Board light point due to a heavy deployment of police personnel euqipped with water cannons, trucks and tippers.‘Chhabeel’ for policemenDisplaying a heartwarming gesture, the protesting farmers offered ‘chhabeel’ to policemen who were determined to stop them from entering Chandigarh.BJP hoarding torn downEven as the farmers’ march largely remained peaceful, disciplined and untainted, some youths tore down a BJP hoarding carrying the images of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Leading the march, Haryana BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni and Samyukt Kisan Morcha member Yogendra Yadav, who had pledged to maintain peace if they were not allowed to move forward, eventually handed over a memorandum addressed to the President to the ADC to Governor before turning back.Prior to the submission of the letter of protest, Yadav read out its contents while standing atop a car. He said the farmers started gathering at the Nada Sahib gurdwara at 10 am and their departure towards Chandigarh began around 12:40 pm after the arrival of their leaders.On the Ghaggar bridge near Majri Chowk, the protesters met with a road blockade. They, however, moved forward by pushing aside the barricades and cement blocks erected by the police to stop them.They passed through Majri Chowk, Bella Vista Chowk and Geeta Chowk before they were denied entry into the UT at Chandigarh border. A majority of protestors marched on foot, while some were in cars and tractors.Meanwhile, Charuni, while speaking to The Tribune over the phone, questioned the Modi government’s “lack of enthusiasm” to resolve farmers’ issue despite seven months of their protest. He added that they would continue to intensify their movement until three black laws were withdrawn.Commissioner of Police Saurabh Singh said as they had anticipated a major law and order issue, they had deployed ‘’sufficient force” to tackle it.“We had a major challenge to maintain the law and order in view of the protest march passing through a route that alongside has administrative buildings and residential buildings. But...the protest march went off peacefully,’’ he said.Ambulance put on alternative routeAn ambulance had got stuck at the Chandigarh-Panchkula border as it was blocked by the police to stop farmers from entering Chandigarh. Immediately, arrangments were made for the movement of the ambulance into Chandigarh through an alternative route.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-stopped-at-housing-board-lights-274730
27-06-2021||Sandeep Rana||MC offers 2.74 acres in Mani Majra for hospital||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 26The cash-crunched Chandigarh Municipal Corporation is again eyeing at earning revenue of about Rs81 crore by auctioning a piece of land at Mani Majra for a specialty hospital.Dates to rememberInterested parties can submit documents from June 29 to July 17. Following this, the document approval by the civic body will be done between July 20 and July 22. The bidding will be held on July 23.After previous failed attempts to rope in any agency, the civic body today opened e-auction for one of the most prime locations in the city. For the 2.74 acres, document submission date for interested parties will be from June 29 to July 17.Following this, the document approval by the civic body will be done between July 20 and July 22. The bidding will be held on July 23. The site is situated at plot number 5, pocket one of Mani Majra.In the previous bids, the corporation’s project could not evince interest of buyers. Officials said some required modifications have been done in the tender conditions and they are hopeful of finding their way this time.The hospital site was earlier offered to be given on a 99-year lease. The successful party was required to follow all norms, including zoning, floor-area ratio and planning.The MC has several commercial sites in Mani Majra and may auction these one after another. At present, several MC buildings are lying vacant. In Sector 17, Mauli Jagran, Mani Majra and other areas, its booths and land have been lying vacant for many years.The corporation has lost crores due to its failure to auction them. The MC wants to sell them on a market rate, but buyers have not expressed any interest citing high process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-offers-2-74-acres-in-mani-majra-for-hospital-274731
27-06-2021||---||Need-based changes in houses: ‘Matter sent to Urban Development Ministry’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 26The Union Home Ministry has forwarded the issue of regularisation of need-based changes in the Chandigarh Housing Board houses, on the pattern of Delhi, to the Urban Development Ministry, said Satya Pal Jain, former MP from the BJP .Jain had sent a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah on June 11 demanding regularisation, along with a memorandum submitted by the Makaan Bachao Samiti to that effect.He said if approved, the main features — as on the Delhi pattern — would include increasing FAR up to 100 per cent, regularising all construction carved out in violation, no title or legal right for excess construction, no future deviation to be allowed beyond the permissible limits and the Amnesty scheme in force for a certain period with one-time usage charges for additional construction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/need-based-changes-in-houses-matter-sent-to-urban-development-ministry-274734
27-06-2021||Mohali||CU student makes it to Tokyo Paralympics||Aruna Tanwar, a BPEd student at Chandigarh University, Gharuan, was honoured for her selection to Tokyo Paralympics-2021 on Friday.I started learning taekwondo at the age of eight and for next eight years, I competed in the 'normal' category. It was during 2017 when I was declared ineligible to compete at the international level due to deformity in my both hands following which I shifted to para taekwondo. -  Aruna TanwarAruna, who hails from Dinod village near Bhiwani, is ranked number 4 in the world in the women’s under-49 taekwondo category and has won a bronze medal at both Asian Para-Taekwondo Championship and World Para-Taekwondo Championship in 2019. Aruna’s father Naresh Tanwar and her coach Ashok Kumar were present on the occasion.Taekwondo is making its Paralympic debut this year. Aruna is one of the 72 taekwondo players from 37 nations competing in the Paralympics.“I was frustrated on missing World and Asian qualifiers in Jordan due to travel ban in the wake of pandemic in April 2021. I found it miraculous on getting a wild card entry to the Tokyo Paralympics in view of my performances at Asian and World Taekwondo championships,” the 21-year-old added.Aruna’s father Naresh Tanwar said, “I work as a driver at a chemical factory. It was initially difficult for me to support my daughter. But due to her willpower and eagerness to play the sport, I decided to take loans apart from spending my savings to support her in realising her dream.”Ashok Kumar, Aruna’s trainer and coach of the Indian camp for para-athletes, said, “In Tokyo, Aruna will face challenge from Ukraine, China and Chinese Taipei players and I am confident that she will win a medal.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cu-student-makes-it-to-tokyo-paralympics-274735
27-06-2021||---||176 drug peddlers held in Fatehgarh Sahib: SSP||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, June 26Hundreds of youths, students and members of NGOs took part in a marathon organised by the police to mark International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking to create awareness against drug abuse at Amloh town of the district today.SSP Amneet Kondal, Deputy Commissioner Surbhi Malik, and police officials led the marathon. The SSP administered an oath to all to wage a war against drug abuse.The SSP said that a 10-day special anti-drug drive was initiated, which concluded on the eve of International Day against Drug abuse. She said the drive yielded good results as 128 cases under the NDPS Act were registered and 176 peddlers were arrested.She said 809-gm heroin, 129-gm smack, 12.4-kg opium, 370-kg poppy husk, 30-kg ganja, 1,253 injections and 34,220 intoxicant tablets were recovered. She said besides this, the properties of two drug peddlers were seized and four proclaimed offenders were arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/176-drug-peddlers-held-in-fatehgarh-sahib-ssp-274737
27-06-2021||---||Intellectuals come together as two-day lit fest kicks off||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 26The two-day Khushwant Singh Literary Festival (KSLF) kicked off — with its first digital edition live from London — here today.The theme of the fest is ‘No Man is an Island’. The lit fest highlights the ideals and values that the celebrated Indian author Khushwant Singh stood for. It also brings together authors and intellectuals, who share the same passion as him — humanity and human emotions irrespective of the manmade boundaries.“It is not a world of different states, but a necklace of countries string together”, stresses Art Historian Vidya Dehejia in the inaugural session, justifying the need for looking beyond one religion, one nation and one culture. ‘A Rediscovery of India in 100 Objects’, her book and also the topic of the first session, was Vidya’s attempt at appealing to the non-specialist readers. She says: “Most of my books have serious research work but the book is born out of the sheer pleasure I feel talking about objects and what they convey.”“There’s no Sanskrit word for pornography. Most of the naked figurines description came from monks and nuns, who have renounced materialistic possessions and desires,” Vidya adds as she addresses topics such as male gaze, artistic licence and female artistes from ancient history.British author, biographer and historian, Victoria Schofield, who authored, ‘The Fragrance of Tears: Benazir my friend’, reads excerpt from her book. She said: “Writing the book was never planned but a journalist in me kept preserving mementos because for me primary accounts always held a lot of value. But the news of her assassination shook me to the core. Having lived with her, been to the family graveyard, it was heartbreaking to visit her back in 2010 when her husband was in power.”On the other hand, Shaheen informs the viewers how his book, The Grandaughter Project, was about four main characters, but his publisher told him to cut down to three — one is a holocaust survivor, then there’s Kamla, who grew up in Bengal famine and the last one is a migrant from Caribbean, who arrives to London in a banana boat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/intellectuals-come-together-as-two-day-lit-fest-kicks-off-274738
27-06-2021||---||PU-CET date rescheduled||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 26Panjab University has rescheduled the date of PU-CET (PG)-2021 for the 2021-22 session. The test will be now held on August 3 and 4 and the website will remain open till July 3.The prospectus (including application form) and the revised schedule for the entrance test is already available online. To apply, visit cetpg.puchd.ac.in.Exams to be held offlineSources maintained that all entrance examinations of various courses at Panjab University will be held offline. “The entrance examinations will be held offline considering a dip in Covid cases. However, precautions will be taken,” said a source.As per the revised schedule, the entrance test for PUTHAT is schedule for July 30, PUMEET and PULEET for August 1, CET (PG) on August 3 and 4, LLB (3 years) and MBA (executive) on August 8.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-cet-date-rescheduled-274739
27-06-2021||Zirakpur||Biker dies in hit-and-run||Day against drug abuseChandigarh: The Drug Deaddiction Society of Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46, observed International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. A pledge on ‘Say Yes to life, No to drugs’ was administered. College faculty and students pledged to combat the social menace of drugs prevailing in the society. TNSAwareness programmeChandigarh: The Psycho Social Support Cell of MCM DAV College for Women, Sector 36, organised a workshop-cum-awareness programme on ‘Quality of Sleep Matters’ to enlighten the audience the significance of sound sleep for holistic wellbeing and the concept of sleep hygiene. TNSBCom exam timings changedChandigarh: Keeping in view the clash of BCom examination and Chartered Accountant (CA) examinations, Panjab University has changed the timings of all BCom examinations from evening session (1.30 pm to 4.30 pm) to morning session (9.30 am to 12.30 pm). The revised date sheet has already been uploaded on the official website of Panjab University. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/biker-dies-in-hit-and-run-274742
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: First Delta Plus variant detected in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Administration said on Saturday that it had found one Delta Plus Variant of Covid-19 in one of the random 50 samples sent for genome sequencing among cases that were reported in the union territory in May and June.A press release that the administration issued on Saturday said variants of concern (VoC) were found in 35 of the 50 samples sent for whole genome sequencing—a process by which scientists determine the DNA sequence of an organism’s genome.The Delta variant—the variant that is believed to have primarily driven the deadly second wave in April and May this year—was found in 33 of the 35 VoC samples. One sample had the Alpha variant—a variant first detected in Kent in the United Kingdom late last year, and one was Delta Plus.The press release said the sample belonged to a 35-year-old from Mauli Jagran, and that authorities had sent samples of the person’s family members who’d tested positive for genome sequencing.  None of the family was hospitalised, the press statement said, and they had all fully recovered.Fifty-two cases of the Delta Plus mutation of SARS-CoV2 coronavirus have been reported in India—the highest of these in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh. The three states account for 70 per cent of cases from the variant.   Three deaths have been reported from the variant, which scientists say has increased transmissibility, stronger binding to receptors of lung cells, and potential reduction in monoclonal antibody response.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-first-delta-plus-variant-detected-in-chandigarh-274425
