28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 8 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in three months||Chandigarh reported eight new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, a government health bulletin said—the lowest cases recorded in the union territory since March.The UT has recorded no deaths in the last four days.Chandigarh now has 181 active cases, with an average positivity rate of 1.43 per cent over the last week. The fatality count stands at 807.The bulletin said 4,27,626 people over 18 have taken at least one dose in the union territory, and 84,246 have been fully vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-8-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-three-months-275278
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University: Online exams of even semesters||Play ‘Nasha Ik Bimaari’ stagedMohali: To spread awareness among the people regarding drug abuse and illicit trafficking, the media club, “Unalome Dramatics”, of Desh Bhagat University organised one-act play “Nasha Ik Bimaari”. The play was written and directed by Rohit Kumar ‘Tabish’. Film actor Kavi Singh played the lead role as ‘Jeet’, big brother of the victim, Upma played the role of Jeet’s wife and Kabir played the role of Prince, whereas Rinku Chauhan and Tabish played the roles of “Bhand Marasi” characters. Congratulating the performers for intriguing performances, university Chancellor Dr Zora Singh said the theatre was the most effective medium for conveying a social message. TNSEducational webinar organisedMohali: Chitkara University’s College of Education in association with Chitkara International School, Chandigarh, organised an educational webinar, “Teacher as an Artist”, for its BEd students and in-service teachers. Moderated by Dr Niyati Chitkara, Director, Chitkara Schools, the session was joined by Mita Vashisht, a renowned Indian actor, director and writer. The session revolved around the emerging relevance of theatre and performing arts in the sound impartation of quality education. Mita shared valuable insights on the positive impact of theatre-based education. Dr Madhu Chitkara, Pro-Chancellor, Chitkara University said: “Evoking the passion for learning in students requires the teachers to be creative, ingenious and positively offbeat in a way that captivates the interest of students.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-online-exams-of-even-semesters-275142
28-06-2021||Lalru||Lalru: Suicide victim’s kin refuse to cremate body, demand justice||Five days after a 32-year-old woman from Lalru committed suicide, her family members refused to cremate the body, demanding justice for the deceased. The woman, identified as Kuldeep Kaur, was posted as a clerk in the Technical Education and Training Department.The police had registered a case against two employees of the department, but no arrest has been made so far. A candlelight march was also taken out in Lalru Mandi yesterday seeking justice for the woman. Various social, political and religious organisations took part in the march and raised slogans against the government.Woman’s brother Malkit Singh, her relatives, Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma, AAP leader Kuljit Singh Randhawa, Navjot Saini and others took part in the candlelight march.The residents also staged a protest at the ITI Chowk here today. MLA NK Sharma, who was also present, said if the suspects were not arrested by tomorrow, then SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal would also join the struggle.Mohali SP (Rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal, DSP Gurbakhsish Singh, SHO Bhinder Singh Khangura were also present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lalru-suicide-victims-kin-refuse-to-cremate-body-demand-justice-275132
28-06-2021||---||Technology for waste plant on Chandigarh Municipal Corporation House agenda||Chandigarh, June 27Eight development issues, including buying of breathing apparatus sets for firemen and deciding technology for the waste processing plant, will be taken up during the MC House meeting on Tuesday.The MC will decide on procuring the long-pending 44 breathing apparatus (BA) sets for firemen. According to the MC records, all breathing apparatus sets are outdated and have outlived their lifespan of four years as fixed by the Ministry of Home Affairs. Most of the existing BA sets are more than 10 years old and thus, not dependable for rescue operations and need an immediate replacement. The Finance and Contract Committee in 2018 had approved the proposal to purchase 44 BA sets for Rs46.81 lakh through e-tendering. However, despite floating a tender on government e-marketplace five times, the MC failed to finalise the bid.Later, different companies submitted their fresh specifications. The total cost now goes to an estimated Rs68.16 lakh. Since the cost has increased, the MC will need an approval.The apparatus set is a life-saving equipment used by firemen to save people trapped in an atmosphere of poisonous gases.The MC House will also decide whether to organise the annual Chrysanthemum show in December. Due to Covid, it was not held last year.Floating expression of interest for operation and maintenance of Maloya Gaushala to execute the development works in Mani Majra, paver blocks in internal roads in Sector 25, study tours of councillors in Delhi and Ambala for deciding upgrade and maintenance of the waste processing plant and other agendas will be tabled too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/technology-for-waste-plant-on-chandigarh-municipal-corporation-house-agenda-275117
28-06-2021||---||Chandigarh residents protest delay in sewer line repair||Chandigarh, June 27Residents of Khuda Lahora and Khuda Jassu today held a protest against the authorities for failing to repair a sewer line properly.Gurminder Singh, one of the protesters from Khuda Lahora, said: “Rather than repairing the sewer line, workers throw sewage in an open drain in our village. It emanates foul smell in the entire area. It will also lead to breeding of mosquitoes and flies.”Gurminder Singh, a resident of Khuda LahoraRather than repairing the sewer pipeline, workers throw sewage in an open drain in our village. It emanates foul smell in the entire area. It will also lead to breeding of mosquitoes and flies.“We know that the corporation will take some time to change the outdated sewer lines. Till then, the authorities could have repaired the sewer line, rather than throwing the sewage in the open drain,” said another protester. Area residents said the drains were always overflowing.After a protest by villagers, the UT Administration connected the sewer line with the storm drainage. As a result, mosquitoes and insects breed here, making the life of villagers miserable.“The situation worsens during the monsoon season. Even a small rain leads to clogging of drains, which results in waterlogging on the streets. During the rainy season, garbage scatters all across the road,” the residents said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-protest-delay-in-sewer-line-repair-275106
28-06-2021||---||Punjab Health Minister Balbir Sidhu launches three-day polio vaccination drive||Mohali, June 27The Punjab Government has set a target to administer polio drops to around 5.60 lakh children of migratory population in the age group of 0-5 years across the state.Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu stated this while launching the three-day sub-national immunisation day (SNID) by administering oral polio vaccine (OPV) drops to children below five years at a state-level function at Sohana village here today.Balbir Singh Sidhu said migratory population living in high-risk areas such as slums, brick-kilns, construction sites, nomadic sites, deras and jhuggis would be covered during this round.He said 4,180 house-to-house teams, 500 mobile teams and 37 transit teams had been pressed into service across the state. As many as 802 supervisors would carry out sudden checks to monitor the immunisation programme and ensure that all children were immunised. He said all teams had been asked to strictly follow Covid guidelines during the drive.Sidhu appealed to people to get their children immunised even if the child is born a few hours ago or is suffering from cough, cold, fever, diarrhoea or any other disease as polio drops have no harmful effects.Pointing out that the government was making efforts to protect children from the disease, he said polio drops must reach every child of the state. He applauded the efforts of volunteers, frontline workers and health officials for their tireless work in keeping the state polio-free.Dr Andesh Kang, Director Health Services, Family Welfare; Dr Balwinder Kaur, State Immunisation Officer; Dr Vikram Gupta from the WHO; Dr Renu Singh, Assistant Civil Surgeon, Mohali; Dr Surinderpal Kaur, SMO; Gurmit Singh Rana, State Mass Media Officer; Jatinder Mohan, State Cold Chain Officer; Gurdeep Kaur, District Mass Media Officer; and Dinesh, Health Inspector; were among those present.Teams told to follow Covid normsHealth and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said 4,180 house-to-house teams, 500 mobile teams and 37 transit teams had been pressed into service across the state. As many as 802 supervisors would carry out sudden checks to monitor the immunisation programme and ensure that all children were immunised. All teams had been asked to follow Covid norms during the drive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-health-minister-balbir-sidhu-launches-three-day-polio-vaccination-drive-275105
28-06-2021||Naina Mishra||PGI, Chandigarh mulls in-house genome sequencing to check coronavirus variants||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 27The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, is mulling starting genome sequencing within the institute in wake of rapid increase in Delta variant of concern (VOC) in the region.Prof Jagat Ram, PGI DirectorWe are mulling starting gene sequencing at our institute and will begin the process of purchasing machinery and other equipment. The process of sending samples to other institutions is time consuming. At this time when the virus is mutating, it becomes important to carry sequencing every now and then.Genome sequencing is crucial to detect new variants of coronavirus. Confirming the same, PGI Director Prof Jagat Ram said: “We are mulling starting gene sequencing at our institute and will begin the process of purchasing machinery and other equipment. The process of sending samples to other institutions is time consuming. At this time when the virus is mutating, it becomes important to carry sequencing every now and then.”“We can do gene sequencing of patients who are critically ill to understand the pathogen causing the disease. The gene sequencing can be done for many pathogens as well and this will help the clinicians in long run,” said Prof Jagat Ram.Epidemiologist Dr Chandrakant Lahariya said: “All large institutes such as the PGI and others need to have in-house genomic sequencing capacity. In addition, every major state needs to have 1 to 2 labs within states.”T Jacob John, a top virologist, said: “Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genome Sequencing Consortia (INSACOG) consists of 24 selected labs and these are coordinated and quality tested by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The Government of India does not desire volunteer institutions doing genome sequencing for national survey purposes. If the PGI, Chandigarh, can do genome sequencing, my advice is for the PGI to inform the NCDC and ask if it can join the INSACOG network.”Only 0.3% samples sequenced in UTChandigarh has sent only 196 samples for sequencing according to GISAID, a global repository of coronavirus variants. This is only 0.3 per cent of the total cases of Covid-19 detected in Chandigarh to date.“The recommendation by the WHO is to sequence genome from 5 per cent of all RT-PCR positive swabs to know the present variant profile and detect any new variant that needs to be watched further. There is a second part to variant monitoring - that is to check if any new variant shows a tendency to spread fast (faster than other VoCs) or tendency to cause more disease (than others),” said Virologist T Jacob John.Dr Lahariya said: “We should aim for 2 per cent of daily cases as well as all samples of those died and a reasonable proportion from cases in children and that of moderate to severe cases. More important is to have representative samples from all states of the country.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-chandigarh-mulls-in-house-genome-sequencing-to-check-coronavirus-variants-275104
28-06-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Shun complacency, don’t lower guard against contagion||All Depends on precautions takenPreventive measures already taken must continue in the coming days too. Markets and malls have been opened, but the public and the business community should follow Covid appropriate behaviour. Oxygen supply, PPE kits and life-saving medicines should be in stock. Third Covid wave threat is real, but its severity or potential impact will depend on what precautions citizens take.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhRamp up health infrastructureOvercrowding in markets and people not following Covid appropriate behaviour prove that the third coronavirus wave is imminent. To defeat it, the Administration needs to ramp up health infrastructure like keep good stock of life-saving drugs, oxygen supply, set up more Covid care centres and taking strong action against people flouting safety norms. The policy of test, track and treat must be followed strictly to mitigate third wave severity.Sunil Khanna, ChandigarhAdminister Covid vaccine to all in cityThe way people behave proves that the third Covid wave is round the corner. They are least bothered about safety of norms. So, the Administration needs to deal strictly with violators in markets, clubs, marriage palaces and other public places. Jabs be administered to all sector and colonies wise in the UT.Opinder Kaur Sekhon, ChandigarhDon’t underplay virus threatCovid spread since its outbreak in Wuhan through air passengers. The government should sanitise airports and thoroughly screen air passengers. Thermal scanning won’t help. Quick Covid testing is essential. Same is needed for long route transporters and public carriers. Each driver travelling with national permit has to be tested for the virus and vaccinated. Underplaying Covid threat needs to be checked and violators fined heavily.Rajpartap Singh, ChandigarhTake all steps to minimise impactWith gradual lifting of the lockdown restrictions and opening up of various activities in the UT there is every likelihood of the third Covid wave coming soon. The Administration should ramp up the health infrastructure and ensure proper supply of medicines. All steps should be taken to minimise impact of the third wave. Vaccination drive should be stepped up through campaigns.Dr Dinesh Kumar Verma, PanchkulaBan intermingling of people in cityAs there is possibility of third Covid wave hitting the City Beautiful it depends on residents to minimise its impact. It’s necessary for all to be cautious. Unfortunately, people mingle with each other at the slightest opportunity throwing social distancing norm to the winds. The UT Administration must discipline violators of preventive guidelines. It should ban unbridled movement of people at public places.SC Luthra, ChandigarhResidents have lowered guardThe third Covid wave is reality. It could be more deadly with new variant. People have lowered guard, which can aggravate pandemic. The only way to control it by implementing safety guidelines like wearing face masks, maintaining social distance, aggressive testing and vaccination. Hotels are the real hotspots as Covid spreads from such places. Strict vigil should be maintained at such spots.Capt Amar Jeet (retd), MohaliContinue with norms till virus is wiped outThe UT Administration should continue with Covid safety norms to prevent the third wave and wiping out of virus from City Beautiful. The public must ensure social distancing, sanitise hands frequently and wear face masks. Covid vaccine should be administered to all age groups without any discrimination.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliSufficient health staff availabilityTo deal with possible third Covid wave the Administration should improve health facilities in the city. Besides, vaccination drive must be ramped up to inoculate majority of population. Sufficient doctors, including paramedical staff, should be deployed at Covid-dedicated hospitals/healthcare centres. If need arises more health staff can be recruited.Gurjinder Singh Kamboj, ChandigarhEnsure social distancingPeople move in groups without wearing face masks in the city. To prevent the third Covid wave the Administration must prevail upon them to wear face masks in public places. Violators must be prosecuted. Besides, all must follow social distancing norm.AK Sharma, ChandigarhOpen new vaccination centres in UTThe danger of the third Covid wave looms large, but in Chandigarh no one is bothered. The Administration should vaccinate maximum residents in the city. More infrastructure should be provided at hospitals and healthcare centres. New vaccination centres must be opened in the city. Registration for vaccination of any age group should not be mandatory.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhVaccination only optionTo prevent the third Covid wave in the city vaccination is the only option, which people can avail. Besides, people should maintain social distancing and wear face masks. The Administration should ensure that everyone in the city is vaccinated and also continue with test, treat and isolate policy.AK Jindal, PatialaLaxity can lead to onset of third waveThough the Administration may formulate more protocols while not hampering day-to-day business, it is public response to coronavirus that matters. Laxity on part of the public towards safety warnings could onset the third Covid wave shortly. In fact all efforts of the Administration might prove futile if residents ignore safety guidelines.Gobind Ahuja, ChandigarhAwareness via texting on mobile phonesIn this digital age, the UT Administration should create awareness about maintain social distance, wearing face masks and sanitising hands regularly on its website as well as by sending texts to residents on their respective mobile phones.Tarunjot Kaur, Greater MohaliPrevention is better than cureIf we go by experts’ opinion, they believe that the third Covid wave is inevitable. In such a situation, the proverb “Prevention is better than cure” is apt. So, we all must follow rules and guidelines framed to prevent the spread of infection. The first and foremost is vaccination of all residents.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhUpgrade all medical facilitiesThe Administration should take strict steps with suggestions from experts to prevent the third Covid wave. Baseless fear about virus should not be created through wrong publicity. All medical facilities should be upgraded in advance. Public must wear face masks, maintain social distance and use hand sanitisers frequently.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliConduct sero survey in UTThe first and the second Covid waves were eye openers for all. There is apprehension of the third Covid wave striking UT. The Administration should conduct sero survey to identify population vulnerable to virus. Vaccination drive should be ramped up. Hospitals must have sufficient beds and medicines to accommodate maximum patients in case the need arises. Remain vigilant and don’t lower guard against virus.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhOnus lies on UT residentsUndoubtedly, the government is there for framing rules whereas the onus lies on residents to follow these guidelines issued from time to time. However, only some individuals are following these properly. Therefore, small efforts of UT residents can control the third Covid wave.Jasmer Singh, Greater MohaliChallan for not wearing face maskRestrict entry at the public places like Sukhna Lake and malls. The UT Administration should vaccinate all beneficiaries above 18 years. Libraries should be open only for students preparing for competitive exams. Cops should challan people not wearing face masks.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhAct against hospitals overcharging patientsDuring the second Covid wave health facilities were found lacking in the UT. Now is the time to rectify mistakes, which happened in the past. The UT Administration should provide enough oxygen and medicines to patients, who contract the disease. Besides, strict action should be taken against hospitals, which overcharge for treating Covid patients.Satinder Kaur, ChandigarhPeople least scared of third waveAlerts from Covid experts over impending third Covid wave are a virtual clarion call for the people and those at the helm of affairs to shun complacency towards pandemic. The looming third Covid wave scare has failed to deter people as they could be seen throwing the SOPs to the winds. The UT Administration must ensure that those violating Covid norms should be sent behind bars.RAMESH K DHIMAN, ChandigarhDon't let third wave knock at anyone's doorThe UT Administration should step up vaccination drive. City residents must act responsibly and follow safety protocols like wearing good quality face mask, maintain social distance at public places and sanitise hands regularly. Don't let the third Covid wave knock at anyone's door.MR Bhateja, NayagaonWarnings have not spooked residentsThe warning of the impending third Covid wave has not spooked UT residents. The Administration should ramp up vaccination drive in the city. Efforts should made to administer vaccine on the doorstep of beneficiaries. Vaccine should be free for all. Besides, UT residents must not lower guard against the virus.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaContinue with test, trace and treat policyThe UT Administration should continue with the test, trace and treat policy to reduce virus transmission during the third wave. Gatherings, mass congregations or rallies, especially in mandis, should not be allowed. The vaccination drive must be augmented on large scale. Moreover, people should not lower their guards against Covid.Arti Sood, ChandigarhRestrictions should continue in cityThough tricity has been witnessing fewer Covid cases these days, restrictions should continue. People should not feel that they have secured a complete victory over coronavirus. Restrictions will ensure that all don't end up in a third Covid wave, which according to experts is expected in six to eight weeks.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhStrict vigil at public placesNowadays violation of corona protocol is taken lightly. Hardly anybody is punished. If the Administration is serious about containing the disease, there should be strict vigil at all public places so that everyone adheres to Covid norms. Public does not obey rules unless they are monetarily penalised or sent behind bars.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhBoost immunityThe Administration should start vaccinating children on priority basis. Parents too need to provide healthy and nutritious food to children and encourage them to indulge in any form of physical activity like walking, jogging, skipping etc to boost their immunity. Yoga and meditation can help children combat the deadly virus.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliFace mask should be mandatoryThe evidence from urban areas proves that Covid-appropriate behaviour is being ignored. The best long-term solution against Covid is vaccination. As there is demand and supply gap for vaccination it won't be possible to inoculate maximum people to ward off a third wave. The only solution is to rigorously follow the advice of wearing face mask.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliMake sure vaccine is available for allTo prepare for possible third wave the UT Administration should ramp up the healthcare infrastructure and vaccination drive and strictly enforce Covid protocol. People should volunteer to get vaccinated as the fast-spreading new variants is more transmissible and dangerous. The Administration should ensure to vaccine is available at all healthcare facilities.Col Balbir Mathauda (retd), ChandigarhVaccination in shortest periodThe UT Administration should ensure that people follow Covid protocol. This is the first step to prevent the third Covid wave. Besides, all residents must be vaccinated as soon as possible. If short of health staff in hospitals doctors and paramedics can be recruited to control the pandemic. More beds should be provided in hospitals to accommodate Covid patients.Adish Sood, AmlohRemove flaws in healthcare facilitiesMedical experts have warned of the third Covid wave, which can be more dangerous. The UT Administration should remove flaws in health facilities. No one should die for want of oxygen, hospital bed, life-saving medicines and shortage of medical staff.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhDon't allow crowding at public placesThe UT Administration should not allow crowding at public places. Shopkeepers must provide hand sanitiser to customers. Face mask should be mandatory for all. The Administration should make sure that there is enough supply of oxygen and medicines for Covid patients. People should be guided how to use oxygen concentrator at home. Attendance in colleges should not be mandatory.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhCovid protocol can beat monsterIt's easy to prevent the third Covid wave in Chandigarh. Residents should strictly follow Covid protocols to beat the monster. Only through vaccination, third wave can be contained. The UT has small area and a population, which can be easily vaccinated in shortest possible time. Centre must ensure enough supply of vaccine doses for the UT.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhRound-the-clock vaccinationNo one can predict how dangerous third Covid wave could be in our country. The tool to protect UT residents from the virus is vaccine, which should be available 24×7 under medical supervision. The Administration must ensure availability of ICU beds, medicines and oxygen at hospitals.Parampreet Kaur, ChandigarhGenome sequencing of new samplesThe Administration should start genome sequencing of samples collected from recently infected patients to find if there are strains of the new mutated virus, encourage vaccination of all residents, keep a check on congested public and penalise people, who don't follow safety protocols. The Administration must ensure that the Covid appropriate behaviour is followed strictly all the time.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhReduce relaxations given recentlyTo prevent the third Covid wave the UT Administration should reduce relaxations given recently. Large gatherings at social functions, markets and public places should be restricted. Shops opening and closing times also has to be reviewed. Shopkeepers should ensure that no customers without face masks enter their shops and follow social distancing norm.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliBrace for a possible third Covid waveThe new UT Adviser has extolled all to brace for possible third wave, jack up vaccination and open centres over weekends for inoculating people. Precautions and Covid-appropriate protocols are increasingly being violated with impunity. Self-regulation has failed. Rampant carelessness is visible all around. Lifting curbs to promote lives and livelihood does in no way allow lowering our guards. The authorities ought to firmly check violations.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaDivert CSR funds to Covid managementThe Covid-19 pandemic has presented yet another opportunity to companies to make good on their corporate social responsibility (CSR) commitments. The UT Administration should rope in maximum corporates to spend their CSR funds on societal needs during the pandemic.Dr Bharat, ChandigarhCome out with vaccine for childerenTo avert catastrophic consequences, vaccination should be the top-most priority especially for the children, who could be the next vulnerable group. Vaccination in slums/colonies remains a challenge as residents are influenced by factors, including perception, trust, norms and beliefs. This needs to be mitigated by setting up robust vaccination mechanism and organising awareness drives. Besides, stock of life-saving drugs and oxygen concentrators should be scaled up on priority.Prof Pushpa Kewal, KarnalLift restrictions at slower paceThe Chandigarh Administration should reduce restrictions imposed to curb the corona spread in the city at much slower pace. Places witnessing huge rush need to be kept under watch. Maximum people must be vaccinated during next two months. Wearing of face mask and social distancing must continue to thwart the spread of the virus. Medical services must be upgraded.Wg Cdr Jasbir Minhas (retd), MohaliZero tolerance to violation of normsThe UT Administration should adopt multi-pronged approach to deal with the third Covid wave. Top priority must be given to strengthening medical infrastructure and enhance vaccination centres in the city. Procedure for allotment of time slot for vaccination should be streamlined. There must be zero tolerance against violation of the Covid-appropriate behaviour.RPS Chopra, ChandigarhPrepare for the worst, hope for the bestBy liberally relaxing various curbs the UT Administration has sent an open invitation for the third Covid wave. Now, the Administration should step up vaccination drive and close all parks after seven in the morning. Even Sukhna Lake must be closed after 8 am. Violators of Covid protocol must be issued challan for detention of at least four hours.Col KJ Singh (Retd), ChandigarhPeople can save themselvesAt present, the government and healthcare authorities can provide us with necessary resources to treat infection, but prevention lies in the hands of public. They can keep themselves safe from the third Covid wave by adhering to safety guideline. Residents must understand their responsibilities and not step out of their homes without wearing face mask, avoid public gatherings and wash hands frequently.Charu Malhotra, MohaliCreate awareness in rural beltThe Delta Plus variant is believed to be more transmissible and dangerous. In order to prevent the third Covid wave the authorities must create awareness in the rural belt, make sure everyone wears face mask and maintains social distance. The administrative machinery needs to work day and night to vaccinate maximum number of residents and increase Covid testing across city. All must be motivated to get jabbed. Also, the Administration should strengthen medical infrastructure in the UT.SK Khosla, ChandigarhQUESTIONIt takes around two months for the UT Administration and the Municipal Corporation to redress complaints regarding dead trees in the city. The recent incident of an elderly couple getting injured after a tree fell on their house in Sector 15 is one such example. The couple had already complained about the dead tree to the authorities concerned. Do you think that this system needs to be streamlined and such complaints dealt with on priority?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shun-complacency-dont-lower-guard-against-contagion-275087
28-06-2021||Mohali||Salon owner held for rape bid in Mohali||Ropar cricket assn log winMohali: An all-round performance by Mayank Gupta (112 runs and three wickets) helped Ropar District Cricket Association beat YMCA Parnami Cricket Academy by a narrow margin of one run in the 1st Dinesh Verma Memorial U-19 Tournament. Batting first, Ropar District Cricket Association scored 261/9 in allotted 40 overs. In reply, YMCA Academy lads scored 260 runs before getting all out in 40 overs. TNSCricket match in Milkha’s memoryChandigarh: A tributary match was played in the memory of former Indian sprinter Milkha Singh between Livewire Coaching Centre (LWCC) and Godrej Cricket Club on Sunday. LWCC defeated Godrej by 29 runs. Bating first, first LWCC scored 190/6 in 20 overs. In reply, Godrej XI posted 161 runs before getting all out in 20 overs. TNSTennis fitness workshopMohali: Roots Tennis Academy in collaboration with strength, sports conditioning coach Vijay Yashpaull, who trained the likes of former top 100 ATP Yuki Bhambri, Federation Cup players Prerna Bhambri, Rishika Sunkara, Udit Gogoi, Riya Sachdeva among others, will be conducting a high performance tennis fitness workshop for players of the tricity. The camp will be held at Roots Tennis Academy on July 2 and 3. Interested players can register their names at the camp venue. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/salon-owner-held-for-rape-bid-in-mohali-275066
28-06-2021||---||Special child drowns in pond in Mohali village||Mohali, June 27An eight-year-old specially abled boy drowned in a seasonal pond at Badhmajra village last evening. The body was taken out this morning.The victim has been identified as Krishna, alias Titu, son of a migrant labourer, Shri Ram, from Uttar Pradesh.Krishna was playing with other children when he volunteered to bring out a bird’s egg from the swamp. However, he got stuck there and later drowned in the pond.Children, who were playing with him, informed his elder brother about the incident, who called his father to the spot. Despite a search, the body could not be found yesterday. It was fished out this morning in the presence of police personnel. A case has been registered under Section 174 of the CrPC. According to the victim’s family members, the minor boy was a special child. His mother died three years ago. His elder sister is married and the father works as a daily wager. Eyewitnesses said the child’s clothes were found near the pond this morning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/special-child-drowns-in-pond-in-mohali-village-275058
28-06-2021||Sandeep Rana||Dead trees lurking danger in Chandigarh; who cares?||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 27In what increases the risk of mishaps, it takes about two months to cut a dead tree in the city after a formal complaint is filed.A recent complaint regarding a tree that fell on a Sector 15 house, injuring an elderly couple, was filed a week ago, but the plaint remained “under process” when the tragedy struck the family.Sources said the MC had about 1.65 lakh trees and the UT’s horticulture wing had about 21,000 trees under its jurisdiction.If a resident finds a dead tree and files a complaint, it is first sent to the Superintending Engineer. Then it is marked to the Executive Engineer and later to the Junior Engineer, who conducts a field inspection. He then submits his report, which follows the same channel upward and reaches the Commissioner in case of the MC and the Adviser in case of the Administration. The report is then sent to the UT Forest Department. After getting approval of the forest wing, the MC/Administration starts the tendering process. A tender is floated for cutting and removing the wood. Thereafter, a contractor is finalised, who, after completing formalities and paying the government fee, finally removes the tree.“It is a long and time-consuming process. By this time, a tree may fall and lead to loss of property or life. We had first lodged a complaint in 2017 and now a week ago, but they woke up only after the tree fell on the house. The tree that fell yesterday was green, but its roots had become hollow as rats had eaten them,” said Piyush Garg, whose parents were injured in the incident yesterday.Rahul Mahajan, a city-based horticulturist, said: “Officials should check trees in 15 days or so. They should be held accountable if any tree falls. They do not even prepare a logbook. Some trees are falling not because they have lived their lifespan, but because of tiles, cemented area or road widening around them.”Residents lament that despite complaints of pruning or dead trees, officials do not respond or take too long to take note. “A tall, almost dead and dry tree is posing a threat to people in our area. It may fall down any day due to a storm. The MC should take immediate steps in such cases,” said Sameer Pal Srow, a resident of the Modern Housing Complex, Mani Majra.Meanwhile, MC Superintending Engineer (Horticulture) Krishan Pal Singh said: “We have already shortened the process for removing dead trees from two months to a month now. Besides, during the process, we prune trees to avoid any mishap. In case of a bad situation, we remove the tree ourselves after approval from the forest wing. Sometimes people want us to prune a tree in a certain way, which we cannot as we have to do it technically.”UT Horticulture Department Executive Engineer Parvesh Sharma said: “It takes 45 days to two months to cut a dead tree. In the meantime, we prune it.”The processA complaint is sent to the Superintending Engineer. Then it is marked to the Executive Engineer and later to the Junior Engineer, who conducts a field inspection. He then submits his report, which reaches the MC Commissioner/ Adviser. After getting approval from the Forest Department, the tendering process begins. After completing formalities, a contractor finally removes the dead tree.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dead-trees-lurking-danger-in-chandigarh-who-cares-275051
28-06-2021||Amit Bathla||Son lost, differently abled parents lose hope too in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 27Living with congenital physical disabilities, the birth of a healthy son had given Gopal and Seema a ray of hope for a better tomorrow.The initial skepticism of doctors that their child might be stillborn had turned false and they were overjoyed.Seema, mother of the deceased No money for last ritesA policeman handed over Rs 1,000 to us. We can’t go around buying necessary items for the last rites. So, we requested him to do it for us.Unfortunately, after just five years, the death of disabled couple’s son turned all their hopes into despair.“Abhay would have brought us out of the begging practice, which we are forced to do due to the physical disabilities,” Seema, who describes her son’s death as a living hell.With no arrangement for water in their slum, the father-son duo was on their way to fetch it from a petrol pump when a rashly driven car collided into their tricycle from the rear end near Dolphin Chowk.Though they were immediately rushed to the Civil Hospital, Abhay succumbed to the serious head injuries on the way, ripping apart the life of his parents forever.The couple didn’t even have money to perform their son’s last rites.“A policeman handed over Rs1,000 to us. We can’t go around buying necessary items for the last rites. So, we requested him to do it for us,” said Seema.Adding to the misery, their tricycle was crushed in the mishap. It was their only medium of commute between their jhuggi and the Mansa Devi temple, where they would seek alms.“Now we are stuck in the jhuggi. Our mobility is restricted. It’s a challenge when it comes to arranging food. Those from big houses who know about us offer us food many a time,” wails Seema.Now, the couple expresses desire to adopt a child who can assist them to tide over the challenges of everyday life.“Being disabled, we found it difficult to fetch even a glass of water on our own. Though we have a daughter, she is too small to take care of us. Once married, she would stay at her in-laws’ house. Who doesn’t expect a support system with the growing age?” she says. Seeking justice for her son, she says: “I just want answers. Who killed my son? It could have been anybody’s son.”The car driver had fled from the spot. According to the police, a CCTV camera captured the accident, but they could not get the number of the vehicle from the footage. A senior police official: “Other CCTV cameras installed near the accident spot were lying dysfunctional. We have written to the higher authorities to repair them or install new ones.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/son-lost-differently-abled-parents-lose-hope-too-in-panchkula-275042
28-06-2021||Mohali||Covid-19: No fatality, 14 cases in Mohali||UT sees no deathChandigarh: The city on Sunday reported 15 Covid cases and no death. The number of active cases is 203 as 37 patients were cured. — TNS4 fresh cases, one death in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Sunday reported four fresh Covid cases, taking the overall tally to 30,576. It also witnessed one death. The toll now stands at 374. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-no-fatality-14-cases-in-mohali-275038
28-06-2021||---||Farmers’ protest: Chandigarh police register 5 FIRs||Chandigarh, June 27Five FIRs have been registered by the UT police in different police stations following the farmers’ protest march in the city. Seventeen persons have been booked by name. Among those booked are gangster-turned-activist Lakhvir Singh, alias Lakha Sidhana, Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala, vice-president, Kirti Kisan Union, farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa, Punjabi singer Jass Bajwa and actress Sonia Mann.A police official said those who incited the mob, assaulted or used criminal force to deter public servants from the discharge of their duty, indulged in rioting or violated Covid norms had been booked. “The others who were involved will also be identified and their names added to the FIRs,” the official said.According to the police, a case against Lakha Sidhana, Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala and others has been registered at the Sector 17 police station. Another FIR registered at the same police station includes the name of Punjabi singer Jass Bajwa and actress Sonia Mann.Farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa and others were booked in another case registered at the Sector 3 police station.Meanwhile, two FIRs have been registered against Kaka Singh, Satnam Singh Ajnala, Major Singh Randhawa, Avtar Singh, Kamaljeet Singh, Baldev Singh, Baljit Singh, Prem Singh, Kaka Singh, Suresh Chander, Balwinder Singh, Harmeet Singh and others under Sections 147, 148, 149, 332, 353 and 427 of the IPC at the Sector 36 police station.A large number of farm activists and leaders of farmers’ unions had marched into Chandigarh on Saturday after breaking barricades at the Mataur barrier. They moved through the city and finally halted at the Sector 8/9 light point where they handed over a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-protest-chandigarh-police-register-5-firs-275032
28-06-2021||Mohali||Lid off illegal liquor bottle cap unit at Dera Bassi, owner held||Continuing its efforts against bottling illicit liquor as well as smuggling of illicit liquor into Punjab under “Operation Red Rose”, the Excise Department has busted a racket of unauthorised manufacturing of liquor bottle caps. The owner of the Dera Bassi factory has been arrested in the case.Naresh Dubey, Joint Excise Commissioner, Punjab, said they received a tip-off about a manufacturing unit at Hansa Industrial Park, Barwala Road, Dera Bassi, which was involved in unaccounted manufacturing of bottle caps, in connivance with some bottling plants for illicit liquor.A nexus between the caps manufacturing unit operating in Hansa Industrial Park and some liquor bottling units in Chandigarh surfaced. The bottling units purchased caps in cash in an unauthorised manner. This unaccounted supply of caps was used to bottle illicit liquor that was later on supplied to various parts of the country, including Punjab.On the intervening night of June 24 and 25, a team from the Excise Commissionerate, Punjab, and the Mohali police raided M/s Sia Industry in Hansa Industrial Park, Dera Bassi. During the search, a big haul of liquor bottle caps were found manufactured and stored. No supporting documents could be produced by the manufacturing unit.Approximately 2 lakh caps of Sancheti Packaging Pvt Limited, Chandigarh, were recovered for which no work order could be produced by the owner, Samritpal Singh.Approximately 20,000 caps of Sir Shadi Lal Distillery, Mansurpur (UP), were also found. During the course of investigation, it was established through the Excise Department of Uttar Pradesh that Sir Shadi Lal Distillery had not placed any order for these caps to the manufacturing unit in Punjab.Samritpal Singh was arrested on the spot. He was produced before a local court in Mohali on June 26, which remanded him in two-day police custody. Excise Commissioner Rajat Aggarwal he had taken up the matter with the Chandigarh cpunterpart, who would raise the issue with the Chandigarh Finance Secretary. He said a centralised number — 9875961126 — had been launched by the government for such complaints. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lid-off-illegal-liquor-bottle-cap-unit-at-dera-bassi-owner-held-275029
28-06-2021||---||Worker makes off with gold, diamonds, Rs 3 lakh from jewellery shop in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, June 27Around one and a half kg of gold, diamonds and Rs 3 lakh were stolen from a goldsmith’s shop in Sector 23 by its employee on the intervening night of June 26 and 27. The suspect intoxicated fellow workers and escaped with the valuables and cash.According to the police, complainant Anoop Kumar, a resident of Sector 25, reported that he was into the business of jewellery making and had employed five workers, who used to sleep in the shop.The police said suspect Aakash, a native of West Bengal, threw a birthday party on Saturday night and intoxicated the other employees.He then took the safe to the washroom where he opened it with the help of a cutter and took all valuables, including one and a half kg of gold, diamonds and cash.The police said the suspect left his mobile phone at the shop and fled away on a motorcycle. “Before leaving, he locked the room in which the other employees were sleeping and also locked the shutter of the shop,” said a police official.The incident came to light in the morning when the employees found that they were locked from outside and Aakash was missing. The police were informed, who visited the spot. A police team was rushed to the Ambala railway station in search of the suspect. The police said the footage of CCTV cameras installed at various toll plazas would be checked.A case under Sections 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, etc) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 17 police station.How he went about it||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/worker-makes-off-with-gold-diamonds-rs-3-lakh-from-jewellery-shop-in-chandigarh-275023
28-06-2021||---||Chandigarh cop among three nabbed for Mohali realtor’s murder in Pehowa||Kurukshetra, June 27The Kurukshetra police have arrested a Chandigarh Police constable and his two accomplices in connection with the murder of a Mohali resident, whose body was recovered from his car near a canal at Bodhni village in Pehowa on Thursday.The suspects have been identified as UT constable Manjeet Singh, Pradeep Kumar and Sukhpal, residents of Patiala. The deceased was identified as Sandeep Singh of Mohali. The victim was a property dealer and commission agent. He had suffered four bullet injuries.DSP Narender Singh said, “Following a complaint received from Sandeep’s wife Kuldeep Kaur, a case was registered against Manjeet Singh and the investigation was handed over to the Anti-Narcotic Cell of the Kurukshetra police. During the investigation, Manjeet, Pradeep and Sukhpal were arrested. Manjeet said he was a constable in Chandigarh and his service record was poor due to which the authorities had stopped 18 increments. Around two years ago, Manjeet came in contact with Sandeep, who assured him that he had good contacts and would get his record improved for which Sandeep reportedly took Rs10 lakh.”“Manjeet disclosed that Sandeep failed to get his record improved and was also not returning the money. He hatched a plan and asked Sandeep to meet him.On June 21, Sandeep told his wife that he was going with his friend Manjeet Singh, who needed to collect some payment. He also took his personal revolver, licence, clothes and car with him. Manjeet kept Sandeep captive at a house in Devigarh in Punjab for two days and asked him to return his money. He snatched the victim’s revolver and phone. During this period, the suspect made several rounds in Pehowa and kept Sandeep’s phone with him to show Sandeep’s location in Pehowa,” he saidThe DSP said Manjeet had disclosed that they were afraid that now the victim would get a kidnapping case registered against them following which they took Sandeep near the canal at Bodhni village in Pehowa and killed him on the intervening night of June 23 and 24. The suspects used Sandeep’s personal revolver to shoot him and also used his car. They left Sandeep’s body and other belongings, including the revolver and mobile, and then fled in another car. The suspects were produced before a court, which remanded Manjeet in four-day police custody and Pradeep and Sukhpal in three-day police custody.The triggerThe suspects have been identified as UT constable Manjeet Singh, Pradeep Kumar and Sukhpal, residents of Patiala. Manjeet told the police that his service record was poor due to which the authorities had stopped 18 increments. Sandeep assured Manjeet that he had contacts and would get his record improved and took Rs10 lakh. Manjeet said Sandeep failed to get his record improved and was also not returning the money.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cop-among-three-nabbed-for-mohali-realtors-murder-in-pehowa-275017
28-06-2021||New Delhi||Withdraw cases lodged against farmers for protest marches: SKM||Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Sunday demanded the withdrawal of cases registered against farmers during their protest marches on Saturday to mark seven months of their agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws.SKM, the umbrella body of farmer bodies spearheading the agitation, said the Chandigarh police have booked several farmer leaders on several charges.Farmers on Saturday marched towards the Raj Bhavan in different states to submit memoranda, addressed to the president, and to governors to mark seven months of protests against the Centre’s three farm laws.“In Chandigarh, it is reported that FIRs have been filed against several SKM leaders and many other protesters under IPC sections 147, 148, 149, 186, 188, 332 and 353,” the SKM said in a statement.It alleged that after barricading the roads, the “police also resorted to using water cannons and lathicharge on the protesters”.“On top of this kind of undemocratic and authoritarian behaviour, cases are now being filed against SKM leaders. Samyukt Kisan Morcha condemns this and demands that the FIRs be withdrawn immediately and unconditionally,” it said.In many places, farmers were not allowed to even take out rallies to Raj Bhavans and there were detention and lock-ins of SKM leaders, it said.“SKM condemns this and points out that this itself is an illustration of the failure of democracy and the undeclared emergency that we are going through,” it said in the statement.Noting that cases have been filed against 15 farmers in Hisar who had taken part in a protest against a BJP meeting on June 25, the SKM said the FIRs should be withdrawn immediately.The farmers started their stir against the contentious farm laws in November by camping at Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana, besides at Tikri and Ghazipur borders.The protesting farmers have demanded the withdrawal of the Centre’s farm laws and that a new law be made to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for their crops.The protesting farmers will mark Monday “Kisan Mazdoor Bhaichara Diwas” at Sunehra protest site near the Haryana-Rajasthan border, it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/withdraw-cases-lodged-against-farmers-for-protest-marches-skm-274894
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 15 new Covid-19 cases, no deaths||Chandigarh reported 15 new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, a health bulletin from the union territory’s administration—the lowest infection numbers the UT has reported since March.The UT also reported no new deaths. Chandigarh’s active cases now stand at 203, with a positivity rate of 1.54 per cent over the last seven days.Some 1,363 samples were tested over the last 24 hours, the bulletin showed. The UT also recorded 37 recoveries.The bulletin also showed that 4,21,566 have so far been given at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and 82,539 people are fully vaccinated in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-15-new-covid-19-cases-no-deaths-274875
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Activists Lakha Sidhana, Rajinder Singh booked for farmers’ protest march in Chandigarh||Gangster-turned-activist Lakhvir Singh alias Lakha Sidhana and Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala, vice president Kirti Kissan Union, have been booked by the Chandigarh Police following the farmers’ protest march in Chandigarh.A case under Sections 186, 188, 332, 353, 147, 148 and 149 of the IPC has been registered at Sector 17 police station. Police said that another case has been registered against Punjabi singer Jass Bajwa and actress Sonia Mann, who were also part of the protest march.A large number of farm activists and leaders of farmers’ unions had marched into Chandigarh on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/activists-lakha-sidhana-rajinder-singh-booked-for-farmers-protest-march-in-chandigarh-274819
