29-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 7 new cases,  no deaths||Chandigarh reported seven new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, a news bulletin said on Tuesday.Chandigarh has reported no new deaths since June 21.The average positivity rate for the last seven days has dropped to 1.30 per cent. The city now has 163 active cases.The bulletin showed 1400 samples have been taken over the last 24 hours.The bulletin showed 4,33,666 people have received at least one dose, and 86,142 people have been fully vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-7-new-cases-%C2%A0-no-deaths-275857
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh shops can stay open till 9 pm||Shops in Chandigarh can now stay open from 10 am until 9 pm, a new order from Chandigarh Administration said on Tuesday.  This is one more hour than previously permitted. The new order signed by UT adviser Dharam Pal from the administration said the relaxation given previously would continue to apply.The new timing would come into effect on June 30 and will remain in force until further orders, the order said.A government press release said the administration would start evening vaccination centres at all civil hospitals and at the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 from June 30 from 5 pm to 9 pm except on Sundays.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-shops-can-stay-open-till-9-pm-275829
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Bank fraud: Bail denied to accused Neeraj Kochhar||A local court here has denied the anticipatory bail to Neeraj Kochhar in an alleged multi-crore bank fraud case.The case against Kochhar was registered in 2017. He, along with others, has been booked following a complaint by CR Sebastian, chief manager, Catholic Syrian Bank, Sector 34. An amount of Rs602 lakh is involved in the matter, claimed the assistant public prosecutor while opposing the bail plea of Kochhar.The prosecutor alleged that the petitioner had introduced loanees to the co-accused and the then branch manager of the bank, Suku. Kochhar also introduced other persons pertaining to different loan accounts to Suku for grant of loans for business purposes on different intervals.The co-accused after consulting with Kochhar submitted the loan application before the bank, claimed the prosecutor.He is the mastermind of the entire fraud, the prosecutor argued, adding that regular raids had been conducted to nab the accused but they were absconding. The counsel for Kochhar said “vague allegations” had been levelled against him and he wanted to join the investigation. After hearing the arguments, the court rejected the bail plea. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bank-fraud-bail-denied-to-accused-neeraj-kochhar-275715
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||3 riding auto snatch mobile||3 fined for not wearing maskChandigarh: A local court has imposed a fine of Rs500 each on three persons for not wearing a mask in public place and violating the Covid norms. During the trial, the accused confessed thier fault. TNSTraining for aspiring copsMohali: The police held a free training programme for aspiring candidates of the forthcoming police recruitment for both men and women at the Sports Stadium, Sector 78, Mohali, here on Monday. Information on running, high jump and long jump as well as other exercises for fitness were shared with participants. A training camp will soon be organised for the aspiring candidates on physical preparation and exam preparation. TNSOffice-bearers OF SOCIETY electedChandigarh: Office-bearers of the Yaadgar-e-Rafi society were elected on Monday. BD Sharma was elected as the president, while Dinesh Sharma, IS Kang and GS Ghuman were elected vice-presidents of the society. Yashpal Singla was elected the general secretary, Naresh Sharma the organising secretary, Sanjay Khanna the Finance Secretary and Dr Hari Parkash the Joint Secretary. TNSArt workshop for CHILDRENChandigarh: A week-long online art workshop for kids under the age group 7-14 kicked-off at Divisional Library in Sector 34 on Monday. Kids were taught “paper plate art” making in the first session. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-riding-auto-snatch-mobile-275716
29-06-2021||---||Fatehgarh Sahib doctors on strike||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, June 28Health services in all civil hospitals and community health centres (CHCs) in the district came to halt as doctors, on a call of the Joint Government Doctors’ Coordination Committee, again went on strike today in protest against the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission and reduction in non-practising allowance (NPA).The doctors held a rally outside the local civil hospital. They, however, attended to emergency and Covid-related patients.Dr Satnam Banga and Dr TS Randhawa said it was unfortunate that the pay commission not only decreased the non-practising allowance (NPA) from 25% to 20% but also de-linked it from the basic pay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fatehgarh-sahib-doctors-on-strike-275683
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Fire breaks out near Sector 33 fuel station in Chandigarh||A fire broke out in the forest area adjacent to the Sector 33 fuel station here today.According to a fireman, the fire broke out about 8:45 pm. The blaze took petrol pump staff as well as customers by surprise and the fuel station was closed as a precautionary measure, said an official.At the time of filing this report, four fire tenders had already been pressed in to douse the fire. Sources said the fire erupted from the waste dumped on the backside of the petrol pump. However, the exact cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-breaks-out-near-sector-33-fuel-station-in-chandigarh-275678
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Do away with NOC for water connection in lal dora: Chandigarh MC panel||The Water Supply and Sewerage Disposal Committee of the Municipal Corporation today recommended that residents living within the lal dora limits in villages do not require the NOC for issuing new water connections.The committee asked the officers concerned to take up the issue during the General House meeting for decision.The meeting was held under the chairmanship of councillor Shakti Parkash Devshali. The committee members also discussed and decided that encroachments on public toilets shall be removed with the help of the police.The members asked the officials concerned to ensure all gullies and manholes are cleaned well before the onset of monsoon. They also ordered repair and maintenance of public toilets throughout the city.The committee, meanwhile, accorded approval to three development agendas related to laying of sewerage pipelines. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/do-away-with-noc-for-water-connection-in-lal-dora-chandigarh-mc-panel-275673
29-06-2021||Mohali||Teachers protest outside Punjab CM’s farmhouse in Siswan, arrested||More than 100 members of the Elementary Teacher Training-Teacher Eligibility Test (ETT-TET) Qualified Unemployed Teachers Union today laid siege to Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s farmhouse in Siswan in Mohali over their long-pending demands.Wearing black ribbons, the protestors, who came in two buses, raised slogans against the state government. When they tried to enter the farm house, they were arrested by the police and taken to Mullanpur and Gharuan police stations.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Satinder Singh, along with the Superintendent of Police and the area DSP, rushed to the spot. Satinder Singh warned the protesting teachers against disturbing the law and order situation but when teachers refused to budge, they were arrested by the police and taken to two police stations.The protestors alleged that while arresting them, the police dragged some of the members and some of them even suffered minor injuries.The ETT and TET Pass Teachers Union president Deepak Kamboj said their demands were ignored by the state government despite their prolonged protest. He said two months have passed since two members of the union had climbed atop a BSNL tower behind the post office in the city and were carrying on the protest. He said the two were facing many challenges.Kamboj said: “Earlier in 2016, present Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Member of Parliament Preneet Kaur had assured us that our demands will be fulfilled. For the past four years, the ruling dispensation has been ignoring them,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-protest-outside-punjab-cms-farmhouse-in-siswan-arrested-275674
29-06-2021||---||Cancel FIRs against farmers in Chandigarh, Delhi: Dal Khalsa||Amritsar, June 28Criticising the Chandigarh police for implicating Lakha Sidhana, Baldev Singh Sirsa and many others under frivolous charges, the Dal Khalsa and the Sikh Youth of Punjab sought cancellation of FIRs registered against them. They also demanded withdrawal of cases registered against them in the national capital.They accused the Union Home Ministry for police highhandedness. Dal Khalsa general secretary Paramjit Singh Tanda and SYP head Paramjit Singh Mand alleged that the Chandigarh police have booked agitating farmers at the behest of their political bosses in Delhi. They alleged that the BJP-led Union Government was resorting to arm twisting measures to suppress farmers’ agitation.Referring to FIRs registered against protesting farmers by the Delhi police following tractor march on January 26, the Dal Khalsa alleged that the Chandigarh police has followed the Delhi pattern to implicate farmer leaders. They said the police allegations against protesters were baseless and that protesting farmers didn’t indulge in violence neither in Chandigarh nor in Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cancel-firs-against-farmers-in-chandigarh-delhi-dal-khalsa-275695
29-06-2021||Panchkula||3 cases, no death in Panchkula district||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-cases-no-death-in-panchkula-district-275657
29-06-2021||Mohali||One succumbs, 19 infected in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-succumbs-19-infected-in-mohali-275658
29-06-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali MC all set to extend its limits||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 28In a historic decision, the Mohali Municipal Corporation (MC) passed a resolution to extend its boundaries by including various “key areas” under its jurisdiction at a virtual House meeting held today.Areas to be includedThe areas to come under the MC include Sector 91, 92, 82, 66-A and 74, Balongi, Barmajra and Baryali villages, the Phase 11 bulk market and Sector 116, 117, 118 and 119 (TDI).The other resolutions passed during the meeting included handing over libraries set up in various parks of Mohali to residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) for maintenance and operation, taking over sports stadia developed by GMADA and bringing the Public Health Department under the civic body.Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu, Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi and MC Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg were among those present at the meeting. Other councillors participated via videoconferencing. Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu said today’s meeting was historic, in which resolutions were brought one after another keeping in view the development of the city. He said Sector 91, 92, 82, 66-A and 74, Balongi, Barmajra, Baryali, etc. were included in the resolution for extending the boundaries of the MC.Besides, the Phase 11 bulk market and areas of Sector 116, 117, 118 and 119 (TDI) would also be brought under the MC, which would not only facilitate development works in the area but also raise the revenue of the civaic body.The Mayor said the libraries set up in various parks of Mohali were currently closed. In view of this, a resolution was passed to hand over their management to the RWAs for their commissioning. Necessary arrangements for their operation would be made by RWAs for which Rs10,000 per month would be paid to the associations.Sidhu said the MC passed a resolution to take over the entire functioning of the Public Health Department as many important development works to be carried out by the department were delayed even as money was spent by the MC. The resolution also states that the employees of the department could be taken over by the MC on deputation.In another important resolution to provide sports facilities to the people of Mohali, the MC has resolved to take over GMADA sports stadiums. Mohali has GMADA stadiums in Phase 5, 7 and 11 and Sector 69 and 71. Their renovation work is on in full swing. After the completion of the work, the MC would take over the stadiums and run these itself.Apart from this, adopting a dog policy and giving jobs to the heirs of deceased employees were among other resolutions passed by the MC House.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-all-set-to-extend-its-limits-275662
29-06-2021||---||Finally, Patiala police catch up with women who dragged dog||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 28Two women, who were accused of dragging a dog after tethering it to their scooter, were arrested by the police today. The suspects have been identified as Chanchal and Sonia, residents of the Adarsh Nagar area near Ablowal village in Patiala. Both suspects were immediately released on bail.‘It had turned violent’The two women, who are known to each other, revealed that the dog had turned violent. They claimed that it had attacked a kid at their house.— Gurpreet Bhinder, SHO, Civil Lines, PatialaGurpreet Bhinder, SHO, Civil Lines, said they had impounded the scooter used by the suspects. “The two women, who are known to each other, revealed that the dog had turned violent. They claimed that it had attacked a kid at their house,” the SHO said.Bhinder revealed that the women were taking the dog to the Bhakhra canal when they were stopped by some activist.Asked about a report of the suspects changing the colour of the scooter to evade identification, Bhinder said, “We have impounded the vehicle. I don’t see any change in the scooter. However, we will again verify.”Meanwhile, Sushma Singh Rathore, founder, Chopaya Jeev Rakha Foundation, said, “Our volunteers traced the suspects and called the police. We will ensure that the suspects get stringent punishment.”The police said during questioning, the women revealed that the dog was a pet and they were taking it near Bhakra canal to unleash it there.Rishabh Sharma, an advocate, has extended free legal aid to the NGO, which played an instrumental role in apprehending the suspects, who booked under the preventing cruelty to animals Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/finally-patiala-police-catch-up-with-women-who-dragged-dog-275665
29-06-2021||---||CCTV snag delays Driving Licence test at Chandigarh's Children Traffic Park||Chandigarh, June 28A technical glitch in CCTV cameras delayed the regular driving licence test at Children Traffic Park in Sector 23 here today.The test for regular driving licence for four-wheelers and two-wheelers resumed today after nearly two months as the office of the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) remained closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Deepak Kumar, an applicant, said he had an appointment for 9.30 am, but could not appear in the test due to non-functional CCTV cameras. Officials should have rectified the fault before restarting the test after a long period, he said.Neena, another applicant, said scores of applicants faced inconvenience for several hours in the scorching heat due to the technical fault in the cameras and sensors. She, however, said the fault was rectified later and the test started around noon.Admitting a delay in the conduct of the test, an official of the RLA said the technical fault was rectified and the test restarted around 12.30 pm. Only a few applicants could not appear in the test as they took appointments for later days; others appeared in the test, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cctv-snag-delays-driving-licence-test-at-chandigarhs-children-traffic-park-275670
29-06-2021||Sandeep Rana||Khuda Ali Sher: Illegal construction on agri land under Admn scanner||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 28Illegal construction on agriculture land in Khuda Ali Sher village has come under the scanner of the UT Administration.Several illegal houses have already been built on the agriculture land while the new ones are also coming up here. The UT Administration is demolishing the new ones simultaneously. For old ones, litigation have been pending in the Punjab and Haryana High Court and officials have to follow the due procedure such as serving notices before acting.About 200-300 illegal house cases under the periphery Act are currently pending before the SDM. “We demolish any new house that starts coming up. Today also, we demolished a big building there. While in the case of old ones, constructed before the High Court order, we are following the due procedure,” SDM (Central) Harjeet Singh Sandhu told Chandigarh Tribune.In a visit to the area following complaints, a team of The Tribune team found several shops and houses built on the agriculture land.“At the time of buying the land, we were told that houses can be built here and we will get an approval later. However, that has not happened,” said a resident.In some areas, two canal farms are also on sale there. “No plots are left now. All have been sold out,” a realtor told The Tribune.A local resident said: “Farms are just an excuse. Actual purpose of people buying the farms is to build houses at a later stage. The authorities must keep a check on it.”However, SDM Sandhu said: “Selling two canal farms is allowed in the UT. However, the owners cannot construct anything on the land. We keep an eye on that and will not let that happen.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/khuda-ali-sher-illegal-construction-on-agri-land-under-admn-scanner-275671
29-06-2021||---||Supreme Court paves the way for privatisation of Chandigarh Power Dept||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 28The Supreme Court today cleared the decks for the privatisation of the UT Electricity Department as it stayed the order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court wherein the privatisation process was put on hold.As of now, there is no stay on the privatisation of the Electricity Department, said a legal expert.The High Court had on May 28 stayed the process of privatisation of the department. The UT Administration had filed a petition in the Supreme Court against the order.On November 9, 2020, the UT Engineering Department had invited bids for the privatisation of the Electricity Department.On a petition filed by the UT Powermen Union, the High Court had, on December 1, 2020, stayed the tendering process regarding the privatisation of the Electricity Department of the UT Administration.The petitioner had contended that they were aggrieved by the decision to privatise the electricity wing by selling 100 per cent stake of the government in the absence of any provision under Section 131 of the Electricity Act, 2003.The Bench was also told that the process of privatisation of the wing could not be initiated at all, especially when it was running in profits. The sale of 100 per cent stake was unjust and illegal as the wing was revenue surplus for the past three years. It was economically efficient, having transmission and distribution losses less than the target of 15 per cent fixed by the Ministry of Power.However, On January 12, the Supreme Court had stayed the order of the High Court and on January 14, the UT Administration resumed the sale of tender for the privatisation process.After the Administration restarted the process, the union again filed a petition in the High Court which again stayed the process on May 28.Six companies — Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NESCL (NTPC), Adani Transmission Ltd, Tata Power and Torrent Power — had submitted their bids for the privatisation of the Electricity Department.As the Supreme Court stayed the High Court order, the UT Administration could resume the process and open the financial bids to select the company take over the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/supreme-court-paves-the-way-for-privatisation-of-chandigarh-power-dept-275672
29-06-2021||Panchkula||Submit detailed report on illegal mining in Raipur Rani’s Badona Kalan village, says Haryana minister||Haryana Sports Minister Sandeep Singh today sought a detailed report on the illegal mining in the district.Taking cognisance of illegal mining in Raipur Rani’s Badona Kalan village, the minister said accountability of mining guard should be fixed.The matter was raised during a meeting of the district grievance redressal committee at the PWD rest house in Sector 1, here. The meeting was chaired by the Sports Minister.A total of 14 agendas were tabled during the meeting.Meanwhile, Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta ordered an inquiry into the overloading of trucks with mined stones.Gupta said BB Singhal and Harender Malik – BJP members and part of the grievance committee – would assist the official concerned in the investigation.Other issues that came up during the meeting included fixing of electricity wires in Naggal village, contaminated water supply in Bhoj Rajpura and Joli villages and use of sub-standard material in development works in Bitna village.Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh and Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal were also present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/submit-detailed-report-on-illegal-mining-in-raipur-ranis-badona-kalan-village-says-haryana-minister-275698
29-06-2021||---||Nightclub in Chandigarh's Industrial Area found open beyond permissible time||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 28A nightclub, Tamzaraa, was found open beyond the permissible time in the Industrial Area, Phase I, here, yesterday.SI Jatinder Singh received a message from the control room that the club was open even after the permissible time. The SI, along with a police party, reached the spot and found the club open.The police said the staff members fled from the spot and bouncers could not furnish any document for opening the club beyond the permissible time. Club manager Rattan Singh and owner Anil violated the Deputy Commissioner’s order.A case under Section 188 of the IPC has been registered at the Industrial Area police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nightclub-in-chandigarhs-industrial-area-found-open-beyond-permissible-time-275705
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||SC allows Ind Swift Ltd's director NR Munjal to travel abroad||The Supreme Court has allowed NR Munjal, director, M/s Ind Swift Ltd, to travel abroad. Munjal, an accused in the alleged VAT evasion case, had sought permission to travel to Abu Dhabi for a period of 45 days from July 5 July for the treatment of his wife, who is suffering from a retinal disease since 2017.Munjal submitted that his wife required an alternative line of treatment at the Cleveland Clinic in Abu Dhabi.A senior counsel appearing on behalf of Munjal submitted that the appellant had businesses and factories in India and there could be no apprehension that he would not return to face the trial.Allowing the petition, the Supreme Court ordered that the passport of the appellant should be returned to him only for the purpose of enabling him to visit Abu Dhabi for the medical treatment of his spouse between July 5 and August 18.A case of cheating and forgery was registered against Munjal by the Vigilance Department. As per the prosecution, the company had a liability of about Rs 5.9 crore but it had paid only Rs 5,000 as VAT.The matter was initially probed by the Vigilance Department and later transferred to the crime branch. In December 2018, Munjal was arrested by the crime branch. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sc-allows-ind-swift-ltds-director-nr-munjal-to-travel-abroad-275710
29-06-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Ensure waterlogging doesn’t occur: Chandigarh Adviser||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 28UT Adviser Dharam Pal today issued directions to officials of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation and the Engineering Department to complete the process of cleaning of stormwater drains and road gullies before heavy rain lashes the city.While reviewing the preparations for the rainy season, the UT Adviser directed the officials to complete the cleaning process at the most by July 2.“The monsoon is expected to arrive anytime after July 2 and we should be ready for that,” he said. The Adviser sternly told the officials that “No waterlogging should occur in the city.”The monsoon is expected to arrive in the first week of July, but the Municipal Corporation has not been able to clean up all road gullies so far.LR Budaniya, an environmental activist, said unclean road gullies could increase the chances of waterlogging in the city during rain.The MC has more than 30,000 road gullies under its jurisdiction, while the UT Engineering Department cleans gullies on roads under its purview such as Madhya Marg and Dakshin Marg.Seasonal rivulets such as Sukhna Choe, N-Choe and Patiala Ki Rao also come under the control of the Engineering Department and the work on cleaning of the rivulets was still going on.Due to the carelessness in the cleaning of rivulets, some areas were also flooded in Khuda Lahora after a flash flood in the Patiala Ki Rao rivulet last year.Meanwhile, residents alleged that several road gullies were not cleaned in their sectors. Water accumulated in various areas of the city during the pre-monsoon showers recently, Budaniya said, adding that even where road gullies were cleaned, work had not been done properly.Not removing waste after cleaning the gullies was a waste of efforts, he said, adding that the waste should be removed immediately after cleaning the gullies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ensure-waterlogging-doesnt-occur-chandigarh-adviser-275711
29-06-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Prefixing ‘Mr’ before name of Chandigarh woman costs bank dear||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 28The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed a bank to pay compensation to a woman for prefixing Mr before her name wrongly.Kavita, a resident of Sector 32, Chandigarh, approached the commission through advocate Devinder Kumar after she failed to transfer the fee of a foreign college due to the bank’s mistake.Kavita said she opened a savings account with the State Bank of India, Sector 32 branch, Chandigarh, in 2018 mentioning her name in the account opening form as “Miss Kavita”. In the passbook issued by the bank, her name was mentioned as “Mr Kavita”.The complainant said when she brought the mistake to the notice of the bank, an official corrected it manually in the passbook. The official also assured her of correcting the mistake in the computer/online record.Kavita said she received an offer letter from a college based in Canada on January 6, 2020. As per the visa rules, the student must have a GIC account (guaranteed investment certificate) for getting a student visa through which the student will be getting a particular amount for her survival.Accordingly, her account was opened in Scotiabank in the name of “Miss Kavita” on January 14, 2020. A confirmation was received from the bank. The bank, through an email, directed her to make the payment.She mentioned her name as Kavita in the online documents for Scotiabank. She visited the SBI Sector 32 branch for transferring money to the Scotiabank account.The SBI branch demanded certain information from her, which she provided along with emails received from Scotiabank. She said for transferring the amount, the bank filled an online form and showed a printed sheet to her wherein the complainant’s name was mentioned as Mr Kavita instead of Miss Kavita.However, the bank again assured her that it was a technical issue and the money would be transferred to her Scotiabank account. She said the Sector 32 bank transferred an amount of Rs5,69,796 to the Scotiabank account on January 20, 2020, and gave her an acknowledgement slip. The bank charged Rs553.20 as commission and Rs602.82 as service charge. A total of Rs5,70,952.02 was debited from her Sector 32 bank account.However, she received a rejection letter on January 24, 2020, from Scotiabank informing her that the amount could not be accepted due to “ordering customer title does not match”.On February 3, 2020, an amount of Rs5,45,570 was credited to her SBI account. She said due to the wrongful act of the bank, she suffered a loss of Rs25,382.The bank denied all charges. It also claimed that the difference in the amount i.e. Rs25,382 had already been refunded to the complainant, so she suffered no financial loss.After hearing the arguments, the commission found the bank guilty of deficiency in service. The commission directed the bank to pay Rs7,000 as compensation and litigation expenses to the complainant within a month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prefixing-mr-before-name-of-chandigarh-woman-costs-bank-dear-275712
29-06-2021||Naina Mishra||85% children with multisystem inflammatory syndrome require ICU admission: PGI study||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 28In the largest cohort of critically ill children with multisystem inflammatory syndrome (MIS) from north India, PGI researchers found that 85 per cent of the cases enrolled with the hospital required pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) support.The study was conducted in the pediatric emergency and intensive care units and Covid-19 hospital, PGI, Chandigarh, over a period of five months – from September 2020-January 2021.The data of 40 children in the age group of three months to 12 years with the MIS was retrieved from the admission files. The study published in the ‘Journal of Tropical Pediatrics’ is a pre-print version.The highest number of cases – 11 children – with MIS were admitted to the PGI in October 2020, after the first peak of Covid-19 in September.Multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) is a severe multi systemic (involving entire body) manifestation of the Covid-19 infection. The maximum incidence of the MIS-C is reported to occur nearly 2-6 weeks after the Covid-19 peak.As opposed to the Covid-19, which is less in frequency and severity among children, the MIS-C tends to be more severe. It is known to be a post-Covid phenomenon, characterised by multiple organ dysfunction – both gastrointestinal (stomach and intestines) and cardiovascular (heart).The children showed symptoms six days from hospitalisation and 62.5 per cent were admitted in other hospitals before being referred to the PGI.According to the study, 85 per cent of the children required the PICU admission where they received nasal prong oxygen (40%), non-invasive (22.5%) and invasive (22.5%) ventilation.The common clinical features were fever (97.5%), abdominal (72.5%), and respiratory (50%) symptoms. Shock, as a symptom was present in 80 per cent of these children.Despite the multi-systemic involvement and shock, mortality in the PGI study was low, highlighting the importance of timely diagnosis, organ support and immunomodulatory therapies.“The two deaths that occurred in our cohort were due to refractory shock (manifestation of cardiac failure) and occurred within 24 hours of the admission, underscoring the importance of early recognition,” the study noted.“A high index of suspicion is warranted in children with constellation of fever, gastrointestinal and cardiovascular involvement along with evidence of systemic inflammation and recent Covid-19 infection,” the study concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/85-children-with-multisystem-inflammatory-syndrome-require-icu-admission-pgi-study-275713
29-06-2021||---||Sukhbir Badal meets kin of suicide victim at Lalru||Tribune News ServiceLalru, June 28Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today announced that the party would intensify its agitation, including gheraoing the Mohali SSP office, in case prompt action was not taken against those who exploited a 32-year-old woman, leading her to commit suicide.Party to provide legal aid to familyShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal assured the victim’s family members that the party would do its best to ensure justice to them. He said besides intensifying the public movement to build pressure on the district police to take action in the case, the party would also provide legal aid to the affected family.The caseKuldeep Kaur, who was working as a clerk in the Technical Education Department, had committed suicide by jumping before the Shatabdi on the Ambala-Chandigarh railway track in Lalru recently.Badal stated this after interacting with the victim’s family here along with Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma and expressed grief at the tragic incident. He also assured the family members that the SAD would do its utmost to ensure justice to them. He said besides intensifying the public movement to build pressure on the district police to take action in the case, the party would also provide legal aid to the affected family.“We will even file a writ petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, if needed,” he said. The SAD president also spoke to the Mohali SSP and asked him to take prompt action in the case. He said delay in arresting the accused had sent out a message that they were being provided political shelter.He told the SSP that “this is unacceptable. We cannot compromise on the dignity of our women”. Sukhbir Singh Badalsaid it was astonishing that the pain and suffering of the victim’s family did not reach the Chief Minister’s office.MLA NK Sharma said the victim, Kuldeep Kaur, was posted as a clerk in the Technical Education and Training Department. Though a case had been registered against two employees of the department, no arrest had been made so far.Sharma said the Shiromani Akali Dal would intensify the agitation if the suspects were not arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sukhbir-badal-meets-kin-of-suicide-victim-at-lalru-275691
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Lathicharge on farmers: Just used mild force, says Chandigarh SSP||The social media has been abuzz with videos and pictures of events that transpired on the afternoon of June 26, when thousands of farm activists marched till Sector 17, along with SKM and BKU leaders.On Instagram, a video of a boy, Harpreet Singh of Khuda Lahora, has been going viral. Chandigarh SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal has been tagged to posts of the boy being “lathicharged and abused” by the city police.Chahal said: “We used mild force to maintain law and order. The boy wasn’t obeying even the farm leaders. We had to maintain discipline.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lathicharge-on-farmers-just-used-mild-force-says-chandigarh-ssp-275676
29-06-2021||---||Firm to face penalty for delay in starting bicycle-sharing project in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 28Chandigarh Smart City Ltd will impose a penalty on the firm implementing the public bicycle-sharing project over the delay in starting the first phase.A senior official said there was a provision in the agreement that the company was liable to pay the penalty for delays. The penalty is to be paid on a per day basis after the deadline to implement the project expires on June 28.The company was already given a number of extensions due to Covid-19, but it failed to do the needful.As many as 5,000 bicycles have to be provided at 617 docking stations across the city. The original deadline for the entire project was March 2022.The first phase was to start in April this year, but the company failed to do it citing pandemic and related logistic issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/firm-to-face-penalty-for-delay-in-starting-bicycle-sharing-project-in-chandigarh-275677
29-06-2021||---||Ex-servicemen complain of restrictions on canteen services||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 28Ex-servicemen are complaining against the fresh restrictions imposed on their visit to canteen stores department (CSD outlets) and limit on the items that can be purchased by them.In a letter written to the Army Headquarters, the Ex-Servicemen Grievances Cell, Mohali, stated that its inquiries have revealed that CSD depots have restricted collecting stock from the unit-run canteens to once a month instead of the earlier two to three times a month. Lifting the entire stock in one go instead of in phases increases the working capital, besides requiring additional transport capability and storage space.Further, some canteens were only issued a third of their regular demand this month, which resulted in some items remaining out of stock, the Cell stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-servicemen-complain-of-restrictions-on-canteen-services-275680
29-06-2021||Mohali||Azad group opposes move to extend Mohali MC limits||Even as the Mohali Municipal Corporation has passed the resolution to extend its boundaries by including new sectors and various villages, the Azad group today alleged that it was being done to “benefit only one person”.Addressing the mediapersons, Parminder Singh Sohana, senior leader of the Azad group, said in the earlier meeting they had demanded separate bylaws for city and villages.Parminder said after inclusion of villages in municipal limits the residents would have to pay property tax at par with the people living in the city.Parminder further said despite several reminders the MC had failed to declare the president and members of the Bal Gopal Gaushala. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/azad-group-opposes-move-to-extend-mohali-mc-limits-275681
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh logs eight cases, the lowest in a year||After a gap of almost a year, the city today recorded only eight cases of Covid-19. The positivity rate also stood as low as 0.5 per cent. It was on July 5 last year when Chandigarh had reported seven cases. The cases have never been so low since then.No fatality in chandigarhChandigarh on Monday reported eight new cases of Covid-19 and no fatality. The total number of active cases has come down to 181 as 30 patients were cured.The graph of Covid-19 incidence has come down after battling a severe second wave. In the past one week, 1.8 per cent of the samples tested positive. This week, only one Covid-19 death took place in the city. In the past week, 12 persons had succumbed to the virus.The city recorded 188 cases this week, registering a fall of 34 per cent from the previous week when 284 cases were reported.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services (DHS), UT, said, “Vaccination has helped in a big way to achieve this even as restrictions have been removed. All eligible citizens above 18 years of age should get vaccinated at the earliest. Everyone should wear a mask when stepping out of home. The hard work of healthcare workers in testing and vaccinating has borne fruit.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-logs-eight-cases-the-lowest-in-a-year-275655
29-06-2021||---||Arvind Kejriwal in Chandigarh today, may offer poll sops||Chandigarh, June 28Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal is likely to announce a slew of sops, including 200 units of free power to every house in the state, as his party gets ready for the electoral battle in 2022.Kejriwal will pay a daylong visit to the city on Tuesday, and is expected to unveil a “mini charter or his party’s vision for the state” tomorrow. “He will make big announcements about Punjab”. Disclosing this here on Monday, AAP state president and Lok Sabha member Bhagwant Mann said Kejriwal would also announce welfare measures for the people of Punjab on the lines of those being provided to the citizens of Delhi. He said Kejriwal could also promise to provide free electricity to the people of Punjab.Controversy over venue||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/arvind-kejriwal-in-chandigarh-today-may-offer-poll-sops-275419
29-06-2021||New Delhi||Monsoon: No rains in northwest India till July 7-8||With the northern limit of the southwest monsoon (NLM) stuck at its position for more than 10 days now, the Indian Meteorological Department said on Tuesday the seasonal rains are not expected to progress into Delhi, Chandigarh, Haryana, and southern parts of Punjab for another 6-7 days. Rather, some independent forecasters believe the monsoon may continue to give the hitherto uncovered parts of the Northwest a miss till around July 10.Why it mattersAccording to Mahesh Palawat of Skymet, from Monday/Tuesday the monsoon axis is also shifting towards foothills, further leading the seasonal rains into perhaps the “longest break spell” at this time of the year. It also means that parts of central India that have been covered may also not receive rains it revives again.“Though it has happened earlier, such a long break at this time of the year is unusual. There’s no indication of rains (in Northwest) till July 7/8,” says Palawat. The IMD also adds that prevailing meteorological conditions, large scale atmospheric features, and the forecast wind pattern by dynamical models suggest that no favourable conditions are likely to develop for further advance of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Rajasthan, West Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, and Punjab during next 6-­7 days.The main reason, rather the hindering factor, appears to be the prevalence of westerlies over the region, which again is “unusual” as according to Palawat by this time they generally shift into upper latitudes.“Upper-level westerlies have been persisting since June 17/18, which is unusual as generally during this time of the year they shift more north,” he says.   Notably, the IMD around July 11 said that rains will reach Delhi by June 15, which is 12 days before its usual date of June 27. Last year also the wind system had covered the entire country by June 29, seven days before the usual date of July 8. “The monsoon was really progressing well till then. Rather the low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal was expected to further boost the current, which did not happen,” meteorologists say.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/monsoon-no-rains-in-northwest-india-till-july-7-8-275288
