30-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 9 new cases of Covid-19 and no deaths||Chandigarh on Wednesday reported nine new Covid-19 cases and no deaths as the total number of cases reached 61,670.The death toll in the city is 808 while the active cases have come down to 154.A total of 23 patients were discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.As many as 60,708 people have been cured till date.The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours is 1751.The number of people who have received the first vaccine dose is 4,38,784 while 88,013 have received both the doses in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-9-new-cases-of-covid-19-and-no-deaths-276332
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Lawyers form panel to defend farm leaders||A group of lawyers today announced a committee to legally defend the farm leaders and activists against whom the cases were registered last week by the Chandigarh Police during a protest.The Lawyer’s Defence Committee for Farmers is to be led by prominent lawyers, including Rajinder Singh Cheema, Joginder Singh Toor and Manjit Singh Khaira. “We have obtained copies of FIRs and on thread bare perusal, it has been found that the allegations levelled therein, are vague, absurd and not only patently false but ridiculous,” said Toor.He said everybody who had seen the protest on regional and national media had seen leaders named were not involved in breaking barriers nor causing any injury to anyone. He said some leaders against whom the cases had been registered neither were part of the protest nor present in Chandigarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lawyers-form-panel-to-defend-farm-leaders-275959
30-06-2021||---||Chandigarh Beopar Mandal hails revised shop timings||Chandigarh, June 29 The Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) has welcomed the decision of UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore to allow all shops in the city to remain open till 9 pm daily. Charanjiv Singh, president of the CBM, said allowing an extra hour for shopping in the city was a step in the right direction. He repeated the demand for more financial relief and supporting measures by the government for the traders. “Now, we are hopeful of getting economical relief packages also at the earliest,” he said. Diwakar Sahoonja, spokesperson for the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said the CBM was hopeful of early steps by the government towards pending demands such as compensation for huge losses incurred by traders due to the lockdown, waiving electricity and other charges for lockdown period, allowing self-assessments of pending taxation cases without C forms on the Punjab Government pattern and bringing need-based changes in building bylaws of commercial properties to give further boost to the commercial activities in the state. Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, president, Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, appreciated the decision of the Administration for allowing the shops to open from 10 am to 9 pm. He urged the Administrator that the traders were still waiting for the relief package in view of the prevailing situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-beopar-mandal-hails-revised-shop-timings-275888
30-06-2021||---||Special vax drive for differently abled, elderly takes off in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, June 29The Department of Social Welfare, Women and Child Development, in convergence with the Department of Health and Family Welfare, today started a special Covid-19 vaccination drive for persons with disabilities, their caregivers and senior citizens of the UT.The drive aims at providing inclusive, seamless and accessible delivery of vaccination to the maximum number of disabled persons, their caregivers and senior citizens as they are most vulnerable and have comorbidities, which may put them at higher risk of being affected by Covid.The special vaccination drive is being carried out at 24 locations, including periphery areas, across the city.A total of 242 persons from Dhanas, Dadu Majra Colony, Sarangpur, Maloya and Palsora were inoculated on the first day of the drive.In order to cover the maximum disabled and senior citizen population of the city, the Secretary, Social Welfare, UT, has decided to provide free pick-and-drop facility from doorstep to the nearest vaccination centre. In order to avail of this facility, toll-free numbers 181, 9915023456 have been released.The Director Social Welfare has deputed supervisors, Anganwari workers, Anganwari helpers and NSS volunteers to visit the residence of persons with disabilities and make arrangements in collaboration with officials of the helpline and allied units of the department to encourage them and dispel the myths associated with the vaccination.The drive is being carried out at the Government Medical College & Hospital (GMCH-32), Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH-16), civil hospitals in Sector 22, Sector 45, Mani Majra and various health and wellness centres of the city.Toll-free numbersIn order to cover the maximum disabled and senior citizen population of the city, the Secretary, Social Welfare, UT, has decided to provide free pick-and-drop facility from doorstep to the nearest vaccination centre. In order to avail of this facility, toll-free numbers 181, 9915023456 have been released.The centresThe drive is being carried out at the GMCH-32, GMSH-16, civil hospitals in Sector 22, Sector 45, Mani Majra and various health and wellness centres of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/special-vax-drive-for-differently-abled-elderly-takes-off-in-chandigarh-275889
30-06-2021||---||Lalru suicide case: Railway Police arrest suspect from Zirakpur||Lalru, June 29The Railway Police today arrested one of the suspects, Senior Assistant Arvinder Singh, for abetting a 32-year-old woman’s suicide. The woman was working as a clerk with the Technical Education Department in Sector 36, Chandigarh.Superintendent Bhupinder Singh was yet to be arrested, the police said.“On a statement of the victim’s mother, rape charge (Section 376) has been added to the FIR registered under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code,” said Gurdarshan Singh, SHO of the Patiala GRP police station.Malkit Singh, brother of the deceased, told the police that his sister was working with the Technical Education Department in Sector 36, Chandigarh. He alleged that Superintendent Bhupinder Singh and Senior Assistant Arvinder Singh were harassing his sister for a long time. They were physically abusing her. He said the Deputy Director of the department was also informed about this, but no action was taken against the two officials.On Tuesday, Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa, Tehsildar Navdeep Singh Sergill and MC official Barjinder Singh met the family members amidst sloganeering and protest.Officials from the Technical Education and Industrial Development, Sector 36, Chandigarh, among others joined the dharna to express condolences to the family on the third day of the protest at the ITI Chowk.The protesting family members and residents of the area today demanded drinking water and temporary toilets at the protest site. Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma and AAP leader Navjot Saini were also present on the occasion.The suspect, who was arrested from Zirakpur, will be produced before a court tomorrow. Rape charge added“On a statement of the victim’s mother, rape charge (Section 376) has been added to the FIR registered under Section 306 of the IPC,” said Gurdarshan Singh, SHO of the Patiala GRP police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lalru-suicide-case-railway-police-arrest-suspect-from-zirakpur-275890
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Veterans from tricity seek meeting of Rajya Sainik Board||Ex-servicemen from the tricity have asked Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore to convene a meeting of the Rajya Sainik Board (RSB), which has not been held for the past four years, to redress various issues pertaining to the armed forces personnel and veterans. In a letter to Badnore, who is also ex-officio president of the Punjab RSB, ex-servicemen have raised issues such as implementation of electoral rights of serving soldiers, sharing of canteen profits and expenditure incurred on the Defence Service Welfare Department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/veterans-from-tricity-seek-meeting-of-rajya-sainik-board-275891
30-06-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Investigating officer faces court’s wrath||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 29An investigating officer (IO) faced the ire of the court for not mentioning full facts while filing reply on a bail application of an accused allegedly involved in an accident in which one woman died last year.Additional Sessions Judge Anshu Shukla expressed displeasure on the act of the IO while dismissing the bail application of accused Dr Kuldeep arrested in the alleged accident case.The observation of the court came after Madan Singh Dasila, counsel for the complainant, told the court that the state in its reply had failed to mention important facts that the anticipatory bail applications of the accused were dismissed by the courts earlier.The court in the order said: “The IO did not mention some facts in the reply to assist the court and has failed to discharge his duties sincerely. A separate letter will be written to the SSP, Chandigarh, to this effect”.Dasila placed the copy of the order of the Additional Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, dated May 3, 2021, in which the anticipatory bail of the petitioner was dismissed. He said the petitioner later approached the High Court where the application for anticipatory bail was dismissed as withdrawn.Dr Kuldeep was arrested by the police on June 15, 2021, after Section 304 of the IPC was also added to the FIR registered against him on December 1, 2020.As per the allegations of the prosecution, the present case was registered on the complaint of Pan Singh, who alleged that a car driven by Kuldeep hit an Activa on December 1, 2020. As a result, Activa riders fell on the road and sustained injuries. The injured persons were immediately shifted to the PGI by a PCR van. One of the injured persons, Geeta, wife of Kamal, succumbed to the injuries while undergoing treatment.On the basis of the complaint, an FIR was registered against the accused.The assistant public prosecutor, while opposing the bail application, said during the course of investigation, Kuldeep was arrested on December 2, 2020 and released on bail. After the completion of investigation, a challan was prepared against him. During the scrutiny of the challan as well as after examining the reports, the District Attorney opined to remove Section 304-A of the IPC and add Section 304 to the FIR. In compliance with the directions of the District Attorney, Section 304 of the IPC was added to the case. On June 15, 2021, the petitioner was again arrested.The counsel for the accused claimed that the petitioner was an innocent person. A bare perusal of the FIR would reveal that no offence was made out against the petitioner. The petitioner is a doctor by profession. The petitioner, being a responsible and law-abiding citizen, did not try to evade the process of law and complied with the investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/investigating-officer-faces-courts-wrath-275892
30-06-2021||---||Dispute between member, society falls under CPA: Panel||Chandigarh, June 29In one of the significant judgments, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has held that dispute between a member and a society is a consumer dispute and it falls under the Consumer Protection Act (CPA).Stating this, the commission has directed Sahara Credit Cooperative Society Limited, Sector 22, Chandigarh, to pay the maturity amount, along with a compensation of Rs30,000 for causing mental agony and harassment.Rakesh Singh, a resident, approached the Commission after the Society failed to give him the maturity amount of the investment made in a scheme floated by the company.The complainant said he invested money in a scheme of Sahara Credit Cooperative Society Limited. The tenure of the deposit was 18 months. In all, the complainant deposited a sum of Rs1,72,000 with the Society. He was promised a maturity amount of Rs2,00,036 after the completion of the fixed tenure. When he requested the Society to release his maturity amount after the fixed tenure, it kept on dilly-dallying the matter and did not release the money.In its reply, the Society denied all charges. It also raised the question of the maintainability of this complaint and claimed that the dispute between a cooperative society and its member regarding deficiency in service cannot be maintained under the CPA.After hearing the arguments, the Commission rejected the contention of the Society. While quoting a judgment of the Supreme Court pronounced in year 2003, the Commission said the Supreme Court had widened the scope of the CPA by holding that disputes between members and their Society can be decided by the Consumer Fora.The Commission said the Society had floated a scheme by name of “Sahara A. Select” among its members. Hence, the members, who subscribed to the above named scheme of the opposite party (Society), also become its consumers. When there is a fault on behalf of the Society in providing services to its consumers, there is certainly deficiency in service on part of the opposite party.The Commission said in view of this, the Society has been directed to refund Rs2,00,036 to the complainant along with interest @ 9 per cent per annum from the date of respective maturity as per certificates. It also directed to pay Rs30,000 as compensation for deficiency in service, unfair trade practice and harassment and Rs10,000 as litigation expenses to the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dispute-between-member-society-falls-under-cpa-panel-275893
30-06-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Panchkula's Wings Hospital told to file reply on difference in bills||Tribune News ServicePanchkula June 29Wings Hospital, Panchkula, has been directed to file a reply regarding the difference in bills submitted by it to the district-level committee and the receipts submitted by a complainant.BB Singal, member of the district-level committee, said in a case against Wings Hospital, a husband- wife duo was admitted to the hospital but as the wife had died, her husband could not submit the bills. He said the committee got the bills amounting to Rs2.58 lakh from the hospital and the amount was refunded to the complainant. However, the complainant had later claimed that he had been charged Rs4.23 lakh for the Covid treatment and submitted the receipts of the hospital to the committee.Singhal said they had issued a notice to Wings Hospital, seeking its reply in this regard.Meanwhile, three private hospitals — Paras Hospital, Alchemist Hospital and Wings Hospital — handed over cheques amounting to more than Rs21 lakh as refund to families of Covid patients in the presence of Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh here today.While Paras Hospital made a refund of Rs12,91,092 to 13 patients or their kin, Alchemist Hospital and Wings Hospital refunded Rs 6,39,347 and Rs1,77,654 to five and three patients or their family, respectively. The complainants thanked the committee for helping them.Family members of Covid patients had told Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta that they were overcharged for treatment by private hospitals, following which Gupta had directed the administration to constitute a panel to probe the matter.Later, in a meeting with representative of hospitals, DC Vinay Pratap Singh had directed them to conduct self-audit of bills and inform the patients or their family members about the refund admissible to them through phone or email. He directed that the hospitals should complete the self-audit of bills between April 1 and May 15 by July 31 at any cost.He said in case anyone has a complaint of overcharging by private hospitals, he or she could send the email to the office of the Panchkula Additional Deputy Commissioner on panchkulaadc@gmail.com. Hospitals issue refundThree private hospitals — Paras Hospital, Alchemist Hospital and Wings Hospital — handed over cheques amounting to more than Rs 21 lakh as refund to families of Covid patients in the presence of Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkulas-wings-hospital-told-to-file-reply-on-difference-in-bills-275897
30-06-2021||---||Chandigarh Administration allows shops to open till 9 pm||Chandigarh, June 29With a sharp decline in Covid-19 cases, shops will now be allowed to open till 9 pm in the city.After a detailed discussion on the prevailing Covid situation at a meeting, which was presided over by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, it was decided to keep all relaxations intact with the change that all shops will be allowed to open till 9 pm. Earlier, the permitted time was 8 pm. The shopkeepers will, however, ensure that Covid-appropriate behaviour is adhered to.During the meeting, Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said elective surgeries had been started and the institute was performing around 100 surgeries daily and currently, 1,500 patients were admitted to the PGI. He said the number of mucormycosis patients being received at the hospital had now come down to eight per day on an average and the fatality among such cases had also come down to 12 per cent. He said the sero survey for paediatric cases had been started.The Administrator appealed to the residents of Chandigarh to cooperate fully with the PGI in giving samples for the sero survey.The PGI Director told the Administrator that civil works for installing a 2,000 litre per minute (LPM) oxygen plant had been completed and it would be made functional soon.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, Director-Principal, GMCH, Sector 32, said surgeries had also started at the GMCH and physical OPDs through online appointments would also be started next week.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, said 11,270 samples were tested in the city during the past one week and the positivity rate was 1.4 per cent. She mentioned that the overall recovery rate was 98.4 per cent.Meanwhile, the Administrator directed the Director General of Police that strict action should be taken against the violators of the Covid protocol, particularly those not wearing a mask, at Sukhna Lake and public places.Evening vaccination from today||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-allows-shops-to-open-till-9-pm-275899
30-06-2021||---||Waste processing: Wait for new technology gets longer||Sandeep RanaTribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 29The issue of bringing new technology to the waste dumping ground in Sector 25 continues to hang fire as the MC House today deferred the agenda in this regard.Rather than approving a technology, councillors resolved to visit more processing plants to explore more tech. Earlier, an MC team, comprising the Mayor, councillors and officers, could take out only two days in a month to visit Delhi and Ambala. Now, it has decided to devote more time to it. “We are also planning a visit to more sites in Nashik or Pune,” said Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma in the House.“Only 25 metric tonnes of waste is being processed at the plant. Why are we delaying new technology? We supported you (the ruling BJP) and visited the plant in Ambala. However, the plant was not efficient. You have failed to provide relief to people from the rising mountain of garbage,” said Leader of the Opposition Devinder Singh Babla in the House.Councillor Arun Sood said: “The existing plant was set up by the Congress. We are taking time to ensure that we do not repeat the mistake committed by your party.”The delay in deciding new technology or outsourcing the work has made the life of people living near the dumping ground hell.Last year, the IIT-Roorkee conducted an inspection at the plant and found that all machines had already completed their lifespan. It recommended setting up a modern plant for the treatment of the dry and wet waste.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waste-processing-wait-for-new-technology-gets-longer-275900
30-06-2021||---||Eight girls among 15 child labourers rescued from Chandigarh's Industrial Area||Chandigarh, June 29The District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) rescued 15 children, including eight girls, from a liquor bottling plant in the Industrial Area, Phase I, here today.Following a complaint that children below the age of 18 were working in the liquor factory, the DCPU started inspecting the site for a week to confirm the child labour activity.After confirmation, the DCPU coordinated with various stakeholders such as the Labour Department, Women and Child Helpline 181, Childline 1098, Bachpan Bachao Andolan and Anti-Human Trafficking, and teams were constituted to raid M/s Rock and Storm Bottlers Pvt Ltd.District Child Protection Officer Tabasssum Khan, Child Protection Officer (IC) Mohammad Irshad, Legal-cum-Probation Officer (DCPU) Prabhdeep Kaur, Labour Inspector Ram Pal Kataria and Junior Assistant (Labour Department) Arun Kumar were part of the operation.Sukhwinder Singh and Rohit from Childline and Gajendera Nautiyala, Yawinder and Rachita from the Bachpan Bachao Andolan also participated in the raid.During the raid, the team rescued seven boys (aged 15 to 17) involved in bottle packing and filling liquor in the bottles at the factory. The team also rescued eight girls (aged 15 to 17). A medical examination of all rescued children was conducted at the civil dispensary in Mani Majra. They were later produced before the Child Welfare Committee and admitted to quarantine centres.In order to prevent child labour, the District Child Protection Unit, in collaboration with various stakeholders, will conduct more rescue and awareness drives, said an official.The Child Welfare Committee and the District Child Protection Unit would also assess the possible intervention and rehabilitation required by children, the official added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eight-girls-among-15-child-labourers-rescued-from-chandigarhs-industrial-area-275901
30-06-2021||---||On way to Punjab CM’s house, protesting teachers face Chandigarh police water cannons||Mohali, June 29Protesting teachers today faced water cannons of the Chandigarh Police as they jumped barricades on their way to gherao the residence of Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in the UT.Non-permanent teachers, who had been protesting outside the office of Education Secretary at the Punjab School Education Board building in Phase VIII for the last several days, suddenly started marching towards Chandigarh in support of their demands today.The Chandigarh Police had put up barricades near the YPS Chowk to stop their entry from the Mohali side but the protesters were adamant on moving ahead. After they managed to break the barricades and entered Chandigarh, the police used water cannon to stop them.Some teachers fainted as they could not face the water pressure. A few female protesters managed to reach atop the water cannon and stop the water flow following which the marchers moved forward.Meanwhile, the SSP of Chandigarh reached the spot and tried to calm down the protesters and appealed them to stop their protest march. A delegation of the teachers was then taken to Chandigarh for having a dialogue with Punjab officials.At this, other protesters relented and squatted on the roadside. They demanded that the government should issue them confirmation letters or else they would not go back from there.These teachers have been holding demonstrations in favour of their demands for the past 20 days on the trot. Seven teachers carrying petrol bottles are sitting on the rooftop of the PSEB building.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/on-way-to-punjab-cms-house-protesting-teachers-face-chandigarh-police-water-cannons-275902
30-06-2021||Dera Bassi||Cyclist crushed to death on Bhankharpur-Ghaggar bridge in Dera Bassi||A 20-year-old cyclist was killed after being hit by a tipper on the Bhankharpur-Ghaggar bridge on the Chandigarh-Ambala National Highway today.The deceased has been identified as Dilip, a resident of Bhankharpur village and native of UP. Mubarikpur police in-charge Kamal Taneja said Dilip was returning home on a bicycle after having food at an eatery in Zirakpur. When he reached the Ghaggar bridge, a speeding tipper coming from the rear side hit him. Dilip fell from his bicycle and was crushed under the tyres of the tipper, killing him on the spot.The deceased was working at a Zirakpur multinational warehouse, but was on leave today, the police said. After the accident, traffic was disrupted on the Ghaggar bridge for about half an hour.The police said the truck had been impounded and the body kept in the mortuary of the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cyclist-crushed-to-death-on-bhankharpur-ghaggar-bridge-in-dera-bassi-275903
30-06-2021||---||New Civil Hospital all set to come up at Sector 66 in Mohali||Mohali, June 29 The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has allotted 8.72 acres for the construction of the new Civil Hospital in Mohali, which is being developed as a medical hub. Disclosing this, Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said 42,204.8 square yard of prime land in Sector 66 was given for the hospital, which would cater to a large population right up to Dera Bassi. It would be equipped with all medical facilities and the latest equipment, he added. The Minister said, “The Chief Minister of Punjab has assured of issuing instructions to the Finance Department for the release of funds for the construction of the hospital.” He also thanked Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Minister for Housing and Urban Development, for the early release of Letter of Intent (LoI).  Sidhu said in pursuit of providing best health services in the region, a first-of-its-kind AYUSH Hospital, a 50-bed facility, was being set up in Dayalpura, Dera Bassi. The work on the Medical College, Mohali, is going on in full swing and will help cater to the growing demand of doctors in the state while BSc Nursing College will come up on 3 acres near the Government College campus in Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-civil-hospital-all-set-to-come-up-at-sector-66-in-mohali-275905
30-06-2021||---||Two cheating cases registered||Chandigarh, June 29The UT police have registered two cases of cheating.In the first case, a woman resident of Mani Majra reported that she was running a pharmaceutical business. On May 24, she received a phone call from an unknown person. The caller offered to provide her liposomal amphotericin B injections at genuine prices.The complainant deposited a sum of Rs23.76 lakh in different accounts provided by the caller. However, the person neither delivered the injections nor returned the money.The police have registered a case at the Mani Majra police station.Another case has been registered on a complaint of Manoj Thakur and six others who are into the business of computer and electronics.The police said the complainants alleged that Janmukti Welfare Society, through its authorised signatories named Naveen and Rajbir and other staffers, approached the complainants and released purchase orders to supply various products. After receiving the deliveries, they did not pay around Rs1.32 crore to the complainants. A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-cheating-cases-registered-275906
30-06-2021||Sandeep Rana||Gear up for MC poll: Kejriwal to Chandigarh AAP head||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 29Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal today asked the Chandigarh Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) head Chander Mukhi Sharma to prepare for the upcoming MC elections in the city.Kejriwal also asked him to prepare a report on the city issues to chalk out a plan for the councillor elections. He met Sharma at the UT Guest House after addressing the media at the Press Club.“I had a discussion with him. He praised AAP Chandigarh’s ongoing activities and advised me to prepare a strategy for the coming elections by expanding the base of the party here. I discussed city’s problems as well as their solutions. He asked me to prepare a report on the city and present to him in a week,” said Sharma.“I discussed with him primary issues such as increasing water rates and around 40 to 45 per cent water wastage. I will now meet him next week with a report. If we come to power in the MC, we will check the wastage and theft of water. We will also review the current tariff and work on bringing it down,” the city party in-charge told the Chandigarh Tribune.The city unit has already planned to fight on all 35 seats of councillors in the MC polls scheduled to be held in December. “I told him that we are ready to contest all seats,” added Sharma. Kejriwal also advised him to infuse new energy among youngsters.So far, the AAP had fought MC polls in city. Though in the 2016 MC elections, it had supported a few Independent candidates, but none of them could make to the post of a councillor. This time, the party is on its way to make a debut by fighting on all seats. It has already started strengthening its cadre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gear-up-for-mc-poll-kejriwal-to-chandigarh-aap-head-275908
30-06-2021||---||Panchkula sees 2 cases, lowest positivity rate||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 29The district witnessed the lowest cumulative positivity rate of 0.19 per cent on Tuesday since the beginning of the second wave of Covid-19 on March 19 when the rate was 8.40 per cent.Meanwhile, two persons, both women, were diagnosed with Covid today, taking the total number of cases to 30,581.Two more persons succumbed to the virus during the past 24 hours.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjit Kaur, said a 22-year-old woman of Railly village and a 55-year-old woman of Sector 9 had succumbed to Covid-19.The district tally stands at 30,581 and 30,149 patients have been cured of the disease. There are 58 active cases with 374 deaths in the district.Over 4K get jabbed1 dies, 7 +ve in Chandigarhchandigarh: The city on Tuesday reported one death and seven new cases of Covid-19. The total number of active cases has fallen to 163 as 41 patients were cured in the past 24 hours. — TNSMohali dist sees 1 death, 22 cases Mohali: One more person succumbed to Covid-19 in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 1,048. A total of 22 fresh cases surfaced in the district, taking the total number of positive cases to 68,234, while 28 patients recovered from the virus. There are now 264 active cases in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-2-cases-lowest-positivity-rate-275911
30-06-2021||---||Book on Guru Teg Bahadur released at Sri Guru Granth Sahib World University||Our Correspondent  Fatehgarh Sahib, June 29  SGPC president and Chancellor of Sri Guru Granth Sahib World University Bibi Jagir Kaur today released the book ‘Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji, Jeevan, Bani and Martyrdom’.   The book has been published by the university.  Addressing a gathering, SGPC president lauded the research work of the university and said the Sikh Panth had high expectations from the institution.   She emphasised the need for comparative study and research in the field of religious studies to spread Sikhism. She said that  It is our duty to convey the message of Guru Sahibs to the world, and keeping this in view, a research chair dedicated to Sri Guru Teg Bahadur has been set up at the university, said Jagir Kaur.   New courses will be introduced in the university to produce Sikh preachers who can spread the message of Guru Sahiban in the entire world, she said, adding that the preachers will be taught Punjabi, Hindi, English, French and Spanish and will be provided world class facilities and free accommodation.  Vice-Chancellor Dr Prit Pal Singh said the book edited by Dr Kirandeep Kaur, head of the Religious Studies department, comprises of research papers of eminent Sikh scholars.  The book has been dedicated to the 400th Parkash Purab of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Sahib, he said and expressed his gratitude to the SGPC president for her patronage and support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/book-on-guru-teg-bahadur-released-at-sri-guru-granth-sahib-world-university-275914
30-06-2021||---||Rashtriya Vayoshri Yojana: Panchkula admn to hold camps for assessing senior citizens in July||Panchkula, June 29The district administration here will conduct camps to assess the senior citizens for providing free distribution of assistive devices under the Rashtriya Vayoshri Yojana (RVY) in the first week of July.Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said the camps would be organised by the Auxiliary Production Centre of Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation of India (ALIMCO).The beneficiaries will be called in batches, consisting not more than 30 persons at a time, he added.The camps are conducted by the ALIMCO under various schemes of the government for free distribution of aids and appliances to people with disabilities and senior citizens, said the DC.He said the camps would be conducted in two phases – in the first phase, camp is organised to assess the requirement of suitable assistive devices for individual beneficiaries, while in the second phase, camp is organised to distribute the appliances and aids to the identified beneficiaries.The DC urged the senior citizens to participate in the assessment camps to be conducted in the first week of July by registering themselves at the nearest common service centre.For registration, a person needs to submit a copy of senior citizen card/age proof/copy of Aadhar, a copy of BPL card/pension proof/income proof (income less than Rs 15,000 per month issued by village sarpanch, municipal councilor), address proof and two photographs, he informed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rashtriya-vayoshri-yojana-panchkula-admn-to-hold-camps-for-assessing-senior-citizens-in-july-275915
30-06-2021||---||Chrysanthemum Show far off, but get ready, staff told||Chandigarh, June 29The Municipal Corporation House today asked officials to prepare for the annual Chrysanthemum Show, which is held at the Terraced Garden, Sector 33, in December.“Prepare flowers for the show… December is far, we do not know what will be the Covid situation then. We will decide later at what level it is to be organised,” said MC Commissioner KK Yadav.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said if a full-fledged event can’t be organised, the MC can conduct a symbolic function, keeping in mind the Covid norms.Last year, the show was not organised due to the Covid pandemic. However, this year in February, Rose Festival was organised in a symbolic way.Though no fair or eating shops were set up, a large number of people still turned up for the event. Also on agenda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chrysanthemum-show-far-off-but-get-ready-staff-told-275916
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Three arrested for snatching||Man hangs self in Hallo MajraChandigarh: A 38-year-old man reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Hallo Majra. The deceased has been identified as Mintu. The victim was rushed to the GMCH-32, where he was declared brought dead. Sources said an auto of the victim’s neighbour was stolen recently and he had suspected that Mintu could be involved in the theft. However, the police said the victim had no role in the crime. TNSPower cuts in Dera Bassi, ZirakpurDera Bassi: Several parts of Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Mubarikpur were without power for most part of the day on Tuesday. Dera Bassi residents said the electricity supply was restored for just an hour around 9 pm. Residents of Ekta Vihar Colony and Victoria City in Zirakpur said no power supply during the peak summer season had made their life miserable. The children and the elderly are particularly troubled by frequent power outages. “Inverters cannot take the load of such long power cuts,” said Nikhil Ahuja, a Naraingarh resident. TNSMan booked for cheatingMohali: The police have booked a Mani Majra resident, Ajayvir Singh Duggal, in a cheating case to the tune of Rs18.80 lakh in a property deal. On the complaint of Phase 3B-1 resident Inderpal Singh, a retired merchant navy official, a case of cheating has been registered at the Kharar City police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-arrested-for-snatching-275917
30-06-2021||---||2 Mullanpur boys sexually abused, Nawanshahr dairy owner booked||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 29The Mullanpur police have registered a case of sexual abuse of two 13-year-old boys (cousins) allegedly by a Nawanshahr dairy owner.The victims, residents of Mullanpur, were working in the dairy due to financial constraints being faced by their families, but fled the spot after the incident.The suspect has been identified as Lucky (30), whose wife was away to her parental home at the time of the incident. Information was received byChildline officials, who counselled the kids and got a zero FIR registered against the dairy owner under Section 377 and the POCSO Act at the Mullanpur police station.The FIR has been transferred to the Kathgarh police station under whose jurisdiction the incident took place. The victims have been reunited with their parents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-mullanpur-boys-sexually-abused-nawanshahr-dairy-owner-booked-275920
