01-01-2021||Today marks a new beginning — with a heavy baggage from 2020. Covid-19 does not read a calendar. If anything||New beginning||If the start of 2020 did not offer the slightest glimpse of the catastrophe that would envelop the world within no time, a year later — having endured a collective nightmarish experience that still lurks — that same world is more aware than ever of its fallibility and vulnerability. 2021 can be different on one elementary level though: hope. The hope that the vaccine will victoriously work its way through the flu, that the voice of dissent is heard for the message it seeks to convey and not dismissed as disruptive noise, that love disarms the state-sponsored inspectors, that religion inspires harmony and not discord, that the majority-minority balloon is deflated. And the fervent hope that the world around us will be less intolerant and more circumspect. The wishlist is long and ambitious, but then, hope is what sustains life.Hope though can only go so far; the West Bengal election is round the corner and ugliness will soon be the order of the day. 2020 turned out to be a cumbersome, painful, tiring — yet inspiring, be it the frontline workers, the vaccine researchers, or the farmers at Delhi’s borders — journey. Its end signifies crossing a milestone that tested humanity’s collective resolve. Each new day offers a chance to do better, finding the invincible summer in the depth of winter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/new-beginning-192052
01-01-2021||As 2020 — the year that has become synonymous with the Covid-19 pandemic — comes to a close||Worrying lapse||Luckily, 2021 is ushering in hope on the horizon. With the fast-tracked and much-anticipated Covid vaccine in sight, the New Year holds the promise of an all-round turnaround. The biggest lesson derived from 2020 is the significance of health and immunisation. Thus, it is fitting that the efforts to plug the holes in the public health sector be prioritised. Since healthy children are the gateway to the nation’s progress, the ongoing immunisation drive that was jeopardised because many kids could not receive the vaccine jabs on time needs to be brought back on track.An intensive inoculation programme is needed for children whose doses were deferred as they run the risk of contracting diphtheria, tetanus, polio, cholera and typhoid. Over the years, India has made huge strides towards making the country free from these vaccine-preventable diseases. Prevention of any fresh outbreaks is no less important than containing Covid-19. Similarly, unattended and neglected patients of cancer, TB and other serious ailments need to be provided adequate care. These gaps underscore the need for injecting a higher budget in healthcare and strengthening of the medical infrastructure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/worrying-lapse-192053
