09-01-2021||The high motivation levels of the Army personnel despite harsh and challenging service conditions came shining through at a recent seminar by a leading think tank. However||Fighting stress in Army||The cause-and-effect list includes the prolonged exposure to counter-terrorism environment, non-combat-related reasons, inadequacies in the quality of leadership, overburdened commitments, inadequate resources and frequent dislocation. A more supportive and responsive organisational and administrative climate has been advocated. Stress prevention and management, it has been pointed out, have to be treated as a leadership role. An insightful suggestion is making government agencies and the society at large more sensitive to the peculiar service conditions and the ethos of the soldiers.The issues that need to be addressed on priority, according to experts, are those related to the quality of command and man-management that affect the morale, motivation, honour and dignity of Army personnel. Aspirational concerns, better support facilities for self and family, delay or denial of leave, unreasonable restrictions, lack of recreational facilities, conflict with seniors as well as subordinates, health problems, delay in crediting of financial claims and poor quality of rations — the catalogue may be long, but solutions have to be found and changes implemented. As aptly articulated, prolonged exposure to excessive stress has serious adverse effects on the health and efficiency of soldiers and combat units. Be it the Army or other armed forces, of paramount importance is improving and maximising institutional arrangements to deal with personnel under stress; from counselling to motivating to showing empathy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/fighting-stress-in-army-195895
09-01-2021||Nothing is gained any longer from weighing the rights and wrongs of the farm laws; it is time for a breakthrough. The losses to Punjab||Time for breakthrough||The meeting of Baba Lakha Singh of Nanaksar Gurdwara with Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar is a welcome move. The Baba says he has been serving the protesters langar at the Delhi border and knew the fellow priest from Karnal of the Nanaksar sect, who took his life to express solidarity with the farmers. The BJP’s Kisan Morcha seeking out the Akal Takht Jathedar, its religious symbolism notwithstanding, is a promising signal because the Centre ought to pause and let the state governments decide whether they want to notify the farm laws and implement them. Agriculture is a state subject and it should remain so. The Centre has a responsibility to give direction and to push the nation towards prosperity by framing model laws on state subjects; but then it should leave it to the people, particularly the state governments, to accept, modify or even reject the proposals.A well-intentioned proposal will surely get the people’s acceptance in due course of time. Meanwhile, good governance is all about finding solutions, however intractable the situation is. Let there be governance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/time-for-breakthrough-195896
