11-01-2021||The disregard for safety measures is the spark for the alarming regularity with which blazes break out in our buildings||Ghastly hospital fires||One can recount many more such gruesome incidents reported over the years. But what is more shameful is the utter failure to improve and regulate the state of affairs despite the ghastly frequency of fire mishaps. Each heartbreaking tragedy leads to a familiar cold pattern: condolence messages of politicos, blame game, investigations, announcement of a meagre compensation for the victims (notwithstanding the fact that treating burn injuries is a long and costly affair) or their kin. Then, as the victims are more or less left to fend for themselves, it is business as usual. With probes and trials going on at a snail’s pace, public attention — and pressure — sadly fails to sustain. Outrage erupts again during the next mishap.With all-round apathy prevailing, most buildings are hazardous tinderboxes. India finds itself accounting for one in every five serious fire accidents of the world, as per the Global Disease Burden Study of 2017. Strict and swift action against those guilty of violating building safety protocols can bring down the toll of the tragic loss of precious lives. All concerned — builders, hospital managements, civic and fire authorities, approvers and auditors — fall in the net of culpability. Efforts to provide a sizeable insurance cover to the vulnerable patients must also be stepped up so that they are given a dignified and fighting chance for justice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/ghastly-hospital-fires-196704
11-01-2021||The three five-year prison sentences for Mumbai attack mastermind Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi||Jail for 26/11 mastermind||New Delhi’s scepticism is not misplaced. Lakhvi is likely to be sent to Adiala jail in Rawalpindi — the same place where he was kept when first arrested in 2008; it was later reported how he lived a life of comfort, with privileges facilitated by the state. Incidentally, or by design, the grant of bail came a day after the Peshawar Army Public School massacre in 2014 — an indication, if any was needed, of the culture and environment of lawlessness and the organised support for terror activities the neighbour continues to nurture.Placement on the FATF ‘grey list’ is a warning of being put on the ‘black list’, which can invite global sanctions for Pakistan for being branded as uncooperative and a haven for terror funding. The perception is that the routine exercise of arrests and convictions is carried out primarily to escape this eventuality. Pakistan has China’s backing, but its fate would also depend on how the Biden White House weighs the Taliban-Islamabad axis for the Trump-championed troop pullout. As India begins its two-year tenure at the UN Security Council, it gets to chair the crucial Taliban sanctions panel, and next year the Counter-Terror Committee, formed in the wake of 9/11 to bolster the ability of member states to prevent terror acts both within their borders and across regions. The task is cut out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/jail-for-26-11-mastermind-196703
