13-01-2021||Though the Covid curve has been consistently dipping in the past couple of months in India||Get in the queue, please||This ugly race stinks of little care for the needy and vulnerable. Prime Minister Modi has rightly ticked them off against elbowing themselves to the front of the line out of turn. The microscopic virus which made no distinction between the affluent and the poor as it struck millions of people should have been a humbling lesson in the oneness of humanity. But alas! Luckily, such queue-jumping attempts made in many of the 50 countries that have initiated Covid vaccination have been rebuffed. The UK and Switzerland have initially authorised only the public health sector to give the injections and ensured strict compliance with the priority list of beneficiaries. As long as private profit is denied, buying out of the shots is a remote possibility.As India puts into place the transportation, cold storage, distribution and monitoring of the vaccines, it must also simultaneously make widely public a clear set of rules on the ‘how, where and who’ of getting the jabs. The announcements and intentions of first prioritising the health and frontline workers, then the elderly and all those with morbidities and at high risk of infection, and later as the facilities are further scaled up, including the healthier individuals in the list sound good. The real test will lie in the efficacious implementation of the two-dose campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/get-in-the-queue-please-197501
13-01-2021||By putting on hold the implementation of the three controversial farm laws until further orders||Farm laws on hold||The court’s intervention lends an opportunity to come out with possible solutions which both sides can agree not to disagree on, but questions are bound to be raised over the composition of the committee if the perception is that all the four members support the new laws. Only a suitable mix would make the discussions meaningful and lend weight to it being a forum for a frank and open discussion. If the opposition is to the manner and intent of the reform proposed and not the idea of reform itself, there is merit in bringing forth articulate, informed depositions on the pros and cons, the apprehensions, the distrust. Much of the onus lies on the government. It has to show its willingness to new proposals and assurances that the farmers cannot do without.Keeping in view the proposed protest march in the Capital on Republic Day, a notice has been issued to the unions on a Delhi Police plea to stop their tractor rally during the January 26 parade. The fervent hope is that the need for such a protest does not arise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/farm-laws-on-hold-197500
