14-01-2021||The spread of avian flu in the Barwala belt of Haryana’s Panchkula district is particularly distressing. For||Avian flu mishandled||This mismatch in the figures is just one of the symptoms of the ailment afflicting the animal husbandry sector. This was brought to the fore as the authorities went about managing the situation. Firstly, the deadly delay caused by the botched-up testing of the initial samples to determine the cause of the birds’ deaths by farm owners and authorities responsible for averting such a disaster. It was a fertile ground for the breeding of rumours around the multi-crore poultry industry. In the absence of a clear message by the animal husbandry and health departments regarding the culling of birds and the safety of consuming chicken and eggs, the industry suffered a crippling blow. The prices nosedived in a season (winter) that is their peak period. Making matters worse, the compensation rates for culling have not been revised for seven years, even as input costs have risen.The unsavoury developments have also raised the issue of legalising the vaccines for birds. Despite the regularity with which the flu has been striking in the past one-and-a-half decades, a level playing field is missing. The market is flush with smuggled vaccines, but it is the big farmers who allegedly corner the illegal shots. With time being of essence in perishable goods, they make a killing as their birds escape the lens in the initial days of the outbreak that are clouded by confusion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/avian-flu-mishandled-198078
14-01-2021||SECRETARY of State Mike Pompeo is following a scorched-earth approach to foreign policy in the dying days of the Trump government. He has sanctioned umpteen Iranian||Unveiling secrets||But as far as the Indo-Pacific is concerned, there is a bipartisan consensus in America. After all, it was the Democratic Party’s Barack Obama who gave up on China, 14 years after another Democrat, Bill Clinton, ventured to engage China rather than contain it. Besides, much water has flown in India since the Doklam standoff in 2017 and the Galwan Valley clashes in 2020. India’s appetite for a rapprochement with China has severely diminished, if not vanished. The US military-industrial complex too would push the Biden team to continue with what the paper promises — provide military, intelligence and diplomatic support to India — for obvious reasons.The die has been cast. Even if Biden would want to turn the clock back, the other actors — India, Australia and Japan — will obviously point to the document and ask if China has not become more aggressive with each passing year. India, on its part, much like Australia and Japan, has taken a strategic decision on the Indo-Pacific. The speed at which this relationship has developed is not just stunning but also irreversible. By 2030, the world’s top economies, including the US, India, Japan and Indonesia, will be from the Indo-Pacific. With growing economic power will come strategic weight. The course has been set and this is one act of frenzy by Pompeo which will be hard for Biden to reverse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/unveiling-secrets-198063
