16-01-2021||As curtains are ready to go up on the 51st edition of the International Film Festival of India (IFFI)||Magic of IFFI||As a rule, the festival is held in November. Last year, it had to be postponed due to the pandemic. However, shifting the event to January is not the only transition. Unveiling today in a hybrid format, both the opening and closing ceremonies will take place in real time. There will be a judicious mix of auditorium and virtual screenings as concerns about piracy have been raised. Besides, a festival that claims much glory in the number of delegates it attracts has capped it at 2,500. The peripheral events have been given a miss too.Whether it can rustle up the magic in its present avatar of physical and virtual screenings and limited number of guests is not the only question that needs to be asked. Can it bring back the focus on auditorium screenings and help regain viewers’ confidence that has been all but lost in the wake of Covid-19? For the film industry, the mood at IFFI can be a game-changer, if not turn the tide completely. While the festival has been losing some of its sheen in the last few years, sceptics are doubtful if the virtual format can capture the spirit of a festival, essentially a community affair. In 2020, the world has seen pared-down versions of film festivals. IFFI, too, has gone down the same road but in its success could lie the way forward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/magic-of-iffi-199023
16-01-2021||After elaborate dry runs||Vaccination Day||The enormity of the project to vaccinate crores upon crores of people can weigh any administration down, but the success of the polio eradication programme and the nationwide conduct of elections prove that the country is capable of large-scale inoculation. Vaccine hesitancy and operational hiccups have already been factored in, but the key tasks would be countering misinformation and strengthening channels of communication.Amid the general atmosphere of optimism in India over commencement of the vaccination, there is growing global concern over the new coronavirus variant detected in South America. Like the variants first spotted in the UK and South Africa, it is thought that the Brazil variant could be more contagious. In Europe, strict restrictions are again in place in several countries as the pandemic continues to bare its fangs. This even as a World Health Organisation team has been allowed access to Wuhan by China in the hunt for clues to the origin of the pandemic, though there is a huge question mark over how much it will be able to achieve. As India begins a new chapter, the list of dos and don’ts essentially remains the same, and any laxity could have serious consequences. Just because a vaccine has arrived does not mean the virus has gone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/vaccination-day-199022
