18-01-2021||Nepal’s Foreign Minister Pradeep Gyawali concluded the first high-level visit to New Delhi from the Himalayan kingdom in over a year on a mixed note. The Indian side was unwilling to touch the boundary issue or the hotter political potato of revising the 1950 Friendship Treaty. Gyawali was to underline the criticality of both issues during his public engagements in the national capital. But India was more than prepared to make steady investments and gradually recalibrate the relationship rather than effect a major redesign. South Block’s approach is understandable at a time when Nepal PM KP Oli’s recommendation to dissolve the House is yet to undergo judicial scrutiny.||Himalayan challenge||Oli, however, took the initiative to thaw the chill in bilateral ties when he called up PM Narendra Modi last August. Since then, India dispatched the RAW and Army chiefs and the Foreign Secretary to dissipate the bad blood that had accumulated ever since a new Indian political map was fiercely disputed by Nepal; in retaliation, the neighbour had come up with its own map. Unfortunately, security has become the principal load-bearing pillar of the bilateral relationship due to India’s border conflict with China and Beijing’s suspicions regarding stepped-up US activism in South Asia. The Himalayas, Nepal included, have become a contested terrain due to their important interstitial location between two nations that have decided to compete against one another. This is no longer the Nepal where India was the prime mediator in its moments of crises in 1951, 1990 and 2005.The structural irritants have arguably increased. But the Chinese envoy’s exertions in Kathmandu to broker peace among warring Communist factions can never overshadow the intertwining of the politics and culture of India and Nepal. India’s proposals during the just-concluded Joint Commission meetings to construct a rail line to Kathmandu and a second oil pipeline will diminish the salience of competing Chinese proposals. Yet, India under PM Modi does not have an answer to Nepal’s sensing of hardening geostrategic circumstances after the Galwan Valley clash, and trying to carve out greater autonomy in its foreign relations. India must be prepared to vie with China on this front.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/himalayan-challenge-200017
18-01-2021||The year 2020 was a bumpy one for road safety. That the Chandigarh traffic cops||Drilling road sense||Kullu, which saw road fatalities dip by 60 per cent from 131 in 2019 to 53 in 2020, is an encouraging case. While the drop may partly be attributed to negligible traffic during the lockdown, the role of alertness and stiffer penalties for violations such as the use of a mobile phone by the driver, drunk driving and overspeeding/rash driving — some of the main causes of accidents — cannot be dismissed. It’s equally vital to address the poor condition and maintenance of roads and highways, besides the stray cattle menace.The report pointing out 391 black spots that snuff out 4,600 lives and leave thousands injured every year in Punjab shows what needs to be done to make roads safer. Aggressive awareness campaigns, strong policing and zero-tolerance enforcement of traffic norms on the scale of measures undertaken for battling Covid-19 are needed. For, road accidents in India account for a fatality rate comparable to that of the pandemic. More than 1.5 lakh people lose their lives on the roads annually in the country. Replicating the determination and drive seen in the fast-tracking of the Covid vaccine will go a long way in effectively smoothening the bumps and potholes in our transport and safety standards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/drilling-road-sense-200016
