20-01-2021||The Union government is struck by a crisis of credibility caused by one of the most controversial contemporary television anchors||Crisis of credibility||The Radia Tapes controversy had cost a lot of journalistic reputations; deservedly so. However, those tapes were never authenticated by an investigating agency or made part of a chargesheet unlike the Goswami WhatsApp chats. Worse, here the chats point towards the use of sensitive, highly classified military information about an impending air strike for commercial and pecuniary benefit. The collusion between Goswami and Dasgupta was intended to increase the Television Rating Points of Republic TV by gaming the entire audience research system for higher viewership figures, thereby gaining more advertisements and greater revenue for Goswami’s channel. And it is in the quest for commercial success and money that Goswami allegedly passed on a military secret to Dasgupta, who could have in turn used it for his own benefit.These chats, if genuine, are an indictment of a pseudo-nationalist TV anchor; a toxic ecosystem of manic-patriotism that allows the monetisation of national grief; and fraudulent viewership or readership measuring mechanisms. A joint parliamentary committee probe is called for, but before that, the courts should restrain this accused from turning judge and jury in his own case by misusing his channel. Also, the government should act fast to retrieve its credibility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/crisis-of-credibility-200918
20-01-2021||INDIA’S thrilling win in the Brisbane Test||India tear down Fort Gabba||India’s second consecutive Test series win in Australia is probably the team’s greatest series triumph. This come-from-behind win was achieved in possibly the toughest country to tour, with a second-string bowling attack. The challenges India faced were unprecedented and seemingly insurmountable — exactly a month ago, on December 19, the team was in ruins, bowled out for 36 to lose the first Test in Adelaide inside three days. Immediately after that, Virat Kohli, the team’s best batsman and captain, left for India on paternity leave.Yet Ajinkya Rahane, whose understated manner and smart captaincy have been a revelation, led India to victory in the second Test at Melbourne. The players raised their game further when they survived the fifth day of the Sydney Test to escape with an unlikely draw. And now this triumph at the Gabba stadium, where Australia hadn’t lost since 1988! Rahane, showing courage, decided to go for the win even though the team would have retained the Border-Gavaskar Trophy with a draw. The resilience and fearlessness they showed in the last three Tests is unmatched in the annals of the team’s tours, dating right back to 1932. The future looks good, but now is the time to applaud the indomitable spirit of this bunch of fearless men.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/india-tear-down-fort-gabba-200919
