22-01-2021||The most-used words in Joe Biden’s inaugural speech were ‘America||The Biden-Kamala era||Though India has been a bipartisan success story so far, this is more because the US still has to make further ingress into its markets and defence sectors. But like all of Washington’s other partners, India will be hoping the Biden-Kamala team will usher in predictability and sensitivity to the needs of others. Unlike in the Obama administration, the Left has a firm hook into the White House this time. Several of Biden’s appointees are instinctively ranged against ill-liberalist and majoritarian tendencies. Trump’s free pass to the Modi government on the CAA, lynchings and the communal riots was facilitated due to New Delhi’s enthusiastic over-identification with Washington’s China-baiting in the Indo-Pacific.With Kamala Harris as Vice-President, human rights issues will not get overlooked. The farmers’ agitation will be the latest on the list. The Modi government has to instead get the US more interested in non-military areas of cooperation that have been marked by friction and apathy. The shifting of supply chains away from China ought to start with pharmaceuticals and move on to other areas of high dependency. In the military field, India and the US must move to higher-level strategic discussions that lead to a division of labour in the Indian Ocean. India will also need elbow room in its foreign choices — to source oil from Iran and Venezuela and defence platforms from Russia. The Modi government will need to sidestep eddies to carve out a more meaningful relationship with the new US administration in the post-Covid, post-Galwan Valley world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-biden-kamala-era-201808
22-01-2021||Finally ||Victory for farmers||The government had taken a maximalist position when it rammed the farm Bills through the Rajya Sabha without a proper division as propriety demanded. Parliamentary democracy has built-in mechanisms to evolve consensus through committees; and laws that impinge on the livelihoods of millions of farmers ought to have been discussed thoroughly in those consultative and standing committees before being rolled out like bulldozers on standing crops. The protests that ensued have taken a huge toll on the people of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh in terms of over 60 lives lost, six farmers committing suicide, disruption of traffic and livelihood; yet, the farmers were remarkably restrained, not letting emotions override the philosophy of non-violence.The whole nation should salute these farmers for their fortitude, discipline, tenacity and endurance. They taught a few lessons in community living, langar and sewa to the rest of the nation, making this protest unique. Now, they should not repeat the government’s mistake by taking an extreme position. They should return triumphant to their villages. The planned tractor rally should now be a joyous victory parade celebrating the Republic and the farmer-citizens, who send their children to fight and die for the Republic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/victory-for-farmers-201809
