23-01-2021||Though bird flu has been breaking out fairly frequently in the past decade and a half in the country||Stamp of food safety||Not surprisingly, what rules the roost every time is scare-mongering and the nosediving of the sale and prices of eggs and chicken products. Some places in North India, where the flu is concentrated this time, have reported a drastic drop of 70 per cent in the demand for chicken and a cost collapse of 50 per cent. Naturally, it has hugely hit the poultry industry — it is worth nearly Rs 1.25 lakh crore in the country. With the poultry farmers crying hoarse over the mounting losses and increasing debts, the authorities rush to issue advisories about the safety of consuming ‘properly cooked’ poultry products.However, it would be better for both the trader and the consumer if, instead, they focused on addressing the challenges of enforcing food safety measures in the long term. The task is humongous, for concerns around meeting the hygiene parameters of the nutritive but highly perishable meats abound at all levels: from animal slaughtering to its storage, transportation, quality check, regulation and sale. Only an FSSAI-certified poultry product can allay fears and win the buyers’ trust. A stamp of foodstuff safety is a sure-fire way of tackling scare-mongering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/stamp-of-food-safety-202270
23-01-2021||From the depressing low of 25||Sensex surge||The current euphoria, however, might just be a flash in the pan. India’s Buffett indicator — the total value of a stock market relative to the economy’s GDP — has reached a disconcertingly high level of 98 per cent, leaving no cushion or margin for error in case the high-priced stocks don’t perform to perfection. The markets can undergo a major correction if the Budget fails to live up to all the hype. And it will be naïve to bank on the short-lived buoyancy to propel all-round growth.The RBI has promised a ‘glorious summer’ on the basis of recent high-frequency indicators such as GST collections, but the recouping of massive job losses continues to be a challenge. As per the CMIE, about 1.5 crore jobs were lost in the manufacturing sector during the lockdown quarter (April-June 2020) and the shortfall is still in excess of 1 crore. The services sector also took a big hit and is nowhere near regaining pre-Covid levels. Agriculture, the most resilient sector of them all during the pandemic, is facing disruptions. Amid the Sensex frenzy, investors need to brace themselves for market fluctuations, even as the government should look beyond Dalal Street fireworks and focus on long-term economic stability.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/sensex-surge-202271
