25-01-2021||After a three-hour Congress Working Committee meeting that saw conflicting arguments over holding organisational elections immediately||Congress conundrum||The problem, the dissenters believe, lies in the way the party is being managed; an interim arrangement denotes a weakness of intent and a ‘full-time’ leader could mean fresh impetus. The top decision-making body did announce the election of a new president, but only in June. Also included was a lecture on priorities — organisational matters can wait, getting the party organised for Assembly elections in crucial states cannot. After Rahul stepped down over yet another drubbing in 2019, it again fell upon his mother to fill the vacuum, so embedded is the Gandhi imprint. When the centre of power remains the same, and is likely to be so even in the unforeseeable event of a non-Gandhi stand-in, there is little to the logic that early internal polls will bring the change the party is looking for.As she faced rare opposition from within, Sonia Gandhi was asked to continue as interim chief till February, with a resolve to conduct internal polls. That process has been postponed. The need for a decisive stamp on leadership cannot be overstated. She may have met some of her once-trusted lieutenants, but a continuum of protesting voices cannot and should not be ignored. Ironing out differences, collective leadership and delegation of authority have to be priorities too. The lesson the Congress needs to draw comes from the BJP, persistent and unflinching during two UPA terms when it believed it should have won. And then it did, and how.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/congress-conundrum-203286
25-01-2021||The alarming number of paragliding accidents in the Dhauladhars of Himachal Pradesh that have tragically claimed the lives of at least 10 gliders over the past five years is reflective of scant regard for the enforcement of safety rules. The latest crash earlier this month that proved fatal for a Canadian citizen is a grim reminder of the dangers of indulging in this aero sport without proper protective equipment in place. It’s time the state tourism department took upon itself the responsibility and task of ensuring that no more hazardous trips are undertaken. Any laxity calls for stringent deterrent action||Paragliding accidents||No glider should be allowed to take off from the umpteen adventure spots dotting the Kullu and Manali areas unless it is cleared by the department. The criteria for giving the go-ahead have been clearly laid out, but they are, sadly, rarely implemented or adhered to. All tourists and flying enthusiasts should be enlightened about the importance of checking the security guidelines and insisting upon them before undertaking a sortie, for the sake of their own lives. Prominently mandatory among them are a valid licence for the pilot, safety-certified parachute and helmet, altimeter, barometer, speed indicator and first-aid kits for the gliders soaring into the skies. That some sports adventurers have gone missing or remained untraced underlines the importance of having in the saddle a two-way radio communication system. Experience also teaches how ground support is of immense value in the hour of emergency and saving lives. This includes a ready retrieval vehicle and an insurance cover.Himachal is the paragliding capital of India, endowed with natural pockets of thermals that help paragliders gain heights and easily fly from one cluster to another. Over 50,000 aficionados, both domestic and foreign, flock to Kangra’s Bir Billing village alone every year, putting it atop the world map for this extreme adventure sport. It is thus imperative that the spate of tragedies is reined in with safe proactive practices. The thrilling exploit must thrive as it has wide tourist and economic implications.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/paragliding-accidents-203287
