28-01-2021||Cricket Australia has confirmed that Indian cricketers suffered racist abuse at the Sydney Cricket Ground during the third Test of the recent series||Racist abuse in Sydney||Last year, a report by a university in Florida suggested that incidence of racist abuse of sportspersons has been declining worldwide. This can be traced to the zeitgeist, the spirit of the times — as different societies and racial groups rub against each other regularly, a greater tolerance is fostered. This can be most dramatically seen in the case of Australia — in 1985, when India and Pakistan played in the final of a cricket tournament in Melbourne, a banner in the stands mocked them thus: ‘Bus Conductors vs Tram Drivers!’ Only 18 years ago, Australian player Darren Lehmann had the temerity to publicly call Sri Lankan cricketers ‘black c***s’. Yet, we’re not moving fast enough — in 2007, spectators at Mumbai’s Wankhede Stadium called Australia’s Andrew Symonds a ‘monkey’. Two years ago, Pakistan captain Sarfaraz Ahmed called South Africa’s Andile Phehlukwayo a ‘black man’. Racism is not going anywhere in a hurry.As can be seen from contests even in same-ethnicity groups, sport is tribal in nature, and this ‘war minus the shooting’ often incites both fans and sportspersons to act in obnoxious ways. The efforts to make sports arenas nice and welcoming spaces for all are often in conflict with the tribalism inherent in sport. Yet, spectators and sportspersons must be, through harsh punishment if needed, made to follow modern rules of respectful engagement with each other. Punishment to those who abused Indian cricketers in Sydney would send out a strong message in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/racist-abuse-in-sydney-204222
28-01-2021||This is the centenary year of Gandhi’s non-cooperation movement||Damage control||We witnessed hooliganism, vandalism, violent clashes and death on our Republic Day, transforming a peaceful protest for a just cause into a dirty display of mindless bravado and brawn. What was achieved was the desecration of the farmer’s movement against the three farm laws; and the farmer leaders remain discredited. All through the two-month-long agitation, the protesters had shown exemplary restraint and had controlled the younger elements from breaching the elders’ commitment to the tenets of non-violence. How did things go so completely out of hand? There are various theories doing the rounds, but the police ought to take a fair share of the blame for letting the vandals reach Red Fort and enact the unseemly drama of violating the sanctity of the ramparts from where the national flag is raised every Independence Day.Some thugs have twisted the sacred into the profane; whose thugs are they? Who incited them? Why didn’t the farmer leaders or the government get to know this plan of disruption? These questions will haunt us for some time now. Meanwhile, the farmer leaders should accept the moratorium announced by the government and bring the temperature down. Even now the farmer leaders can seek a longer suspension of the laws and reciprocate it by an equal period of suspension of the protest. If the government does not keep its word, the protesters are free to resume their agitation. It is imperative that frayed nerves need be calmed; and agent provocateurs and saboteurs are not given an opportunity to repeat the performance on February 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/damage-control-204223
