30-01-2021||IN an exemplary service of justice||MLA convicted||The court of the Judicial Magistrate, First Class, Nalagarh, has convicted them of rioting, assault, use of criminal force to deter a public servant from discharging his duty, mischief by fire or explosive substance and under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. Each guilty person has been sentenced to three-year jail and slapped a fine of Rs 85,500. Credit goes to the prosecution for successfully establishing the case through witnesses and other evidence. The mayhem happened in June 2011 after a Kalka villager who had climbed an electricity pole at Barotiwala in Nalagarh to escape the traffic police got electrocuted and later died in the PGI, Chandigarh. His death triggered a violent protest by a mob from nearby Haryana villages as it placed the body at a crossing in Baddi. Policemen were attacked, two government vehicles set ablaze and the highway blocked, inconveniencing commuters.Though mob violence, rioting, attack on officials and road blockades are not uncommon, such cases coming to a fair end is a rarity for various reasons, including shoddy investigation or prosecution and clout of the accused. The trial gives hope for a quick delivery of justice in similar cases pending in our courts. A high-profile case in the area is that of the daylight murder of assistant town planner Shail Bala, allegedly by a hotelier in Kasauli during an anti-encroachment drive in May 2018.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/mla-convicted-205177
30-01-2021||How much the world has changed since the Economic Survey last year and the one presented today can be gauged by their respective emphasis. Last year||Post-Covid Economic Survey||The survey is hoping for a V-shaped economic recovery. Shorn of all the jargon, the economy will take two years to reach and go past the pre-pandemic level. This, it says, is predicated on a far-sighted policy response. Some of that, such as the farm laws, is already in motion and the Budget will unveil a big part, especially the plan to virtually eviscerate PSUs and hand them over to the private sector, deemed more efficient and enterprising in economic management. Even otherwise, today’s blip in the stock market notwithstanding, corporate India has done well during the pandemic by shedding workforce and doesn’t need special nurturing.To make up for the loss in revenue, the survey is asking the government to be more relaxed about debt and fiscal spending (counter-cyclical fiscal policy) which in turn can generate public expenditure to create demand and raise consumption. However, the situation is on the razor’s edge. Bad bank loans are set to rise; credit growth has been slow and capital expenditure sluggish. Moreover, hopes of 11 per cent growth are based on heavy and sustained foreign investments. The social unrest due to policy responses and prospects of a double-front war will claim a large share of resources. Add to it the continuing joblessness and, as the Oxfam report showed, the enrichment of billionaires even in a pandemic. The government has a challenge on its hands to ensure that economic growth also remains evenly spread.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/post-covid-economic-survey-205174
