01-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand extends lockdown till June 10, but eases curbs||The Jharkhand government on Tuesday extended the partial lockdown, also known as Health Safety Week, till June 10, 6 am but announced a number of relaxations in travel and trade. All the 24 districts have been split into two categories on the basis of Covid-19 infections to allow business activities as part of the unlocking process. It also scrapped mandatory e-permits for intra and inter-district movements, thereby allowing free access to people in their individual vehicles but ban on public buses will continue to be in force. As many as nine districts have been placed under the high infection category. They include Bokaro, Ranchi, Dhanbad, Jamshedpur (East Singbhum), Deoghar, Hazaribag, Garhwa, Gumla and Ramgarh. “In these districts, shops related to jewellery, garments and footwear sector will remain closed and remaining all will be functional,” informed an official following a meeting of the state disaster management authority (SDMA) chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren. In the remaining 15 districts, all kinds of shops will be allowed to function. However, malls and multi-brand shops will continue to remain shut. “All shops across the state will only be allowed to operate only till 2 pm,” read the official note. All other curbs announced earlier such as closure of educational institutions, social & religious gatherings, avenues of amusement & entertainment, dine-ins at restaurants among others remain unchanged. Notably, the government first began lockdown on April 22 and went on to gradually increase the curbs in form of extensions. The current phase of the partial lockdown was due to expire on June 3. But considering the dip in overall covid-19 cases and fatalities across the state, government has begun the unlocking process in a phased manner to support livelihood. Covid toll touches 5,000 The Covid toll in Jharkhand reached 5,000 as at least nine more patients died during treatment on Tuesday. The active caseload, however, dropped further down in the state as at least 1,449 patients recovered from the infection while 609 people were found infected on the day, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM). As per the bulletin, as many as 8053 state residents were battling the viral infection by the end of Tuesday. East Singhbum on Tuesday reported 113 fresh cases of infection, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The district also reported three of the nine deaths on the day, which took the Covid toll there to 1010, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Ranchi, on the other hand, reported 72 cases and two casualties on the day. As per government data, as many as 2,266 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi by Tuesday evening, while the active caseload in East Singhbhum stood at 170. The state administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 24,085 residents, while the second jab was administered to 5023 beneficiaries, a separate bulletin from NHM stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
01-06-2021||Jharkhand||East Singhbhum flags off 'Vaccination Express' vehicles||Four 'Vaccination Express' vehicles with jab doses and healthcare workers were flagged off on Monday to fan out across East Singhbhum district and step up the immunisation drive among those over 45. Present on the occasion at the district collectorate at Sakchi were East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar,  JMM's Potka MLA  Sanjeev Sardar and Manoj Jha, personal secretary of health minister Banna Gupta. Two of the vehicles (Innova) carrying Covid vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) left for rural areas of Ghatshila and Potka, while the remaining vehicles will go around urban areas of the district. "Four Vaccination Express vans with the Covid vaccine will now be available at people's doorstep with trained health workers," said deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar, adding that the vaccination will cover people of above 45 of age group. Health department officials said Vaccination Express will also help immunise elderly people who are unable to travel. "The vehicles with vaccines and trained health staff will go to various localities in urban areas and rural blocks where people can get vaccinated," said A.K. Lal, civil surgeon of East Singhbhum district. He said that if required more such vehicles would be introduced for the success of the Covid vaccination drive in the district. According to health department sources, in all 3,68,793 people have been vaccinated in East Singhbhum. Of these, 3,02,610 have got their first dose. Only  66,183 people are fully vaccinated in the district. Notably, the number of Covid positive cases which had crossed the daily mark of 1,000 in the first three weeks of May, has dropped considerably in the district during the last few days. Last week, the number of positive cases for six consecutive days dropped below 100. But, on Monday positive cases again witnessed a slight  rise. As many as 283 new positive cases were reported with eight casualties. The 283 new cases reported on Monday took the district’s total tally to 50,131 reported since the beginning of the pandemic last year. According to a health bulletin the recovery rate of the district rose to 96.04 per cent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
01-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city resumes vaccine drive for 18-44 age group||The vaccination drive for the 18-44 years age-group is expected to resume from Thursday after a consignment of 7,000 doses of Covaxin is scheduled to reach the steel city on Tuesday. The programme for the 18-44 age-group at government-run centres was suspended for over a week, causing anxiety among residents. Moreover, the number of persons registering for the vaccine is much greater than the age-group of 45 years and above. East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar said the slots for the beneficiaries will be allocated as a fresh lot of vaccines reach here. "The district administration is going through a crisis of vaccines for the 18-44 years age-group due to short supply of the vaccines. But the administration is making all efforts to procure the vaccines so as to keep the drive for this age-group regular. As of now we are going to get 7,000 doses of Covaxin for resumption of the drive shortly, "said Kumar to The Telegraph Online. The deputy commissioner said the vaccination drive for the 45 years and above is going on smoothly. "Since the last 10 days, I was trying to get a slot online for the vaccine. Since May 25, no slot is being allocated. It is not known when I will be able to get vaccinated, "said Amit Singh, 23, a resident of Kadma to The Telegraph Online. Tata Steel employees and their dependents are being administered the vaccine at Loyola School and Dhatkidih Community Center. Whereas those belonging to 45 years and above are getting the vaccines at the Dhatkidih Community Center, the ones belonging to the 18-44 years age-group are getting the vaccines at the Loyola School. At present, 3,02,610 individuals have been given the first dose and 66,183 have received their second dose in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
01-06-2021||Jharkhand||Birsa Munda Park staff face salary crisis during lockdown||The Birsa Munda Park’s employees and shopkeepers are facing the economic stress of the state-wide lockdown due to its closure since April 22. The staff members including eight gardeners, five swing operators, two parking lot staff, two counter clerks, two toy train operators and 1 electrician have not received their salaries for the last two months. The shopkeepers at the park, with almost negligible income since March last year, are being asked to pay rent during the lockdown. “We had to undergo a similar situation during the first phase of lockdown when we faced salary discontinuation from August 2020 to November 2020 and again faced a similar situation from December 2020 to March, 2021,” said Subal Mahto, one of the oldest staff members at the park. “Barring the brief solace of around 52 days from March 1 2021 to April 22, 2021 we are facing financial difficulties during lockdown since the first phase of lockdown of March 2020,” said Subal and added the park maintenance has also been affected during lockdown due lack of provisions like diesel. “We were very hopeful for better days of park to return ever since April 2021 when regular shows of the newly installed laser fountain was launched in the park but all our hopes were dashed on ground with beginning of second phase of lockdown since April, 22, 2021,” said Paresh Mali a gardener of the park. Bittu Sao, a shop keeper of the park said, “We are the worst victim of the lockdown as despite the continuous closure of over 11 months, we are being compelled to pay the rent during the closure period.” “We have written to both Dhanbad Municipal Corporation and park management requesting for the waiver of the rent of lockdown period and if no steps are taken we will be compelled to approach the chief minister in Ranchi to intervene in the issue,” said Sao. “Dhanbad Municipal Corporation expressed its inability to pay salaries due to lack of funds and we are waiting for their response to the salary crisis and will have to ultimately approach the district administration,” said park manager Niwas Kumbhkar. Established in 2009 on 25 acres of land at Nawadih area of Dhanbad at the instruction of then Deputy Commissioner, Ajay Kumar Singh the park is equipped with a host of facilities including seven swings, 10 slides, a toy train, a vortex (Illusion ride), a caterpillar, a dragon train, a Dhum Jhula, a triple slide, six seesaw, one tree swing beside the seating arrangements in the form of six FRP recliners and 20 concrete recliners.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
01-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city health centre set for hospital upgrade ||The district health department has roped in Karnataka's Manipal Hospital Group for converting the Dhanchatani Primary Health Centre, located on the outskirts of the city about 4km away from Telco, into a hospital. The government primary health centre, built at a cost of around Rs 5crore three years ago, is yet to be inaugurated. Health department officials said after elaborate discussions with Manipal Hospital Group, they plan to start the hospital in the next three months. A section of local residents led by Congress's Kolhan spokesperson Jammi Bhaskar had recently approached health minister Banna Gupta and East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar demanding the inauguration of the hospital at the primary health centre. "We initiated steps so that a hospital could be started at the health centre which has the necessary infrastructure. It will immensely help local people who can get better health care facilities," said Bhaskar. District civil surgeon A.K. Lal said, "A team of the health department led by me and a representative of Manipal Hospital inspected the primary health centre on Monday and examined the possibilities of starting it as a full-fledged hospital." He said that during the inspection, the team went around the approach road and took stock of electricity, water, ambulance service and other necessary facilities. Health department sources said a meeting with Manipal Hospital authorities on the hospital project has been scheduled for next month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
01-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand plans district-level teams to manage ICUs for children ||The Jharkhand health department has asked all 24 district administrations to constitute a six-member team of doctors and nurses to undergo training in managing neonatal intensive care units (NICU) and paediatrics intensive care units (PICU) for treating children with severe Covid-19 symptoms, officials said on Tuesday, explaining that the decision was taken in view of a possible third wave of infections. The team in each district will comprise two child specialist doctors, two medical officers and two staff nurses, Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of health department’s IEC, said. Once the districts send in names of team members, the government will start training programmes for the teams to ensure that each district has trained manpower for managing ICUs for children, he added. “Intensive care facilities for adults and children are different, and we need to ensure that each district has caregivers trained to treat children who are admitted in NICUs and PICUs,” Tripathi said. National Health Mission (NHM) Director Ravi Shankar Shukla addressed a letter to chief medical officers of all districts recently and asked them to send a list of team members by Tuesday. The training programme, as per the letter, will be conducted online as well as offline. “It is feared that the third wave of Covid-19 might affect people in the age bracket of 2 to 18 years, and it is imperative to prepare for this wave well in advance,” the letter stated. While there is no data available on how many children have been infected by the Coronavirus in Jharkhand so far, the Intensive Public Health Survey (IPHS) being carried out by the state government found that at least 28 of the 776 people who tested positive for Covid-19 during the ongoing survey were children. As per data shared by the health department, at least 25 of the 28 children were in the age bracket of six to 18 years, one was in the age bracket of two to five years and two in the age bracket of zero to one year. It is feared that the third wave of Covid-19 may affect around 7 lakh children and at least 9,000 of them may need intensive care. Jharkhand, however, has only 125 child specialists and is focusing on training more doctors and nurses to treat children, officials said. Apprhending a third wave, the Jharkhand government has set up special ICUs for children in various government and private hospitals and also strengthened the infrastructure for child care at medical facilities. The state recently held its first national level webinar to prepare for the third wave keeping in mind that it would have an impact on children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
01-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Congress on 'Mission Vaccination' in rural areas||Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee is crafting an election-like strategy to kick off a door-to-door campaign in rural areas against vaccine hesitancy so that more and more rural residents can be convinced to take the jab. The party, which is a part of the ruling alliance with JMM and RJD, has constituted a task force under the aegis of agriculture minister and Jarmundi MLA Badal Patralekh  and is gearing up to launch the drive on or after Thursday, June 3, the day when the current phase of Covid restrictions is set to end, party workers announced on Tuesday. As a first step, the Congress will run a social media campaign titled, "Speak up for vaccine" on Wednesday for creating awareness about the benefits of taking jabs to curb the rampant spread of the coronavirus. Senior party spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “Although the state administration is already trying hard to motivate people in rural areas to take the Covid-19 vaccine and adopt Covid appropriate behavior, there is widespread apprehension among villagers. As a political party which is in the government we have decided to press our resources to create awareness about vaccination.” Teams have been formed in districts and blocks. “District level teams will be supervised by the respective district president and office- bearers.  In each team, besides party workers, we are keeping local panchayat representatives, religious leaders and social workers for better communication and engagement with people,” he said. As per state government data till Monday night, out of a target of 83.86 lakh, 34.92 lakh had got the first dose of the vaccine. Similarly, against a target of 37.31 lakh, just about 7.13 lakh have taken their second dose. Officials said that the biggest problem the state government was facing was in the vaccination of those above 45. There have been  instances where health workers have faced stiff resistance from villagers in hamlets of Khunti, Mandar (Ranchi) and Gumla.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
01-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand promised 10 lakh vaccine doses for 45-plus in June ||The Centre on Monday promised to provide over 10 lakh vaccine doses for residents above the age of 45 years in Jharkhand in June, health officials said on Monday amid an ongoing shortage of doses meant for beneficiaries in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. Jharkhand, officials said, was expecting around 5.8 lakh doses in June for beneficiaries in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The vaccination rate for beneficiaries in this age group has been slow in the state with around 15,000 people getting the first jab daily on an average. In stock now is only 1.35 lakh doses for the 18+ category of beneficiaries. “We have been assured supply of 3,33,770 doses of vaccine in the first fortnight of June and 6,77,510 more in the second fortnight. The vaccine doses will be provided in installments,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of the health department’s IEC wing in Jharkhand. Jharkhand continued to report more than twice as many Covid recoveries against fresh cases of infection on Monday, causing a drop in the growth rate of Covid-19, but over a dozen deaths kept the state's Covid mortality rate above the national average, data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per a bulletin released by NHM, as many as 831 people were found infected by the coronavirus in the state on Monday while 1,816 Covid patients recovered on Monday. The active caseload in the state dropped to 8,907, while 14 deaths took the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 4,991. East Singhbhum reported 283 cases, the highest among all districts. However, at least 411 Covid patients recovered in the district on Monday, bringing the active caseload there down to 316. East Singhbhum also reported eight of the 14 deaths recorded on Monday, which took the toll there to 1,007, the NHM stated its bulletin. Ranchi reported 61 cases against 276 recoveries and the active caseload here dropped to 2,463 by Monday evening. The district accounted for three Covid deaths on the day which took the toll here to 1,555, the highest in the state. The district also accounted for more than 30 per cent of the active caseload in Jharkhand. Jharkhand on Monday tested swab samples of 50,338 residents and less than 2 per cent of them were found infected. So far, over 3.37 lakh people have been infected by the Coronavirus in Jharkhand and more than 95 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of them could not survive. The state on Monday administered the first dose of the vaccine to 29,597 residents, while the second dose was administered to 5,313 beneficiaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
01-06-2021||Business||TV Narendran elected as new CII president||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) at its national council meeting held online in New Delhi on Monday evening elected its new office-bearers for the year 2021-22. T.V Narendran, CEO and managing director, Tata Steel assumed office as the president of CII for 2021-22. He took over from Uday Kotak, managing director and CEO, Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited. Notably, T.V Narendran has been engaged with CII for many years at the state, regional and national level. He was the chairman of CII Eastern Region during 2016-17 and has led CII national committees besides being chairman of CII Jharkhand. He was also the president designate of CII for 2020-21. Narendran is an alumnus of IIM Calcutta and NIT Trichy. He is a recipient of Distinguished Alumnus Awards from NIT Trichy and IIM Calcutta. He is also the chairman of the Board of Governors of XLRI Jamshedpur and the vice-president of the Indian Institute of Metals. He was a member on the Board of the World Steel Association and is a member of its executive committee. Pawan Munjal, chairman and CEO, Hero MotoCorp Ltd., took over as CII vice- president for 2021-22. He has been closely associated with CII for almost 30 years. He has been the Chairman of CII northern region during 1996-97 and has led several CII National Committees including on sports, environment, technology and Innovation. Hero MotoCorp is one of the largest corporate promoters of multiple sporting disciplines around the globe, including golf, cricket, field hockey, motorsports, and football.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
01-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkahnd traders seek extension of business hours||The Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries on Monday called for extending business hours, allowing trading of “seasonal merchandise” and abolishing the e-pass system for vehicular movement within the state in response to chief minister Hemant Soren’s tweet seeking suggestions on the process of relaxing restrictions in place to control the spread of Covid-19. Soren’s tweet earlier in the day indicated that the state government was in favour of either discontinuing the ongoing five-week lockdown or allowing more relaxations if it was extended further. Underscoring that the state was able to control the spread of Covid-19, Soren said that “in the struggle between life and livelihood, our focus will now be on the latter” and invited suggestions on the process of “Unlock-1”. “Since lockdown can’t continue indefinitely, we have to be engaged in different economic activities while taking precautions for checking the spread of the infection,” federation president Praveen Jain Chabra told The Telegraph while welcoming the chief minister’s decision. Since the intention is to avoid crowds, it is desirable that business hours be extended beyond the present 2pm deadline so that customers get more time to buy necessary things without crowding the shops, he argued. “The business establishments dealing in seasonal merchandise such as clothes and dresses for marriage and electrical items like fans, coolers or air-conditioners for summer should be allowed to open immediately,” Chabra further said, adding that otherwise the traders will have to wait for the next session resulting in their capital getting stuck. The e-pass system for vehicle movement within the state should also be withdrawn to facilitate smooth running of businesses, he added. “We will, however, formally communicate our views after an executive committee meeting, to be held this evening, takes the final decisions on those points,” Chabra said. The Covid situation has improved in the state during the partial lockdown that was introduced on April 22 and extended, in phases, till June 3 morning.The number of active Covid cases that stood at 35,826 on April 22 came down to 9,906 on Sunday evening, while the infection rate also dropped from 11.66 per cent to 1.58 per cent during the period. The recovery rate which stood at 78.89 per cent, less than the national rate of 85.60 per cent, on April 22 also improved to 95.58 per cent, more than the national rate of 91.30 per cent, during the period. However, with 3,368 deaths reported due to the virus during the period, the mortality rose from the earlier 0.90 per cent to 1.47 per cent, while the national rate was 1.20 per cent. “Yes, the situation has certainly improved. We now have to handle about one-third of the total number of patients that we had earlier,” said Dr Prabhat Kumar, who heads the Covid-19 task force at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences in Ranchi. Asked how can the spread of Covid-19 infection be checked if the lockdown is lifted, he said: “All should now behave responsibly.” Covid-appropriate behaviour like the use of masks and sanitisers and maintaining social distance have be strictly followed by the people while going out, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
01-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jesuits question decision to vaccinate Covid-positive Stan||Jesuits are planning to submit a petition to the Maharashtra home department against the alleged callous approach of the Taloja Central Jail authorities in administering Covid-19 vaccine to octogenarian priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy despite him showing coronavirus symptoms. The decision was taken after the incarcerated Jesuit priest tested positive for Covid-19 at the Holy Family Hospital in Bandra, Mumbai, on Sunday noon. “We will be writing to Maharashtra home minister (Dilip Walse Patil) tomorrow (Tuesday) on the callous and negligent manner of the Taloja Central Jail authorities in giving vaccine to Father Stan Swamy on May 18 despite him suffering from fever. The jail authorities later told his lawyer (senior advocate Mihir Desai) that Fr Stan underwent the rapid antigen test (RAT) and as the report came negative, they gave him the vaccine. However, as he had fever and Covid symptoms, they should have gone for an RT-PCR or other accurate confirmatory test. We are worried about Fr Stan who is already on oxygen support and has been diagnosed Covid-positive at the hospital,” said Father Joseph Xavier, director of the Bangalore-based Indian Social Institute, who is coordinating with Jesuits on Fr Stan’s condition and is regularly in touch with him at the hospital. Experts also said vaccine should not be administered to persons showing Covid symptoms. “Even if there are mild symptoms, vaccine plans should be postponed. It can totally be catastrophic if you take vaccination when your body has an infection. Even if there is an iota of doubt that you could be suffering from an ailment, one should go for an RT-PCR test. Even if the report is negative they should hold on instead of rushing to take vaccine shots. There is no emergency and studies have shown that if you delay the vaccination, it is better. The immune response is better if the vaccine is delayed till up to 12 weeks,” said Dr Vijay Mishra, head of the critical care department and medical director, Medica Superspecialty Hospital, Ranchi. He said conducting the rapid antigen test on a person showing Covid symptoms was fundamentally wrong. “The government strictly stipulates that the RAT cannot be used for diagnosis of Covid. The test can be used for diagnosing somebody negative after they have been positive,” said Dr Mishra. Bombay High Court had on Friday directed Taloja prison authorities to shift Fr Stan Swamy to the Holy Family Hospital in Bandra for 15 days. He was shifted to the hospital late on Friday where he was put in the ICU on oxygen support. He tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. The high court in its order said: “It is not in dispute that the appellant’s age is 84 years and according to findings recorded by a team of doctors from JJ Hospital, he needs treatment. However, due to the present pandemic situation, and influx of patients, it may not be possible to give attention to the appellant in JJ Hospital.” The court had allowed Fr Frazer Mascerenhas, former principal of St Xavier’s College, Mumbai, and parish priest of St Peter’s Church in Bandra, who is Fr Stan’s friend, to visit him at the hospital according to the facility’s protocols. “At the moment we are collecting the facts before approaching the court in this connection (administering vaccine to Fr Swamy). We will press for interim bail after the high court re-opens in June,” advocate Mihir Desai, Fr Stan’s counsel, told The Telegraph. Fr Stan was arrested by the National Investigation Agency from his house in Namkum near Ranchi on October 8, 2020, and has been in Taloja Central Jail since October 9. Fr Stan and 15 others have been arrested under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the Bhima Koregaon-Elgar Parishad case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
01-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Notices served to 55 private hospitals for violating fire safety norms||Bokaro: The district health department has started taking action against the private hospitals, nursing homes, dental clinics and diagnostic labs operating without a proper fire safety system. After conducting a survey, the health department on Monday served notices to 55 private hospitals and other centres asking them to make necessary arrangements within 15 days or face legal action. Majority of these medical institutions are situated in the township of Bokaro Steel Plant. Civil surgeon, Dr A.K. Pathak in the letter wrote, “To ensure 100% compliance of fire safety norms according to the prescribed standard within 15 (fifteen) days, otherwise relevant action will be taken against the concerned under the Clinical Establishment Act 2010.”. However, obtaining a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the fire department for the private hospitals and other health providers operating in Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) is not easy. “Private hospital, pathology lab, diagnostic centers and nursing homes running in Bokaro Steel City falls under the category  of “restricted trade” under company rules and such a trade cannot be run from a leased premise without prior written permission of the lessor (BSL),” said a BSL officer. Before obtaining NOC from fire department, the health institution should have to get approval from BSL, which several times earlier had served them notices directing them to close down their operations. In February, 2020 Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) has also raised concern over the violation of bio-medical wastes by the private hospitals and nursing homes operational in BSL township. However, for obtaining fire NOC, these medical institutions should have to apply online going through the website. Bokaro Fire Station in-charge Satyendra Pathak said, “We had conducted fire safety audit of all the private hospitals in April. 55 hospitals and nursing homes were found running without complying with fire safety norms. This is a matter of concern for the patient in those hospitals and also for the doctors and other personnel working there. These hospitals should have fire safety as per the prescribed standard norms.” (Our correspondent) Ramgarh: A farmer died in a road accident on Monday near the Kothar Petrol Pump of Ramgarh police station area. Sub Inspector Sonu Kumar said, "Amjad Ansari,30, a farmer of Jariyo, was returning on his scooty from Ramgarh. An LP truck coming from Bokaro crushed the rider in a collision. He died on the spot. As soon as the incident was reported, the family of Amjad Ansari reached and caught the driver. Police took possession of the truck and its driver and helper." After the accident, the family of the deceased beat up the truck driver and helper. Social worker Umesh Kushwaha said that the driver and the helper of the truck were heavily intoxicated. The truck was on its way to Ramgarh from Bokaro. Police have seized the truck. Amjad Ansari’s body has been sent for post-mortem. (Our correspondent) Dhanbad: Bhuli based property dealer Sahabuddin Siddiqui on Monday lodged a complaint with Dhanbad police regarding extortion demand by Aman Singh, an accused in the Niraj Singh murder case of 2017, who is presently lodged in Hotwar jail of Ranchi. Siddqui informed police that he received two whatsapp messages from one Chhotu Singh, a member of Aman Singh’s notorious gang demanding extortion money of Rs 50 lakh and threatened to kill him if he failed to pay the money within 72 hours. Earlier, Ashraful Hasan also known as Lala Khan, a Wasseypur based property dealer was killed by unidentified criminals on May 12, when he was heading towards his house on a bike. The name of Aman Singh also figured in the murder of Ashraful Hasan. (Praduman Choubey) Hazaribagh: Five people at a wedding party sustained injuries from a bee attack in Jeruadih village in Tatijharia block, around 35km away from Hazaribagh district headquarter. Villagers said someone targeted the bee hive with a stone. The injured were sent to a local health centre while the marriage was solemnised at Dharmpur Shiv temple. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: A joint team of district police and 26 Battalion CRPF recovered an Improvised Explosive Device planted by suspected Maoists under a culvert at Khasmahal area under Gandhinagar police station, said SP, Chandan Kumar Jha on Monday. “Security personnel, acting on a tip-off conducted a raid at the spot and found active IED planted under the culvert situated on a main road. It is difficult to say at this point of investigation about who has planted the IED, but though the area is a Maoist stronghold, their involvement cannot be denied,” said the SP. Sources suspect Maoists strategically planted the IED near the culvert to trigger a blast targeting security personnel patrolling the area. The IED was about 12.5kg, which was diffused at the spot by the bomb disposal squad of CRPF. The district police have intensified their vigil in the area. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
