02-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city suicide helpline sees surge in distress calls||Steel city residents still seem to be living in impending fear even though Covid cases have dipped in East Singhbhum. The increase in the number of calls on the telephone numbers of Bistupur-based suicide prevention centre Jeevan, suggests that people are still in the grip of anxiety. "Most of the calls made to our volunteers are Covid-related stress. Over 15 distress calls are coming in daily," said Jeoraj Jain, director of Jeevan. Besides Covid-related stress, people with suicidal tendencies are also dialling Jeevan numbers. People are also concerned over unemployment, fear of job loss and loss in business. "Covid cases are now in control in the district but people are still unable to get out of anxiety related to the pandemic. It's very disturbing," Jain added. According to him, one reason for the increase in numbers of distress calls can also be attributed to publicity of Jeevan telephone numbers. "Our numbers are now also being publicised in radio programmes and publicity hoardings across the city. It's good that people are becoming aware of our numbers and reaching us for help," the Jeevan director said. Citing an example, Jain said a man called to inform that he was ending his life by jumping from the Subarnarekha Bridge. "Our volunteers counselled him and told him about the futility of ending his life prematurely. It's good that he did not take the fatal step. After all, it is our job to counsel and help people overcome depression," he added. A Jeevan volunteer said a wide section of the population is also stressed with thoughts of the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic.  We try our best to make them understand not to fear the situation which has not come yet," he said on condition of anonymity. Positive thoughts, yoga and meditation can help people overcome the crisis, he added. A total of 113 Covid positive cases and three deaths were reported in the district on Tuesday and three deaths were reported. People can reach Jeevan volunteers on: 9297777499/9297777500 (only call), 9955377500, 9955435500 (Call or Whatsapp).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||After CBSE, parents want Jharkhand govt to cancel state board exams||The Oppostion BJP joined parents of Class 10 and Class 12 students to demand on Wednesday that the Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC)’s matric and intermediate exams be cancelled on the lines of the CBSE and CISCE that called off the exams citing the onging Covid-19 pandemic. President of Jharkhand Parents Association Ajay Rai hailed the CBSE decision. “The state must also cancel its board exams without any further delay as lakhs of students are battling with confusion and anxiety. Taking a cue from other states, Jharkhand government must also follow suit in the interest of students,” he said. Kailash Yadav, president of Abhibhavak Sangh Jharkhand, issued a similar demand. "However, there should be defined parameters of marking and evaluation of students," he said. Over seven lakh students are due to appear in JAC’s matric and intermediate exams that were originally scheduled to take place from May 4 at over 2,000 centres. However, due to the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19 in April, JAC postponed the exams till further orders, stating that it would take a call on June 1. JAC officials, however, said a meeting with the state education department was yet to happen. “Any decision can be taken after thorough deliberations with the state government. A meeting in this regard is still to take place,” said JAC chairperson Arvind Prasad Singh. Sources in the state education department maintained they were waiting for clarity on the CBSE’s marking and promotion pattern. “We are keeping a tab on the situation. We are exploring ways of evaluation. In case of cancellation of exams, we should have a clear policy on the nature of marking and promotion,” said an official unwilling to be named. The Opposition BJP also demanded cancellation of the exams. State BJP president Deepak Prakash said, "We demand that the Soren government act promptly to announce cancellation of the exams as both students and parents are apprehensive of the Covid-19 situation." Following the announcements of the CBSE and CISCE , many states such like Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra have called off their state board examinations citing safety of students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: IIT Kanpur students donate medical equipment||Hazaribagh: Former students of IIT Kanpur on Wednesday donated medical equipments, masks and PPE kits to the district administration. Deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand received the equipments in the presence of Barkagaon MLA Amba Prasad. The equipments included five BiPAP machines, three oxygen concentrators, one ECG machine, one multi para monitor, nineteen oxygen flow meter, twenty six oxygen masks, four nebulizers and 200 N-95 masks. Prasad said the equipments will enhance the facilities for people in the area. Anand lauded the effort of Prasad and the former students. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Two dead bodies were found in two popular reservoirs on Wednesday, sparking fear among residents. The first body was found from Hazaribagh lake and second from Chhath Talab. In thefirst case, morning walkers spotted the dead body in Bada Jheel and informed Lohsigna police. The body was fished out by local fishermen. Police officials said they had confirmed the identity as 25-year-old Nikhil Kumar, a resident of Kasturikhap village. His father Sushil Kumar Singh is an employee of Hazaribagh civil court. Family members said Nikhil was working in a private company in Delhi and had returned during the lockdown. They said he left his house on Tuesday to go back to Delhi. In the second case, the body was found from Chhath talab situated close to Indrapuri Chowk along Main road. The body was fished out and identified as Mohammad Ramzan, (32), a fruit seller and resident of Kazi mohalla. His relatives suspect foul play in his death. Police have started investigations in both the cases but are waiting for post mortem reports to arrive at any conclusions. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh : Deputy commissioner Divyanshu Jha has received Rs.2.27crore to develop state-of-the-art facilities in Huntergunj block’s health centre. Jha expressed happiness over this development and said with the co-operation of all, they can defeat Covid in the district. Sources said Jha has sent a proposal to the Rural Electrification Corporation for developing the centre. In his proposal, Jha said the centre required oxygen plant, oxygen supported beds, oxygen pipelines, ICU, mobile van for blood donation and an ambulance so as to upgrade the existing health facilities in Huntergunj. For this purpose, Jha demanded Rs.6crore. REC is a public infrastructure finance company in India's power sector. The company finances and promotes rural electrification projects across India. The REC has agreed to get the work done from its CSR fund. Sources said REC foundation has released Rs.2.27crore paving the way for best health facilities in a backward block like Huntergunj. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Residents of the industrial town Tandwa have charged NTPC of allegedly cutting trees in residential areas without following forest department regulations. NTPC is constructing an ambitious 1980 MW super thermal power plant in Tandwa. The company had planted saplings in the residential areas in 2018 under the leadership of its then executive director R.K Singh. “Even an NOC was not obtained and around 50 to 60 trees were axed few days ago,” said the protesting locals. Head of environmental monitoring group in Tandwa, R.B Mandal said they were not informed before cutting of the trees. Environmentalist Arvind Singh said permission is must to cut a tree and to plant more than the number razed. “I have demanded a probe by forest officials followed by action on the culprits,” he added. Public relations officer of NTPC, Gulshan Toppo told The Telegraph Online that charges related to axing of trees is false. “Preparations for Cyclone Yass included cleaning and cutting unwanted bushes and shrubs in residential areas,” he said. “NTPC is committed to develop green belt by planting more saplings to increase the greenery of this area,” he added. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Katkamdag police confirmed solving the theft case at a 500-year-old Narsingha Sthan temple in Khapariawan village by arresting three minors. Thieves had barged into the temple cutting the locks of the sanctum sanctorum on May 30 and fleeing with Rs 50,000 from the donation box. Officer-in-charge Vipin Kumar Yadav said they recovered Rs.8469 from the trio’s possession. The minors admitted spending Rs.5000 on alchol and other commodities. Yadav said they were investigating as to how much amount they got from the donation box. He said they were sent to a  correctional centre. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Jamshedpur: Two teams constituted by the East Singhbhum district administration on Wednesday carried out simultaneous raids in foodgrain godowns of Food Corporation of India and State Food Corporation at Burmamines and Sakchi over complaints of misappropriation of stock. Sources in the district food and civil supplies department said that there have been several complaints which claimed that the stock of foodgrains in FCI and SFC godowns were less than that on the records. "The raid was carried out following an order from the deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar over complaints of alleged irregularities. We have sealed the FCI and SFC godowns at Burmamines, Sakchi and Karandih  for verification of stocks, " said the additional deputy commissioner after completion of simultaneous raids. The raid at the FCI's main godown at Burmamines was led by additional deputy commissioner NK Lal while city SP Subhas Chandra Jat headed the raid conducted at the SFC godown at Sakchi. "We are verifying the foodgrains stock in the godowns and hence they have been sealed while the inspection is on," said an official taking part in the raid at Sakchi adding that no FIR has been registered in this regard so far adding that a case would be lodged if the complaints are found true. (Pinaki Majumdar) District administration has initiated action against two private hospitals, Devansh Hospital and City Care Hospital, for the discrepancies in the allotted life-saving drug Remdesivir to them by the government. The state government has asked the district administration to take legal action against the two hospitals. Drug Inspector Vikas Kumar said he is waiting for some more instructions from his headquarter following which cases will be lodged under various section of Drugs and Cosmetics Act 1940. Deputy Commissioner, Rajesh Singh has ordered Civil Surgeon Dr A.K. Pathak to take necessary legal action against the two hospitals. Civil surgeon said that a few weeks ago allotment of Remdesivir's was done to private hospitals for treatment of corona patients. However, the state government later ordered drug inspectors of each district to check whether the private hospitals have genuinely utilised it or not. Here drug Inspector after examining it found discrepancies in Devansh Hospital situated at ITI Moad, Chas and City Care Hospital at Checkpost, Chas. The report was sent to state headquarter which now directed to take action against the two institutions. Drug inspector said that the record of Remdesivir in these hospitals was found much less than the number of allotments. City Care had an allotment of 90 remdesivir, but he showed the purchase order of 32 only. “We are investigating what happened to the remaining Remdesivir and will take appropriate legal action,” he said. However the concerned official in the two private hospitals said that they have genuinely administered remdesivir to the patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||BSNL warns subscribers about rising cybercrime ||The government-owned telecom service provider Bharat Sanchar Nigam has warned subscribers of fake customer care numbers that cyber criminals were using to siphon off money. The steel city is witnessing a rise in cybercrimes and fraudsters are using new ways and techniques to commit them, it noted on Wednesday. Talking to The Telegraph Online, general manager of Jamshedpur Secondary Switching Area Sanjeev Verma said,"Recently few cases have come to light that cyber thugs are sending messages to our subscribers from two personal numbers - 08697937328 and 9883547802 saying their SIM card would be blocked within 24 hours as the service has been expired." Verma went on to say that the two numbers mentioned as customer care numbers are fake and have no link with BSNL. "Sometimes cyber frauds call customers from personal mobile numbers for completing the KYC verification at the earliest to keep their mobile number active otherwise their mobile number would get deactivated," he added. He appealed to BSNL subscribers not to share any personal details like Aadhaar number, bank card details and not to install any app. "By installing apps, customers lose control over their mobile phones to cyber frauds. So subscribers are advised not to respond to these messages, never install any app and not to transfer any money, "he said adding that by transferring amount after installing apps like team viewer, quick support etc customers compromise their personal data. The senior BSNL official re-iterated that the telecom major never asks its subscribers for any Aadhaar number and other personal details over call or messages. BSNL has two customer care numbers -18001801503 or 1503. During office hours, BSNL subscribers in Jamshedpur can also contact  on 0657-2234633 and may send mail on sdemobile_jsr@bsnl.co.in. BSNL's Jamshedpur Secondary Switching Area which covers three Kolhan districts- East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan has over four lakh mobile phone users including pre-paid and post-paid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC plan environment awareness drive||The Jamshedpur FC, along with its players and support staff, has decided to raise awareness among its social media followers about the need to conserve the environment and promote a sustainable living in the run up to World Environment Day celebrated on June 5. The Tata Steel-owned club held a GoGreen contest on May 31 to promote the Green Week with entries allowed up to June 5, 12:30 pm. The participants were made to simply post a selfie with a plant/garden or of them watering plants or planting a sapling in their house/balcony to promote a green and fresh environment. "The objective was to start a sustainable living from their own homes and to showcase their love for the environment," a JFC functionary said. According to him, three lucky winners from the contest would receive an exclusive green training jersey of Jamshedpur FC. "So far we have received over 150 entries," he added. Jamshedpur FC is also looking to promote awareness in various other ways, including cycling and omitting plastic to save the environment via a sustainable and ecological lifestyle. Photos and videos can be uploaded on the following social media sites of JFC: Instagram link - https://www.instagram.com/p/CPhw7NoKdxg/?utm_medium=copy_link Twitter link - https://twitter.com/JamshedpurFC/status/1399256179482656774?s=19 Facebook - https://www.facebook.com/1993893687500253/posts/3038177116405233/ "We should do everything in our capacity to save the environment. Even a small step like planting a sapling at home can go a long way to ensure a good environment for our future generations," said JFC defender and former Tata Football Academy graduate Sandeep Mandi. The club's winger Bhupender Singh said he loves watering his plants in the morning and keeping them fresh. "I treat them (plants) as my friends and I think everyone should sow more plants at their homes and contribute to making the earth a better, healthier place to live in," he added. "I always had a deep connection with plants at my home. I take good care of them as they provide us with fresh and cleaner air. This World Environment Day, I encourage everyone to plant as many saplings as possible and contribute towards saving the environment for our future generations," said JFC assistant coach Noel Wilson. JFC winger Boris Singh said he makes sure to carry water in his steel bottle wherever he goes. “This helps me avoid plastic bottles, one of the biggest reasons for the constantly increasing pollution. I urge everyone to avoid using plastic as much as possible and switch to steel bottles or other eco-friendly options,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to start pneumonia jabs for infants ||The Jharkhand government will launch its maiden immunisation programme against pneumonia for infants in the second week of June for which over 77,000 doses of Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine (PCV) have been supplied to all 24 districts, officials of the health department said on Wednesday. From June onwards, PCV will be a part of the Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP) in Jharkhand under which infants in the age bracket of 45 days to nine months will be vaccinated, Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer for health department’s IEC wing said. “This is the first time that Jharkhand will run an immunisation programme against pneumonia for children. At least three doses of the vaccine will be administered to children at the age of 45 days, three and-a-half months and nine months,” said Tripathi. As per data shared by the health department, as many as 77,200 doses of PCV have been distributed among the 24 districts to run the immunisation programme and training for the vaccination campaign started in all the districts on Wednesday. Jharkhand is currently conducting an Intensive Public Health Survey (IPHS), which will conclude on June 5, and the immunisation against pneumonia is likely to begin soon after, officials said. As per data with the government, around 81,000 babies are born every month in Jharkhand and the programme will target immunisation of the babies that were born in the month of April. The launch of the immunisation programme against pneumonia assumes significance as it is feared that a third wave of Covid-19 may affect children, said officials. In many cases, symptoms of pneumonia have been reported in children suffering from Covid-19 across the world and the immunisation may act as a protective shield for infants, sources said. On Tuesday, the Niti Ayog cautioned that Covid-19 led to pneumonia in infected children, which may cause fast deterioration of health, especially the respiratory system. As per the state health department, it is feared that Covid-19 may affect around 7 lakh children in Jharkhand and about 45,000 of them may need hospitalization. While there was no data available on the number of deaths caused by pneumonia in Jharkhand, figures with the United Nations highlight that India reported the second highest number of pneumonia deaths among children globally in 2018. As per the UN data, at least 127,000 children died of pneumonia in India, which was more than double the number of deaths that occurred in neighbouring Pakistan. American vaccine manufacturer Pfizer has also started experimenting the effect of PCV along with Covid-19 booster jab in fully vaccinated adults, according to news reports.  The aim of the study is to understand if a combination of the vaccines is safe, and the immune response after adding the pneumonia vaccine to the existing COVID-19 vaccine, Pfizer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||WHO finds Latehar block 'most difficult' for vaccine drive||WHO officials have found Garu block in Latehar district to be the 'most difficult in Jharkhand ' in terms of Covid  vaccination. The internet connectivity is a great stumbling block for the online registration of people. This has hampered the pace of the vaccination. The WHO's Surveillance Medical Officer in Daltonganj Dr Valema Deogam said that Garu block is the most difficult site in the whole of Jharkhand in regard to the vaccination  where internet connectivity is the worst and it is unjust and impractical to ask people waiting for the vaccination to be digital. Garu is a tribal dominated block where hamlets are spread out over a vast area. She said there are many people here who are unaware of the digital methods but rely on their thumbs more. An official press note of the Latehar administration issued recently confirmed that internet connectivity is a major issue here in Garu and under order of the DC Abu Imran, officials have finally found out a few locations in areas like Sarju and Domakharn where a workable internet facility is available. WHO official Dr Valema Deogam has urged the Latehar administration to set up more cellular network service providers in the area instead of solely depending on the government’s BSNL. She asked officials to expand the upper limit of registrations from a single phone number. According to sources Dr. Deogam is a popular face of the Palamau commissionary under which she lookas after Palamau, Garhwa and Latehar districts. The WHO officer lauded deputy commissioner Abu Imran's efforts and functioning during the vaccination programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||Church to distribute nutrition packets for Covid patients at RIMS in Ranchi||The Archdiocese of Ranchi launched a service to distribute fruits and nutrition supplements to Covid-19 patients and their attendants at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) on Wednesday with Archbishop Felix Toppo SJ and Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas SFX dispatching a consignment of complimentary nutrition packets to over 300 patients. “Since the virus outbreak, the Archdiocese of Ranchi has been trying its best to help the poor and the marginalised. After launching endeavours of providing pre-packed non-vegetarian lunch packets outside the government hospital in Ranchi to attendants and relatives of hospitalised patients, we are now starting daily distribution of complementary nutrition packets,” said Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas. He said RIMS, which is the biggest state-run hospital in Ranchi, is frequented by the poorest of the poor. Although meals are provided by the government, patients and their attendants would now also have the option of availing complementary food items like fruits, biscuits, juice, mineral water and beaten rice etc, he added. "The Ranchi Archdiocese, through its seminarians and Ranchi Catholic Youth, will take to the hospital over 300 packets everyday. Our efforts are to strengthen government initiatives and help the needy in this time of crisis,” he said. Bishop Mascarenhas citied that till now the Archdiocese, through the Ranchi Catholic Youth, have been distributing cooked packed food for over 800 needy people everyday for over a month. “The number of needy persons has been increasing and it's becoming difficult to maintain social distancing. Therefore,  the Archdiocese decided to alter its method of helping the poor by bringing supplementary food directly to patients,” he said. He said the Archdiocese would soon Launch a programme to distribute dry rations containing rice, dal (pulses), potato, cooking oil, salt, spices and onions in portions that would last two weeks for a family. “The Catholic church is able to serve the poor only because many religious congregations and benefactors belonging both to the Catholic Church as well as followers of other religions have been generously donating to the cause,” he emphasized.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||Survey bares wage pain for NREGA workers in Jharkhand||A survey conducted by a Delhi-based independent research group in April and May has found that the central government took at least 26 days instead of the stipulated 15 days to complete wage transfer to workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act in Jharkhand leading to a livelihood crisis for over 10 lakh beneficiaries. The survey conducted by Liberation Technology, a centre of the Collaborative Research and Dissemination (CORD), New Delhi, between April 1 and May 23 analysed 143,578 transactions in 26 blocks (10 per cent of the 260 blocks of Jharkhand) on the national job scheme portal (nrega.nic.in). “We found that the time taken only to complete stage two of payments is 26 days on an average. If the time taken for completion of stage one is added, it will be more. This itself is a violation of the (MGNREG) Act as payments must be made within 15 days. In fact, 54.3 per cent (of 3,14,710) transactions were not completed as of May 23,” said Sakina Dhorajiwala, a researcher with Liberation Technology. According to Section 3 of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, the workers have to be paid within 15 days of the end of a particular phase of work. The payment process under the scheme broadly consists of two stages. After the work is completed, a fund transfer order (FTO) is generated by the state government in stage one and digitally sent to the Centre. The Centre then processes these orders and transfers wages directly to the accounts of the workers in stage two. According to guidelines under the MGNREGA, stage one must be completed in eight days and stage two must be completed within seven days. The two stages of payment should therefore be completed within 15 days of the closure of a muster roll. Until recently, payment of wages to workers under the scheme was not done based on their caste category. A single fund transfer order consists of multiple transactions for workers from any/all categories. On March 2 this year, the central government issued instructions to change the payment system so that the fund orders can be generated separately for Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe workers. “At a time when rural India is ravaged by the second wave of the pandemic, the focus and emphasis of the central government must be to expedite the payment of wages. Not only should the payments be made on time, but experimenting without a justified rationale appears hard to comprehend. As our study demonstrates, not only has the experiment not yielded the desired results, but also that even in the beginning of the financial year when the programme should be flushed with funds, completion of stage two is taking three times more than it should. The delays also stand in contravention of the Supreme Court order of May 18, 2018, in the Swaraj Abhiyan vs Union of India case concerning drought. The Centre must calculate the delays and pay compensation to the workers for the full extent of delays (in both stages of the payment process),” said Sakina. Jharkhand rural development minister Alamgir Alam admitted the delay in payment of wages. “We have written umpteen times to the Centre to clear the wages but it seems they are not heeding our request. The payment for the equipment used by NREGA workers, which was to have been paid by the Centre, is also delayed. Just imagine if the projects are not completed before monsoon, then all the hard work would be washed away in the rain. People are also losing interest in NREGA work due to this delay,” the minister claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand weather update: Three cities set rain record||Three Jharkhand cities, including capital Ranchi, created records in rainfall received in a day in May, according to the Met office. Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Daltonganj received the highest ever rainfall in 24 hours in May, said a release of the Ranchi Meteorological Centre  on Tuesday afternoon. Ranchi received 151mm rain on May 27 that not only surpassed the highest 24-hour rainfall of 72.2mm recorded on May 17, 1990, but also equalled the amount of rain received in May 1959, which was the highest ever monthly rainfall. But the total rainfall of 325.5mm in Ranchi during May this year has created a new record, the release said. Similarly, Jamshedpur received 170.2mm rainfall on Monday (May 31), surpassing the highest 24-hour rainfall of 160mm on May 10, 1949. The total monthly rainfall of 546.1mm in Jamshedpur in May bettered the 434.9mm rainfall received by the steel city in 2017. In Daltonganj, the highest 24-hour rainfall of 62.2mm recorded on May 27, 1904, was bettered slightly by 62.5mm received on May 28 this year. The 184.8mm rainfall recorded during May was, however, significantly more than 138.5mm in May 1990.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Hemant criticises Centre's policy on procuring vaccines||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi stating that the Centre’s decision to make states procure vaccines went “against the principle of co-operative federalism” and that it would be “extremely difficult” for his state to shoulder the burden at a time its resources had already been stretched by the pandemic. The letter, dated May 31 and made public by the chief minister’s office late on Monday night, urged Modi to provide vaccines for free to the state. Soren wrote: “The financial burden on the state for vaccination of the age cohort of 18-44 years is likely to be more than Rs 1,100 crore considering 1.57 crore eligible beneficiaries. With vaccine being available for age cohort of 12-18 years and below, the mentioned financial burden will further increase by around Rs 1,000 crore. It will be extremely difficult to spare as much resources from the resource pool of the state which is already stressed during Covid times.” The letter added: “This is probably the first instance in the history of independent India that states have been mandated to procure vaccines on their own.” “Such a mandate, under the ongoing challenging and unprecedented circumstances, where the entire nation is struggling for over a year, stands against the principle of co-operative federalism,” the letter said. The Jharkhand chief minister pointed out that so far all states had received vaccines free of cost from the Centre for all other immunisation programmes. Soren’s letter also referred to the differential pricing of vaccines for the Centre and the states. “It is pertinent to note that the rates specified by the central government for procurement of vaccines by the state for the age cohort of 18-44 years are significantly higher than the rates at which vaccine is being procured by the central government for beneficiaries in the age cohort of 45 years and above. This dichotomy will not stand the scrutiny of reasonable classification under the fundamental principles of the Constitution of India,” the letter stated. Soren pointed to the inherent diversity of the country and the need to tweak vaccine administration accordingly. “The inherent diversity of India creates various peculiarities specific to the concerned states. Every state has its own high-risk groups depending on the geographical, cultural and traditional heterogeneity. As such, a common framework defined by the central government with regard to prioritising beneficiaries across the country is not desirable,” the letter said. “It is requested to provide to the state free vaccine for beneficiaries of all age groups and also give us the freedom to define priorities for vaccination coverage. This would help us in achieving the target of full vaccination in a timely manner, which would go a long way in ensuring effective tackling of the anticipated third wave,” the chief minister added. In May, Soren had likened the Prime Minister’s call to him to his “Mann Ki Baat”, revealing that Modi only spoke his mind about the current Covid situation without allowing him to air his concerns about it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Jumbo wrecks havoc at Palamau tiger reserve||Daltonganj: A lone male elephant said to be between 30 and 35 years has destroyed the check post of the famous Lodh Falls in the Palamau tiger reserve. Sources said the lone elephant has destroyed two houses one each at Mirgi and Medhari villages under the Mahuadarn range. The elephant made huge holes in the kachha walls of the houses of the victims namely Sandip Lohra and Madhnu Birjiya. Sources said the inmates of the two houses were asleep when the attack occurred. The distance between the Lodh Falls and Daltonganj based directorate office of the Palamu tiger project is 118 km. The incident occurred in the south division of the tiger reserve. Palamau tiger reserve’s south division deputy director, Mukesh Kumar said, “Today an adult male elephant has destroyed the check post of the famous Lodh Falls.” He said the tiger reserve is closed for visitors due to the Covid pandemic and there was no cash in the check post of the Lodh Falls when the elephant destroyed it. Mukesh Kumar said this elephant which comes from Chhatisgarh stays in the Mahuadarn range for two to three days and then retreats through the bordering village of Champa. The Mahuadarn range officer Brinda Pandey said the elephant has returned to Chhattisgarh. (Our correspondent) Vaccination of the 18 to 44 age group will resume in the district from June 3 and the prospective beneficiaries can carry out the slot booking for vaccination after 12 noon of June 2. Dhanbad Deputy Developement Commissioner Dasrath Chandra Das said that the vaccination for 18+ will be carried out at altogether 27 centres, including 11 in Dhanbad Sadar; four at Jharia; three at Baliapur; two each at Topchanchi, Baghmara and Govindpur and one each at Nirsa, Purbi Tundi and Tundi. The vaccination drive was suspended in Dhanbad for a week due to lack of sufficient stock. (Our correspondent) Maithon Power Limited, a joint venture company of Tata Steel and Damodar Valley Corporation on Tuesday handed over 40 oxygen cylinders to Dhanbad district administration for usage in different hospitals and Covid treatment centres. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said that the cylinders had been provided as per the corporate social responsibility work by MPL and added some of these cylinders will be transported to different Covid Treatment centres through Sanjeevani vehicles. Hazaribagh: Two oxygen cylinders which were stolen from Hazaribagh medical college and hospital were found from the official residence of civil surgeon Sanjay Jaiswal on Tuesday. Oxygen cylinders were found missing from the health hub after which a special task force was constituted to nab the culprits. Police has recovered maximum of the cylinders. Sadar police arrested two drivers of the hospital. Superintendent of police Karthik S said they are very near to solve the case after the arrest of a few individuals involved in the case. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) The sub-zonal commander of Parasnath Zone, Nunuchand Mahto also known as Tiger surrendered before Giridih Police on Tuesday. Mahto was carrying a reward of Rs 5lakh on his head and was wanted in 72 naxal cases in Giridih, Dhanbad and Bokaro. SP Giridih Police Amit Renu said, “Anti-naxal search operations are being conducted regularly in Parasnath area as a joint effort with CRPF and SAP and has an important role in the surrender of Nunuchand.” Mahto was involved in an incident where a vehicle was blown up between Purnanagar and Pandidih under Pirtand police station area killing five SIS security persons. Bokaro: An employee of Bokaro Steel Plant and his son died on the spot as the motorbike which they were riding collided with a car near a railway crossing in Sector 11 under Harla Police Station on Tuesday. Police said the deceased have been identified as Babu Chand Mahto, 56, and his 32-year-old son Prakash Chand Mahto. They were residents of Umbratand village situated at Telmochu. Mahto was a senior operator in BSL plant while his son was in a private company that works inside the plant. A police officer said that Prakash was driving the motorbike when the Swift car collided with it. After the collision, Prakash fell on road while the car dragged the motorbike and Mahto by a few meters. They both died on the spot. However the car’s driver managed to flee from the spot, but its number plate was found lying. Their dead bodies were sent for post-mortem. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad railway records highest freight ||The Dhanbad Railway Division of East Central Railway carried out the highest freight loading of 26.29 million tonnes, among all the 68 divisions of the country during April and May of this year. The loading figure of the division grew by 66.46% during the same period last year. The division earned Rs 3,491crore from freight this year which is 120 % higher than the income of the same period last year. General Manager of East Central Railway Lalit Chandra Trivedi said,“The achievement shows the team’s dedication towards work led by Divisional Railway Manager Ashish Bansal who worked hard despite Covid constraints.” The division suffered a loss of around Rs 15crore during Cyclone Yaas on May 26 and May 27 due to obstruction in movement of trains and difficulties in loading coal in rakes because of the heavy rain. In order to avoid damages to the tracks and overhead equipment during monsoon, the railway division has launched a month-long operation to prepare for the monsoon. The month-long operation includes pruning tree branches, drain cutting, ballast cleaning and cess repair work in different parts of the division having jurisdiction over 140 stations and halts across, Jharkhand, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Chattisgarh. Extensive patrolling in the vulnerable section of the division has also been launched like Choupan and Gurpa Ghazhandi that witnesses landslides on a large scale.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
