03-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad resumes vaccine drive for 18+||Vaccination for the 18 to 44 age group, suspended for over a week due to lack of sufficient doses, was resumed on Thursday at 27 centres across the district including 11 at Dhanbad Sadar, four at Jharia, three at Baliapur, two each at Baghmara, Tundi, Topchanchi, Govindpur and 1 centre of Nirsa. The centres administered Covaxin as the district received around 6500 doses of the vaccine. Vaccination for 45 and above age group also continued at 40 sites across the district including 11 sites at Baghmara; six at Nirsa; five at Dhanbad Sadar; four at Baliapur; three each at Baliapur, Jharia and different government centres besides two centres each at Tundi, Govindpur and mobile vaccination van. Talking to Telegraph Online on Thursday, 20-year-old Raksha Rani, a student of P.K. Roy Memorial College, said, “I was enthusiastic after learning on June 1 that vaccination for 18+ will begin again from June and booked the slot yesterday after which I took the vaccine during the first slot at around 11 am.” “The entire process of vaccination was quite good as there were sufficient seating arrangements at the centre and personally I felt no side effects after taking the vaccine,” said Rani who was accompanied by her mother. “The only message that I want to give is that everybody should come forward to take the vaccine as early as possible in order to maintain our safety as well as that of our family members,” she said. “I felt quite relaxed after taking the dose as after registering on April 29, I could book the slot yesterday and took the first dose today,” said 21-year-old Gaurav Dey, a resident of Chiragora in Dhanbad who took the jab at Jagjivan Nagar centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
03-06-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro police arrest uranium smuggling gang||Bokaro police have arrested seven persons with 6kg of uranium after conducting raids at different places across the district. The accused were suppliers and were searching for potential customers to sell the highly radioactive and explosive material at a price Rs 50lakh per kilogram. It is illegal to possess uranium in India without a license. A violation of the Atomic Energy Act of 1962 in this regard can attract stringent punishment. The arrested individuals are said to be a part of an inter-state gang with a country wide network in dealing with Uranium. The special police team is conducting an investigation to find the link from whom the accused received the material. SP Bokaro, Chandan Kumar Jha said, “We have seized the "yellow coloured substance" and will send it to experts for testing. Uranium is a highly radioactive substance that is used in nuclear facilities.” Jha said that they received information that some criminal elements are preparing to sell uranium, following which a special police team was formed and raids were conducted. Those arrested have been identified as Bapi Da also known as Bapi Chandra, Anil Singh, Deepak Kumar, Krishna Kant, Hare Ram Sharma, Mahavir Mahto and Pankaj Mahto. All are residents of the district. Of those arrested Deepak and Bapi have a criminal history. “It is still unclear how they get their hands on the radioactive metal. During police interrogation, they are saying they got it from someone from West Bengal and sometimes say they got it from Giridih and other places,” said the SP. “Apart from Uranium packets, seven mobile phones and Passion X Pro motorcycles were also seized,” he added. Investigation is being carried on to nab those who buy this radioactive material in the district and to ascertain the purpose of the purchase. An FIR has been lodged with Harla Police Station under section 414/120B/34 IPC and 24 1 (a) atomic energy act has been registered on Thursday, said SP. Sources said that police are trying to ascertain whether the arrested have any link with the racket busted by the Maharashtra Anti Terrorism Squad on May 5, in which two men were arrested and a total of 7.1 kg of natural uranium worth Rs 21.3crore was seized. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) took over the probe after the arrest. The experts at the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre confirmed that the substance seized was natural uranium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
03-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand tops in supply of liquid medical oxygen in Covid times||Jharkhand has provided over 8,000 metric tonne liquid medical oxygen, which is 35 per cent of the total transported across the country via Oxygen Express trains, making it the highest contributor among states as the nation goes throuhgh a vicious second wave of the pandemic. As per figures provied by the Indian Railways, out of over 23,741 metric tonne LMO transported in Oxygen Express trains till date,Jharkhand contributed 8,297 metric tonnes, which works out to around 35 per cent. The state government came up with an advertisement in this regard with a picture of a beaming chief minister Hemant Soren. Earlier on May 26, the state water resources minister Mithilesh Kumar Thakur had tweeted about Jharkhand's feat.  Hemant retweeted it to indicate his appreciation. As per the information in the ad, which was compiled with inputs from the railways and the state control room, Jharkhand was at the top with 35 per cent contribution followed by neighbouring Odisha (27%),  Gujarat (20%), West Bengal (8%), Madhya Pradesh (5%) and others (5%). Oxygen Express trains were run in from Jharkhand in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19 since April 23. These trains were fed by two major loading points in the state - Tatanagar (Jamshedpur) and Bokaro _ with the two stations having so far delivered 6,207 metric tonne and 2,090 metric tonn liquid medical oxygen respectively to various locations in the country. In Jamshedpur, two plants of Linde India, a leading manufacturer of industrial gases, supplied the LMO while Inox Air took care of requirements at Bokaro. "On an average per day, we are supplying 550 metric tonne liquid medical oxygen on the basis of requirements which we get from various state governments," said Santosh Bhagat, in-charge of Linde India's liquid oxygen plant at Burmamines in Jamshedpur. He, however said that the demand of LMO is gradually reducing with improvement in the Covid situation across the country. In addition to Jamshedpur and Bokaro, Rourkela in neighbouring Odisha is another major loading point of liquid medical oxygen. Chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway Sanjay Ghosh confirmed that till the afternoon of Thursday (June 3), Rourkela dispatched 4,765 metric tonne liquid medical oxygen while South Eastern Railway zone as a whole dispatched 13,000 metric tonne of liquid oxygen. Among the states and Union territories that have been served with liquid medical oxygen by South Eastern Railway so far are New Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Karnataka, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and  Assam. "Despite several contraints including challenges posed by the two recent cyclones, Tauktae and Yaas, the railways continued its oxygen movement in the same manner with the help of its committed employees who are trained to work round the clock even during adversities to ensure fastest transportation of oxygen Express trains," said Ghosh adding that oxygen relief by Oxygen Express trains reached to as many as  15 states across the country. In order to ensure that Oxygen Express trains reach their destantions on time these are run on high-priority green corridors, said the PRO. "All this is done in a manner that other freight operations aren't hampered," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
03-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to conduct mega vaccination drive from Friday||Jharkhand is all set to launch a mega vaccination drive across the state from this weekend and has set a target of inoculating at least 18 lakh people in the age group of 45 and above by this month. Siddharth Tripathi, nodal officer of health department’s IEC wing told the media at a  virtual press conference that the mega vaccination drive will begin from Friday.  “We aim to vaccinate 1.5 lakh people per day during the mega vaccination camp. To improve the coverage, the state government has decided to run special camps on weekends (Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays) this month in addition to the routine immunisation drives,” he said. Additional chief secretary of the state health department Arun Kumar Singh has dispatched letters to all deputy commissioners along with district-wise vaccinaion targets to be met in the next four weeks an has directed them to ensure proper facilitation. Tripathi said the focus of the special drive was mainly on those above 45. Currently, Jharkhand has 10,37,950 doses of vaccines for this age group,  7,57,860 doses of Covidhield and rest Covaxin. There is , however, a massive shortage of doses for the 18-plus group as with the health department saying that it has only 55,350 doses left with them. In terms of coverage, out of a target of 83,86,677 people in the 45-plus age category, only 24,32,856 have got their first dose so far. This works out to about 29 per cent. For the second dose, out a target of 4,87,162, only 3,82,122 or 78 per cent, have received theirs. The Ranchi district administration has already begun preparations for the mega vaccination drive. It has zeroed in on Birsa Munda football stadium as the venue of the drive with deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan visited the place to oversee arrangements. “The giant stadium with a capacity of accommodating over 30,000 people will be easy for us to maintain vaccine protocols  and maintain proper social distancing. A walk-in system with spot registration has been planned for the weekend special drive. People will be given tokens after registration and asked to await their turn,” said an official who was at the stadium. Positivity rate Jharkhand on Wednesday reported a Covid-19 positivity rate of less than 1 per cent for the first time since March as only 532 of the 59,510 people tested were found infected by Coronavirus on the day, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The positivity rate in the state on Wednesday was 0.89 per cent. As per records with the state health department, the average daily Covid-19 positivity rate in Jharkhand was close to 10 per cent in April, but it dropped to around 2 per cent in the last week of the month. Vaccine count The state on Wednesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 28,711 residents, while the second dose was administered to 5,842 beneficiaries, stated a separate report from NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
03-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city to get its first paediatric hospital||A 50-bed paediatric hospital is going to be set up at Kantilal Gandhi Memorial Hospital at Bistupur. The proposed paediatric hospital will be set up by the district administration for Covid patients, thus aimed at giving relief to the children who are falling victim to the infection. District civil surgeon A.K. Lal said the district administration has taken up the KGMH for combating Covid among children. "We are going to set up the pediatric hospital at the KGMH keeping in view of the Covid pandemic. Once the pandemic is over, we will hand over the hospital to the KGMH trust, "said Lal to The Telegraph Online. The civil surgeon stated that work for setting up the hospital will begin soon. The KGMH located at South Park in Bistupur, was earlier taken over by Calcutta-based Medica in 2014. But after Medica wound up its operation in May 2020, the hospital was lying idle. After the re-emerging of the pandemic, the KGMH was turned into a Covid-designated hospital. The paediatric hospital will come up alongside the existing Covid treatment facility there. After the pandemic re-emerged in March this year and several children were getting infected, East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar took up the decision to take over the hospital to set up a pediatric hospital. At present, there is no exclusive paediatric hospital in the district. Covid cases among children till 14 years are increasing exponentially. District disease surveillance officer, Sahir Paul said during the first phase of pandemic in 2020, 843 children were infected with Covid. "But in the second phase which began from March this year, the number of Covid-infected children has gone up to 1,290," said Paul to The Telegraph Online. According to health department sources, two paediatric hospitals having 20 beds each will also be set up at Sadar Hospital in Khaasmahal and at the Ghatsila sub-divisional hospital in Ghatsila shortly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
03-06-2021||Jharkhand||Teachers and social workers cycle 100km for Covid awareness||Teachers from the Jharia based social organisation Samadhan on Thursday took out a 100 km cycle ride to spread Covid awareness on the occasion of World Bicycle Day. The organisation provides free education to children from economically deprived families. The awareness drive was taken out by Samadhan founder Chandan Singh and his two colleagues Ravindra Kumar and Bittu Singh. They cycled from Sai Mandir of Sindri to Govindur Kisan Chowk and other places like Nawadih and Bank More. The drive also coincided with the partial relaxation of the state-wide lockdown and thus also aimed at cautioning people against any over enthusiasm during the time. Talking to the Telegraph Online, Singh who completed his march at around 1 pm at Jharia said, “Any slackness at this crucial point of time of the second wave of Covid may lead to return of the previous situation so we need to be very cautious and observe all the laid protocols in the strictest sense.” “We stopped at several places in between our march like at Thana More in Jharia, Kisan Chowk in Barwaddah and Bank More in Dhanbad Sadar and appealed to people to get vaccinated as early as possible in order to ensure safety for themselves and their family members as our cycle march also coincided with relaunching of vaccination drive for 18+ which began in Dhanbad since today after a gap of eight days,” said Singh. “Working with IIT (ISM) administration as part of Covid awareness and medicine and other kit distribution drive in around 29 villages and slums in the surrounding villages of the institute since May 15 we realised that more awareness is required among rural populace about vaccination as well as Covid protocol observance etc so we carried out awareness in villages also as part of our march,” said Ravindra Kumar, a resident of Lodna More in Jharia who besides imparting  free education to children of economically deprived families is preparing for recruitment exams of Railway Recruitment Board, Banking  services etc. Bittu Singh, a resident of Polytechnic road in Dhanbad said,“Interacting with the students their parents during online classes we realised that there is a need to create more awareness among people about the different measures like strict observance of Covid protocols and benefits of vaccination so we took out the March today.” “We also apprised people about other health benefits of cycling like increased cardiovascular strength, muscle strength and fitness,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
03-06-2021||Jharkhand||Tata adventure outfit lines up wellness programme for 50+||Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) has introduced a virtual wellness programme for adults above 50 beginning on June 5. The month-long programme has been lined up considering the fitness and wellness needs of the 50-plus age group which differs a lot from others. It aims to help people lead an active lifestyle. "The programme not only includes physical fitness focused on age related problems but also focusses on the need for a social life," said Hemant Gupta, head of TSAF. "The month-long programme is open not just for employees but also their parents and friends,” he added. According to Gupta, an Everester, they have been conducting virtual programmes, also for school students, with the aim to motivate and keep everyone engaged in the time of Covid. "We believe in the importance of keeping society occupied during the pandemic when most people are confined indoors. We are getting good response from school children," he added. Registration for the programme can be done through the link: https://forms.office.com/r/PW8gH69TCW. Those interested can call  Varun (9599675676) for further queries. The premier steel city-based adventure outfit, in association with Tata Education Excellence Program (TEEP), had organised a webinar titled,  “Parvatarohan- Ek Charcha” for school students on May 15. The invited speakers were mountaineers who had conquered Mount Everest. More than 200 students from classes VIII to XII from "Basic" and "Saral" assessment schools attended the webinar. Gupta and fellow Everester Swarnalata Dalai addressed students. Students got an opportunity to appreciate the need for leadership, team building, planning, self-discipline and hard-work. The annual outdoor leadership programme at Garhwal Himalayas in Uttarakhand and surrounding areas of Jamshedpur have been put off owing to the pandemic. “We’ll resume our activities once the situation improves,” Gupta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
03-06-2021||Jharkhand||Daily wage earners on the brink of starvation||A large number of people, including construction workers, street vendors, rickshaw pullers, road side restaurant staff who are deprived of ration cards are facing the double blow of loss of income due to lockdown and lack of PDS foodgrains. Many of these families like that of Raju Sao of Koiri Bandh locality and Shankar Sao of Jharia Sabji Bagan are on the verge of starvation. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Raju Sao said, “Our family income of five, including three sons, was dependent on chaat stalls put up at  fairs or exhibitions but with no permission of fairs since March 20 last year we are penniless and somehow living on food grains provided by some social worker or other people including neighbours.” “All of my three children have left studies and are sitting idle at home,” said Sao. He said the former councillor of his ward helps him liaison with social organisations that arrange food grains for his family. “We have applied for ration cards several times earlier but not received the same and though received the foodgrains during the last year from PDS shop for three months as per government scheme but were deprived of the same this year,” said Sao. Echoing his sentiments, Shankar Sao, a 68-year-old fruit seller of Sabji Bagan locality of Jharia said, “My children have deserted me after the death of my wife three years ago and I somehow eke out my living by selling fruit at Bata More in Jharia but due to ill health as this age I could not go out daily and thus  have to sleep empty stomach sometimes” “At this age I am wary of my ill health and also keen on getting an Ayushman Card but without a card, I can’t get a ration card also” said Sao. Former councillor of ward number 37 of Jharia, Anup Sao said,“Not only daily wage earners of coal pickers but such is situation that many private schools schools whose schools are lying closed since over 15 months and they are deprived of salary are also facing foodgrain crisis due to lack of ration cards” Activist Shyamal Mazumdar, who is also the district convenor of Path vikreta samanvaya Samiti  said, “Only 20% out of total 5000 street vendors are having the ration cards and rest are facing great difficulty in managing their life and many have left to their native places to carry out work in agricultural field etc. District Supply officer, Bhogendra Thakur, said, “ the entire process of ration card allotment is on line and as per our records there is no pending application for ration cards” “If any person has not received the ration card despite applying he can send the receipt or any other print out on my whatsapp number-7739407684 and we will ensure early allotment of ration card to them,” said Thakur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
03-06-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS named centre of excellence for tacking third wave of Covid-19||Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi will function as a centre of excellence to help the state combat a possible third wave of Covid-19 with three of its key departments working in tandem to monitor paediatric cases reported frm across the state, health officials said on Thursday. In a letter addressed to RIMS Director Dr Kameshwar Prasad, state health secretary Arun Kumar Singh stated that the  department of neonatology, department of paediatrics and Centre of Excellence for Management of SAM (Severely Acute Malnourished) Children would provide technical guidance for combatting Covid-19 cases among children and prepare protocols and guidelines. “As the premiere medical institution in Jharkhand, RIMS will also assist all private hospitals, public hospitals and child specialists working across the state,” the letter stated, adding that RIMS will provide daily updates to the department of health about the situation of Covid-19 among children during the third wave. RIMS has had to deal with lack of infrastructure and resources during the first and the second wave of Covid-19. Yet, it was  selected as the centre of excellence because of its position as the premiere healthcare facility in the state and its pool of experienced doctors, a health official explained. The health secretary had earlier stated that a third wave of Covid-19 may affect around 7 lakh children in Jharkhand and about 45,000 of them might need hospitalisation. The state, however, is dealing with a shortage of child specialists and has only 125 doctors with expertise in treating ailments in children. The state government has also asked administrations of all 24 districts to prepare a six-member team of doctors and nurses to manage intensive care units (ICUs) for children. The teams comprise two medical officers, two doctors and two staff nurses. These teams would be imparted special training in managing neonatal intensive care units (NICUs) and paediatrics intensive care u nits (PICUs), officials said. While the active caseload of Covid-19 has dropped in Jharkhand after enforcement of strict restrictions, doctors fear that any complacency at this stage could cause a surge in cases again. In the wake of the growing concern about a third wave, the government has set up special ICUs for children in various government and private hospitals and also strengthened the infrastructure for child care at medical facilities. The state recently held its first national level webinar to prepare for the third wave keeping in mind the possibility that it could have an impact on children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
03-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand's Covid positivity rate drops below 1 per cent after two months||Jharkhand on Wednesday reported a Covid-19 positivity rate of less than 1 per cent for the first time since March as only 532 of the 59,510 people tested were found infected by Coronavirus on the day, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The positivity rate in the state on Wednesday was 0.89 per cent. As per records with the state health department, the average daily Covid-19 positivity rate in Jharkhand was close to 10 per cent in April, but it dropped to around 2 per cent in the last week of the month. The state also reported 1272 Covid recoveries on Wednesday, which brought the active caseload in Jharkhand down to 7307, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. As per the bulletin, the growth rate of infection also dropped to 0.18 per cent in Jharkhand on the day against the national average of 0.39 per cent, while the recovery rate jumped to 96.36 per cent in the state against the national average of 92.50 per cent. While the active caseload and the growth rate dipped in the state, the Covid mortality rate continued to be higher than the national average. As per NHM data, the Covid mortality rate in the state was 1.47 per cent against the national average of 1.20 per cent. The state on Wednesday reported as many as 11 Covid casualties and at least seven of the victims died in Ranchi, the district which accounts for highest number of Covid casualties and cases in Jharkhand. So far, as many as 5011 people have died of Covid-19 in Jharkhand and at least 1564 of them breathed their last in Ranchi. Health officials said that several critical patients from across the state were referred to Ranchi for better health facilities and their deaths also contributed to the Covid toll here. While Ranchi reported 60 cases of Covid-19 against 198 recoveries, East Singhbhum reported 52 cases against 189 recoveries. As per NHM data, the active caseload in Ranchi stood at 2,126 and that in East Singhbhum was only 30. East Singhbhum also reported two Covid casualties on the day which took the toll there to 1012. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 27 cases against 75 recoveries while Hazaribag reported 46 cases against 107 recoveries. At least 49 people were found infected in Simdega while 46 Covid patients recovered there. As per government data, Ranchi was the only Jharkhand district with more than 1000 active cases of Covid-19. The state on Wednesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 28,711 residents, while the second dose was administered to 5,842 beneficiaries, stated a separate report from NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
03-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand Congress carries out drive for free jabs ||After Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to provide vaccines for free to states on Monday, the state unit of the Congress carried out a social media campaign demanding free universal vaccination on Wednesday. “This is a part of our national campaign on social media, ‘Speak Up for Free Universal Vaccination’, demanding the Prime Minister to ensure free vaccination for all,” said state Congress spokesperson Alok Kumar Dubey. He said the campaign is being propagated through social media platforms like WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. “Since Independence, we have seen vaccination programme was carried out by the Union government by providing free vaccines to all,” said state Congress president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, adding that this was the first time the states were being asked to buy vaccines for people in the age group of 18 to 44 years. All governments across the world give free vaccines, the minister further said, demanding that the Union government must provide them to all in India as well. Agriculture minister Badal Patralekh, who is also the chairman of the vaccination committee of the party, went to Bapu Batika at Morabadi grounds in Ranchi along with party colleagues Lal Kishore Nath Shahdeo, Rajesh Gupta and Dubey to take part in a Facebook Live programme on vaccination. “The Union government must declare a universal vaccination policy for providing free vaccines to all within a time frame,” Patralekh said. “When other countries were buying vaccines for their citizens, our country kept quiet and allowed our manufacturers to sell their vaccines abroad,” he alleged, adding that everyone should be vaccinated by the end of this year. If the vaccination programme continues at the current pace, it will take a few years to be completed, Shahdeo said, demanding that jabs for all be expedited. “The government that favours ‘one nation, one taxation’ policy should also follow ‘one nation, one vaccination’ policy and ensure free universal vaccination,” he further said, criticising the Centre for asking the states to buy Covid vaccines for the 18 to 44 age group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
