04-06-2021||Jharkhand||Cinematography session for Dhanbad varsity students||Renowned cinematographer Shubhra Datta on Friday conducted a special online session on aesthetics of cinematography organised by the mass communication department of Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University (BBMKU) where she opined that clicking a black and white photograph or shooting such a movie requires much more effort than their coloured counterparts. Chief speaker Datta, addressing around 30 students, said that a black and white photograph requires much more attention to light adjustment and cinematographers of the era were no less talented than ours and rather more skilled than us. The faculty of DA Film School explained the gradual evolution of cinematography right from the silent movie era to talkie films to celluloid films and finally to the present era of digital cinema. During her hour-long session, she also explained different aspects of cinematography like lighting, framing, composition, camera motion, camera angles, film selection, lens choices, depth of field, aperture, zoom, focus, colour, exposure and filtration. Drawing a similarity between aesthetics of cinematography and photography she said while in still photography there is focus on a single frame, in cinematography the focus is on a series of frames moving one after another creating an illusion of motion. “During the silent movie era 12-18 frames were filmed per second but with the sound addition in films the idea of 24 frames per second was brought into practice to create a satisfactory level of realistic motion,” said Dutta. While explaining the effect of lights in cinematography, Datta talked about the significance of natural light, hard light, and blue light, saying, “A scene shot during morning hour of 7am to 9am when the light is comparatively less intense can’t be shot at around 12 noon when the sunlight comes on head and creates a different shadow.” Dhanbad-based renowned photographer, Mukesh Srivastava during his address as the guest of honour said that that the core of cinematography is photography and the basic principles of both are almost the same. “Cinematography is the art of photography and visual storytelling in a motion picture or television show,” said Srivastava, who is also the president of Dhanbad Camera Club. Further cautioning the audience against misinterpreting videography with cinematography he said, “While videography is primarily about recording an event or capturing or recording the proceeding, cinematography is more about art and science of making a movie.” “Cinematography is more creative and intertwined with the art of storytelling,” added Srivastava. BBMKU  Vice-Chancellor Anjani Kumar Srivastava while inaugurating the session said “With the continuous upgradation of technology, cinematography and photography are changing day by day but the aesthetics remain the same.” Head of Department of Mass Communication, Mantosh Pandey exhorted the students to keep pace with rapid progress of technology revolutionizing photography and cinematography.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
04-06-2021||Jharkhand||On eve of World Environment Day, Jharia activists march for nature||A group of environmentalists of Jharia on Friday took out a 200-meter march on the eve of World Environment Day, carrying trees on their backs and appealing to people to do their bit to save the environment by planting at least one sapling on Saturday on the occasion. The hour-long march taken out under the banner of a social organisation, Youth Concept from Katras More area of Jharia at around 10 am, was aimed at apprising people about the significance of environment conservation in order to secure a better future for our next generation. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Akhlaque Ahmad, the founder of Youth Concept who led the march, said, “We also distributed leaflets bearing appeal to people to plant at least one sapling in their house and vicinity tomorrow (Saturday).” “Our members appealed to people to ensure lesser emission of pollution tomorrow by not using vehicles and instead of trying to reach office by cycles or foot or even by e-rickshaw, if their workplace is far away from home,” further said Ahmad. “The blatant violation of pollution norms by different private coal excavators operating in our vicinity on behalf of BCCL has turned Jharia into one of most polluted areas but no steps have been taken,” said Ahmad. Echoing sentiments with Akhlaque, Md Iqbal,  a government school teacher said, “During our childhood, the atmosphere of Jharia town was much more pleasant as the majority of mining was carried out through underground mining methods. This generated less pollution compared to the present practice of open cast mining  where private contractors working on behalf of coal companies violate the norms leading to increase in pollution.” “Though Dhanbad was selected among the 102 worst polluted cities and towns of the country under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) of Union Ministry of Environment and Forest two years ago for reducing pollution by 30 per cent by 2024 but no significant step is in sight to reduce the pollution level. Road sweeping machines procured at a cost of Rs 2.5 crore are lying idle” said Iqbal. “Some of children of our locality who accompanied us during the march taken carried saplings on their backs with pipes arising from plant connected to oxygen masks symbolically highlighting the importance of oxygen for human which has been realised during the second wave of the pandemic,” said Iqbal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
04-06-2021||Jharkhand|| Appellate tribunal quashes Incab Industries' liquidation order||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has quashed the liquidation order of Incab Industries, earlier passed by National Company Law Tribunal's (NCLT) Calcutta bench. The double bench of the New Delhi-based NCLAT comprising Justice A.I.S. Cheema and V. P. Singh, member (Technical), while reading out the 82-page verdict over a video conference on Friday, rejected the company's liquidation and declared the committee of creditors (CoC) as invalid. The statutory body which helps in revival of sick industries also ordered the replacement of Shashi Agarwal, the Resolution Professional _ who was appointed to conduct the corporate insolvency resolution process _ and appoint a new RP by June 9. The NCLAT double bench also sought action against the resolution professional and referred the matter to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India ( IBBI) . The final order  said Shashi Agarwal shall immediately hand over  charge to the new Resolution Professional as the adjudicating authority (ie, Calcutta bench of NCLT )
may appoint. The NCLAT order also rejected outright claims of Kamla Mills and Fasqua Investment, the two private entities owned by RR Kabels, one of the earlier bidders of the ailing company. "The new  Resolution Professional will collate all the claims submitted by creditors before the earlier Resolution Professional and, depending on the claims admitted from CoC excluding Kamla Mills Private Limited and Fasqua Investment Private Limited and proceed further with the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Procesd (CIRP), " stated the NCLAT order. Senior advocate Akhilesh Srivastava who is fighting the case in favour of employees said, "We are happy with the NCLAT order. It is a victory for the employees. Things will start afresh at the NCLT. We have always opposed the liquidation move. Now, fresh efforts will be made to revive the company." S. K. Mohanty, a Supreme Court lawyer based in New Delhi who is also fighting the case in favour of the employees, said, "We welcome the NCLAT verdict. It has set-aside the NCLT liquidation order of the company passed on February 7 last year. All parties have been asked to appear before NCLT - Calcutta bench on June 9." Notably, the Calcutta bench of  NCLT on February 7, 2020 had ordered dissolution of ailing Incab Industries under The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. The liquidation order came as a major blow to the workers in Jamshedpur as well as the union operating here and in Calcutta, where Incab has its head office. Incab's Jamshedpur plant currently has a strength of around 900-odd employees. In the mid-1990s, Malaysian promoter Leader Universal Berhad Cables took over the firm. But, the company started suffering losses and slid deeper in the red. As it was suffering losses Incab was referred to the BIFR in 1999, a year before Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar.Since then the employees are deprived of their monthly salary and other benefits. Aloke Sen, a senior union functionary of Incab Industries based in Calcutta said that they will again approach Tata Steel with a request to revive the ailing company.
Tata Steel was also one of the bidders of the company. It's bid was declared as the best by the erstwhile Board for Industrial and Fnancial Reconstruction (BIFR). But, the steel major could not take over the ailing Incab because of various legal issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
04-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand launches helpline for information on black fungus ||State health minister Banna Gupta launched a 24x7 helpline dedicated to providing information on mucormycosis, or black fungus,amid reports of a growing number of cases as well as fatalities. Gupta rolled out the helpline (6203709250) during a daylong webinar organised by the state health department and the women’s wing of the state chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA), in association with National Health Mission, on black fungus and other emerging health concerns. Speaking at the webinar, Gupta said, “The 24x7 helpline aims to function as a one-stop centre to assist people by disseminating information about black fungus, ways for early detection and other safety measures.” He said the state government was working to put in place elaborate treatment facilities for those afflicted by the disease which was emerging as one of the most serious post-Covid complications being experienced by patients. “In every district we are now setting up a dedicated ward for black fungus. The state government is also working towards organising compensation for victims of the disease. We are also readying a team of dedicated professionals for effective treatment,” he announced. Data available from the health department suggests that among 63 cases so far, 18 people have died while 14 have recovered. All the cases have surfaced in the last one month since the detection of the first case at the end of April this year. Gupta also appealed to all those who attended the webinar to make the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive a success in the state. “The government is working hard to increase vaccine coverage on a daily basis but we are still facing issues of hesitancy in rural areas. The vaccine is completely safe and everyone must take it,” he said. Over two lakh people — enouragd by religious and community leaders from across the state—attended the webinar, as per an official statement released by Gupta’s office. Additional chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh, in his address, highlighted the government’s efforts at tackling the third wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
04-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur witnesses two gun attacks in 24 hours||One person was injured and another escaped unhurt as criminals opened fire at two places in Mango and Bistupur during the last 24 hours. While the firing incident at Ulidih took place at 9pm on Thursday, the one at Circuit House Area took place at 11am on Friday. On Thursday night, 32-year-old jeweler Ajay Burman was injured after eight bike-borne criminals fired on him near his house at Janata Path in Mango. The victim who sustained injuries on his neck has been admitted at Tata Main Hospital, where his condition is stated to be serious. One of the pellets is trapped at a sensitive point in the neck. In a statement to police, Burman said the gun-shot attack was launched as he did not pay "rangadaari tax (extortion)" of Rs 30,000 to a local goon identified as Raja Thapa. Police arrested Thappa on Friday morning, said Ulidih police station OC Meghnath Mandal. "But we are looking into whether there is any other reason behind the attack on the jeweler. We have already arrested Thapa and are trying to find out the truth," Mandal said. The victim's brother, Sanjay Burman, said Thapa had demanded that his brother to pay him Rs 30,000 as "rangadaari" every month since April and had even assaulted him on May 22 at his jewelry shop. In the second incident, Pintu Yadav (26) was riding through the Sonari-Bistupur Road on Friday morning when four bike-borne youths intercepted him near Circuit House petrol pump. One of them fired on him. Fortunately, the shot missed him, even though it was fired from close range. The attackers sped away towards Sonari, triggering a ruckus in the posh locality. Pintu, a resident of Sonari Gwala Bustee, then went to Bistupur police station and reported the attack. Pintu, who has a criminal record and had returned from Ghaghidih Central Jail on Thursday, has blamed Bablu Lohar for the attack on him. A police team led by Bistupur OC Vishnu Raut has launched an investigation. "The firing incident took place near the Circuit House petrol pump. We have recovered an empty cartridge from the place," Raut said. He said the attack was a result of old enmity, adding that they are scanning the CCTV footage for further clues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
04-06-2021||Jharkhand||FIT@50+ women's Himalaya expedition put off to March 2022||Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) has postponed the FIT@50+ Women’s Trans Himalayan Expedition ’21 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The expedition, organised in collaboration with the ministry of youth affairs and sports under the FIT India programme, was expected to be launched last month. But the premier adventure outfit, after having waited for a while, decided to postpone the expedition to March 2022. Sources revealed that TSAF had planned to organise the expedition sometime later this year, but finally decided to postpone it to next year. "It would not be wise to organise the expedition this year. It would be a risky affair and it is better to play it safe and postpone it to next year. We are hopeful that the Covid situation should improve by next year," a TASF source said. Hemant Gupta, head of TSAF, confirmed the expedition would be conducted in March next year. "It (expedition) is not possible this year," he said. The unique expedition, which is being supported by Tata Motors and Tata Sports Club as drive and fitness partners respectively, was to be led by legendary climber Bachendri Pal. It has participants aged 50 and above from across India. The team members have been drawn from across India comprising retired professionals and homemakers. The 10-member team also comprises three women Everest summiteers. The 5-month long expedition involves traversing the Himalaya from Arunachal to Karakoram Range (East to West) covering around 4,500 kms and cross about 40 mountain passes. The expedition will conclude in the Leh-Ladakh region where the team will cross Khardungla (18,380 ft), Saser La (17,753 ft), Depsang La (17,869 ft) and finish at Karakoram Pass (18,175 ft).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
04-06-2021||Jharkhand||Congress writes to President to seek free vaccines for all ||A  Jharkhand Congress delegation, led by the state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, submitted a memorandum addressed to the President of India to governor Draupadi Murmu on Friday, seeking his intervention to ensure free vaccination for all in the state. The party, which is a part of the ruling coalition government in Jharkhand, criticised the Narendra Modi government for its differential pricing mechanism for vaccines and alleged that it was indirectly allowing black-marketing. Oraon, who was accompanied by his cabinet colleague Alamgir Alam (rural development) and other party workers, later said, “We demand free vaccination for everyone. To counter the challenges posed by the global pandemic, vaccination is the only way forward before us now. And the process has to be fast to safeguard our countrymen amid fears of the third wave later this year.” According to Oraon, India needs to vaccinate at least one crore people daily to be able to cover the entire population by year-end. “Even though Union ministers have been claiming that they will vaccinate everyone by the end of this year, the action on the ground is contradictory. The situation is such that state after state is complaining about vaccine shortage, specially for those in the age group of 18 plus,” added Alamgir. Citing the differential pricing mechanism of vaccines, Oraon maintained it was a "recipe for encouraging black-marketing". “The Centre talks about one nation, one tax. But why is there different pricing for vaccination? States are forced to procure vaccines at double the rates at which the Centre is getting. Why? When the 45-plus and the elderly are given free vaccines, why are states asked to pay for thos above 18? For the first time since Independence, we are seeing the Union government asking states to buy its own vaccines. The Modi government is clearly without any holistic vaccine policy plan and is now running away from its responsibility,” he said. The Congress, he added, was, therefore, appealing to the President of India to intervene in the interest of the country and its people to ensure “universalisation of free vaccines.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
04-06-2021||Jharkhand||Tiger, suffering from fever, dies at Ranchi Zoo ||Shiva, a 10-year-old male tiger died at Ranchi Zoo on Thursday night after suffering from fever since Tuesday, sending authorities into a tizzy over fears that the animal may have contracted a coronavirus infection. While it tested negative for Covid-19 on Friday morning, zoo authorities are not taking any chances and have decided to send the samples for further testing at IVRI Bareilly. Reportedly, eight Asiatic lions in Hyderabad zoo had tested positive for Covid-19 in May this year. However, the Union environment ministry thereafter stated the infection was not caused by any variant of concern and noted that there was no factual evidence currently available about animals transmitting the disease to humans any further. Bhagwan Birsa Biological Park director Y.K. Das confirmed the death of the tiger while talking to reporters in the morning, stating that the striped creature first fell ill on Tuesday but was under treatment. “On Thursday, it completely stopped eating, causing an unfortunate death. It’s a sad day for the zoo,” he said. Zoo doctor O.P. Sahu said that they have collected blood, lung and swab samples for further testing at IVRI Bareilly. “It is difficult to say if it was by any chance infected with Covid-19 but amid the ongoing pandemic, one can’t say anything for sure. Since we don’t have any specialised test kit for animals, we performed a test on a RAT kit used for humans which came negative. But to ascertain further and to know the actual cause of the death, we have sent the samples to IVRI Bareilly,” he said. Sources said that Shiva had high fever on Tuesday after which the zoo got in touch with Dr Praveen Kumar, a veterinarian at Birsa Agriculture University (BAU) for assistance. After medication, it showed improvement the next day but its food intake had fallen. “Its lungs seem to be heavily damaged,” said another staff member. Shiva came to Ranchi Zoo on November 24, 2014. Following its demise, the zoo is now left with nine tigers including six males. The 104 hectare park has over 1,200 animals across around 100 species. The zoo has been closed since the outbreak of the pandemic in March last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
04-06-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccination drive at Maoist stronghold in Latehar||Vaccination in the Maoist-infested Saryu and Domakharn areas of Latehar district kicked off on Friday afternoon where 40 beneficiaries, mostly tribals, got their first jab of Covishield as a bus doubled up as a mobile vaccination unit to reach them. Latehar BDO Ganesh Rajak, who was present at the vaccination bus along with two nurses, said not a single dose went to waste as villagers showed interest in getting the jabs and also agreed to come to take their second dose after 84 days. He said four Covishield vials, vials each containing 10 doses, were opened and used. Palamu district reproductive child health officer Anil Kumar Singh informed that 5,000 doses of the vaccine were dispatched to Latehar district from Palamu on June 3. Talking about the drive, DC Latehar Abu Imran said, “Our rural medical mobile unit will be reaching out to people we find either on the roads or in the alleys of villages. We will persuade them to take the dose of the vaccine. Our officers are working hard to make sure every eligible person gets vaccinated.” Saryu and Domakharn are places where Maoists still carry out attacks despite tight security measures but they caused no problem to the vaccination drive on Friday even in the most remote areas. Locals said that though the rebels hate the men in khaki, they have respect for nurses and sahiyas, who were present during the drive. Officials were also relieved as rain did not mar the drive on Friday. Extra care is being taken for the smooth execution of vaccination during the upcoming monsoon season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
04-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries outnumber fresh cases in the state, active caseload drops below 7,500||The active Covid-19 caseload in Ranchi dropped below 2000 on Thursday as Jharkhand reported a single-day-spike of less than 500 cases after almost two-and-a-months, data compiled by the state health department highlighted. Meanwhile, Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases, bringing the active caseload in the state close to 7500, but at least 10 casualties took the Covid toll to 5021 in the state, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per NHM data, the state reported 427 fresh cases of Covid-19 against 1103 recoveries and the active caseload dropped to 7537. None of the 24 districts in the state reported a triple-digit-spike in cases on the day. At least 48 people were found infected in Ranchi, which was the highest among all the districts. East Singhbhum reported 43 fresh cases of Covid-19, while 46 residents were found infected by Coronavirus in Dhanbad. Ranchi and East Singhbhum – the two districts with highest Covid casualties so far – reported two Covid deaths each on Thursday. As per NHM data, the Covid toll in Ranchi jumped to 1566 on the day, while that in East Singhbhum reached 1014. However, both these districts saw a drop in active caseload. At least 172 recoveries brought the active caseload down to 1,995 in Ranchi, while the active caseload dropped to 839 in East Singhbhum as at least 148 Covid patients recovered. Jharkhand reported a daily Covid positivity rate of less than 1 per cent for the second consecutive day as less than 500 of 51,125 people tested were found infected. As per government data, the Covid growth rate in the state also dropped to 0.19 per cent against the national average of 0.37 per cent, while the recovery rate rose to 96.30 per cent against the national average of 92.80 per cent. However, the Covid-19 fatality rate in Jharkhand continued to be higher than the national average. As per NHM data, at least 1.47 per cent of the over 3.39 lakh state residents infected by Coronavirus so far have died. The national Covid mortality rate, as per NHM data, was 1.20 per cent on Thursday. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 33 cases against 49 recoveries, while Hazaribag reported 29 cases against 58 recoveries. Only one person was found infected in Pakur while two Covid patients recovered there. Khunti witnessed a spike in active caseload as only one patient recovered there while 10 people were found infected. The state on Thursday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 32,108 residents and over 20,000 of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab was administered to 4988 beneficiaries on the day, stated a separate report from NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
04-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Human rights organisation supports Hemant's letter to Modi||National secretary of National Confederation of Human Rights Organisation A. Mohamed Yusuf has supported Jharkhand chief minister’s letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 31 urging to give free vaccines to the state for age group 18-44 to tackle the pandemic. “We fully endorse the letter written by Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren ji to the Prime Minister. In fact our party Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) had filed a PIL with the Supreme Court on May 10 and which was numbered on Thursday. We had prayed the Supreme Court to direct the Union of India to formulate a uniform pan India policy of Covid-19 vaccination for providing it free of cost to every person within India,” said Yusuf, an advocate by profession. “Our petition also prays for the Supreme Court to constitute an independent body under the direct supervision/monitoring of the court to ensure free and uniform vaccination across all the states and Union Territories. We are happy at the observation made by the Supreme Court on Wednesday on the Centre vaccination policy,” added Yusuf. Incidentally, the Supreme Court had made a prima facie observation that the Centre’s vaccination policy, which does not provide free vaccination for those in the age group of 18-44 years, as “arbitrary and irrational”. The observation was made by a bench comprising Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhatt in the suo moto case on Covid related issues (in re-distribution of essential supplies and services during pandemic). Soren had written to the Prime Minister on May 31 evening, urging to give free vaccines to the state to tackle the pandemic and that the financial burden for the state to cover 1.57 crore beneficiaries (in the age group of 18-44 years) is likely to be around Rs 1,100 crore and will hit the financial situation of a state like Jharkhand which is already stressed during Covid times. The letter had further stated that it was probably the first instance in the history of independent India that states have been mandated to procure vaccines on their own. Such a mandate, under the ongoing challenging and unprecedented circumstances, where the entire nation is struggling for over a year, stands against the principle of co-operative federalism and cited the instances that so far all states had received vaccines free of cost from the Central government for all other programmes and routine immunisation. The JMM, the ruling party in the UPA-led government in Jharkhand, also enthused with the apex court’s observation claimed that all people in the age-group of 18-44 years will get free vaccines in Jharkhand. “Whether the Central government supports us or not, our people in Jharkhand will get free vaccines. We hope that the Supreme Court will take a decision soon on the issue and save states like Jharkhand which are facing step-motherly treatment by the BJP-led central government in terms of financial support and vaccine allocation programme,” said JMM general secretary and party’s central spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
04-06-2021||Jharkhand||Church help for poor Covid patients in Jharkhand||The Catholic Church has started distributing food packets to poor Covid patients admitted in hospital after giving pre-packed lunch packets outside the two largest state-owned healthcare facilities in Ranchi for their attendants and relatives. “We had started distribution of lunch packets outside both the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) Ranchi and Sadar Hospital. We have distributed nearly 500 packets at the RIMS and 400 packets at Sadar Hospital since May 4. “But it was getting difficult to control the crowd and abide by Covid protocols. This made us start distribution of over 300 food packets to Covid patients admitted in the RIMS. We will start distribution of food packets at Sadar Hospital too,” said auxiliary Bishop of Ranchi Archdiocese, Theodore Mascarenhas. According to sources in the Archdiocese, the poorest of the poor come for treatment at the RIMS and though meals are provided by the government to the patients, they don’t have the resources to avail of other items like fruits, biscuits, fruit juices, mineral water, beaten rice, etc. Archbishop Felix Toppo and auxiliary Bishop Mascarenhas on Wednesday blessed the first 300 packets to be distributed and also prayed for all the benefactors to acquire all the resources. “The Archdiocese will soon launch a programme to distribute dry ration kits containing rice, dal (pulses), potatoes, cooking oil, salt, spices and onions in portions that would last two weeks for a family. “We would identify the needy persons and distribute the ration packets at their doorstep adhering to Covid protocols. We are able to serve the poor only because many religious congregations and benefactors belonging to the Catholic Church as well as followers of other religions have been generously donating to the cause,” said auxiliary Bishop Mascarenhas. Kuldeep Tirkey, president of Ranchi Youth Catholic unit, and Father Roshan Tiru, director of Ranchi Catholic Youth, also distributed food to the wardens of the Covid wards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
04-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: East Singhbhum records steep fall in Covid cases||Jamshedpur: East Singhbhum district witnessed a drastic fall in Covid positive cases for the first time in last two months. According to health department records, 52 positive cases were reported in the last 24 hours. This is an all-time low during the second wave of the Covid outbreak. During the last 24 hours two Covid deaths were also reported. As per records, of 7,475 people who underwent Covid tests in East Singhbhum 52 were found positive. The overall death toll in East Singhbhum  reached 1, 027 and the total cases 50,296 since the outbreak of Covid last year. The positivity rate of Covid-19 cases in steel city is around 0.70 per cent. Of 7,475 Covid-19 tests in last 24 hours, 604 were RT-PCR while the rest 6,871 were rapid antigen tests. As per health records, the recovery rate in steel city is 96.18 per cent while the mortality rate is 2.04 per cent. District surveillance officer Sahir Pal said Covid cases are witnessing a fall. "Beds are now easily available as Covid wards in MGM Medical College Hospital and other hospitals have almost become empty. We appeal to the residents to continue following Covid protocols, "said Pal. (Pinaki Majumdar) Hazaribagh: State health minister Banna Gupta on Thursday virtually inaugurated a dedicated Covid paediatric ward at Koderma hospital. Koderma MP Annapurna Devi, MLAs Neera Yadav(Koderma), Amit Kumar Yadav(Barkatha) and Uma Shankar Akela of Barhi were also present at the ceremony. The facility is equipped with 20 oxygen supported beds in anticipation of a third wave likely to affect children. Gupta lauded the Koderma district administration’s efforts and said this was an attempt to save children from the third wave. The ward has been specially designed keeping children in mind with paintings of Chota Bheem, Micky Mouse, trains and different types of animals. There are abundant soft toys, comic books, drawing books and television to keep children busy and make them feel at home. Deputy commissioner Ramesh Gholap said the ward has been designed to make it child friendly. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A video made by a woman in Delhi paved way for the return of a man to his native village in Hazaribagh. Mohan Bhuiyan, resident of Jalondh village in Ichak block, went to Delhi with his friends in search of job in the first week of April. Mohan was separated from his friends and later kept moving on roads of the national capital. A woman named Tara Dutta of Ananad Vihar in Delhi came to know about Mohan and made a video sharing it on social media. Officer-in-charge of Ichak police station, Devendra Kumar was searching for Mohan after an FIR was registered, and contacted Tara. Kumar requested her to send Mohan to Koderma station. Tara arranged a train ticket for him but also put a pamphlet in his T-shirt mentioning
all details of Mohan. At Koderma station, a team led by Kumar took Mohan in their custody and brought him back to his village. Kumar thanked Tara and said what she did was a great thing. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: An army van on Thursday crushed a 27-year-old man to death near Deepu Chowk in Jhumra under Daru police station. Family members said the deceased was going to the local market on his bike when one of the vehicles which was part of an army cavalcade hit him killing him on the spot at 7am. Angry villagers of Daru and Jhumra blocked the road for around eight hours. After assurance of compensation and other benefits to dependants of the deceased, the protest was called off. Villagers said the deceased, Prakash Kumar, was the sole breadwinner of his family. Subdivisional Police officer Anuj Oraon assured villagers of lodging an FIR in this case. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
