05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Low-key World Environment Day events in steel city ||The Covid -19 pandemic turned the World Environment Day into a low-key affair in the steel city on Saturday. World Environment Day is celebrated annually and is the United Nation's principal vehicle for encouraging awareness and action for the protection of the environment. Saplings were sown at various pockets of East Singhbhum, including Jamshedpur, in events organised by Jamshedpur forest division, district administration, social organisations, schools and clubs. Social distancing was maintained while celebrating the occasion. Political parties also celebrated the occasion. East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar, sub-divisional officer (Dalbhum) Nitesh Kumar, SSP M.Tamil Vanan, SP (City) Subhash  Chandra Jat, CRPF DIG Ashu Kumar,  regional chief conservator of forest (Jamshedpur division) Jabbar Singh were divisional forest officer Mamta Priyadarshi  were present at the event organised by Jamshedpur forest division at Ghorabanda Park near Telco township “Humans are largely responsible for the imbalance in environment.  This is the reason behind problems like flood, drought, global warming and unseasonal rains. Let us pledge to work for conservation of environment,” the DC said after sowing a sapling.. SSP, SDO and forest officials also planted saplings on the occasion. “A total of 22 saplings were sown. We kept the occasion low-profile because of the pandemic,” DFO Priyadarshi said. Former chief minister and BJP national vice-president Raghubar Das and Jamshedpur East MLA Sarayu Roy also planted saplings and stressed on the importance of saving the environment. The district Congress functionaries also conducted a plantation drive at various pockets of the steel city. Kerala Samajam Model School also celebrated the occasion by sowing saplings at the school campus. Social outfit Marwari Zila Sammelan, city unit of Ananda Marg  and Parsudih Bazaar Samity also celebrated the occasion with a  pledge to protect the environment. In Chakulia block of East Singhbhum, Padma Shri awardee Jamuna Tudu, also known as Lady Tarzan for the ferocity with she fights the timber mafia, led few members of Van Suraksha Samity to plant saplings at  a jungle near her village in Maturkham. “Human life can be saved with jungle conservation only,” she said. The occasion was also kept low-profile at Dalma wildlife sanctuary. Saplings were handed over to village heads for sowing in their respective areas. “There was no reason for gathering in this difficult situation. We handed over five saplings each to as many village heads,” a forester said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||BCCL santises hospitals and residential areas using drones||Dhanbad based Coal India subsidiary, Bharat Coking Coal Limited, has launched disinfection of its offices, hospitals and residential colonies using drones. The disinfection of the entire campus of central hospitals of BCCL, situated at Jagjivan Nagar locality, including its Covid wards, besides nursing school and nurses’ hostel was carried out on Friday as part of the inaugural special disinfection drive under the supervision of director personnel of BCCL, P.V.K.R.M. Rao. Rao said the novel technique of disinfection is very useful for disinfecting the open areas and inaccessible points and added that a drone can carry 10 litres of sodium hypochlorite solution at a time. Divulging details about the disinfection plan using the drone, Rao said, “We have plans to carry out disinfection of different residential colonies of BCCL beginning with Koylangar, Karmik Nagar and Jagjivan Nagar. Rao said the drones have the potential to carry out disinfections of exteriors of different building like offices, hospitals and residential complex with proficiency. Technician operating the drone being used for sanitisation work said that the drones have been used for the first time in the state by BCCL. BCCL celebrated World Environment Day on Saturday by organising a programme at Panchvati Park of Koylangar locality under the leadership of BCCL, CMD P.M. Prasad during which senior officials including Director Technical (operations) Chanchal Goswami; Director (Personnel), PVKRM Rao and Head of Department (Environment) Rajiv Kumar took the oath for environmental conservation. A booklet titled, Paryavarandarpan highlighting BCCL’s green initiative was launched at the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Swab samples of Covid victims to be sent for genome sequencing||The Jharkhand government on Saturday asked medical colleges and state-run RT-PCR testing centres to send swab samples of all Covid patients who died on or after April 1 for genome sequencing to the Institute of Life Sciences (ILS) in Bhubaneswar at the earliest. “It is emphasized that whole genome sequencing of all the Covid death cases shall be done at the earliest to understand the mortality rate of various variants,” a letter from state health secretary Arun Kumar Singh to various medical colleges in Jharkhand stated. As per government data, as many as 3,920 Jharkhand residents have died due to Covid-19 from April 1 to June 4. The state has reported 5,034 Covid deaths since March 2020. Besides the swab samples of Covid victims, randomly picked samples of at least 15 patients from areas that saw an outbreak will also be sent for genome sequencing every two weeks in order to identify mutated variants of virus and take necessary preventive measures, officials said on Saturday. Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of health department’s IEC wing, said that all virus undergoes mutation in a bid to survive and some mutated variants are more dangerous than others. Variants that have already been found in other parts of the world and are considered more dangerous will qualify as “variants of concern”, while such variants that have not been found before will be “variants of interest” as their mutation and effect will be studied, he added. As per data with the state health department, at least 537 swab samples from various medical colleges in Jharkhand have been sent to ILS Bhubaneswar for genome sequencing from March to April and 363 of them have been processed. Of the 363 samples processed so far, at least 301 showed mutated variants of the virus. As many as 272 samples showed presence of double mutant virus which was first reported in India, while 29 showed mutation that was first reported in the UK. Genome sequencing is important in order to study the pattern of transmission and take necessary action for combating the virus, the health secretary’s letter to the directors and superintendents of medical colleges stated. “All medical colleges in Jharkhand, including Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) and IRL-Itki, have been identified as Sentinel Surveillance Sites under special surveillance mechanism for whole genome sequencing,” the letter further stated. The nodal officers of all medical colleges and RT-PCR labs may coordinate with district surveillance officers and epidemiologists to get appropriate number of samples from affected areas for genome sequencing, the health secretary said in his letter, asking all government labs to get SRF ID of Covid victims from the concerned district administration and send the samples within the next 48 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Met office forecasts Celsius surge across Jharkhand||IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre has forecast dry weather across Jharkhand for the next two days with rise in maximum temperature by two to three degree Celsius. "There is no local weather system or any cyclonic circulation which might impact Jharkhand's weather during the next 48 hours," said a duty officer at Ranchi Met centre on Saturday. "This will result in a rise in maximum reading during the next two days.  Day's reading in Jamshedpur, Dumka, Sahebganj and several other places in southern, central and north-eastern Jharkhand is expected to rise to 40 degree Celsius," he added. The Met office also did not issue alerts of adverse weather in the next two days. However, it warned of thundershowers and lightning with wind speed of 40-50 kmph on Tuesday and Wednesday. Saturday's satellite pictures and wind chart analysis showed no weather systems over Jharkhand and its neighbouring states which could trigger rain. Met statistics  revealed that light rain occurred in two places during the past 24 hours.  Ramgarh and Hazaribagh recorded around 10 mm of rain. The highest maximum temperature of 39.7°C was recorded at Sahibganj  for the last two days. The day's reading also witnessed a rising trend in several places including Ranchi, Bokaro, Dhanbad, Daltonganj, Pakur, Deoghar, Garhwa, Latehar and Simdega. Monsoon watch Southwest monsoon has advanced into some parts of central Arabian Sea, entire coastal Karnataka, Goa,  parts of Maharashtra,  Telengana,  Andhra Pradesh,Tamil Nadu and some parts of central Bay of Bengal and northeast Bay of Bengal on Saturday. It is very likely to advance further into more parts of central and northeast Bay of Bengal, some parts of north east Bay of Bengal and northeast India during the next 24-hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Newly weds in Bokaro village plant saplings on World Environment Day||On the occasion of World Environment Day, Deputy Commissioner Rajesh Singh made an appeal to people to plant saplings on all occasions whether big or small. “Whether it’s a birthday of your children or wedding or marriage anniversary or any other occasion, make it memorable by planting saplings. Plantation should be done on all occasions. Every person must plant at least one sapling in his lifetime,” said Singh.
The DC’s words have resonated with residents in Jamunia village situated under Nawadih Block at a distance of about 60km from district. Newly married couples begin their first-day after marriage by planting saplings. This is a new culture growing popular especially among youths. In the past 15 days, three couples have planted sapling and taken a vow to protect trees. The practice began during the Covid pandemic, after villagers realised the importance of trees in their life, seeing people struggling for oxygen across the country. They decided to plant and protect trees as it is only natural oxygen producer. The villagers have decided to plant saplings during festivals and special occasions. Forest department officials have lauded their efforts. On May 24, Kosurendra Hembram with his wife Jhunia Soren planted a Sakhua plant.
Dozens of youths of Jamunapania village, under the leadership of local Manjhi Haram (religious guru) Phoolchand Kisku, Nayake Haram and Pranik Daso Kisku, have been trying to protect water, forest and land for a long time. The village has not reported any Covid cases. Apart from the tribals, villagers from other communities have also welcomed this tradition. “Save trees and save forest to protect environment. And also plant sapling. These trees give us life and oxygen, shade and everything which humans require for survival,” said Manjhi. “We live close to nature, thus have good immunity and have fresh air enriched with oxygen produced from the trees in forest here,” said Kisku. The people here have taken up the task of protecting the environment by increasing the greenery of the local forest. Under this, the youth started the tradition that newly married couples should start their married life by planting saplings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Virtual chess tourney to determine national players||The All Jharkhand Chess Association is organising an online chess festival in the state for the U-18, 16, 14, 12 and 10 age groups in both boys and girls categories to select players for upcoming national tournaments. The under-18 event has already started while the one for the under-16 age group kicked-off on Saturday evening. "The matches are played on digital platform Li-Chess under Swiss Rapid rules of FIDE which is going to be used in the forthcoming Nationals and World Championships for 2021," said AJCA secretary Neeraj Kumar Mishra, an International Master. According to him, the under-14 event is scheduled on June 7 and will be followed by the one meant for the under-12 age section on June 9. The chess festival will conclude with the event for the under-10 age group on June 11. Matches for all age groups will be for two days. Chess enthusiasts from East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Ranchi, Bokaro and Dhanbad are participating in the chess festival. Players who participated in the under-18 event include Adhiraj Mitra, Souryadipta Sarkar, Rishav Kumar, Kriti Kumari, Saara Jain,Navieka Jaiswal, Sunidhi Singh, Dishita Dey and Dyuti Chakraborty (all from East Singhbhum), Ishant Kumar, Harshvi Matalia (both from Dhanbad), Shaswata Paul (West Singhbhum), Kadambini Ghadai (Bokaro). The online national championship for the under 18 age group will be starting on June 10 and will be subsequently followed in quick intervals by the ones meant for other groups. The All India Chess Federation has made it mandatory for all players to get registered with it to play any official events including district championships. The district and state associations cannot charge any annual registration. The state outfit has been conducting events virtually to keep the players engaged during the pandemic. This way they can remain in touch with the game and will not face issues when offline tournaments start getting organised once the situation improves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Police avert 'Anarkali' punishment for farmer's daughter||The tragic story of Anarkali has inspired writers, musicians, playwrights and filmmakers for generations. Legend has it that Mughal Emperor Akbar had punished her by arresting and entombing her within a wall of his palace for having an affair with his son prince Jahangir. Cut to 2021, a 19-year-old girl was given a similar punishment by a group of villagers who were having a dispute with her father over a piece of land. However, Sulekha Kumari was luckier than Anarkali. The daughter of a farmer in Yogiatilha village of Koderma district was saved as police stepped in . Police said Sulekha's parents went to a nearby village to attend a grih pravesh function on Friday. Taking advantage of the situation, Shankar Pandit, Vinod Pandit, Manoj Pandit, Birbal Pandit, Usha Devi, Gayatri Devi, Manisha Devi, Meena Devi and Savitri Devi, reached their house in the afternoon and caught Sulekha who was busy taking care of her cows. They locked her in a room and constructed a wall to block the room's door. After that they also constructed a wall covering the main entrance of Sulekha's house. Sulekha’s cries for help went in vain as the villagers left the premises with her trapped inside. A villager informed the Jai Nagar police of the incident. Sulekha's father, Kishore Pandit, also reached the police station and requested immediate action. A team led by assistant sub-inspector Rajendra Rana reached the house on Friday evening and rescued her. Sulekha was taken to a nearby health centre where doctors provided her the required treatment. Rana said they got information on time, and that saved her life. Her father Kishore said he had won the land dispute case but the opposing villagers were not ready to accept the verdict. On Friday, some villagers pelted stones at the house. Police have managed to arrest one of the accused Savitri. The rest of the villagers were missing. Officer-in-charge of Jai Nagar police station, Mohammad Abdullah Khan said it was a serious matter and police were not going to spare the culprits. “We are taking the appropriate action to arrest the missing ones,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Railways to operate special trains from Bengal ||The South Eastern Railway has decided to run two special trains between Santragachi and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus, Hatia and Mumbai CSMT, keeping in view demand of passengers. According to a schedule released by the office of SER's Calcutta-based chief passenger transportation manager the 02498/02497  Santragachi-LTT-Superfast Special will run on June 9, 16, 21 and 23. The days of its next run will be notified later while the return train will run on June 11, 18, 21 and 25. The train with 16 sleeper class coaches and four general second class coaches will run via Tatanagar. The train will leave Santragachi at 6pm and will come to Tatanagar at 10.45 pm. After a two minutes halt it will head for its onward journey. The train will reach LTT the next day at 11.45 pm. In the opposite direction the train will leave LTT at 1.15 pm and will come to Tatanagar the next day at 1.35 pm. The train is scheduled to reach Santragachi at 6.35 pm. The 02406/ 02405 Hatia-Mumbai CSMT Superfast Special will run from June 11. The Up train will run on June 11, 18 and 25. Further run dates would be notified later. The train in the opposite direction will run on June 13, 20 and 27. The train with 16 sleeper class coaches and four general second class coaches will run via Rourkela, Jharsuguda, Bilaspur and Raipur. The train will leave Hatia at 5.40 pm and reach its destination - Mumbai CSMT, the next day at 11 pm. In the opposite direction the train will leave Mumbai CSMT at 11.05 am and will reach Hatia the next day at 3:30 pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Puri takes jibe at Rahul, Sonia over vaccine row in Punjab & Rajasthan||The BJP on Saturday sought a probe into alleged profiteering by the Congress government in Punjab by selling Covid vaccines to private hospitals, and said that "heads should roll". The party fielded Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri to target the Amarinder Singh government, with the BJP leader asserting that the state dispensation's decision to withdraw the controversial order shows that there was something "fishy" in the matter. Taking a swipe at Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul Gandhi, Puri said they questioned the Modi government over the vaccine supply when their government in Punjab was indulging in alleged profiteering to the tune of Rs 38 crore by selling jabs to private hospitals. Large doses of vaccines have been found dumped in Rajasthan, another Congress-ruled state, he said. "Government profiteering should stop. There should be a probe to bring facts in the public domain," Puri said at a virtual press conference, adding "heads should roll". He also sought to know the "nature of the fund" to which the money received by the state government from private hospitals was credited. Citing a Punjab government communication, he said it procured Covishield vaccines for Rs 412 per dose but sold it to private hospitals for Rs 1000 and they, in turn, charged Rs 1,560 from the people. Two private hospitals in Mohali charged people Rs 3,000 and Rs 3,200, he alleged. While the Congress is busy with the "cricket match" between Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu, this is what is going on in the state, he said, referring to the internal bickering in the party. Taking exception to the Punjab government statement that its decision has not been taken in the right spirit, Puri said this points to concealment of corruption and a culture of impunity in the Congress. For the Congress corruption is something to be taken for granted, he alleged. Under flak from the opposition for "diverting" Covid vaccines to private hospitals, the Punjab government had withdrawn its order on Friday. This official reason cited by the Punjab government for withdrawing the order reflects "poverty and incompetence" of the ruling dispensation in the state which draws its inspiration from Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, he alleged. Puri also hit out at the Congress for allegedly fuelling vaccine hesitancy as some of its senior leaders "questioned" the safety and efficacy of Indian-manufactured jabs, and wondered if this was because the party wanted imports of foreign vaccines for getting "commission". Puri also accused the opposition parties of spreading misinformation and lies over the recently enacted farm reform laws, noting that the central government has done record procurement, with Punjab being the major beneficiary. The state contributed over 32 percent of 411.19 lakh tonnes of the wheat procured, with over Rs 26,103.89 crore credited to bank accounts of farmers directly, he said. Opposition leaders had alleged that the new laws will lead to the minimum support price regime and mandis being done away with, he said. At the press conference, he again attacked the critics of the central vista project and asserted that as of now work on raising a new parliament building costing Rs 900 crore and central vista avenue costing Rs 400 crore is on. An MLA hostel being built in Maharashtra is alone costing Rs 900 crore, he said. To a question about AAP MLA and Delhi Waqf Board chairman Amanatullah Khan seeking assurance that no mosque in the area would be affected by the project, Puri, whose ministry is in charge of the exercise, said his doors are open for talks and he will look into the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma jumbos make hay as tourists are kept away||The elephants, including calves, at the scenic Dalma wildlife sanctuary are enjoying their time out amid its peaceful environs with no tourist presence owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The jumbos are scattered almost everywhere across the 192 sq km sanctuary. With minimal human presence, the Asiatic elephants have ample reason to make their presence felt. Elephants usually remain anchored in the core area and come to the watering holes to bathe or satiate their thirst in late afternoon. But, in the changed scenario, they can be spotted near watering holes in the morning hours. "Sanctuary mein bahut shanti hain aur hathi mouj kar rahen hain (Sanctuary is very peaceful and the elephants are enjoying it)," a forester said, adding watering holes are overflowing. Barring villagers who live in the 85-odd villages inside the sanctuary, and foresters, there is not much human traffic inside the jumbo abode. "Unlike earlier when the sanctuary was open, there is no one to tease the elephants. Tourists, including those from Jamshedpur and elsewhere, often tease the jumbos by throwing stones at them. But that is not the case now. Most of the elephants are stationed uphill and can be seen in their playful best near watering holes," a forest guard said. The elephants can even be spotted on the main arterial road snaking uphill, besides the ones existing deep inside the jungles. "This is the best time for tourists to click pictures of elephants in their playful best. The animal hideouts near watering holes are lying vacant. The tourists are missing a great opportunity but nothing can be done in this situation," the forest guard said. The villagers, who venture into the jungles to collect dry timber, are also venturing out in few numbers. However, foresters are continuing with their daily patrol of the sanctuary situated 30 km from Jamshedpur. Over 130 elephants are presently anchored inside the sanctuary. Asked if presence of elephants pose any problems for villagers, Dalma divisional forest officer Abhishek Kumar said they cannot stop them (villagers) from venturing. "The villagers have a right to venture across the sanctuary. However, there is no danger as such from an elephant point of view," he added. The jumbos had migrated to the jungles of Bankura and West Midnapore in neighbouring Bengal in August-September last year. The elephants gradually started ambling back home from January onwards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand's daily Covid caseload drops below 7,000||Jharkhand reported a single-day-spike of less than 500 cases on the second day in a row on Friday, while Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases, bringing the active caseload in the state below 7000, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the active caseload in the state dropped to 6832 as at least 1170 Covid patients recovered from the infection while 478 people were found infected by Coronavirus. However, as many as 13 Covid patients died in the State on Friday, taking the Covid toll to 5034, the bulletin further stated. With 102 cases East Singhbhum was the only district to report a triple-digit-spike. At least 40 people were found infected in Ranchi while as many as 43 residents were found infected by Coronavirus in Dhanbad. Ranchi and East Singhbhum – the two districts with highest Covid casualties so far – reported three Covid deaths each on Friday. As per NHM data, the Covid toll in Ranchi jumped to 1569 on the day, while that in East Singhbhum reached 1017. However, both these districts saw a drop in active caseload. At least 184 recoveries brought the active caseload down to 1,849 in Ranchi, while the active caseload dropped to 768 in East Singhbhum as at least 171 Covid patients recovered there. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 23 cases against 37 recoveries, while Hazaribag reported 26 cases against 46 recoveries. Fourty two persons were found infected in Simdega while 62 Covid patients recovered there. Jharkhand reported a daily Covid positivity rate of less than 1 per cent for the fourth consecutive day as less than 500 of 60,416 people tested were found infected. As per government data, the Covid growth rate in the state was 0.18 per cent against the national average of 0.34 per cent, while the recovery rate rose to 96.51 per cent against the national average of 93.10 per cent. However, the Covid-19 fatality rate in Jharkhand continued to be higher than the national average. As per NHM data, at least 1.47 per cent of the over 3.40 lakh State residents infected by Coronavirus so far have died. The national Covid mortality rate, as per NHM data, was 1.20 per cent on Friday. The state on Friday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 69,410 residents and almost 50,000 of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab was administered to 6432 beneficiaries on the day, mostly commoners above the age of 45 years, stated a report from NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||9 CCL officers booked in Bokaro for coal transportation fraud ||Bokaro district mining department has booked as many as nine senior officers of Central Coalfield (CCL), including a few general managers, for gross irregularities in transportation of coal to power plants across the country with FIRs being lodged at Bermo and Bokaro Thermal police stations on Friday. The district mining officer (DMO) Gopal Kumar Das said that investigations revealed that thousands of tonnes of coal were being transported via the railways without challans in three CCL mining projects, leading to huge losses to the state exchequer. Transportation was facilitated via CCL  railway sidings of Tarmi, Dhori, Karo-Kargali Washery, Jarangdih PF One and a PF under Bermo sub-division. Despatch of coal without the use of transport challans is a violation of Rule 09 of The Jharkhand Minerals (Prevention of Illegal Mining Transportation and Storage) Rules, 2017 and  district mining department officials claimed that CCL officials had been warned of similar violations earlier too. Now the district mining department has lodged FIRs under sections 379, 420 (theft and cheating) of IPC, along with section 21 of the MMDR Act 1957. Das said, “FIRs have been lodged against three general managers (GMs), three project officers (POs), three regional sales officers (RSO) and others.” He said efforts were on to ascertain the ascertain the quantum of revenue loss to the state exchequer beacuse of lapses on the part of CCL. Mining activities and transportation of coal are being undertaken in 11 mines of three CCL project areas in Bermo sub-divisiono, each headed by a GM. Among the 11 CCL coal mines, one is underground while the rest are open cast. Coal excavated from these coal mines are being transported either by road transport or trains, primarily to power plants across the country, district mining officers explained. In Bokaro and Kargili projects of CCL, FIRs have been lodged against GM M.K Rao, POs Tapan Kumar Rai and Dilip Kumar, and RSM K. L. Yadav. Similarly, in CCL's Kathara project, FIRS have been lodged against GM M.K Punjabi, PO Sanjeev Kumar and RSM Anurag Pushp. And at Dhori Project, FIRS have been lodged against GM M.K. Agarwal, PO Virendra Singh, Arvind Kumar Sharma and RSM Vinod Kumar Jha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand gears up for Covid third wave||The Jharkhand government has started preparations to tackle a possible third wave of Covid-19 later this year. The health department rolled out an intensive vaccination campaign on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays from June 4 across all the 260 blocks of the state to dispel vaccine hesitancy reported from certain areas, is going for mass recruitment of doctors and paramedics and planning to conduct surveys of district, sub-divisional and community health centres through private consultants to find out infrastructure shortcomings in an effort to be not caught off-guard by another wave. “The intensive vaccination campaign will be held on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays across all the blocks and panchayats of the districts. This would be apart from the routine work at the selected vaccination centres. We have drawn up a plan to involve local MLAs, MPs, traditional village heads, panchayat heads, religious leaders, prominent persons and social workers in each block, who will be vaccinated during the three days, to encourage others to take vaccination without any hesitation,” said state health nodal officer Siddharth Tripathy. From Monday to Thursday, self-help and local groups would be mobilising villagers to go for vaccination. “We have set a target of administering 1.5 lakh vaccines (4.5 lakh in three days) daily as part of the intensive campaign. The campaign will continue throughout June,” said Tripathy. The step was taken after reports emerged that people in a few pockets in the state were reluctant to take vaccine due to rumours and vaccination teams were turned away by villagers in the last few days. “We have won over villagers in areas where our vaccination team members faced resistance. We hope to motivate people to turn out in large numbers during the campaign. All civil surgeons have also been directed to ensure sitting arrangement for senior citizens at vaccine centres while adhering to Covid protocols,” Tripathy said. As of Thursday, the state has 107,950 vaccine doses for the 45 and above age group and only 55,530 doses for those aged between 18 and 44 years. On Thursday, the health department sent a proposal to the personnel and finance department for urgent recruitment of 360 doctors. After clearance from these two departments, a notification would be sent to the Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) and the process of recruitment is expected to be completed in July. In addition, the state unit of the National Health Mission (NHM) will be recruiting 800 paramedical staff, 280 specialist doctors and 79 medical officers on contractual basis and interviews will be conducted soon. “The step has been taken to boost manpower at all health centres especially in Sadar and sub-divisional hospitals before the third wave of Covid,” said a source in the human resources wing of the NHM. The health department will also be hiring a private consultant to conduct a survey in all the district (Sadar) and sub-divisional hospitals and community health centres to find out infrastructure shortcomings. “The consultants would be conduction a survey on all aspects of infrastructure — physical (building, facilities), medical (bed, operation theatre, etc.) and human resources. Letters have been sent to all deputy commissioners to conduct a prima facie survey of these health centres to avoid duplicity. Based on the survey, the government will plan for improvement on all fronts,” said Tripathy. On Thursday, Jharkhand registered 10 deaths due to Covid taking the total casualties to 5,021. The state also recorded 427 new cases taking the active caseload to 7,537. State health minister Banna Gupta launched a dedicated helpline 6203709250 in Ranchi on Friday for providing information on mucormycosis. An online training session of over two lakh health workers along with civil surgeons of all 24 districts was organised by the NHM on mucormycosis, multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) and other health ailments at Ranchi on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand rural areas not alarming||Covid infection did not appear to have spread alarmingly in rural Jharkhand, much to the relief of all concerned. The interim findings of an intensive public health survey (IPHS) in rural areas that will end on Saturday found the infection rate to be 0.52 per cent only, indicating the spread was not alarming. The state government had initiated the survey for assessing spread of Covid-19 infection in villages, particularly after a large number of migrant workers returned to their homes from different parts of the country during the peak of the second phase, most of them without getting checked on their way. As a part of IPHS, teams comprising rural officials who were accompanied by women health workers known as sahiyas started conducting a door-to-door survey across the state on May 25 that would continue till Saturday (June 5). They screened the people and segregated those who had Covid-like symptoms for conducting rapid antigen test (RAT) on them. According to data shared by the information, education and communication (IEC) wing of the state health department, the survey covered 42,98,993 households in the state and screened 2,13,54,053 persons till Wednesday. RAT was conducted on 1,55,426 persons who were found to have Covid-like symptoms but only 811 among them tested positive. There were 36 children among those 811 infected persons. While seven among them were children below one year of age and only one in the age-group of 1 to 6 years, rest 18 were above 6 but within 18 years of age. The survey showed the infection rate in rural Jharkhand was just 0.52 per cent which was far below the state’s overall infection rate of 2.14 per cent on June 2, suggesting the spread of infection was much more in urban areas. But the spread of the infection also considerably reduced in the state, and thereby in urban areas also now and the active caseload that stood at 43,415 on April 23, a day after the ongoing partial lockdown began in the state, came down to 7,537 on Thursday evening. Meanwhile, the Jharkhand government also began an intensive vaccination drive across the state on Friday for protecting people from the disease. In a letter addressed to deputy commissioners of all the 24 districts of the state, additional chief secretary (health) Arun Kumar Singh directed them to conduct the interactive vaccination campaign on three days — Friday, Saturday and Sunday — every week during the month of June for vaccinating maximum eligible beneficiaries above 45 years. Though the government admitted inadequate stock of vaccines in the state it wanted to vaccinate 1.5 lakh people on each of those days. They also declared that such beneficiaries may go to the venue get vaccinated after registering themselves on the spot. “The vaccination programme is also being organised in rural areas and it will go simultaneously with survey work for two days — today and tomorrow,” informed Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer at the IEC wing of the health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
