06-06-2021||Jharkhand||18-year old drowns in steel city river||A week after a 10-year-old boy drowned in the Kharkai, an 18-year-old boy drowned in the same river along Bagbera thana area on Sunday. The victim, identified as Raju Das, drowned while taking a bath in the river. He was a resident of Gandhi Nagar, an urban slum in the suburban Bagbera locality. Some residents who were present near the river while Raju was drowning, tried to save him, but failed. The victim's father, Prakash Das rushed to the spot to locate his son, failing which, he informed Barbara thana. The police recovered the body after local divers were hired for the task. The OC of Bagbera thana, Rajesh Kumar Singh, confirmed about the drowning of a teenager in Kharkai. "From the statement of the family members, it was learnt that the victim had gone to the river to take a bath and drowned. We recovered the body having pressed a couple of local divers and have sent it to the MGM Medical College mortuary for post-mortem, "said Singh to The Telegraph Online. A local resident, Bijay Gope, said the spot where the youth drowned is a dangerous point where people do not venture in fear of drowning. "It appeared as if the youth wanted to take a bath in a spot where there was deep water. But while preferring a deep water zone, he drowned, "said Gope to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town cosmetic shop owners demand reopening||More than 500 cosmetic shop owners facing a difficult time during the pandemic due to lockdown curbs are demanding permission to reopen their shops for two days on June 7 and 8 ahead of Vat Savitri festival scheduled on June 10. The preparations for the festival will begin on June 9 with Nahay Khay, a ritual ahead of the main festival on June 10. Vat Savitri is one of the most auspicious festivals celebrated by married Hindu women, during which they fast for a day seeking the blessing of god for the well being of their husband. The devout women wear new clothes and congregate around the banyan tree of their vicinity where after performing puja of the tree they also tie a ceremonial thread around the tree as a mark of their love for their husband. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Hiralal Sao, owner of a cosmetic shop at park market Hirapur said, “We are one of the worst victims of the pandemic as all our major income opportunities including the marriage season have passed without any profit for us due to the lockdown.” “Vat Savitri is the last opportunity of this season for some income to somehow sustain our life and we were expecting reopening permission for us also while the government initiated the process of unlock but unfortunately out expectation were belied as we were denied permission,” said Sao who is operating his retail outlet for the last 30 years. “We requested the government and local district administration through Hirapur Chamber of Commerce to allow us to reopen shops at least for two days ahead of Vat Savitri festival as we are receiving a lot of calls from our customers seeking queries whether there is any possibility of opening of shops,” said Sao. “The pandemic has not only affected our own income but also the job prospects of sales girls of some of reputed cosmetic brands working at our outlet,” said Sao. Echoing his sentiments, Sanjay Kumar Sao, another cosmetic retailer of Park Market in Jharia who also demanded shop reopening for two days said, “We have been operating our shop since last 20 years but never faced a condition like we faced since the first phase of the lockdown." Sanjay said those who have launched their shops by taking loans are facing more difficulty due to the financial burden of payment of EMIs. He also pointed to the dichotomy in the administration's order and said while there is no restriction on grocery shop owners selling cosmetic products, only the cosmetic sellers have been denied permission for reopening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-06-2021||Jharkhand||Congress funds struggling woman footballer's career||Dhanbad based international woman footballer Sangeeta Soren, who was compelled to work at a brick kiln during the pandemic, has received financial support from the Congress as Baghmara based state secretary Ranvijay Singh on Sunday handed her a cheque of Rs 51,000. The sports authority of Jharkhand had earlier provided her with financial assistance of Rs 1 lakh. Sangeeta represented India in 2018 and 2019 at Thailand and Bhutan respectively as part of the Indian Under-18 Women’s team. She was also compelled to work a brick kiln near her native village at Bansmuri  to support the family as her father Dube Soren is visually challenged and has hearing impairment while her brother Babuchand Soren struggles to secure a daily income at the construction sites where he works as a labourer. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Ranvijay Singh said, “Though the government has already provided a financial assistance worth Rs 1 lakh to Sangeeta during the last month itself but I also handed over a cheque worth Rs 51,000 as her family due to lack of a definite source of income is passing through a difficult time.” “I also decided to bear the cost of all her future sporting ventures, be it travel expense to go for selection trial of girls senior team or shoes or other dress requirement and also training cost if any,” said Singh who also met her family members, including her father Dube Soren and brother Babuchand Soren. “Providing any small employment to her will affect her sporting career as she will not be able to do justice to her football career while performing the obligation of any small job so we have rather decided to adopt her whereby besides meeting her sporting expenses we will also assure her livelihood expenses if any,” said Singh. “Yes indeed the financial assistance provided by the government earlier as well as by Ranvijay Sir today and also some food grain support provided by other organisations and individuals provided some relief to me and my family,” said 20-year-old Sangeeta Soren. “My primary focus at present is to continue practice and get selected for the senior Indian Women Football team as and when the selection trial is held after the improvement in Covid situation as I want to bring more glory to our country,” said Sangeeta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand orders death audit at hospitals with ‘unusually high’ number of fatalities||The Jharkhand government has asked all the districts in the state to identify hospitals that reported unusually high number of deaths from April 1 to May 21 and conduct a thorough audit of the fatalities in order to get an idea of the various circumstances that led to the death of patients. The health department on Sunday addressed a letter to deputy commissioners of all  24 districts in Jharkhand asking them to identify such hospitals and begin the audit. It suggested that district administrations form teams comprising officials from the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), epidemiologists, members of World Health Organisation and civil society to conduct the audit. “Even private hospitals that have reported unusually high number of deaths during this period can be selected for the audit if the concerned deputy commissioner finds it necessary. It would be a detailed study including the cause of death, medicines administered, comorbid conditions and other factors,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer for the IEC wing of the health department. “The audit is not only for Covid deaths, but also for deaths that occurred due to reasons other than Covid-19,” he added. The state government has already been surveying rural households in Jharkhand to gather data of deaths caused during the pandemic. The latest directive, however, specifically aims at auditing deaths reported in hospitals, officials said. During the ongoing survey, the government has found that more than 25,000 deaths were reported in rural areas between April 1 and May 31, when the second wave of Covid-19 wreaked havoc in Jharkhand. The figure includes Covid as well as non-Covid deaths. The state, however, is yet to officially release the figures. As per data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 5,046 Jharkhand residents have died due to Covid-19 so far. Most of the deceased, officials said, died during treatment in hospitals. However, data on the total deaths reported during this period was not available yet. A highly placed source in the health department said that some hospitals had reported a higher number of deaths compared to other hospitals in the district. While some hospitals may have reported more deaths as critical patients were referred to these hospitals from different parts of the state, the audit will give a clearer picture of the various causes of deaths reported during the second wave of the pandemic, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-06-2021||Jharkhand||Monsoon likely to arrive in Jharkhand mid-June||IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre on Sunday said that the monsoon was likely arrive in Jharkhand between June 15 and June 18 aided by the formation of a low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal around June 11. "A low pressure area is likely to form over north Bay of Bengal around June 11. This was indicated by the satellite pictures and wind chart analysis. It will help in the advancement of southwest monsoon  into Jharkhand apart from neighbouring  West Bengal and Odisha, " said a duty officer at the Ranchi Met Centre. The weatherman said the low pressure is expected to intensify into a depression, but  ruled out the possibility of its intensifying into a cyclonic storm. Fairly widespread rainfall with heavy showers at isolated places is likely to occur in Jharkhand and its neighbouring states owing to the low pressure system. The southwest monsoon has already  set in over Kerala on Thursday. On Sunday, the southwest monsoon advanced into Maharashtra, entire Karnataka  parts of central Bay of Bengal and most parts of Sub Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim. As predicted by the weather department,  the maximum reading in several districts including Dumka, Pakur and Sahebganj touched the oppressive 40 degree Celsius Statistics of the last 24-hours revealed that Dumka recorded tge  highest maximum temperature of 40.8°C . Sahebganj and Jamtara recorded 40.1°C while Pakur recorded 40°C. The Met department predicted gradual rise in maximum temperature by 2-3°C during the next three days over the state. Weathermen said a  cyclonic circulation lay over sub-Himalayan West Bengal extending upto 1.5 km above mean sea level. The forecast for the next three days indicated a generally cloudy sky with light to moderate rain or thunder likely at isolated places over central and southern Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand launches seed distribution ahead of monsoon||The state agriculture department has commenced distributing kharif seeds to over 30 lakh farmers ahead of the monsoon that is likely to arrive in Jharkhand between the second and third week of June. Considering the host of issues being faced by the farmers' community, already in distress due to the Covid-19 pandemic, state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh said the state government had succeeded in placing advance orders for seeds to enable uninterrupted distribution among farmers on 50 per cent subsidy. “It is perhaps for the first time that the  state agriculture department has started distributing seeds from the last week of May, weeks ahead of the monsoon. Working overtime amid the Covid-19 pandemic, we succeeded in placing orders for 44,000 quintal seeds and  about 24,000 quintal  has already arrived and out for distribution,” he said on Sunday. The minister added that the department had rolled out awareness raths (vehicles) almost in every district  to publicise the seed distribution drive and various agricultural schemes of the government for the benefit of farmers. “'Covid-19 has brought several woes for the farmers’ community and the state government is committed to assisting them for timely sowing and better kharif output this year,” he noted. The minister added that the agriculture department is also alert about preventing black marketing of seeds or fertilizers. “While all the districts have been asked to keep a strict vigil on any such illegal acts, I am also touring different places regularly to take stock of the situation,” he said. Like last year, Jharkhand is expecting a good  paddy season this year too with the Met department predicting timely onset of monsoon in the state. Officials said that the recent spell of rains due to Cyclone Yaas also turned out to be favourable for the agriculture sector as it induced the right amount of moisture in the soil to enable farmers to prepare their land for sowing later this month. About 18 lakh hectare land is under paddy coverage in the state. “Last year, the coverage of paddy was more than 98 per cent resulting into a bumper harvest of over 40 lakh tonnes. "Considering the timely distribution of seeds, coupled with timely arrival of monsoon, we expect good paddy season this year too,” said another official of the agriculture department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 517 Covid-19 infections, 1,098 recoveries ||Jharkhand reported twice as many Covid recoveries as fresh cases of infection on Saturday, which brought the active caseload in the state down to 6,239. However, 12 casualties took the Covid toll to 5,046 and the mortality rate remained 1.48 per cent, which was higher than the national average of 1.20 per cent, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), 517 people were found infected by coronavirus in Jharkhand on the day, while at least 1,098 patients recovered. None of the 24 districts reported a triple-digit spike in cases on the day. With 73 cases, East Singhbhum reported the highest spike among Jharkhand districts on Saturday, the bulletin stated. The active caseload in Ranchi dropped to 1,664 as the district reported 229 Covid recoveries against 47 cases on Saturday. Two casualties took the Covid toll here to 1,571. The active caseload in East Singhbhum dropped to 707 as the district reported 131 recoveries against 73 cases on the day. East Singhbhum also reported two casualties which took the Covid toll there to 1,019. The positivity rate on Saturday remained below 1 per cent as only 517 of the 56,126 people tested were found to be Covid positive. The state has been reporting a daily positivity rate of less than 1 per cent since Wednesday. Among other districts, Dhanbad reported 59 cases against 65 recoveries, while Bokaro reported only 15 cases against 30 recoveries. The active caseload in Pakur dropped to eight on the day as the district reported three recoveries against one fresh case of Covid-19. The vaccination rate also improved in Jharkhand on Saturday with the addition of new vaccination centres. As many as 86,368 residents were administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 on the day, while at least 6,534 beneficiaries received the second jab. As many as 61,036 of the over 86,000 residents who got their first jab on Saturday were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. Over 3.40 lakh residents have been infected by coronavirus in Jharkhand so far and 96.68 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of infection in Jharkhand was 0.18 per cent against the national average of 0.33 per cent, while the doubling rate of cases in the state was 412.98 days against the national average of 212.64 days. Congress MLA from Barkagaon Assembly constituency Amba Prasad was admitted to Ramgarh Sadar Hospital on Saturday after she felt dizzy and experienced breathlessness while on an inspection of panchayats and villages. Doctors at the hospital sent her swab samples for Covid testing, the Rapid Antigen Test for which turned negative. Her blood pressure was also monitored at the hospital. Amar, the personal secretary of the MLA, who was present on the spot said ,"She is out of danger. Soon she will start her work."Ramgarh Congress MLA Mamta Devi met Amba Prasad to check up on her.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Tata Steel donates 300 oxygen concentrators to government||Jamshedpur: In its continued efforts to fight against Covid-19, Tata Steel handed over 300 oxygen concentrators to the Jharkhand government on Thursday. The oxygen concentrators were handed over to Arun Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, state health, medical education and family welfare department by Sanjay Mohan Srivastava, chief resident executive of Tata Steel, Ranchi. The oxygen concentrators were imported from US and China. An oxygen concentrator is a medical device that concentrates oxygen from ambient air. It helps in the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Arun Singh thanked Tata Steel for their support to the state and said that the steel major has always come forward for such social causes and is working closely with the government to reduce the impact of Covid-19 pandemic in the state. Health department officials said the oxygen concentrators donated by Tata Steel would be used in government hospitals and Covid care centres. Besides other initiatives to combat Covid-19, Tata Steel has been collaborating with the state government for augmenting medical facilities and augmenting supply chain of liquid medical oxygen in the state. (Pinaki Majumdar) Dhanbad: Around 12 social workers and environmental activists of Jharia on Saturday observed a day-long fast and sat on a symbolic protest at Children’s park of Jharia against the apathetic attitude of authorities toward the glaring state of affair of pollution. The programme convened by environmentalist Akhlaque Ahmad began at around 9 am during which the speakers spoke at length about the need to take emergent steps to control pollution in Jharia. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Ahmad said,“On one hand rampant mining is being carried out by over two dozen private contractors on behalf of BCCL are polluting the environment while Dhanbad Municipal Corporation which is entrusted with the task of implementing measures for controlling  pollution under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) is sitting idle.” “Though, several steps like plantation on road side, green walling of town, dust sweeping etc has been planned under the NCAP to reduce the pollution by 30% by 2024 and a fund around Rs 104crore has also been allocated to DMC by Central Pollution Control Board but none of these steps are in site and resultantly there in no improvement in the pollution and rather it is deteriorating day by day,” said another environmentalist Manoj Singh who carried out plantation of more than five thousand saplings in different colonies of over the last one decade under banner of NGO, Green Life. “None of instructions given to BCCL during the meeting of June 2019 are being followed as a result of which more than 8 lakh residents of Jharia town and its adjoining localities are having serious health repercussions in form the breathing related diseases like, Bronchitis, Ashthama and even Tuberculosis,” said Singh. Echoing his sentiments, an old timer of the town Murari Sharma who is also a noted industrialist said, “we can’t remain a mute spectator to the pollution caused due to the unorganized mining activity of BCCL and will be compelled to file petition  in court demanding steps to control pollution.” (Praduman Choubey) Hazaribagh: A monitor lizard on Saturday entered the house of a resident inTatijharia block sparking fear among villagers who confused it with an ant eater and then called it a dinosaur. Forest department was informed about it which rescued the animal. Officials said they will release it in the forest. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A woman named Anisha Khatoon was caught while fleeing with a newborn from Chatra sadar hospital on Saturday morning. Anisha is a resident of Kalyanpur village of temple town Itkhori. Officer-in-charge of sadar police station, Luv Kumar said they had taken Anisha in their custody and they are trying to know as why she stole the baby from Chatra sadar hospital. Sources said a resident of Rajachak village under Rajpur police station was admitted at Sadar hospital where she gave birth to a baby boy on June 1. On Saturday morning, Anisha took the new born boy sleeping with his mother out of the mahila ward and disappeared. Woman was soon caught and boy was recovered from her. Anisha is married to one Iqbal Ansari and has three daughters. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand govt approves one month’s extra pay for health workers||The Jharkhand government has approved one month’s extra pay as an incentive to health workers who are engaged in Covid-19 duties. The decision was taken at a state cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren in Ranchi on Friday evening. “The cabinet has approved incentives for health department workers, including doctors engaged in coronavirus related contact tracing, testing, supervision and other related work in Covid hospitals and wards besides control rooms, which will be equivalent to their one month’s salary,” an official statement after the cabinet meeting said. The incentive will be equivalent to the basic salary of April 2020. Health minister Banna Gupta had in March announced a Rs 103-crore incentive for frontline health workers in the state Assembly. The chief minister had also announced in May on social media that one month’s additional salary will be given to doctors and medical workers employed to contain the pandemic. “The proposal would be sent for approval to the finance department for the release of funds. It would take at least a month for the funds to be released to the accounts of the health department staff concerned,” said a senior official of the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) unit of the health department. The state on Friday registered 13 more Covid deaths taking the total casualties to 5,034 and recorded 478 fresh cases taking the active caseload to 6,832. Meanwhile, as part of its effort to increase testing of samples, the state government will send another 44 TrueNat machines to 16 districts which have witnessed high numbers of Covid cases in addition to the 222 TrueNat machines installed in all 24 districts. This would be in addition to the eight state-owned and four private RT-PCR labs in the state. Another 14 TrueNat machines have also been sent to the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, CCL Hospital (both in Ranchi), Tata Main Hospital (Jamshedpur), Bokaro General Hospital and All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Deoghar. “The TrueNat machine would be used for urgent Covid tests of patients requiring surgical intervention, pregnant women, dialysis, emergency operation and other emergency cases and suspected coronavirus deaths,” said state health department nodal officer Siddharth Tripathy.The health department has also written to the director of RIMS, Ranchi, principals of medical colleges and hospitals and nodal officers of RT-PCR labs to ensure that all samples of Covid victims and 15 randomly collected samples from the places of outbreak in their jurisdiction are sent to the Institute of Life Sciences, Bhubaneswar, to identify the coronavirus variants. “The directive was given following an instruction from the Union health ministry,” added Tripathy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
06-06-2021||Jharkhand||World Environment Day: Sand art with green message||An artwork created on the banks of the Damodar in Jharkhand on Saturday by a local artist stood testament to an eloquent expression of the theme of World Environment Day this year — “Ecosystem restoration”. The sand sculpture, a creation of Ajay Shankar Mahato, a native of Silfor-Suyadih village of Chandankiyari block in Bokaro district, at nearby Kapat Ghat, also reminded of the grim reality that hundreds of Covid-19 patients and their anxious relatives experienced recently — an acute shortage of medical oxygen. The sculpture with the message — “Save tree, save life” — consists of three distinct sections. While the left section shows three tree stumps where a man is seen breathing through a mask attached to an oxygen cylinder, the right side depicts a tree just behind a masked woman and the central portion of the sculpture shows a world full of greenery. “Merciless felling of trees can lead to such a situation when we won’t be able to even breathe without the external support of oxygen,” Mahato said. “Trees, if saved, will also protect us as mothers do and that will, in turn, make our planet actually green,” he added. Largely unknown to outsiders, Mahato has been making sand sculptures similar to those made by Sudarshan Patnaik of Odisha who has received national and international acclaim for his creations on the beach in Puri. “I have been making these sculptures at Kapat Ghat for nearly a decade now but the sand here is coarse unlike the fine quality found on sea beaches,” said Mahato who has a diploma in fine arts from Prachin Kala Kendra, Chandigarh. Mahato teaches fine arts at a nearby institute. “I create such sculptures on various occasions — be it Independence Day, Republic Day, International Yoga Day or Kargil Vijay Divas,” he further said. Mahato said that he found satisfaction from the appreciation he got from the local people who come to see those sculptures. People from adjoining areas of Bokaro and Dhanbad districts who know about his work come to have a look at his sculptures on the days I make them, Mahato said. However, he said only a few witnessed the sculpture created on Saturday as “not many are venturing out due to restrictions imposed now”. The river in the background of the sculpture looked rejuvenated with an increase in its water level and the trees on its banks looking greener, thanks to recent rainfall. But with everything from coal dust and fly ash from collieries and coal washeries to toxic effluent from industrial units dumped in it, the Damodar indeed needs to be restored in line with the theme of the World Environment Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
