07-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Four children rescued from river||Ranchi: Four children trapped in the middle of the Damodar River at Khetko Basti of Petarwar police station area under Bermo sub-division, have been rescued safely by a team of divers. The children, all aged between 9-13 years had gone to take a bath in the river. While bathing, they challenged each other to a race to cross the river. A local resident Munawar Mahtab said, while crossing the river, the children got stuck in the middle of the water and started drowning. Two of them managed to swim to a safe spot and raised an alarm, following which the local divers jumped in water and rescued them. Petarwar Block Vice President of JMM, Mohmmad Asif, lauded the efforts of the local divers. Police was informed but before they could reach the spot, the children were rescued. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: The district administration on Monday engaged 350 migrant workers to clean the Hazaribagh lake and Khazanchi talab. Officials said total of 500 labourers registered themselves for different work till date. Municipal commissioner Madhavi Mishra is monitoring the entire work. Officials said through this, labourers will get to work during the pandemic as well as it will enhance the beauty of picturesque Hazaribagh lake and a pond. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: The body of a 22-year-old mentally unstable youth of Bokaro, Abhihshek Kumar was found lying on the bank of river Damodar on Monday morning under Sudamdih Polices station of Dhanbad about 25 km from Dhanbad district headquarters. Family members of the deceased said that Abhishek went out of his house on his scooter on June 3 on the pretext of going to market but never returned home. Police later found his scooter near Telmachcho bridge of Bokaro on June 4 and on Monday his dead body was recovered from the bank of river Damodar in Sudamdih. Though the dead body was partially decomposed and beyond recognition but family members identified him by the clothes worn by the deceased. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: Local residents of Godhar area under Kenduadih police station, less than six km away from district on Monday complained to the Kusunda area management of BCCL about emission of huge amount of smoke and gas from the fan house of a closed mine of BCCL. A fan house is the ventilator of underground coal mines through which the warm gases are thrown out of the mines using giant exhaust fans. Ramesh Kumar, a local resident said, “Though gas emission was taking place at the same site for the last ten days as it takes place during rains but emission rate increased significantly this morning raising concern about the health risk as they felt headache due to inhaling gases after which we complained to the BCCL authorities.” (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: The Bokaro Chamber of Commerce and Industries on Monday extended moral support to a one-day dharna staged by Bokaro MLA Biranchi Naryan in front the district collectorate office against the power crisis prevailing in Chas area. The office bearers of the Bokaro Chamber of Commerce who also sat at the dharna submitted a memorandum in which they demanded the commissioning of three newly installed electric substations besides commissioning Jaina More and Barmasia electric grid in Bokaro in order to solve the power crisis to some extent. President of Bokaro Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Sanjay Baid said, “Due to power crisis prevailing in Chas, the residents of the town are compelled to lead a life with no electricity connections.” (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
07-06-2021||Jharkhand||JMM, Cong welcome free vaccines, but say SC rap forced Centre's U-turn||JMM and Congress, key parties of the ruling alliance in Jharkhand, welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of free vaccines for all above 18 but added that the BJP-led government at the Centre was forced to do so after it was "exposed" beacuse of poor planning. JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “The big U-turn on vaccination comes after Supreme Court’s intervention which questioned the Government of India’s vaccination policy. Jharkhand, and many other states, have been constantly raising the issue.” Even though chief minister Hemant Soren had announced that the state government would provide free vaccines for the 18-44 age group, he had to write to the Union government to demand free vaccines for all from the Centre's coffers. In his letter, Hemant rued that a poor state like Jharkhand was being forced into excess spending which would pose hurdles in its overall development. State finance minister and president of Jharkhand Congress Rameshwar Oraon said that Modi’s announcement was an indirect testimony to his government’s lapses. “The Congress has been regularly demanding free vaccines for all at various platforms. Our central leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, has been constantly demanding for it since long. It’s good that some wisdom has finally prevailed.” Oraon demanded that the Centre compensate all states on the expenses incurred while buying vaccines for 18-44 years. “The free vaccine scheme will start from June 21. Till then, states will have to procure their own stocks. We demand that all the states be paid back the money used to by stocks for immunising those between 18 and 44,” he said. Oroan said that never in India’s history had states been asked to buy vaccines by the Centre. “But the BJP government began a bad trend this time for reasons best known to it. But it’s good that it is trying to correct itself. We hope that it will ensure equitable distribution of vaccines in the coming weeks,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
07-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city to get its first animal shelter||The Jamshedpur Red Paws Rescue Foundation will be building a shelter for stray dogs in the steel city, making it the second animal shelter of the state. The city-based NGO has identified the land in Pardih near Mango. “One of our members was kind enough to provide us with a plot of land. The land measures 150x30 ft and is enough for setting up the facility. We have already generated over Rs 60,000 for constructing a hall for the animal shelter. Around 40 strays can be accommodated at the facility,” said Aniz Patel, founder of JRPRF. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, Patel said around Rs 3lakh was required for setting up the shelter home and funds are being generated from well wishers. “We are optimistic that the required funds would be generated since there are many animal lovers in Jamshedpur,” he added. According to Patel, the animal shelter would be meant for wounded stray canines who will be brought to the facility for treatment. “We’ll rescue wounded strays and bring them to the shelter. The strays would undergo treatment and will be kept at the shelter till full recovery. They would be released in their respective areas after healing,” he added. Services of vets would be available for treatment of strays who often get wounded and there is no facility for their treatment. A number of strays fall victim to road mishaps in the city. Some even die or are badly injured and eventually die. “We try our best to save strays but it is not always possible. After all, we are not experts in providing treatment for critical cases. Hence, an animal shelter is the need of the hour,” a member said. Members of the foundation also provide treatment to strays on their own. They contact Patel if they come across strays who need treatment. Patel, on his part, co-ordinates with vets and suggests medicines. “But we can provide general treatment only. Critical cases can be treated at the shelter,” Patel said, adding it will be the first animal shelter in Jamshedpur. Besides feeding strays, the foundation also conducts anti-rabies vaccination camps in periodical intervals at different localities. It also puts reflective collars on strays to protect them from road mishaps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
07-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand survey shows no major impact of 2nd wave in rural areas ||Around 0.8 per cent of the over 2.63 crore rural residents surveyed in Jharkhand from May 25 to June 5 were found to have severe acute respiratory iIllness (SARI) or influenza like illness (ILA), data compiled by the state health department revealed on Monday, but  only about 0.5 per cent of the over 2 lakh people with the illnesses tested positive for Covid-19 during the 10-day intensive public health survey (IPHS). As per data shared by the government on Monday, as many as 2,63, 01,472 people from 52,97,433 households were surveyed and only 2,08,556 of them were found to have SARI or ILA symptoms. Of the over 2 lakh people who showed such symptoms, as many as 981 were found to be Covid positive. The data shared by the health department did not include figures from some pockets of five districts – Bokaro, Dhanbad, Garhwa, Koderma and Lohardaga. The state surveyed around 2.7 crore people during IPHS and data of about 7 lakh more residents was still being compiled, officials said. The findings of the survey indicated that Covid-19 did not have a major impact on rural areas of the tribal state during the second wave and many villages were completely free from coronavirus infections, officials said. As per government data, Jharkhand’s cumulative Covid positivity rate was 3.87 per cent against the national average of 7.89 per cent, and the survey showed that the positivity rate among the rural residents in Jharkhand was only 0.47 per cent. “During the survey, we found that many villages were completely free from Covid-19. While there were cases in pockets, the positivity rate was low in terms of the total population surveyed,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer for health department’s IEC wing. Amid growing fear associated with a possible third wave and its impact on children, the proportion of children among those found infected in rural Jharkhand was found to be negligible during the survey. The IPHS findings showed that only 39 of the 981 people found infected by the coronavirus were below the age of 18 years, and none of them required hospitalization. As many as 11 of the 981 people found infected were sent to Covid care centres, and all of them were adults. As per IPHS data, rural Jharkhand reported as many as 25,869 deaths from April 1 to May 31. While the government did not categorically disclose the causes of the deaths, officials said that the survey did not show a major spike in deaths in the rural areas of the state. During the survey, it was also found that 16,668 of the surveyed people showed symptoms of tuberculosis, while 1,17,622 suffered from diabetes. As per the survey data, at least 11,9026 rural residents suffered from hypertension.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
07-06-2021||Jharkhand||101-year-old is oldest in state to get vaccine||At a time when Jharkhand is battling vaccine hesitancy in several rural areas, a centenarian from Deoghar district is sure to emerge as the "poster dadu" of the government’s inoculation drive to combat Covid-19. On Sunday, health officials in Deoghar successfully inoculated a 101-year-old Chhota Jagdish Mahto from Devipur block, his first dose of Covishield, making him the oldest in the state to have been vaccinated since nationwide rollout of the drive in January this year. Deoghar deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri told reporters that such instances come as a great boost for the officials who are working round the clock to increase vaccine coverage in the district. “The elderly has led by example by taking vaccines on his own during door to door drives,” he said, appealing to others to come forward with similar enthusiasm. Devipur block development officer Abhay Kumar Jha said that they spotted Mahto outside his house during the door to door survey. “When we approached him to know if he had taken the vaccine, he replied in negative. We told him that he must take it to which he readily agreed. Vaccinators gave the jab and he is doing fine,” he said. However, it wasn’t known if he was infected with the virus since the outbreak last year but another official, who was part of the visiting team to the village on Sunday, said that the elderly stayed negative during both the first and second waves. “He said he didn’t contract the virus so far, however it is still to be officially checked. The man has one son and two grandchildren,” he said. Deoghar has 23 per cent coverage of vaccination of 45 plus age group. Against the target of 3,79,334 beneficiaries, it has inoculated the first dose to 1,48,268, as per the vaccination report of the health department released on Saturday night. It however has registered good coverage for second dose as against the target of 19,283 for 45 plus age group, it inoculated 17,603 so far. In the 18 plus age group category, it has given first dose to 40,332 against the target of 7.11 lakh, which is 5.67% while the time for second dose is still to arrive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
07-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town restaurants impacted by Covid curbs||Restaurants in Dhanbad have suffered losses due to the impact of Covid as sales through home delivery and online platforms have dipped to less than 20 per cent of sales on normal days. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Satwant Singh, franchisee owner of La Piaza restaurant at Dhanbad, said, “We have suffered huge losses over five months of closure of the first phase of lockdown and even after reopening in September last year the customer response was quite shaky for the first two months.” “Barely after five months of moderate income from November last year to April this year, bad days came back for us since April 14 this year with the government restricting the shop opening time to 8 pm followed by lockdown on April 22,” said Singh. The restaurants were allowed to remain open but only through home delivery service. “As the death rate was comparatively more during the second phase of pandemic this year so  a lot apprehension gripped people’s mind, including about safety of packed food so even when home delivery was allowed, very few customers chose for packed food,” said Singh who is also the secretary of restaurant owner’s association of Dhanbad. Echoing his sentiments, Mihir Mandal, Manager of Celebration restaurant of Luby Circular Road of Dhanbad said, “Though, the income is almost negligible from the business at present but we are somehow keeping the restaurant open for sake of our staff and also to ensure the cleanliness and maintenance of the outlet” “Our main income during the normal days is through table booking also from the booking  for special occasions like birthday party, marriage anniversary and some time reunions meeting etc,” said Mandal and added that they will be deprived of significant income unless dining facilities are allowed at the restaurants. “Even when the Covid cases have dropped significantly in the district people are still desisting ordering packed food from restaurants either through online food delivery platforms or our own home delivery service as a result of which the income has reached to 20per cent,” said Mandal. Senior General Manager of Skylark Hotel, Anutosh Baghchi said, “We have already temporarily closed the hotel including the restaurant due to lack of visitors as well as lack of permission for dining in the restaurant, causing significant drop in the customer of restaurant” “We are however continuously monitoring the situation and will take a decision to relaunch the hotel as and when the situation improves,” said Bagchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
07-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand's active caseload drops below 6,000 as over 800 patients recover from Covid||The active caseload of Covid-19 in Jharkhand dropped to 5686 on Sunday as the state reported at least 838 Covid recoveries against 293 fresh cases of infection on the day, figures released by the health department highlighted. As many as eight patients, including two from East Singhbhum and one from capital Ranchi, died during treatment, taking the Covid toll in the state to 5054, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The active caseload dropped to 1547 in Ranchi on the day as the district reported only 24 cases and 139 Covid recoveries. East Singbhum also witnessed a drop in the active caseload on the day. With 104 recoveries against 45 cases, the district’s active caseload dropped to 646. None of the 24 districts in the state reported a spike of more than 50 cases on Sunday. With 45 cases, East Singhbhum reported the highest spike among the districts. On the other hand, Pakur and Chatra did not report fresh cases of infection on the day, but recoveries caused a drop in the active caseload in the two districts. Bokaro reported 10 cases against 55 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 15 cases against 32 recoveries, the NHM highlighted in its bulletin. The positivity rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was less than 1 per cent on Sunday. As per NHM data, as many as 42,566 residents were tested on the day and around 0.6 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. The growth rate of infection in the state also dropped to 0.15 per cent on Sunday against the national average of 0.32 per cent, the NHM stated in its bulletin. As per government data, the doubling rate of Jharkhand reached 478.29 days on Sunday against the national average of 217.94 days. The recovery rate in the state further increased to 96.85 per cent against the national recovery rate of 93.70 per cent, but the Covid mortality rate in the state remained above the national average. As per government data, at least 1.48 per cent of the over 3.41 lakh people infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand could not survive. The state on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 74,134 residents and more than 47,000 of them were in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years, stated a separate report from NHM. The second dose, as per the report, was administered to 4705 residents, mostly those above the age of 45 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
07-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Bokaro student wins Global Quiz Competition||Bokaro: A Class XII student of Delhi Public School, Bokaro, Rishi Divya Kirti bagged the first position in the grand finale of Ganga Quest 2021. It was the online global quiz contest in which more than 11 lakh students from across 113 nations participated. The contest was organized by the Union Jal Ministry and the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) in association with Tree Craze Foundation on Ganga, rivers and environment on the occasion of World Environment Day 2021. The quiz was first conceptualized in 2019 as an educational program to sensitise individuals, specially, students towards River Ganga and other rivers of the country.  Kirti stood first in the live quiz Grade III category conducted for Classes XI and XII students and was declared the overall winner of Ganga Quest 2021, said DPS sources. The competition was held in four rounds. In the last round, Kirti was among 36 others who made it to the final round. 12 students including Rishi were shortlisted after screening for the online live final round. Rishi defeated 11 other competitors to win the coveted trophy. “On Ganga Dusshera June 20, 2021, Kirti will be awarded a laptop, a knowledge kit and a certificate. Rishi’s father U.K.Singh is a teacher while his mother Anju Singh is a homemaker. Rishi’s father said, “I was delighted at the wonderful success of his son at the international level”. Sharing his happiness Rishi said, “I owe this award to my school, my teachers and my parents who have constantly guided and motivated me to participate in this quiz competition”. Principal of DPS Bokaro A.S. Gangwar appreciated Kirti’s performance. Gangwar said, “Rishi has made our school, our state as well as our Nation proud with his exemplary performance. It is his hard work and perseverance that enabled him to achieve this remarkable feat.” (Our correspondent) Ramgarh: Suspected rebels assaulted two labourers at the site of the bridge being built on Binja Nala located at Lambki Tand of Tokisud village under Patratu police station area of Ramgarh district on Saturday night. They sprayed kerosene oil in the JCB and tractor parked nearby and set it on fire. The criminals also opened fire and then fled to the nearby forest. The construction work was suspended on Sunday. The labourers said,"All the criminals were wearing masks and Naxalite uniforms. A pamphlet was also left at the spot. It has been seized by the police." Patratu SDPO Dr. Virendra Chaudhary, Inspector Lileshwar Mahto and Patratu police station in-charge Bharat Paswan reached the spot and began an investigation. TSPC militants may have a hand in the incident. However, the police have not confirmed any information. Police have recovered a cartridge case from the spot. SDPO Dr. Virendra Choudhary said, "Tokisud area is the border area of Ranchi district. Under this limit, criminal organisations take advantage of this and enter from one district to another carrying out attacks and secure themselves. This is a big challenge for the police. Investigation is on to ascertain who was involved in the incident." (Our correspondent) Dhanbad: Govindpur based property dealer, Manzoor Alam on Sunday lodged a complaint against two youths, allegedly belonging to a notorious gang, demanding extortion worth Rs 1.5 lakh. Alam in his complaint claimed that the duo came to his house and threatened to kill him if he did not pay them. He further informed police that the duo claimed to be members of shooter Aman Singh gang, whose name has figured in a number of other extortion cases. Around six days ago Bhuli based trader Sahabuddin Ansari also lodged an extortion demand complaint in the name of Aman Singh. Aman Singh's name also figured in the murder case of Ashraful Hasan also known as Lala Khan which took place on May 12 in broad day light at Wasseypur. (Praduman Choubey) Ramgarh: An MoU has been signed under the “One More Breath" program to provide better healthcare facilities by Deputy Development Commissioner Nagendra Kumar Sinha and representatives of Round Table India Trust on behalf of District Administration Ramgarh in the presence of Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Singh on Saturday. Around 50 isolation beds and 50 oxygen supported beds will be arranged at CCL Hospital Naisarai Ramgarh and Sadar Hospital Ramgarh. Representatives of Round Table India Trust have handed over 20 Dual Oxygen Concentrators and 12 Single Oxygen Concentrators to the Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Singh on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Singh was informed by the representatives of Round Table India Trust that other health care equipment will be made available to the district administration in a short time. Singh and Deputy Development Commissioner Nagendra Kumar Sinha on behalf of Ramgarh administration expressed gratitude to Round Table India Trust for their excellent work. (Our correspondent) Ramgarh: A baby deer from a nearby forest of Gola block area reached Patratu village. Stray dogs attacked the baby deer. Local villagers informed the forest department officials. Forest guard Yogendra Mahto and Anil Kumar reached Patratu village and took the baby deer in their possession. They left baby deer safely in the same forest. Dozens of people including Sarveshwar Mahato, Pankaj Mahato, Brajkishore Mahato, Dilip Kumar Mahato, Lokeshwar Mahato, Manoj Mahato, Sujit Kumar Mahato, Dhananjay Mahato, Prahlad Nayak rescued the deer. Hazaribagh : A truck carrying cement from Bokaro and going to Huntergunj of Chatra overturned near Nunigadha on Hazaribagh-Chatra road under Giddhore police station of Chatra district. Sources said the driver lost control over the vehicle which overturned when the road was busy with commuters. However no one was injured and the driver managed to jump out safely from the truck. Police seized the truck and interrogated the driver who admitted falling asleep at the wheels resulting in accident. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
07-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to ascertain Covid variants||The Jharkhand government directed all medical colleges of the state to send the preserved swab samples of all who died of Covid-19 infection on or after April 1 for whole genome sequencing (WGS). The preserved positive samples of those who died would be sent to the Institute of Life Science (ILS), Bhubaneswar, for WGS that would help understand the mortality rate among various variants, additional chief secretary (health) Arun Kumar Singh said in a letter he wrote on Friday to the heads of state’s medical colleges. “Government RT-PCR Covid-19 laboratories have been sending such preserved samples to ILS, Bhubaneswar for whole genome sequencing,” he said in the letter addressed to the director, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Ranchi, and principals or superintendents of medical colleges in Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Daltonganj and Hazaribagh, besides heads of Tata Main Hospital, Jamshedpur and Intermediate Reference Laboratory (IRL), Itki near Ranchi that have been identified, as per direction of the Union government, as sentinel surveillance  sites (SSSs) under a special surveillance mechanism for WGS. During March and April, 537 samples were sent for WGS and 363 of those were processed, Singh further informed, adding 301 of those samples showed presence of variants. While 29 samples showed presence of the UK variant, 272 had double mutants, he further informed. Besides preserved swab samples of those dead,  each of these SSSs would also be sending 15 other randomly selected samples every two weeks for WGS, the additional chief secretary (health) directed in his letter. “WGS data are vital for monitoring the spread of the known variants of interest as well as variants of concern in the state for initiating appropriate measures,” he clarified the purpose. “All viruses undergo mutations and some of the variants are considered more dangerous,” a senior health official later explained, adding the variants that were already found and considered as more dangerous were known as variants of concern while those yet to be identified were variants of interest. The number of deaths due to Covid-19 in the state over the past 66 days — from April 1 to June 5 — were 3,944 that accounted for 78.16 per cent of the total Covid deaths of 5,046 since the disease struck the state early last year (2020). Though the infection seemed to be under control at present and less number of affected persons died over the past few days, number of Covid deaths during the past two months of the second wave was actually a matter of concern that prompted the government to ascertain the reason behind the sudden spurt in the mortality rate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
