08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city football tourney likely to be cancelled for 2nd straight year||The ongoing threat of the Covid-19 pandemic has once again put a question mark on the annual football league organised by the Jamshedpur Sporting Association. The popular tournament, one of the oldest sporting fixtures in the eastern zone, is likely to be cancelled for the second successive year. "We don't think the tournament will be held this year either. At the most, we'll try to organise a programme to mark the platinum jubilee of the league," said association secretary Avinash Kumar, a former Bihar Ranji Trophy captain and senior manager at Tata Steel sports wing. He added they were keeping their fingers crossed at this point in time. The league's platinum jubilee was last year but the pandemic spoiled the celebrations. "The fixture seems a non-starter at this stage. It cannot be organised since no preparations have been made as of now. We cannot go ahead even if the state government allows sports venues to re-open. It will take time to prepare the grounds. Moreover, we also need to draw up fixtures for the matches," a member of the association’s football sub-committee said. The government will also need to announce guidelines on the resumption of tournaments, he added. The tournament usually starts in May. It is played for nearly two months, with around 80 matches. As many as 44 clubs and institutions compete in the tournament held in the Premier Division, the Super Division and ‘A’ Division. The tournament will be a non-starter even if Jamshedpur Sporting Associations officials plan to conduct the fixture sometime in October-November since venues will remain packed with other sporting events. But it all depends on how far the Covid-situation improves. The event, patronised by Tata Steel, is conducted at the Keenan Stadium, Gopal Maidan, Armoury ground, Tinplate Sports Complex and Sumant Mulgaokar Stadium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Passenger held at Tatanagar for stealing CRPF jawan’s luggage||A passenger on board the Howrah-Mumbai Mail was arrested for stealing a piece of luggage belonging to a CRPF jawan from Tatanagar station on Tuesday. The accused, identified as Irshad Ansari, was travelling in an AC coach from Howrah to Mumbai and had got down at the Tatanagar station when it halted for a while around midnight. OC, Government Railway Police, Tatanagar, Jadu Shao said Ansari (28) was arrested at Chakradharpur station for stealing the luggage of a CRPF jawan from Tatanagar station at midnight. "We have recovered the stolen material from the arrested person who was a passenger of Howrah-Mumbai Mail. We sent the accused to jail on Tuesday, " said Shao while talking to The Telegraph Online. According to the railway police, three CRPF jawans had come to the Tatanagar station around 11 pm on Monday for boarding in Howrah-Pune Azad Hind Express, which was scheduled to arrive at the Tatanagar station at 1.30 am. "As the train was to come two-and-half hours later, the three jawans had fallen asleep on platform No 1 having kept their luggage beside them. In the meantime, the Howrah-Mumbai Mail arrived on platform No 1. As soon as the train arrived, Ansari got down from the train and briskly moved on the platform, looking for prey. On seeing the three jawans in deep slumber, he picked up a big bag and returned to his train fast," said the GRP. According to the OC, Ansari had an upper berth in the 46 B-3. "While carrying a bag in the middle of the journey, the accused went to his berth and started inquiring after opening it. The fellow passengers suspected something was wrong. Some of the passengers soon informed the TTE who subsequently informed the cops in the train, putting them on alert," said Shao. The OC said the Howrah-Mumbai Mail had by the time reached Chakradharpur where Ansari threw away the CRPF jawan's bag, having kept the valuables, and the cops caught him at the very moment. Shao said the cops recovered the bag and on searching, they found the ID card and cellphone number of a CRPF jawan. Subsequently, they contacted the jawan and after getting it verified that Ansari had stolen the bag from the Tatanagar station, the railway police arrested him. The railway police said Ansari worked at a factory in Mumbai and was returning to his workplace from Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 66 cases of black fungus, 19 deaths||Mucormycosis claimed another life in Ranchi on Tuesday, taking the toll in the district alone to six and that in Jharkhand to 19, while three confirmed and three suspected cases of the fungal infection surfaced in the state during the past 48 hours. According to data released by the health department on Tuesday, the total number of black fungus cases in Jharkhand was stood at 66. Besides the confirmed cases, as many as 46 suspected cases of mucormycosis have also been reported in the state so far. Samples of these suspected patients have been collected for lab tests to ascertain the nature of their infection, officials said. Of the 66 patients who were found to be suffering from Mucormycosis, as many as 14 have recovered and were subsequently discharged from hospital, latest data released by the health department on Tuesday revealed. The mortality rate, however, was higher than the recovery rate among mucormycosis patients in the state. With 26 confirmed and 11 suspected cases, Ranchi has reported the highest number of mucormycosis cases in Jharkhand. The district has also reported the highest number of deaths caused by the fungal infection. On the other hand, East Singhbhum has reported 16 confirmed and three suspected cases of mucormycosis so far. Among other districts, Dhanbad has reported five confirmed cases, while Ramgarh has reported four confirmed and three suspected cases of the fungal infection. Two confirmed cases each were reported in Palamau, Koderma, Hazaribagh, Giridih and Chatra. As per government data, at least four mucormycosis patients have died in East Singhbhum, two each in Dhanbad and Ramgarh and one each in Chatra, Deoghar, Dumka, Hazaribagh and Latehar. Mucormycosis is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. The line of treatment includes surgery and administering anti-fungal drugs, mostly Amphotericin B. Doctors treating mucormycosis patients in the state stressed on the importance of multidisciplinary treatment for preventing deaths. Dr Anindya Anuradha of Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi said that the chances of saving patients of mucormycosis was higher if doctors from various departments formed a special team for treating the disease. “Multidisciplinary approach towards treatment of mucormycosis patients is common in other states. We need to incorporate such treatment measures in our state as well,” she said. Several thousand cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis were reported in India in the past one month and doctors claimed that use of high dosage steroids for treatment of severely-ill Covid patients was one of the reasons for the spike. In May, the state government made mucormycosis a notifiable disease and asked the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) to maintain records related to the lethal fungal infection. The civil surgeons of all the districts have been asked to report fresh confirmed and suspected cases of mucormycosis to the IDSP every day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city kids emerge champions of chess festival||Adhiraj Mitra and Kriti Kumari, both from East Singhbhum, emerged champions in the under-18 state championship, a part of an ongoing online chess festival in the state. Shaswata Paul (West Singhbhum) and Aditi Raj (Ranchi) stamped their authority in the under-16 age group. The champions in the respective age sections will represent Jharkhand in the national championships (under-18 and 16) to be held later this month. Jamshedpur-based Adhiraj, the youngest international Fide-rated chess player in Jharkhand, scored six wins and a draw against his arch rival and district mate Souryadipta Sarkar. The latter, who conceded an extra draw to  Archit Mittal of Dhanbad in the second round itself, needed to win his last game with White pieces against the eventual winner of the event Adhiraj. He was half a point ahead of Souryadipota who enjoyed a tiny advantage throughout, which was not enough to win. Adhiraj meticulously worked to get a draw to ensure the championship. The 10-year-old Adhiraj crossed the 1,000-mark to become eligible for an international rating. His rating jumped after he won the All India Fide rating tournament (in the U-7 age group) held in Chaibasa, West Singhbhum, in 2019 and fulfilled the eligibility criteria. The budding chess enthusiast loves to battle it out in higher age groups. Kriti secured 4.5 point (out of seven rounds) to finish ahead of Dhanbad’s Sneha Verma who managed four points from six games. Sneha got the second berth for the nationals on better tie-break points than Dyuti Chakraborty and Dishita Dey (both from East Singhbhum) who too had four points each. Shaswata made a comeback after conceding a draw in the first round to reach the top of the table in the last round and settled for a draw against Aditi, the eventual winner of the girls category of U-16, to win the championship. Shaswata scored six points, half a point ahead of Aditi's tally of 5.5 points. Both the championships were played in a combined manner. The matches were played on a digital platform named Li-Chess under Swiss Rapid rules of FIDE which is going to be used in the forthcoming nationals and World Championships for 2021.1. Competition for the under-14 event is underway and will be followed by the one meant for the under-12 age section on June 9. The chess festival will conclude with the event for the under-10 age group on June 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand fears third wave could impact 17,000 children below 18||The Jharkhand government estimates that anything between 8,500 and 17,000 children could be severely impacted in the event of a third wave of Covid-19, and is, therefore trying to prepare for such an eventuality in a state where children up to the age of 18 make up half its population. An empowered committee of IAS officers and experts, set up by the state health department for preparing an advance mitigation plan in view of the apprehended third wave, has zeroed-in on the numbers _ a minimum of 8,600 and a maximum of 17,200 _children up to the age of 18 based on trends of the first two waves. Bhuvanesh Pratap Singh, an IAS officer and member of the committee, said, “Jharkhand’s positivity rate so far has been around 3.87 per cent compared to 7.89 per cent nationally, while the mortality rate was 1.48 per cent compared to 1.20 per cent nationally. The state has 143,49,680 people up to 18 years of age, which is about half the population of the state. “So, considering a 5 per cent positivity rate if a third wave hits us, the number of severe cases, mainly kids, will be 8,600. The number will be 17,200 if the positivity rate is taken at 10 per cent based on past trends.” Singh was speaking at the launch of detailed guidelines that have been prepared for the districts. Among the others present were chief minister Hemant Soren, chief secretary Sukhdev Singh and senior officials of the health department along with all deputy commissioners. The guidelines, in the form of a 250-page booklet, talk about the learnings of the first two waves and underscores gap analysis of childcare in view of the Covid-19 outbreak across districts. It also lists requirements, like manpower, facilities and medical equipment, and certain timeframes to help districts stay prepared for emergency situations. Highlighting some of the deficiencies, Singh noted that while all district hospitals have paediatric intensive care units (PICU) but the state was lagging behind in high dependency units (HDU). Jharkhand has 144 MDs in paediatrics and the shortage could be tackled effectively training MBBS and doctors of alternative medicine. “Currently, we have only about 22 per cent paediatric beds and there is a gap of 78 per cent. Similarly, SNCU/NICU units for Covid is 41 per cent, ie, a shortage of 59 per cent. The biggest gap is HDU which is at 92 per cent. This is an area all districts will have to start working upon to be prepared for the worst situation, if at all it comes,” Singh noted. He also spoke of strengthening of malnutrition centres, considering high prevalence of malnutrition among children of Jharkhand. “Initial estimates indicate that state requires an investment of Rs 150 crore to be ready for the third wave,” he said. Amid the nationwide concerns over a third wave the Indian Academy of Paediatrics has come out with an advisory to try and allay what doctors say are baseless fears circulating on social media about a third wave hitting children hard. It says that any fresh surge in the Covid-19 epidemic is “highly unlikely” to predominantly or severely affect children. The IAP, a body representing over 32,000 paediatricians across the country, said that while children appear as susceptible as adults and the elderly to develop the coronavirus infection, 90 per cent of infections in children are mild or without symptoms. The public advisory from the IAP’s Covid-19 committee comes amid what paediatricians say are unsubstantiated suggestions that a third wave of the epidemic is likely to affect children harder than the first and second waves did. “We wanted to refute wrong messages and misconceptions going around,” Bakul Jayant Parekh, a Mumbai-based paediatrician and former president of the IAP, told The Telegraph Online. “This advisory represents the IAP’s viewpoint based on global scientific evidence.” Hence, chief secretary Sukhdev Singh’s advise to districts to be flexible in their approach seems prudent. “Usually, pandemic or waves don’t attack people age or gender wise. So, don’t just blindly channelise energies on building childcare units and ignore other age groups. Our preparations should be such that in case of any adversity, we must be able to respond in the least possible time to convert dedicated child wards for adults and vice versa,” he said. Chief minister Hemant hoped the Covid situation does not deteriorate. “I just wish that our apprehensions of a third wave do not convert into reality. But, but we can’t sit and relax. We have to be on guard and not allow complacency to creep in,” he said, adding that the state government was working out plans to launch door-to-door public health surveys a regular affair in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Bharat Coking Coal allots 2 regional hospitals to prepare for third wave||Dhanbad-based Coal India subsidiary, Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) has been working to provide medical infrastructure to the district administration by allocating two of its regional hospitals to prepare for the third wave of Covid-19. Two of the regional hospitals of BCCL  at Jealgora and Baghmara are almost ready with a 20-bed treatment facility. The BCCL had earlier provided its 500-bed central hospital to the administration in its fight against the pandemic last year. Appointment of around 40 doctors in the regional and other hospitals is already under progress as per the medical infrastructure revamp move of the BCCL administration. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Tuesday, Chairman cum Managing Director (CMD) of BCCL, PM Prasad, said “A couple of our regional hospitals in Jealgora and Baghmara are almost in ready condition with 20 beds for Covid patients, while the possibility of development of more similar facilities in other hospitals in being explored. This will be handed over in a phase-wise manner to the district administration.” “We have already initiated the process of appointment of doctors and their joinings would be completed soon,” said Prasad. “Deputation of three or four more doctors in each regional hospital will help cope with the shortage of doctors to a great extent. The facility of the Central Hospital for all our employees for serious and critical cases is already implemented,” he added. On May 2 Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh had written to Prasad to deploy sufficient numbers of qualified doctors and medical staff in the BCCLS hospitals and its other medical facilities within 24 hours by making rosters to address the swelling number of Covid patients. BCCL at present has eight regional hospitals, 40 dispensaries and other hospitals other than the Central Hospital. Treatment of Covid patients in 70 beds of Central Hospital, including 30 beds of ICU and 40 other oxygen beds, is already in progress. This apart, a Covid treatment centre was also operated during the first wave at the Regional Hospital of Bhuli. Each of the eight regional hospitals has a dispensary facility, injection room, dressing room, minor operation theatre and a large waiting hall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad traders demand more relaxations ||Dhanbad traders have demanded for more relaxations in the state's Unlock 2 programme beginning from June 10 by tweeting to Chief Minister Hemant Soren, in view of the losses they have been facing due to the closure of several shops for months amid the Covid-19 lockdown in Jharkhand. Officers of different trade organisations, in their tweets to Hemant, demanded permission for the opening of garment, footwear, jewellery and cosmetics shops from June 10 as well as an extension of working hours. Shop owners are afraid that the curbs will continue for them during Unlock 2, owing to the grim situation in nine districts -- including Ranchi, Dhanbad and Jamshedpur -- that were kept under more restrictions during Unlock 1. President of Bank More Chamber of Commerce, Prabhat Surolia in his tweet to the chief minister lauded the state government’s effort to control Covid but at the same time demanded permission for the opening of shops keeping in mind the livelihood of common people. He further demanded an increase in timings for trade-related activities. Former President of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce Md Sohrab in his tweet asked for permission for reopening of garment, footwear, jewellery and cosmetic shops in nine districts of the state including Dhanbad everyday from June 10 till 5 pm. “Due to closure of more than 50 days the financial conditions of the majority of garment, footwear, and cosmetic traders have deteriorated and they are gradually entering into a vicious debt circle,” claimed Sohrab who owns a garment shop in Purana Bazar. He said that street vendors selling readymade garments on carts are in a worse situation. “The garment and footwear traders were the worst sufferers during the last lockdown as well since they were the last sector which was given permission to operate after more than five months,” Sohrab added. Patron of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FDZCCI) Rajesh Kumar Gupta said, “As the active cases in the district have significantly reduced to 184 it is high time the government should open more shops and increase the timings but at the same time ensure strict monitoring of the following of Covid-related protocols.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand's active Covid caseload drops below 1,500||The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped below 1500 in Ranchi and close to the 5000-mark in Jharkhand as the state reported at least 726 Covid recoveries against 358 cases of infection on Monday, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. At least six Covid patients died during treatment on the day, taking the Covid toll in the state to 5060, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. As per the bulletin, Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad, Lohardaga, Hazaribag and Garhwa reported one Covid casualty each. As many as 80 Covid recoveries against 23 fresh cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 1,489, while one death took the toll to 1573. On the other hand, East Singhbhum reported 51 cases, the highest among the 24 districts in the state. The district also reported 94 recoveries, which brought the active caseload there down to 601, the NHM stated in its bulletin. By the end of Monday, as many as 5312 Jharkhand residents were battling Covid-19. Other than East Singhbhum, all the remaining 23 districts reported a spike of less than 50 cases on the day. Dhanbad reported 32 cases against 40 recoveries, while 36 people were found infected in Hazaribag and 26 patients recovered there. The state on Monday tested swab samples of 45054 residents and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. As per government data, the state has so far tested more than 88 lakh people for Covid-19 and the cumulative positivity rate in the state was above 3.5 per cent. With a drop in cases reported every day on an average, the growth rate of infection in Jharkhand dropped to 0.13 per cent against the national average of 0.30 per cent. The Covid recovery rate in the state, as per government data, was 96.96 per cent against the national average of 93.90 per cent. The doubling rate of cases in the state also crossed the 500-day-mark on the day. As per NHM data, it would take 516.62 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand at the current pace. The doubling rate in India was 230.66 days. The Covid mortality rate in the state, however, was 1.48 per cent, higher than the national average of 1.20 per cent. The state on Monday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 48.876 residents and almost 32,000 of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab was administered to 5586 residents, mostly commoners above the age of 45 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand High Court cancels JPSC exam merit list||Jharkhand High Court on Monday cancelled the merit list for the state public service commission exam, observing that the JPSC had added marks from Paper-I while preparing it and not followed the pass mark criteria in each paper. A bench of Justice Sanjay Kumar Dwivedi asked the commission to prepare a fresh merit list and finalise the selection in accordance with the law, within eight weeks from the date of receipt/production of a copy of its order. The high court also directed the commission to recommend the same to the Jharkhand government within four weeks and directed the State to issue appointment letters in favour of the successful candidates based upon the fresh merit list forthwith. The high court passed the order on a plea filed by student leader Umesh Prasad. The court observed that the merit list prepared by the JPSC was illegal as marks of Paper-I were added and clause 13 of the advertisement on minimum qualifying marks in each paper has not been followed. The sixth JPSC exam was held in 2016 (during the tenure of the Raghubar Das-led BJP government) to fill up 325 positions. The final result was declared in April 2020. The final hearing in the case started in February this year. According to reports, 18 pleas were filed seeking cancellation of the exam results. The petitioners had alleged a number of irregularities like computing of marks and assigning wrong cadres to those in the reserved category. The petitioners had alleged that marks were tampered with. The court had ordered the commission to secure the answer scripts of all those who appeared in the mains exam. The court had also directed the commission to share the details of successful candidates with the petitioners so that they can also be made a party to the case. The JPSC will now release a fresh merit list based on new scores for the candidates who appeared in the final examination. Only those who get minimum marks in five other papers should be declared pass according to the high court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi boy gets invited to address Global Ingenious Youth Forum 2021 on the opening day||Aiwan Abhay Minz, a nine-year-old boy from Ranchi, had got a letter from Rome that invited him to address the Global Ingenious Youth Forum 2021 on the opening day. The meet, organised jointly by the Global Indigenous Youth Caucus, the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations and the Indigenous Champions of the UN Food Systems Summit, will be held virtually from June 16 to 18 this year. Believing that the ingenious youths may learn from the rich traditional knowledge and the skills of innovation and adaptability from their respective communities, the organisers want them to share their views at the forum so that those are reflected in the UN food system policies “to ensure the spirit of living no one behind”. “Ingenious peoples’ food systems are considered some of the most sustainable in the world,” the organisers said in their letter to Aiwan, adding the youths are the future who can make important contributions towards sustainability. The indigenous youths, with their understanding of cosmogonies, beliefs, culture, heritage, livelihood and territories that are so fundamental to their identities, hold the ability to combine innovations and modern technologies with traditional practices that may play a key role in the fight for food security and zero hunger, they further explained. “I’ll speak on the traditional system of preservation of seeds and chemical-free farming that is done in our villages,” Aiwan, a Class IV student at St Xavier’s School in Ranchi, replied when asked what he would speak, adding the system was now being promoted as “inorganic farming”. But how did he know about the system? “We are very attached to our roots and often visit our ancestral village in Gumla district where he gets to see all these,” said his father Abhay Sagar Minz who teaches anthropology at Dr SP Mukherjee University in Ranchi. He added his son is inquisitive, asks a lot of questions and also learns fast. “I’ll begin my five-minute talk with a small part of our Sarna prayer,” Aiwan informed, explaining that would be a prayer to the ancestors to be present with him when he would narrate the system that the departed souls had innovated and practised. Aneesh Shreshtra, a representative of a youth organisation of Nepal who had seen Aiwan earlier, had recommended his name that was accepted in Rome, his parents informed. When asked if Aiwan would miss visiting Rome as it would be a virtual meet, he said: “Yes, but I had gone abroad before.” He added he had gone to the US, Switzerland, Philippines, Thailand and Nepal with his parents. “We took him along when we had to attend conferences and it was on one such occasion Aneesh saw him and was impressed,” informed the boy’s mother, Meenakshi Munda, who is the president of the Asia Pacific Indigenous Youth Network, headquartered in Philippines. “A Filipino friend had suggested we named him as Aiwan that means ‘fearless’ in one of the tribal languages of that country,” his mother explained, when asked how their son got such an unusual name.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Hemant takes to twitter to showcase Jharkhand's resolve in providing free vaccines||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has opted for the social media to showcase the state government’s resolve to provide free vaccines to the above 18 years age group and also prove BJP-led Centre’s callousness to the financial constraints faced by the states in providing free vaccines to beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group. “The state government is committed to provide free vaccines to all Jharkandis. We have sanctioned a budget of Rs 250 crore till now for providing free vaccines to the age group of 18-44 years, out of which Rs 47 crore has already been paid to the private companies manufacturing Covishield and Covaxin,” Soren tweeted in Hindi on his official twitter handle @JharkhandCMO on Monday morning. The tweet further stated, “Out of the total of 6.21 lakh vaccines received by the state for the age group of 18-44 years, 5.21 lakh has already been administered. This has been done for your service from money derived from your tax payment….” “The tweet was done to show transparency in the vaccine administration and also show to the masses of the state and also to the country the step motherly treatment meted out to Jharkhand by the Centre in Covid management. “Similar tweets would be given as and when vaccines procurement happens for the 18-44 age group by the state on its own. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister has not even bothered to reply to the CM letter so far,” said JMM central general secretary and party spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharya. Incidentally, Soren who is heading the JMM-led UPA government in Jharkhand had written to the Prime Minister on May 31 evening stating that the Centre’s decision to mandate the state government to procure Covid-19 vaccines is against the ‘principles of cooperative federalism’ and urged to give free vaccines to the state to tackle the pandemic. The letter had also mentioned that the financial burden for the state to cover 1.57 crore beneficiaries (in the age group of 18-44 years) is likely to be around Rs 1,100 crore and will hit the financial situation of a state like Jharkhand which is already stressed in the Covid pandemic. The letter had  objected to the different prices for states by pointing that the rates specified by the Central government for procurement of vaccines by the state for the age cohort of 18-44 years was significantly higher than the rates at which vaccine is being procured by the Central government for beneficiaries in the age cohort of 45 years and above and this dichotomy will not stand the scrutiny of reasonable classification under the fundamental principles of the Constitution of India. The ruling JMM termed the Prime Minister announcement of free Covid vaccines to the states for inoculation of all above the age of 18 from June 21 as an act out of compulsion following the Supreme Court observations and pressure from other states. “Our chief minister wrote a letter to the PM on May 31 but the PMO did not bother to reply till now to it. The PM was compelled to make this announcement after the Supreme  Court observation on May 31 against the Centre’s vaccination policy as ‘arbitrary and irrational’. In fact, the announcement should have been made on April 19 itself to prevent confusion among states. Our cash strapped state has already paid Rs 47 crore to the private vaccine manufacturing company.  Will the Prime Minister arrange for us to get back the money?,” questioned JMM central general secretary and party’s spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharya, considered close to Hemant. Significantly, the Supreme Court had made a prima facie observation that the Centre’s vaccination policy, which does not provide free vaccination for those in the age-group of 18-44 years, as “arbitrary and irrational”. The observation was made by a bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhatt in the suo motu case on Covid related issues (in re-distribution of essential supplies and services during pandemic). On Sunday, the state registered eight deaths due to Covid taking the total mortality figure to 5,054 while adding a meagre 293 fresh positive cases taking the active case load to 5,686. The state government also asked private and government hospitals to make operational all the equipment given by corporates as part of CSR fund and government within two months and also submit details of such equipment to the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Girl develops app to fund tree-planting in Jharkhand||A mobile application developed by an eight-year-old girl is helping to improve the green cover in Jharkhand. Agrata Tiwary developed the Trilovera app in 2019 through which users can access popular e-commerce websites, daily news, videos and games. The profit gained from the app is used to plant trees. In a span of over a year, the app has led to the planting of over 70 trees across the country with nearly 40 being planted at Patamda block in East Singhbhum district of Jharkhand. Agrata started her education at Sacred Heart Convent in Jamshedpur before shifting to Green Acres Academy in Mumbai (where her parents are based). “The idea to develop this app came during Diwali in 2019 when I saw my family members shopping online and the delivery boys coming on bikes to deliver at home. This made me think that they were contributing in adding carbon to the atmosphere, directly or indirectly. I consulted with my aunts who are software developers and created the app in early 2020 which would use its profit to plant trees and reduce the carbon in the environment,” said Agrata, who is presently at her grandparents’ house in Bistupur, Jamshedpur. Her father Bikrant Tiwary is the CEO of grow-trees.com, a web-enabled cost-effective service for individuals and companies globally to enable the planting of trees. “We named the app Trilovera, taken from the words ‘tree lovers’, and integrated popular e-commerce websites like Flipkart, Amazon, Tata Cliq, ride-hailing apps like Ola and Uber, food delivery apps such as Swiggy and Zomato and others like BookMyShow, MakeMyTrip and Oyo as a single-point solution for users to access the app of their choice. “When they use Trilovera to access these apps, the transactions will help us to plant trees in India at no cost to the user. Trees will be planted from the money received on Google Ads, marketing on the users’ behalf,” added Agrata. Agrata, a Class III student, also took extra coding classes to hone her skills and develop more games and video and integrate them into the app. “There is no such platform in India that cares for the environment by planting a tree free of cost for using an app. There is a website search engine called ecosia.org in Germany, that is planting trees for every search that happens on its portal. In a short span of over an year the Trilovera app has found over 1,600 users and grow-trees.com has helped in selecting sites for the plantation of trees. Since we are from Jamshedpur, we selected Patamda block near the scenic Dimna Dam for the plantation of trees,” said Bikrant. According to Bikrant, the app generates Re 1 per every use of approximately 100 times and it costs nearly Rs 85 to plant a two-feet sapling. According to the biannual India State of Forest Report, 2019, Jharkhand witnessed a marginal increase in itsforest cover by 58.41sqkm from the previous assessment (2017). Praising the initiative of Agrata, Birsa Agricultural University forest scientist S.M.S Quli suggested the government develop a scientific agro-forest model in Jharkhand to increase its green cover. “In Jharkhand farmers face constraints of small land holding and are mostly dependent on rainfall which puts them at high risk in the wake of an uncertain monsoon. This factor makes farmers shift to an alternative form of livelihood like forest products and this leads to a cascading effect of deforestation. The government should develop a scientific agro-forestry model so that farmers do not have to depend on forest resources for livelihood,” said Quli.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
