09-06-2021||Jharkhand||Son of daily wager qualifies for Special Olympics camp||Rahul Kumar Sharma of Giridih, son of a daily wager, has qualified for the national floorball final preparatory camp for the Special Olympics World Winter Games to be held at Kaza, Russia from January 22 to 28 next year. Rahul, along with Jamshedpur-based Sital Sikka, had attended the national preparatory camp in Bilaspur (Himachal Pradesh) in March this year. However, Sital could not make it to the final camp while Rahul made the cut. Ranchi-based floorball coach Abhiranjan Kumar will also attend the final preparatory camp. He had accompanied Rahul and Sital to Bilaspur. The final preparatory camp is scheduled in New Delhi from July 1 to 10, said Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota. "We're happy that Rahul has made it to the final preparatory camp. He (Rahul) is a good player and was expected to make the cut. We were also optimistic about Sikka but he must not have performed well," Sahota, also regional sports advisor (east Zone) of Special Olympics Bharat (SOB), a national organisation which promotes intellectually impaired athletes, said. According to him, performance of athletes will be the key in getting a slot in the Indian floorball squad for the World Winter Games. "Rahul is in good form and is expected to make it to the national squad. The SOB would also organise another camp (after the final one) before the national contingent leaves for Russia in January,” Sahota informed. In a bid to keep Rahul fit before the final preparatory camp, the SOJ has plans to conduct a short training camp in the steel city. "The training camp will be organised if the state government allows the stadiums to reopen. The stadiums are presently shut in view of the pandemic," Sahota said. "We have asked Rahul to work on his fitness at home. A lot will depend on fitness when he participates in the final preparatory camp," Sahota added. Rahul and Abhiranjan will be leaving for New Delhi on June 29. The SOJ has already booked their train tickets. A fair number of special athletes from Jamshedpur have represented the country (in various sports disciplines) at the World Games organised under the banner of Special Olympics International.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
09-06-2021||Jharkhand||Material seized by Bokaro police not uranium, says energy department ||The Department of Atomic Energy has clarified that the material recently recovered by Bokaro police is not uranium. It was stated that the seized material does not cause any radiation-related health hazard to living beings or the environment. Bokaro police had arrested seven individuals with 6 kg of unknown material, recovered from them in three packets. Based on the statement given by the arrested to the police, the material was believed to be uranium. The accused confessed before police that the substance is uranium and they were looking for customers for it. One of the accused, Bappi Da, had received the substance from a resident of Giridih, who is absconding. The material recovered from the accused contains a monogram of uranium and mentioned 'Made in USA' on the packets. The police lodged an FIR against the seven accused under the Atomic Energy Act, considering the substance to be uranium. The samples of seized uranium were taken for investigation by experts of Uranium Corporation of India Limited (UCIL) from Bokaro on Sunday for the test. After getting permission from the court, the Bokaro police handed over the sample to a team of experts. They conducted radiation tests of the seized uranium sample. In the preliminary investigation, they found no radiation like uranium in the said material. In the press release issued by the Department of Atomic Energy, it has been clearly stated that the material seized is not uranium. However, the Department of Atomic Energy has not clarified what that substance is. Pakistan had expressed concern over the recovery of uranium in India and demanded an investigation. Bokaro SP, Chandan Kumar Jha, said “Till now no official communication has come from the Department of Atomic Energy or UCIL in this regard. Until the test report does not come to him, he is not in a position to say anything.” According to police sources, even if the test report of uranium comes negative, police will continue its investigation to find out for what purpose the accused are marketing that substance, branding it as uranium. Any false or true trade related to radioactive material is illegal. At present, the police have planned to take the accused in custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
09-06-2021||Jharkhand||Railway services disrupted for six hours ||Train services were affected for about six hours in South Eastern Railway's Chakradharpur division on Wednesday due to a traffic cum power block between 9 am and 3 pm. The traffic-cum-power block was undertaken for construction of a Limited Height Subway. The subway was constructed replacing an unmanned level crossing between Rajgangpur and Sonakhan of Rourkela-Jharsuguda section under Chakradharpur division of the SER. The six-hour traffic block resulted in cancellation of 68029/68030 Rourkela-Jharsuguda MEMU passenger train. It also resulted in rescheduling of several long distance trains including 08478 Yog Nagari Rishikesh-Puri Special, 03287 Durg-Rajendera Nagar Special and  08311 Sambalpur-Manduadih Special which travels via several stations of Chakradharpur division. Duronto Special to resume journey The South Eastern Railway on Wednesday notified running of Superfast Duronto Special between Howrah and Mumbai CSMT via Tatanagar railway station. As per a schedule released by Garden Reach, the headquarters of SER the 02096 Howrah-Mumbai CSMT Superfast Duronto Special will leave Howrah every Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday with immediate effect from June 11 at 05.45 am and will reach Mumbai CSMT at 08.15 am, the next day. In the opposite direction, 02095 Mumbai CSMT-Howrah Superfast Duronto Special will leave Mumbai CSMT every Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday with immediate effect from June 13 at 5.15 pm and will arrive at Howrah at 8.05 pm, the next day. The train with one first AC, three AC-2 Tier and twelve AC-3 Tier coaches will have stoppages at Tatanagar, Bilaspur, Raipur, Nagpur and Bhusaval stations between the two destinations - Howrah and Mumbai CSMT.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
09-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city crematorium becomes eco-friendly  ||An incinerator became operational from Wednesday at the premises of Subernarekha burning ghaat in Bhuiyadhih. A first of its kind in the state, the incinerator has been installed for disposing of the paraphernalia used for cremation rituals at the burning ghaat. Constructed under the aegis of the civic body Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee, at a cost of Rs 15lakh from the MLA fund, it was inaugurated by Jamshedpur East legislator Sarayu Roy on Wednesday. "Environment in and around the Subernarekha burning ghaat and the adjoining Subernarekha river will be free from the paraphernalia that is brought along a body. Similar incinerators should be set up in other burning ghaats too," said Roy. On an average, a dozen bodies are cremated at the Subernarekha burning ghaat every day. People bring pillows, bed sheets and other household materials used by the deceased during the cremation. Flowers and other household articles are left or thrown away near the cremation ghaat, causing the surroundings to get littered. JNAC city manager Ravi Bharti who was present during the incinerator inauguration program informed that remains generated from the incinerator will be used as compost. "As the things brought along an 'arthi' (funeral bier) happen to be organic materials, the remains of such materials can be used as compost. We will see to it as to how the remains can be used in the best way, " said the city manager while talking to The Telegraph Online. Bharti said this way the incinerator at the burning ghaat will make the environment free of waste and contribute to the agriculture activity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
09-06-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccination drive for differently abled in Dhanbad ||A special Covid vaccination camp for physically and mentally challenged students and other differently abled persons from 18 to 44 year age group was organised on Wednesday at Pehla Kadam, a school for special students at Jagjivan Nagar, by Narayani Charitable Trust. The camp, the first of its kind in the district, was launched on Wednesday morning at around 10 am in the presence of Deputy Development Commissioner, Dasrath Chandra Das and eminent physician, Dr Nirmal Drolia of Patliputra Nursing Home of Dhanbad. District Reproductive and Child Health Officer of Dhanbad, Dr Vikash Kumar Rana who also visited the vaccination site and supervised the special session himself said, “It is first of its kind camp for special students of 18+ category in the district organised today with the Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh’s permission.” “We have plans for organising special camps for other vulnerable sections of society like street vendors, newspaper hawkers, auto drivers, etc at different places of the district as soon as we receive the sufficient doses of vaccines,” further said Rana. “We appreciate the initiative taken by school management led by its founder Anita Agarwal for organising camp during which a large majority of physically and mentally challenged students of the host school besides some special youth of other parts of the district also received vaccination doses,” said Rana. Anita Anarwal said, “Altogether 50 persons, majority of which are our students, got registered for vaccination before the beginning of the camp but the figures rose to 60 as on spot registration of some were also carried out.” Shivam Burnwal ,18, a physically challenged student of the school who arrived at the centre along with his fruit seller father Sanjay Kumar Burnwal and mother Sangita Burnwal, said, “I felt no reaction after taking the vaccine and rather felt quite secure after taking the dose.” “After completing matriculation I am preparing for ITI exams and was concerned how I would go out without taking a vaccine for study related work but felt quite relaxed today,” said Burnwal. Echoing his sentiments, 29-year-old Imran Khan, a physically challenged licensee engineer of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation who also took the Covishield dose in the camp said, “As soon as I came to know about the vaccination camp, I readily contacted Anita ma'am and feeling quite relaxed after taking the vaccine dose appeal to all others to take vaccine as soon as possible.” Shivaji Singh Yadav, a retired officer of BCCL, who also turned up at the school for vaccination of his daughter affected by cerebral palsy, said, “The camp at the school has solved our entire concern for vaccination of our daughter compared with a general vaccination centre as we are getting difficulty to book the slots due to huge rush at the site.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
09-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia artists paint about Covid's pain ||The father son painter duo of Jharia, Bhushan Singh and Gaurav Singh who are running a Covid awareness campaign through wall paintings across the district for a month have now brought to focus the pitiable condition of the common people and the failure of the political leadership to address the core issues . “The latest series of paintings, titled, ‘Black Fungus’ made near the Randhir Verma Chowk outside the civil surgeon’s office are aimed at highlighting the pitiable condition of common people including the lack of quality medical care facilities, lack of livelihood, lack of ration cards, lack of education for their children and even lack of safe drinking water and shelter over their heads,” said Bhushan. “The Covid crisis has bared the tall claims of our politicians and bureaucrats about the lack of focus of the government on the core areas of governance so we have painted about the corrupt practices of these politicians and bureaucrats besides doctors and hospital operators as black fungus in our painting attacking the weak body affected through Covid,” said Bhushan and added the paintings are not against any particular government or political party but rather the handling of crisis by the political leadership of states or centre in the past and present remained the same. “Amidst the pandemic we have come across the news of different private hospitals across the country, including in Dhanbad charging extra money from the people other than the government approved treatment rate for Covid so we painted these corrupt practices and mindsets as black fungus acting to weaken our democratic set up which the founders of nation tried to establish on the ground of equality and justice to all,”said Bhushan. “Had all preparation made in advance after the phase I the magnanimity of crisis during phase II would not have been such and the dead bodies floating in river The Ganges have greatly affected us as an artist so we have started making paintings titled Black Fungus expressing our disgust over the situation for which the policy makers are responsible,” explained Bhushan. A resident of main road Jharia, Bhushan Singh underwent training at Kamal Arts of Calcutta and also made paintings at Mumbai before settling down in Jharia in 1997. Singh earlier during Anna Hazare's agitation on Lokpal bill also made some paintings at Randhir Verma Chowk of Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
09-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand declares total lockdown this weekend till 6am on Monday||The Jharkhand government will enforce a complete lockdown from 4pm on Saturday, June 12 to 6am on Monday, June 14, but essential services will be allowed to operate. The current lockdown, described as health safety week, has also been extended to 6am on June 17 after which several new relaxations would come into force, as per a detailed notification issued by the state IPRD in the evening. As per the notification, all shops will be permitted to open in 23 districts except East Singhbhum from June 17. In East Singbhum, shops selling garments, jewellery, footwear and cosmetics will continue to remain closed. From June 17, shops in all districts will be allowed to function till 4pm against the present closing time of 2pm. Government and private offices will also be able to function till 4pm with one-third staff. Buses will continue to stay off the road, while e-passes will remain in force for inter-district movement. Those coming to Jharkhand will have to undergo mandatory seven-day quarantine, barring a few exceptions, said the notification. Educational institutions will remain closed and all examinations conducted by different agencies of the state government will remain postponed. “Following today’s meeting under the aegis of chief minister Hemant Sorenji related to further course of health safety week, we have now decided to go for complete lockdown from 4pm on Saturday to 6am on Monday to break the chain of Covid-19 transmission. Only essential services will be allowed to operate in this period,” said the health minister Banna Gupta. He stressed that East Singhbhum (Jamshedpur) remains the only district which is a cause of concern for the state government. “Covid cases are fluctuating there and the declining trend is still not sustainable. Hence, we have decided to keep the existing rules of health safety week intact there, but for the remaining 23 districts, the upcoming relaxations will be applicable,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
09-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs 603 fresh Covid cases, 13 casualties in a day||East Singhbhum accounted for more than half of the 603 fresh cases of Covid-19 reported in Jharkhand on Tuesday, while the active caseload in the district also increased as only 134 patients recovered from the infection there against 348 people found infected on the day, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. The gap between fresh cases of infection and Covid recoveries also narrowed on the day as the state reported 803 recoveries against the 600-odd cases. In the past one week, Jharkhand reported at least twice as many recoveries as fresh cases every day on an average, while none of the districts reported a spike of more than 50 in the past three days. As many as 13 Covid patients died in the state on the day and at least five of them breathed their last in East Singhbhum, taking the Covid toll in the district to 1027 and that in Jharkhand to 5073, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As many as 814 people in East Singhbhum were battling the infection by the end of Tuesday. Barring East Singhbhum, no other district reported a triple-digit-spike on Tuesday in Jharkhand. While 29 people were found infected in Ranchi, as many as 30 cases were reported in Dhanbad. However, recoveries outnumbered fresh cases in both the districts. The active caseload in Ranchi dropped to 1430 as at least 97 patients recovered here. The capital, however, accounted for five casualties on the day, which took the Covid toll here to 1582, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Dhanbad reported 37 recoveries, which brought the active caseload there down to 177. Among other districts, Bokaro reported five cases against 33 recoveries, while Chatra reported nine cases against 26 recoveries. As per government data, as many as 25 people were found infected in Hazaribag and 23 patients recovered there. Lohardaga reported 16 cases against 39 recoveries. Even during the recently concluded Intensive Public Health Survey (IPHS) conducted in rural Jharkhand, East Singhbhum accounted for the highest number of Covid cases among the 24 districts in the state. During the survey, at least 108 people were found infected in the district, while 107 were found infected in Ranchi. As many as 981 people were found infected by Coronavirus during the survey across rural Jharkhand. So far, Ranchi has reported 84,850 Covid cases while East Singhbhum accounts for 50,943 cases. Ranchi has also accounted for the highest number of casualties in totality, but East Singhbhum has reported a sudden spike in cases as well as fatalities lately, health officials said. The growth rate of infection in the state was 0.14 per cent against the national average of 0.28 per cent on Tuesday, while the recovery rate in Jharkhand jumped to 97.02 per cent against the national average of 94.30 per cent. The Covid mortality rate in the state remained 1.48 per cent against the national average of 1.20 per cent. The state on Tuesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 48,368 residents and almost 30,000 of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab was administered to 5796 beneficiaries, mostly commoners above the age of 45 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
09-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Depressed CRPF jawan shot dead his colleague before shooting himself, says police||A CRPF jawan who was depressed shot dead his colleague before shooting himself at a Covid-19 isolation centre in Simaria block in Chatra district of Jharkhand, police said on Tuesday. The deceased have been identified as constable Kalu Ram Gurjar of Rajasthan and cook Ravindra Kumar Singh of Haryana, both of the 190 CRPF battalion. Sources said the incident took place at around 12.30pm during lunch. “The jawans in their 30s were in the same room. Prima facie it appears that Kalu Ram Gurjar tried to end his life using his SLR. When Ravindra Kumar Singh attempted to thwart his bid, Gurjar fired at him and then shot himself dead. Gurjar, who had rejoined recently after leave, was facing some family issues and was mentally depressed and had posted about it on Facebook. However, we are probing the case for more details,” said Chatra superintendent of police Rishabh Jha, who ruled out work-related pressure as the motive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
