10-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town civic workers protest over pending dues||More than 650 workers of Dhanbad’s oldest civic body, Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority, held a meeting on Thursday and decided to serve a notice to the Managing Director warning of a series of protests against non-payment of salaries of over 45 months. The delayed payment problem arose in JMADA around a decade ago due to loss of different sources of revenue through tonnage cess, royalty cess, stamp duty, sanitation tax etc withdrawn as per the different acts of government brought in phase wise manner. The two-hour meeting was held at Jamadoba based water treatment plant under the chairmanship of Md Aslam, in-charge of Putki based water supply network, discussed issues like inadequate revenue collection in terms of water supply charges and holding charges etc. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Aslam said, “Despite the fact that a fund worth Rs 38crore was provided by the state government, there is no initiative with regard to payment of pending salaries of over 45 months.” “Recently the pending salaries for 26 months of JMADA officers have been cleared but the common workers including the machine and pump operators working at water supply installations at Jamadoba, Tilatand, Putki, Topchanchi and Chhatabad as well as sanitation workers are being deprived of their pending salaries without any reason,” said another JMADA employee Tulsi Mahto present at the meeting. “Not only pending salaries but the lack of other development work carried out by civic body, like pipeline laying, maintenance of existing water supply network by carrying out repair of the non functional motors etc further questions the apathetic attitude of the JMADA administration as funds worth Rs 21 crore received as Bazar fee for development work is also lying unutilised,” said Surendra Halkhor, a worker at the water supply division of JMADA. “Though, we are not going to stop the water supply as part of our protest over the pending salaries or other issues but we will serve a notice to the JMADA administration seeking reasons for their nonchalant attitude and warning them to mend their ways in order to solve all issues otherwise we will be forced to carry out phase wise agitation,” said Halkhor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
10-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand government cancels state board exams||The Jharkhand government on Thursday announced cancellation of this year's matric and intermediate exams conducted by the Jharkhand Academic Council in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Chief minister Hemant Soren made the announcement on Twitter saying, "Considering the Covid-19 situation and based on the demands from students, teachers and parents, we have decided to cancel matric and intermediate exams for safety of students." The exams were originally slated to be held from May 4 but JAC postponed it in April following the government's directive. Over seven lakh students are due to appear in JAC’s matric and intermediate exam, which was originally scheduled to take place from May 4 across 2200 centres. However, due to the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19 in April, the JAC announced postponement of the exams till further orders stating that it will take a call after reviewing the situation on June 1. Ajay Rai, president of Jharkhand Abhibhavak Sangh hailed the decision. He said, "We have been demanding for cancellation of exams since long as covid situation is still not over. We appreciate the state government's decision."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
10-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand counters vaccine wastage numbers, points to data update lag||Jharkhand is said to have recorded the maximum wastage of Covid-19 vaccines at 33.95 per cent, according to Union government data, a claim that the Hemant Soren government vehemently denied on Thursday, saying the figures were wrong since real-time data was yet to be updated on the Co-WIN portal. "The reports are untrue. It's a matter about data reconciliation," said health department’s IEC nodal in-charge Siddharth Tiwary. He was reacting to Thursday’s PTI report from New Delhi that cited government records to say that while Kerala and West Bengal recorded negative wastage of vaccines, Jharkhand topped the list of states on vaccine wastage. The report said that Kerala reported -6.37 per cent and West Bengal recorded -5.48 per cent vaccine wastage. Chhattisgarh reported 15.79 per cent vaccine wastage while Madhya Pradesh reported 7.35 per cent, the report said. The national average of vaccine wastage is around 6.3 per cent. A Jharkhand health department official said as on June 9, the state’s wastage stood at 3.6 per cent. Sharing details of the wastage, he said, “Till now, Jharkhand has been allocated 56,72,450 vaccine doses of which 47,29,484 have been used. As of June 9, we had 7,66,680 vaccine doses available with all districts. The number of utilised doses may have reduced by now as today’s (Thursday) data is yet to arrive from all the districts.” He added that some Jharkhand districts had reported negative wastage. “For example, Jamtara has negative wastage of 17 per cent, Koderma -33 per cent, Ramgarh - 4.2 and Chatra - 3.8. The state has been using vaccines judiciously. In reality, Jharkhand is among the top states with less wastage,” he said. A state vaccination cell official admitted that jab numbers had not been updated. “Figures on the Co-WIN portal have not been rectified yet. We are looking into it,” he said. Jharkhand officials said a similar “misrepresentation” by the Centre occurred in the last week of May when data released by the Centre’s Press Information Bureau (PIB) claimed in an official communication that there was 37.3 per cent vaccine wastage in Jharkhand. At the time, both chief minister Hemant Soren and state health minister Banna Gupta had issued strong rebuttals. The chief minister’s office said the actual wastage was at 4.65 per cent, lesser than the national average. “As per total vaccine doses availability with Govt on Jharkhand till today (May 26), the current vaccine wastage proportion is only 4.65%. Vaccination data could not be fully updated to the central Co-Win Server/ Platform due to technical difficulties/glitches & the updation is in process," CM had tweeted. The Congress, a member of the ruling JMM-led alliance government, criticised the Centre for “defaming” Jharkhand. “The latest media report is baseless. It is an attempt to defame Jharkhand. Last time too, such an attempt was made but after the state government countered with facts and the claim was taken back. In reality, our vaccine coverage and wastage is better than the national average,” a senior leader said on Thursday. Thursday’s PTI report said states like Punjab, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra registered 7.08 per cent, 3.95 per cent, 3.91 per cent, 3.78 and 3.63 per cent and 3.59 per cent vaccine wastage respectively. The data showed that a total of 790.6 lakh vaccines were supplied to states and UTs in May out of which total vaccinations were 610.6 lakh while 658.6 lakh shots were utilised and the closing balance was 212.7 lakh. The vaccination in May was less as compared to April in which a total of 898.7 lakh vaccinations were done, 902.2 lakh vaccines were utilised and the closing balance was 80.8 lakh. India's first dose coverage of the 45-plus population till June 7 was pegged at 38 per cent with Tripura's coverage being 92 per cent, Rajasthan and Chattisgarh 65 per cent each, Gujarat 53 per cent, Kerala 51 per cent and Delhi 49 per cent. Tamil Nadu's first dose coverage of the 45-plus population is at a low of 19 per cent, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh at 24 per cent each and Bihar at 25 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
10-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to host women's football camps||The All India Football Federation is once again looking at Jharkhand for hosting women's team national preparatory camps for the FIFA Under-17 World Cup and AFC Asian Cup, to be held in the country next year. The national football body is believed to have initiated talks with the state government in this regard. The dates of the camps will be finalised once the state government gives its nod. The under-17 preparatory camp was scheduled in Jharkhand in October last year but was postponed due to the pandemic. Later the AIFF, along with the under-17 camp, also included one for the AFC Asian Cup earlier this year, which also met the same fate for similar reasons. Ranchi will be the preferable venue for the camps and Jamshedpur could also be in the reckoning. "The AIFF is in talks with the state government regarding the programme for the camps, which could be lined up sometime in August. The Covid should wane out in Jharkhand by that time. But things would only make headway if the Covid-related situation actually improves," an official at Jharkhand Football Association said on condition of anonymity. The AIFF will organise the camps after approval from the ministry of youth affairs and sports. But, before getting the approval, the national body wants to do the spade work by holding talks with the Jharkhand government. JFA president Nazm Ansari confirmed the development. “The AIFF has initiated talks with the Jharkhand government. The camp was scheduled earlier this year but could not be conducted owing to the pandemic," he added. The AIFF will first get the campers vaccinated before conducting the camps. Chief minister Hemant Soren was very keen to host the camps in Jharkhand when it was supposed to be held earlier this year. The expenses of the camps would be borne by the state  government while AIFF and JFA would be extending technical support. The camo would be conducted under the supervision of Sports Authority of India (eastern centre). Eight footballers from Jharkhand are on the list of probables for the under-17 World Cup. The Indian senior women's team had gone for exposure trips to Turkey and Uzbekistan earlier this year. They played five international friendlies following which their preparation for the Asian Cup was stalled by the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
10-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand focus on fire safety at Covid hospitals across state ||The Jharkhand government has directed district administrationsof the state to share details of action taken to ensure fire safety at Covid hospitals. A letter addressed by National Health Mission (NHM) Director to all the deputy commissioners stated that the districts should submit details regarding the measures taken for monthly fire safety audit of all Covid hospitals, appointment of nodal officers for fire safety at each  and ensuring fire safety NOC for the hospitals. A detailed report on the compliance of fire safety norms in Covid hospitals will be shared by the districts with the health department in a virtual meeting scheduled on Saturday, officials said. “As per the apex court’s directive, all Covid hospitals will have to appoint a nodal officer for fire safety and conduct fire safety audit every month to avoid any lapses in future,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer for health department’s information, education and communication (IEC) wing. “The districts will have to share compliance reports in a meeting on June 12,” he added. The Supreme Court in December last year had directed all states to conduct fire safety audits of Covid hospitals and ensure that all such facilities get fire safety NOCs from the concerned fire department within a month. Several fire incidents have caused death of patients in many Covid hospitals across India in the past couple of months, according to media reports. Sources at the health department said that Covid facilities were prone to fire breakouts due to “overburden” on hospitals running with limited resources. At least 24 fire incidents at hospitals have killed around 93 people, mostly Covid patients, since the Covid-19 pandemic hit India last year, highlight media reports. Most of the fires were reported from Maharashtra and Gujarat, leading to suo motu cognizance taken by the high courts of the two states. However, no major fire incident at Covid hospitals have been reported in Jharkhand since March 2020, when the deadly virus made its entry in the state, officials said. As per government records, at least 15 hospitals in the state were running full-fledged Covid care facilities with ventilators and ICUs. Officials said that hospitals with ventilator facilities were more prone to fire incidents due to short circuits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
10-06-2021||Jharkhand||13-year-old drowns at Central govt housing site||The body of a 13-year-old boy was found floating in a trench dug for residential flats under Prime Minister Awaas Yojana at Birsanagar on Thursday morning. The body was recovered by police and was later identified as that of Vishnu Raha, son of Biplab Raha, a resident of adjoining Arjun Nagar. Vishnu was one of Raha’s five children. He was a Class VI student at a government-run school. Filled with rain water, the trench is situated in the middle of the PMAY site at Zone No B-2 of Birsanagar, about 500 metres away from Arjun Nagar. In a statement to the police, Raha told the police that his son had stepped out of his house at about 11 am on Wednesday, stating that he was going to take a bath in the trench along with his two friends. But as Vishnu did not return home by evening, Raha and his family members started searching for him. On Thursday morning, a local discovered the floating body in the trench and informed the police. The OC of Birsanagar thana, Tarun Kumar said,"The trench in which the tragedy took place was dug for laying the foundation of a multi-storeyed apartment under the PMAY in March this year. But the construction work stopped in the past three months due to some litigation. Recently, there was a spell of heavy showers here, causing the trench to get filled up in rain water, leading people from the adjoining slums to go to the trench for taking bath." The body has been sent to MGM medical college for post mortem and an investigation has been launched in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
10-06-2021||Jharkhand||With monsoon at its door, Jharkhand braces for heavy rain ||India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast heavy rain in several parts of Jharkhand from Saturday, June 12, indicating an early onset of the monsoon season in the state. Weathermen said a cyclonic circulation over  northwest Bay of Bengal extending upto the mid-tropospheric levels is likely to intensify into a low-pressure system during the next 24 hours. " his would result in heavy rain in most parts of Jharkhand for three days between Saturday and Monday," said a duty officer at Ranchi Meteorological Centre. IMD officials also hinted at early onset of southwest monsoon in Jharkhand. "The low-pressure system would assist in early onset of monsoon in Jharkhand. Earlier, we were expecting monsoon's arrival in Jharkhand around June 15. But, the low- pressure system would make conditions favourable for the onset of monsoon in the next two to three days," said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Met Centre. A bulletin issued by IMD-New Delhi suggests that as of Thursday ( June 10), the southwest monsoon has further advanced into some more parts of south Gujarat, remaining parts of Maharashtra, Telangana,  Andhra Pradesh, some parts of south Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh,  southern Odisha, remaining parts of central Bay of Bengal and most parts of North Bay of Bengal. Conditions are favourable for further advancement of southwest monsoon into some of the remaining parts of Chhattisgarh and Odisha, entire West Bengal and Jharkhand and some parts of Bihar and east Uttar Pradesh  during the next 48-hours. Ahead of the monsoon onset, most Jharkhand districts are likely to experience fairly widespread thunderstorm, lightning, accompanied by dense clouds, in the next two days. Pre-monsoon showers began in several places since Wednesday. Met data indicated rain at a few places durring the past 24 hours. Kurdeg in Simdega recorded 73.4 mm rain while Jamtara recorded 64 mm of rain. Several other places, including Ranchi, Ramgarh, Jamshedpur, Hazaribagh, Koderma and Latehar, also witnessed rain during the past 24 hours. IMD's Patna Met Centre also issued an alert of lightning and thundershowers in Jharkhand for the next 48 hours. It warned residents not to venture out during rains and  not take shelter under trees in case of lightning .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
10-06-2021||Jharkhand||Wedding planners seek allowance for labourers ||Coal town wedding planners are planning to submit a petition to the Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner demanding provision of free food grains until the next wedding season for labourers working in the sector, as majority of them are deprived of ration cards. The state government has made no announcements on relaxation in restrictions during wedding events. More than 80 thousand labourers working with different wedding planners, including generator operators, electricians, dishwashers, servers and band party members have been facing extreme financial crises since the lockdown commenced. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, President of Dhanbad Zila Decorator Association,  Pradeep Kumar Singh said,“We had a bumper lagan (marriage) season from March to July 2021 during which over 20 thousand marriages were scheduled but is seems that the entire season was washed out as 90 per cent marriages were cancelled and the rest 10 per cent were held with restrictions.” “As per the government diktat, the marriages are not to be organised in marriage halls and or hotels and rather to be held at home with a maximum presence of 11 persons, there is no scope for any tent laying or banquet and rather light decoration, floral decoration and cooking for feast is also being carried out by family members itself, leaving no scope for us,” said Singh. Echoing Singh’s sentiments, Dwarika Tiwari, another caterer and also the former General Secretary of Dhanbad Zila Decorator Association said, “ Majority of 80 thousand workers engaged with over 1200 wedding planners of Dhanbad depend on the seasonal income of marriages and were hopeful of clearing the debts taken during last year’s complete lockdown and with no income this season they are now facing extreme penury.” “As the lagan season was quite long this summer of over five months many of us were expecting the situation to improve during the last leg of July with gradual improvement in the pandemic situation and some of the marriages scheduled from April, May, June were also rescheduled in July anticipating some improvement,” said Jadav Dutta, a well known caterer of Jharia and added with the continuation of restrictions even during the unlock-2 the last ray of hope has turned into despair. Biru Thakur, a labourer working with a caterer of Jharia during marriage functions said, “I used to earn enough to manage family expenses with the seasonal work in marriages and at construction sites till 2019 but with the gradual deterioration in the situation I am finding it difficult to manage even the food expense.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
10-06-2021||Jharkhand||Sindri hospital to be revived as Covid facility ||The revival of the 205-bed FCI hospital of Sindri has begun as Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited, establishing a Rs 6500crore fertilizer factory, has agreed to renovate the hospital as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility work at the suggestion of the district administration. Inaugurated in 1952 by the then union health minister Rajkumari Amrit Kaur, the hospital had over 2000 visitors daily as it was the biggest hospital of the coal belt and used to serve as a referral hospital for other hospitals of surrounding areas like Chasnala Hospital of BCCL. The hospital was closed down in March 2003, two months after the closure of the factory on December 31,2002. The district administration has demanded an NOC and a 30-year lease of the hospital from the FCIL administration for its revival. The appointment of doctors and other staff at the hospital will be carried out by the district administration through the District Mineral Foundation Trust (DMFT) fund. Earlier, a joint team of FCI, HURL and district officials carried out a recce of the closed FCI hospital on June 3 and it was concluded that the hospital spread over around 100 acres of land can be developed into a state-of-art Covid hospital. The team further observed that as the ground floor of the hospital is lying in good condition, it can be readily renovated to launch the Covid hospital with separate facilities for male and female patients. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh, who wrote a letter to the state Health Medical Education and Family welfare department in this regard said, “The old OPD section of the hospital can be immediately used following some minor renovation for launching three OPDs for the non Covid patients at the initial stage and diagnostic centre can also be launched at the hospital.” As the administration is working to consolidate its medical infrastructure in preparation for the third phase of Covid and working to increase ICU beds to 300 and establish 50-bed Paediatric ICU in the district, the FCI hospital can prove to be of great help in this regard. “We have requested the unit charge of FCI Sindri, Umesh Chandra Gaur for NOC and 30 year lease of hospital as HURL can launch the renovation work of the hospital through its CSR fund only after getting NOC and lease of hospital,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
10-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Active caseload drops below 5,000 in Jharkhand||The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped below the 5,000-mark in Jharkhand on Wednesday as the state reported twice as many recoveries as fresh cases of infection on the day. Three more deaths took the Covid toll to 5,076, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, 302 people were found infected by coronavirus on Wednesday, while 615 recovered from the infection, bringing the active caseload down to 4,783. The state tested swab samples of over 40,000 residents on the day and the positivity rate was less than 1 per cent. None of the 24 districts in Jharkhand reported a triple-digit-spike in cases on the day. East Singhbhum, as per government data, reported the highest spike of 48 cases, but 61 recoveries brought the active caseload there down to 796. One Covid patient died during treatment in East Singhbhum on Wednesday, taking a Covid toll there to 1028. The remaining two deaths were reported from Bokaro and Pakur on the day. Ranchi, the district which has reported the highest number of Covid deaths in the district so far, did not report fresh casualties on Wednesday. As per NHM data, only 34 residents of the state capital were found infected on the day and 92 Covid patients recovered, bringing the active caseload here down to 1,367. So far, Covid-19 has claimed 1,572 lives in Ranchi. Bokaro reported 11 cases against 38 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 16 cases against 34 recoveries. At least 21 people were found infected in Koderma and 38 patients recovered there. Hazaribag reported 31 cases against 47 recoveries on the day. The growth rate of infection dropped to 0.11 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.26 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state rose to 648.97 days against the national doubling rate of 271.77 days, the NHM stated in its bulletin. The state on Wednesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 48,619 residents and as many as 26,844 of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second dose was administered to 5,956 beneficiaries on the day, mostly people above the age of 45 years. So far, over 3.42 lakh people have been infected by coronavirus in the state and more than 97 per cent of them have recovered. The Covid mortality rate in the state was, however, 1.48 per cent against the national average of 1.20 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
10-06-2021||Jharkhand||Webinar organised on the 121st death anniversary of Birsa Munda||If the Prime Minister can express his Mann Ki Baat, you can also do Apno ko Yaad every Sunday. Election could be conducted at remote booths in the thick of a pandemic, so vaccination camps can also be organised at far-flung areas for protecting the people. Only a free and universal, not insurance-based, healthcare system can help the poor survive.  So, it must be strengthened. Such opinions were expressed by the speakers at a webinar organised on Wednesday, the 121st death anniversary of Birsa Munda, the tribal icon who had died this day in 1900, that had ‘Mahamari aur Tanasahi se jujhta Bharat’ (India battling against pandemic and authoritarianism) as its topic. “We all have recently lost a lot of our near and dear ones due to Covid that spread because the government did not take timely action and their memories will be with us forever,” said Dipankar Bhattacharya, the general secretary of the CPI-ML, that organised the webinar. He added that if the Prime Minister can express his Mann Ki Baat, everybody could do their Apno Ko Yaad (Remembering own ones) every Sunday. At the end of the webinar, over 150 persons who attended it resolved to do Apno koYaad and post its contents on social media every Sunday this month. “If the government could hold the election at booths in remote areas in the thick of a pandemic, it can also organise vaccination camps at such places,” Bhattacharya further opined, demanding registration for vaccination should also be made physically at those camps as rural people are not comfortable with digital recordings. “Instead of giving exact figures, the government says only negligible percentage of our population died of Covid,” he further said, adding even that negligible percentage was a huge number in a populous country like ours. “Still, it was due to the care they received at the government-run facilities like Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi that many poor who had to be hospitalised following Covid-19 infection survived,” Ramesh Sharan, development economist and former vice-chancellor of Vinoba Bhabe University (Hazaribagh), said while speaking at the webinar. They could never afford to go to private hospitals and would die if these government-run hospitals were not there, the professor pointed out, adding such facilities were needed to be improved. The infrastructure at those facilities should be strengthened, manpower increased and new recruits properly trained so that they can treat the community in a better way, he suggested. “A free and universal healthcare system and not an insurance-based one is what the country actually needs,” Sharan said, adding that would involve much less cost compared to private hospitals even if a patient has to make nominal payments for certain services. But these facilities are mostly run by the state governments that are now starved of funds, the economist further pointed out, demanding “the Union government must pay the states their dues on account of GST compensations so that they get some funds to spend on public welfare schemes”. “The pandemic caused huge job loss and the markets are dry as people have no money to spend,” Sharan pointed out, adding the Union government must encourage spending to revive the economy by injecting money into markets, “even by printing notes, if need be”. The webinar was also addressed by about a dozen others, including politicians, activists and social workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
