11-06-2021||Jharkhand||Congress protests fuel price hike across Jharkhand ||The Congress Jharkhand unit staged protests at petrol pumps across the state on Friday against steep rise in prices of petrol, diesel and domestic gas, accusing the BJP of creating another disaster in the form of rising inflation to hurt common people in the country. State party president Rameshwar Oraon took part in the agitation at Bariatu fuel station for two hours while other workers, MPs and MLAs did so in different places holding banners and posters criticising the Narendra Modi government. Oraon said that the steep rise in fuel prices is directly proportional to inflation in other sectors, mainly essential items. “When was the last time one heard about the fall in prices of petrol and LPG gas? Rise in fuel prices lead to increase in transportation cost, which further ups the prices of all commodities. At a time when people are battling job losses, salary cuts due to the covid-19 pandemic, prices of all items are only going upward. The BJP government in the Centre is responsible for this price mayhem. The party demands rollback of the price hikes,” said Oraon. The protests were held for over two hours from noon. Party spokesperson Alok Dubey accused BJP of creating one after another disaster in the country. “Price hikes are a disaster. The Modi government hasn’t just proved to be a disaster in tackling covid-19 pandemic owing to its shoddy policies, but it has also succeeded in creating another disaster named inflation. Days are not far when aam-admi will hit the streets against the price hikes,” he said. At present, petrol and diesel prices in Ranchi are Rs 92.08 and 91.58 respectively. Citing the intensity of fuel price hikes, Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo, another senior party worker, added, “Between May 4 to June 9, fuel prices have been increased 21 times. Since January 2021 so far, prices have been hiked 47 times. Ironically, all the hikes are taking place when global crude oil prices have fallen. This clearly indicates the poor economic management of the Modi government, whose only agenda is to loot commoners through various taxes and inflation to fill coffers of their corporate friends,” he alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
11-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad youth wins state under-14 chess festival||Ishant Kumar of Dhanbad claimed the state under-14 championship, part of the online chess festival. Ishant Kumar and Adhiraj Mitra of East Singhbhum scored 5.5 points each (out of 7 games) and tied for the top honour. However, Ishant was declared winner on better tie-break. Both made it to the Jharkhand squad for the National Under-14 Open Chess Championship to be played on digital platforms from June 16. In the under-14 competition for girls, there was a four-way tie between Aditi Raj (Ranchi), Dyuti Chakraborty, Saara Jain and Dishita Dey (all from East Singhbhum) with four points each. Aditi and Dyuti had a better tie-break and got through for the virtual national meet which begins on June 19. Apart from selected players, others who fulfill the participation criteria, are also allowed to participate in the nationals as a special entry by paying Rs 2500 to All India Chess Federation (AICF) directly by registering online through Federation's website: www.aicf.in. Entry closing day for the open nationals is till 5 pm of June 12 (for boys) and till 5 pm of June 15 (for girls). Adhiraj, the youngest international Fide-rated chess player in Jharkhand, and Kriti Kumari of East Singhbhum had emerged champions in the state under-18 championship played earlier. Shashwata Paul and Aditi claimed the top slots in the event for the under-16 age group. The chess festival organised by All Jharkhand Chess Association (AJCA) for under-12 and under-10 age groups is underway. State chess outfit secretary Neeraj Kumar Mishra said the chess festival gave much-needed opportunity to the players to tune -up for the nationals. "Offline events are out of the scene due to the pandemic and the virtual events were the only way out to keep our players engaged in competitions," Mishra, an International Master, added. The players representing Jharkhand in the nationals are expected to perform well, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
11-06-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Motors gives ambulances to Gujarat||Automobile major Tata Motors Limited on Friday supplied 25 Tata Winger ambulances to the health department of Gujarat, as part of the larger order of 115 ambulances. The official vehicle induction ceremony, which was held in Gandhinagar, was attended by various dignitaries from the Gujarat state cabinet including deputy chief minister of Gujarat, Nitin Patel . The 25 Tata Winger ambulances are equipped with basic life support and will be deployed for the aid of patients at Gandhinagar and other cities of Gujarat. Tata Motors won the bid for the order under the Government e-Marketplace and the vehicles are designed for patient transport as per AIS 125 Part 1 (a national ambulance code  recommended by the Central Motor Vehicles Rules -CMVR). Tata Motors will phase-wise supply the remaining 90 ambulances, as per the contract. Vinay Pathak, vice- president, Product Line, SCV, Tata Motors, said, “The Tata Winger ambulance is designed keeping in focus the needs of the patient and the healthcare system. The Winger ambulance has proven to be a trusted partner to healthcare organisations and has saved countless lives as a result of its ergonomic, efficient design and performance. Tata Motors’ thorough understanding of customer requirements for different applications and ability to design the vehicle basis these requirements is what sets the brand apart from its competitors. Tata Motors is firmly committed to bringing top-notch healthcare mobility solutions to hospitals and healthcare facilities in the country and support the governments in their fight against this pandemic.” The Tata Motors Winger ambulance is designed and can be adapted to cater to all types of patient transportation, including Basic Life Support and Advanced Life Support range. The ambulances are made especially for Covid-19 patients  with a driver partition. A company spokesperson said with monocoque chassis in addition to the independent suspension, the ambulances offer a smooth and comfortable driving experience apart from ensuring swift transportation of patients. Tata Motors offers the most comprehensive range of ambulances -- Magic Express Ambulance, Winger Ambulance and LP410 Ambulance which has double stretcher facility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
11-06-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant promises fair probe in death of woman cop ||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren, who has already ordered a judicial probe into the alleged death by suicide of Sahebganj women police station in-charge Rupa Tirkey last month, assured her family members on Friday that the inquiry will be fair and impartial. A delegation comprising Tirkey's mother, Padmavati Oraon, father Devanand Tirkey and MLA Bandhu Tirkey among others called on Hemant during the day showing dissatisfaction in the probe so far and stating that they suspected 'murder' of Tirkey and not suicide. The chief minister said that the Jharkhand government has constituted a one-member inquiry commission to investigate the case of unnatural death and justice would be ensured at all cost. Those found guilty will not be spared, Hemant said. On June 8, the state government had issued a notification with regard to forming a judicial probe team under section-3 of the Commission of Inquiry Act. The commission was formed at the instance of the chief minister. A police sub inspector of the 2018 batch, Tirkey had allegedly died by suicide in early May at her government residence in Sahebganj. Retired former Chief Justice of Jharkhand High Court Vinod Kumar Gupta has been given the responsibility of the probe and has been asked to submit the report within six months. The commission will look into all the matters related to the alleged suicide by Tirkey. The opposition BJP in the state had been demanding a CBI probe into the matter. On Monday, Jharkhand Governor Draupadi Murmu had summoned Director General of Police, Jharkhand, Neeraj Sinha to take the details including probe undergoing in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
11-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town's historic water body to get a makeover||The foundation stone for the comprehensive beatification project of the historic Raja Talab of Jharia was laid on Friday by Jharia MLA Purnima Singh in presence of Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh and others. Developed in late 1920 by the erstwhile king of Jharia estate, Late Durga Prasad Singh, the pond served to be the centre of all religious activities of the district be it Navpatrika Snan Puja ahead of Durga Puja or immersion of idols after Durga puja and offering of Arghya during Chhath Puja. The administration’s negligence led to encroachment of the pond’s ghats by residents who constructed houses. The dumping of garbage and sewage into the pond turned into one of the dirtiest ponds of the state during the recent years. A survey of different water bodies of Dhanbad conducted in 2007 by the Environment Engineering department of IIT (ISM) revealed that the water of Raja Talab had turned alkaline and its pH value rose to 8.4 and Cations and Anions are also beyond the permissible limit of WHO. The project, divided into two phases, including  first phase worth Rs 2crore as per which bouldering, gravelling and pitching of pond bank besides staircase construction, plantation, concrete recliners laying for seating arrangement, boundary wall construction on the three sides of the pond situated over 8.64 acres will be carried out by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. “The pond beautification assumes great significance for Jharia from both ecological and environmental point of view besides historical point of view as the pond is like a heritage for the town,” said Purnima Singh. Divulging more details, she said, “The beautification work will be carried out in two phases, during the phase 1 of which work will be carried out only on three sides of the pond which are encroachment free and thus there is no dispute.” “ Once the people like the work carried out in phase 1, we are sure that they will themselves support for the second phase of work during which beautification will be carried out by clearing some encroachments,” said the Jharia MLA. “The bouldering and pitching work besides the staircase development on the ghat carried out as part of phase I of the work will be of great help to thousands of women who perform puja and offer Arghya to Sun God during Chhath festival,” said Singh. When asked about the failures of several earlier attempts to carry out beautification of the pond, Singh said, “We are hopeful that the work this time will be carried out as per the plan and responsibility for monitoring the successful completion of the project on time lies with the common people of Jharia.” “We will also carry out regular monitoring of the execution of the project as I am also the chairman of district development coordination and monitoring committee,” said Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
11-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand vaccine wastage 2.68%, final figure likely to be lower||Jharkhand's vaccine wastage percentage stands at 2.68 as of Thursday night, state health department announced on Friday in the light of  disparities with numbers issued by the Union ministry of health, but clarified that the final percentage was likely to be lower once all data was uploaded on the Co-WIN portal. "We received 57,15,600 vaccine doses for 18 plus and 45 plus age groups of which 47,32,426 were used. The balance is about 8,30,630 doses. Considering these figures, the wastage is 2.68 per cent. The calculations are based on the updated figures till the night of June 10. The wastage figure is still tentative because the process of updating data on the Co-WIN portal is still on. We are hoping that the wastage percentage will come down  more,” state health department’s IEC wing’s nodal officer Siddharth Tirpathi told the media on Friday. He said the Union health ministry had now authorised the state government to update data on the Co-WIN portal too. “Earlier, the data had to be sent to the Union government which in turn used to update it. However, we have now been allowed to make corrections from our end directly on the portal. As a result, even districts can update data from their end,” he said, adding that the mismatch of state and central data over vaccine usage and wastage was due to delay in updating data and typing errors. “At the ground level, many data entry operators aren’t tech savvy. Also, typing errors often take place while updating data. For example, in case of 11.20, if someone updates 11,20 or 112.0, it changes the whole thing. But such errors can be easily rectified from our end immediately,” he explained. On Thursday, a Jharkhand health department official had said that as on June 9, the state’s vaccine wastage stood at 3.6 per cent, but clarified that data reconciliation was still on while countering Union government data that claimed Jharkhand had recorded the highest wastage percentage at 33.95 per . "The reports are untrue. It's a matter about data reconciliation," said Tiwary while reacting to Thursday’s PTI report from New Delhi that cited government records to say that while Kerala and West Bengal recorded negative wastage of vaccines, Jharkhand topped the list of states on vaccine wastage. The report also said that Kerala reported -6.37 per cent and West Bengal recorded -5.48 per cent vaccine wastage. Chhattisgarh reported 15.79 per cent vaccine wastage while Madhya Pradesh reported 7.35 per cent, the report said. The national average of vaccine wastage is around 6.3 per cent. A Jharkhand health department official also noted that some Jharkhand districts had reported negative wastage too. “For example, Jamtara has negative wastage of 17 per cent, Koderma -33 per cent, Ramgarh - 4.2 and Chatra - 3.8. The state has been using vaccines judiciously. In reality, Jharkhand is among the top states with less wastage,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
11-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to set up 24x7 rapid test booths at transit points||Jharkhand government has decided to set up 24x7 rapid antigen testing booths at all major transit points in the state to scan every incoming visitor, deciding not to take any chances even though daily Covid cases and fatalities have shown a downward trend, On Friday, health department officials said the idea was to continue to check every visitor to ensure early detection and tracking of suspected cases to prevent another spread of the virus. While inter and intra- district buses servies have been stopped as part of the state's ongoing partial lockdown, operation of trains and flight services has continued uninterrupted. But with state government gradually heading towards wasing more restrictions on public movement, all transit points will start seeing footfall again. Hence the decision to maintain 24x7 vigil across transit points, explained officials and indicated that the decicion was based on apprehensions of a third wave later this year. Additional chief secretary of the state health department Arun Kumar Singh had written to all deputy commissioners on Thursday, directing them to make necessary arrangements to set up the booths. “While Covid-19 cases are dipping, it is imperative that everyone follows the principles of 'test, track, isolate, treat and vaccinate' to tackle the pandemic. Several experts are also predicting a possible third wave. Therefore, all districts are directed to set up permanent rapid antigen testing (RAT) booths at all railway stations, airport, and bus stands,” he said. Singh suggested the testing booths must work round-the-clock. “All districts must deploy sufficient number of testing staff per booth on eight-hour shifts to ensue 24x7 testing activities,” he said, directing local police to provide security at the sample collection venues. Since the outbreak of the second wave in the last week of March, cases soared to dangerous levels in Jharkhand. As per the health department’s data, 1,09,210 people were found to be infected with the coronavirus in April this year and 1,557 died. In May, the total infection count was 1,04,363 with 2,321 deaths. Currently, there are around 4,514 active cases as per Thursday's night bulletin. The state’s positivity rate stands at 3.83%.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
11-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Active caseload drops below 4,500 in the state||While the active caseload of Covid-19 dropped close to 4500 in Jharkhand on Thursday, at least five more Covid casualties took the toll in the state to 5081, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 293 people were found infected by novel coronavirus in the state on Thursday, while 557 Covid patients recovered, bringing the active caseload down to 4514. Barring East Singhbhum, which reported a spike of 67 cases, none of the remaining 23 districts reported a spike of more than 50 on the day. However, recoveries outnumbered fresh cases in East Singhbhum as well and the active caseload there dropped to 770, the NHM stated in its bulletin. The district reported 92 Covid recoveries and one Covid death on the day. At least 68 Covid recoveries against 30 fresh cases of infection brought the active caseload in Ranchi further down to 1329. One patient died during treatment in the capital, taking the toll here to 1579. Despite recoveries outnumbering fresh cases of infection every day in Ranchi, the district still accounted for more than 30 per cent of the active cases in the state. The state tested swab samples of 44,591 residents on Thursday and around 0.5 per cent of them were found infected. Jharkhand has been reported a positivity rate of less than 1 per cent in the past one week, health officials said, indicating that the second wave of the pandemic was on the decline in the tribal state. Among other districts, Bokaro reported a spike of 10 cases against nine recoveries, while Chatra reported 22 cases and zero recoveries on Thursday. At least 17 people were found infected in Dhanbad while 55 patients recovered there. Dhanbad, West Singhbhum, East Singhbhum, Ranchi and Pakur reported one Covid death each on the day. Hazaribag reported 22 cases against 38 recoveries, while 15 people were found infected in Gumla and 41 patients recovered there. Barring Ranchi, the active caseload was below 1000 in all the remaining 23 districts in Jharkhand. The growth rate of Covid-19 also dropped to 0.10 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.24 per cent on Thursday, while the doubling rate in the state reached 700.50 days against the national doubling rate of 287.58 days, highlighted government data. As per NHM data, over 3.42 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in the state so far and 97.20 per cent of them have recovered. However, the Covid mortality rate in the state was 1.48 per cent, which is higher than the national average of 1.20 per cent. The state on Thursday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to as many as 61,957 residents, including 45,441 in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab was administered to 3944 beneficiaries on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
11-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand prepares manual for third wave||Two doctors turned IAS officers have prepared a manual of operational guidelines to prepare for the possible third wave of Covid-19 making Jharkhand the first state to come up with such a document. The 257-page document titled, “Manual for Preparation, Prevention and Planning for Covid-19 Third Wave in Jharkhand, the Way Forward”, has been prepared by an empowered committee led by Dr Shantanu Agrahari as the chairperson and Dr Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh as the vice-chairperson. It was released by chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday. Dr Agrahari completed his MBBS from the Sarojini Naidu Medical College (Agra, Uttar Pradesh) in 2008 before working as a junior resident doctor in a Delhi-based hospital for two years. He cracked the UPSC exam in 2012. Dr Singh did his MBBS from Al-Ameen Medical College (Bijapur, Karnataka) in 2007 and worked between 2010 and 2012 at Max Super Specialty Hospital in Delhi before passing the UPSC exam in 2012. The empowered committee was constituted in mid-May and the report was tabled by the end of that month after consultations with experts not only from the country but also from Singapore and London. “The document will be strategically used for conventional preventive and treatment strategies to increase immunity against Covid-19. These guidelines could help reduce the severity of the viral infection in children with special focus on the nutritional needs to boost the immune system,” said Dr Agrahari. “The manual is intended for health system administrators, health workers and other decision-makers to guide them in the care of Covid-19 patients as the response capacity of health systems is challenged, to ensure that Covid patients can access life-saving treatment without compromising public health objectives and safety of health workers. We are happy to be the pioneer among states in making the manual,” said Dr Singh. The manual points at district-wise estimation of cases and bed requirements based on various epidemiological models during the third wave, guiding principles of management of pediatric population, guidelines for child-friendly wards (play area, pediatric emergency unit, high dependency units, pediatric intensive care units, requirements for intubation procedure and emergency drugs required in HDU). It also delves on a training plan for pediatric Covid management, equipment planning and procurement, nutrition and dietary guidelines for infants and children with Covid, psychological support and grief counselling, disinfection protocols and telemedicine. It also points out guidelines for multi-system inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) and suggests for PICU at every district hospital and bigger PICU (20-bed) at commissionary headquarters with facilities of ventilator therapy, high-flow nasal canula, and continuous, positive airways pressure therapy, training of human resources (doctors, nurses and healthcare workers), awareness programme among parents, general masses and caregivers, availability of special medicines with plans for timely identification of danger signs and referral and availability of well-equipped ambulance with nurse and doctor. It also proposes upgrade of malnutrition treatment centres into pediatric high dependency unit (PHDU) and fixes role of civil surgeons in ensuring all facilities at the health centre. On Tuesday, Jharkhand registered 13 deaths due to Covid-19 taking the total casualties to 5,073 and recorded fresh 603 cases taking the active caseload to 5,099. Health department nodal officer Siddharth Tripathy said that following a direction from the Union health ministry, the state will administer the second dose of Covishield vaccine before the prescribed time interval (after 28 days but before 84 days) to persons intending to undertake international travel for education or employment and for India’s contingent to the Tokyo Olympics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
11-06-2021||Jharkhand||Army buys farmer's watermelon harvest after he offers it for free||Unable to sell his watermelon harvest due to the Coronavirus-induced lockdown, a 25-year-old Jharkhand farmer offered five tonnes of his produce to soldiers of the Sikh Regimental Centre at Ramgarh, who in turn, bought it at the market price. Touched by the gesture of Ranjan Kumar Mahto, a Ranchi University graduate who chose farming as a profession, SRC officers including Commandant Brigadier M. Sri Kumar visited his farm in adjoining Bokaro district and bought the produce. The soldiers and their family members visited the 25- acre farm at Kander with gifts, groceries and food packets for farm labourers and took the 5-tonne produce in their own vehicles to SRC, located 15km away. "It was heartening to see drip irrigation on 25 acres of land but unfortunately, the poor farmer could not sell the produce. We saw women workers too. "We came to know that he had launched the venture two years ago but suffered losses due to the COVID-19 pandemic and cyclone Yaas," Brigadier Kumar, also the president of the Ramgarh Cantonment Board, told PTI. Mahto had decided to make agriculture his profession after failing to get a job. He took the 25-acre land on lease at an annual rent of Rs 5,000 per acre and undertook watermelon cultivation on six acres with an investment of Rs 15 lakh. A majority of his total 120-tonne watermelon harvest is still in the fields waiting for buyers. "There were no buyers during the lockdown. The crop started to rot. Nobody in the village was ready to buy it even for Rs 2 per kg. We sought help from various circles but to no avail. "Finally, I decided to offer the produce to our brave soldiers for free and approached the cantonment," he told PTI. Mahto has employed around 40 women labourers and also planted capsicum, brinjal and other vegetables. Jharkhand leads in the cultivation of watermelon, tomatoes, peas, beans, cabbage, okra and cauliflower.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
