12-06-2021||Jharkhand||Monsoon arrives early in Jharkhand, makes quite a splash||The southwest monsoon arrived in  Jharkhand on Saturday, three days earlier than schedule. IMD's Ranchi and Patna Met Centres issued special bulletins on. Saturday afternoon confirming the entry of southwest monsoon in Jharkhand from northeastern part of the state. Weathermen at the Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta  said  the monsoon currents had reached Bengal on Friday and that it advanced into Jharkhand on Saturday. As per the new dates worked out by IMD since last year, the normal monsoon arrival date for Jharkhand has been revised from June 10 to June 15. Accordingly, the monsoon has arrived three days earlier in Jharkhand. Last year (2020), the onset of monsoon in Jharkhand was declared on June 13, two days earlier than schedule. "The southwest monsoon has set in over Jharkhand. It entered the state through the north east and covered several districts including Sahebganj, Pakur, Godda, Dumka, Deoghar, Jamtara, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Ramgarh, Ranchi, Khunti, East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Seraikela- Kharsawan and some parts of Gumla, Hazaribagh and Giridih. The complete onset over the state is expected in another 24 hours as conditions are favourable," said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) was on Saturday passing through Surat, Nandurbar , Raisen, Pendra Road, Bolangir, Bhubaneswar, Baripada, Purulia, Dhanbad and Dharbhanga. A bulletin issued by IMD - New Delhi said conditions are favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into some more parts of Madhya Pradesh, remaining parts of Chhattisgarh, Odisha, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar and some parts of east Uttar Pradesh during next 24 hours. Weathermen said the low-pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining coastal areas of West Bengal and north Odisha would impact Jharkhand's weather and result in heavy rain in isolated areas in the next three to four days. An associated cyclonic circulation was also  extending upto mid-tropospheric level which would assist in rainfall activity. The Ranchi Met Centre issued an alert for heavy rain in southern, central and north-eastern districts of Jharkhand in the next few days due to an active monsoon coupled with the low-pressure area. The forecast suggested rain in most parts of the state in the next two days.Also, moderate thunderstorm with lightning associated with the onset of monsoon is very likely to happen over several districts of Jharkhand during next two to three days. Weathermen advised people to keep a watch on the weather and protect themselves from lightning strikes. Data suggests Hazaribagh recorded the highest rainfall of 65mm in the last 24 hours (8.30am on Friday to 8.30 am on Saturday) followed by capital Ranchi which notched 51 mm  rain. Several other districts, including Ramgarh, Koderma, Godda, Jamtara, Bokaro, Dhanbad and East Singhbhum, experienced moderate rain in past 24 hours. Met statistics revealed that in  2019, the southwest monsoon reached Jharkhand on June 21, after a delay of 11 days. In 2018, the southwest monsoon had reached the Kerala coast three days early on May 29 but it reached Jharkhand on June 25, after a delay of 15 days, as the monsoon currents were weak. In 2017 and in 2016, it was delayed by six days. After its complete onset, the monsoon normally stretches till the first week of October and the average rainfall in Jharkhand during this period is around 1,100mm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
12-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city stadium crumbling, athletes fear injuries||The Mohan Ahuja Stadium’s condition in Bistupur has worsened due to the row between Tata Steel and Jharkhand Badminton Association over the lease of the venue. The stadium, located near Keenan Stadium in Bistupur, has never witnessed any major repairs since it was set up in the 1960s. Though the whole interior portion of the stadium is in a poor shape, the ceiling over the three main wooden courts is posing a serious threat. The ceiling is leaking and water seepage could further weaken the already weakened roof. The JBA had ensured patchwork on the damaged portions of the ceiling three years back, but that too had started peeling, putting a serious question mark over the health of the stadium which has hosted some top-bracket shuttlers, including Prakash Padukone and Saina Nehwal. JBA secretary K.Prabhakar Rao said they were aware about the condition of the ceiling. "The condition of the ceiling is in very poor shape. It needs immediate repair otherwise it would pose a big risk. We are very worried," he admitted. Prabhakar, joint secretary of Badminton Association of India, said condition of the entire stadium was bad and immediate repair was the need of the hour. It is blessing in disguise since the stadium is shut owing to Covid-19 pandemic otherwise lives of aspiring shuttlers and those playing for fitness purpose would have been under threat. The JBA is facing a cash crunch and it would not be possible for it to spend Rs 20-25lakh for the repair of the ceiling as well as other portions of the stadium that also need immediate attention. The tin roof over the practice courts has gaping holes and water gets accumulated on courts when it rains heavily. The plasters on side walls are also peeling, painting a poor picture of the stadium. The origin of the whole problem is the legal tussle between Tata Steel and JBA, which is still sub-judice. Tata Steel, which owns the stadium, had in September 2014 asked JBA to vacate it. But the JBA filed a title suit against Tata Steel at the local court with the plea that the venue had been leased out to it till December 2017. In 2018, Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Ltd (erstwhile Jusco) disconnected electricity supply to the stadium for pending dues amounting to over Rs 50 lakh. The JBA filed a case against the company for illegally disconnecting power supply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
12-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad mukhiya in Covid awareness drive through paintings||A young mukhiya of tribal dominated Dumdumi Panchayat of Topchanchi block, about 30 km away from the district headquarters is creating Covid awareness and dispelling misinformation through his wall paintings. Vikash Mahto, 32, a former student union leader of Guru Nanak College, Dhanbad was elected as the youngest mukhiya of the district at the age of 26 in 2015 from Dumdumi Panchayat after completing his graduation and working incessantly creating awareness about various welfare and development schemes through innovative ways. Talking to The Telegraph Online Mahto said,“We also created similar awareness during the first phase of pandemic  last year, apprising people about the do’s and don’ts regarding Covid by carrying out wall paintings.“ “During the second phase we began the awareness drive ever since the beginning of vaccination drive in the district on January 16 through door to contact but later decided to extend the awareness through wall paintings about a month ago,” said Mahto and added that the young artist of his panchayat, Mahendra Kumar is helping him in making wall paintings as he is not a skilled painter itself. “We chose such places in the panchayat for making wall paintings or carrying out wall writings  where the majority of people visit like panchayat buildings, government school buildings, aanganbadi centres and PDS shops” said Singh. “While some of the paintings and wall writings are meant to dispel the  misinformation about vaccinations and apprising them about the benefits of early vaccinations, in others important toll free numbers and control room number like the district control room number for Covid, toll free for vaccination, control room number for vaccination in rural areas, control room number for After event following immunization etc are mentioned” said Mahto. “In one of the wall writings we have also mentioned the names of common medicines being used during the pandemic period and prescribed doses to be taken as part of Covid awareness,” further added Mahto. “In villages, people due to lack of information, try to conceal their ailments due to lack of information so the toll free helps them to clear the their doubts,” said Mahto and added that in some of the wall painting they highlighted the significance of observing covid protocols like sporting masks and maintaining social distance. “So far it seems that the awareness has had some impact as no person in our Panchayat has been affected due to Covid” said Mahto and added that ever since his student days he used wall paintings for creating awareness. “I also created awareness in the village about environmental conservation through wall painting besides the government schemes like beti bachao beti padhao, campaign against female foeticide etc” elaborated Mahto. Mahendra Prasad Mahto, a villager of Dumdumi Panchayat who operates a Customer Service Point in the village said, “Yes indeed the wall paintings have served the purpose of creating awareness about Vaccination in our village.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
12-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand conducting confirmatory RT PCR tests on symptomatic rural residents||The Jharkhand government has started conducting confirmatory RT PCR tests on the  over 2 lakh rural residents who tested negative for Covid-19 in rapid tests conducted during the 10-day Intensive Public Health Survey (IPHS) from May 25 to June 5, health officials said on Saturday. The confirmatory tests, officials said, was necessary as all the residents who underwent Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) during the survey showed symptoms of Covid-19. As per survey data, of the over 2.63 crore people surveyed during IPHS, at least 2,08,556 showed symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) or Influenza Like Illness (ILA). All the 2 lakh-odd residents with SARI and ILA symptoms underwent rapid tests during the survey, but only 981 of them were found infected by novel coronavirus – a finding that showed unusually low prevalence of Covid-19 in the Jharkhand hinterland. The low positivity rate among such individuals, officials said, could be attributed to the lower efficacy of rapid tests. “We will conduct confirmatory RT PCR tests of all  rural residents who tested negative in rapid tests during the survey. The process has already begun in the panchayats, but we are yet to get data on the confirmatory tests conducted so far,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing. Tripathi admitted that the government decided to conduct rapid tests instead of RT PCR during the survey as the former gave quicker results and the health infrastructure in rural Jharkhand was not strong enough to conduct large scale RT PCR tests on the go. RAT is also done with nasal and throat swab, but it takes only one hour to show Covid test results. On the other hand, results of  RT PCR tests take at least 48 hours. As per data compiled by the health department, the positivity rate in Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) was less than 1 per cent in Jharkhand, while that in RT PCR was 2.3 per cent. The positivity rate in TrueNat test was highest at 7 per cent. “RT PCR tests and TrueNat certainly showed higher positivity rate and will be used for confirmation in symptomatic people who have tested negative in rapid tests,” said Naman Priyesh Lakra, the nodal officer for Covid testing in Jharkhand. The Covid positivity rate during the IPHS was only 0.47 per cent, which was lower than the cumulative positivity rate of over 3.5 per cent in Jharkhand, officials said. During the survey, it was also found that 16,668 of those surveyed showed symptoms of tuberculosis, while 1,17,622 suffered from diabetes. As per the survey data, at least 1,19,026 rural residents suffered from hypertension. As many as 25,869 deaths were reported in rural Jharkhand from April 1 to May 31, the survey findings revealed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
12-06-2021||Jharkhand||BJP youth leader caught in drug smuggling racket||A Chatra police team on Saturday arrested nine brown sugar smugglers including a member of the state executive committee of the BJP's youth wing. The team, formed by Chatra superintendent of police, Rishav Kumar Jha, acted on a tip off and recovered 296 gram of brown sugar, a car, a bike, 8 mobile phones and Rs 7.74lakh from their possession. According to sources, Jha received information that one Dheeraj Kumar residing near Kesri Chowk was carrying brown sugar to supply to its customer. The police team caught Dheeraj with 2.10 gram of brown sugar. Dheeraj, during interrogation, named one Amit Gupta as his supplier. Police conducted a raid at Dheeraj's house but he was not found there. The team traced his mobile number and found out that he was coming to town from Hazaribagh in his SUV. A trap was laid and Amit was caught near Heru River on Chatra-Chouparan road on Thursday night. Other than Amit, police caught Himanshu Kumar, the BJP leader, Anurag Kumar and Chandan Kumar also from the SUV. Police team found 3.20 gram of brown sugar and Rs 7.74lakh in cash. Amit said he was purchasing brown sugar from Nawal Dangi and Prem Dangi of Giddhore. Police made Amit call the duo demanding more brown sugar. Amit was taken to Giddhor and as Nawal and Prem came to Giddhore Chowk to supply the consignment of brown sugar, they were also arrested. After raids carried out at the duo's home, police found 32gram of brown sugar. When Prem and Nawal were interrogated, they revealed the name of Roshan also known as Bhagirath Dangi of Tetaria village under Pathalgadda block as the supplier. Police immediately raided Roshan's house where 10 gram of brown sugar was found. Jha said Amit, Roshan and Prem also named one Abhishek Thakur as supplier who was nabbed from Bakchunba village under Rajpur police station with 240 gram brown sugar. Jha said from May 1 2020 to June 10, 2021, police have recovered 572kg of opium, around 2.5kg of brown sugar and more than nine quintals of marijuana from smugglers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
12-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: 2 Dhanbad students get highest pay packages||Dhanbad: Two students of the five year Integrated B Tech and M Tech (computer science engineering) course of IIT (ISM) have received the highest pay packages till date, from Bloomberg during two separate off-campus drive. While one of the students has received a package of Rs 90lakh per annum another one has received a package of Rs 81lakh per annum. Confirming the development, Pankaj Jain Vice Chairman of Career and Development Cell of IIT (ISM) said, “Yes two of our students have received good packages during the off campus drive but we can’t disclose the names of the students as per All IIT placement committee.” “These are the highest pay packages received by any of our students,” said Jain and added that altogether 675 students of institute belonging to different courses right from B Tech, M Tech, five years BTech and M Tech dual degree programme, MSc Tech, MBA, M Sc and other courses have been  placed. “The off campus placement of both the students took placement during two separate sessions,” said Jain. Notably, seven Computer Science Engineering students of the institute were offered a package of Rs 54.57 lakh about a week ago. Besides the placement offers to 675 students 91 students have also received the pre placement offer while 308 others have received the internship offers during present of placement session of 2020-21. In 2020, altogether 995 students got placed out of which 699 recieved on campus placement, 154 recived off campus placement while 154 recieved higher studies offer. In 2019, on the other hand altogether 643 students received jobs through campus selection including 594 B Tech students, 27 M Tech students and 22 B Tech and M Tech dual degree programme students. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: A 50-year-old farmer, Bhagwan Sao of Purnadih Village in Tundi block of Dhanbad about 40 km from district headquarters, killed his wife, Mala Devi by attacking her with an axe before hanging himself with a rope in connection with family dispute. The incident came to light this morning when family members of the deceased including the younger son of the deceased couple, Kishan Sao spotted thebodies of his parents and informed the other member of the family and locality who in turn informed the police. A team of Tundi Police station led by officer in charge, Santosh Singh which reached at the site took details from the family members and neighbours of deceased, collected some samples from site and then sent both the dead bodies for post-mortem at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital of Dhanbad. Members of the locality in village said that the couple often used to quarrel with each other on different issues and they had also a fight over some acrimonious issue last night. Notably, the two elder sons of the deceased couple, including, Karan Sao (21) and Bharat Sao (19) used to live in rented accommodation at Dhanbad town, away from their ancestral place at Tundi and eke out their living by working as tipper driver while the younger son Karan Sao (17) used to stay with the parents at ancestral place. Officer in charge of Tundi Police station, Santosh Kumar Singh said,“Though prima facie it seems to be case of murder in connection with family dispute but the exact cause is being ascertained by interacting with the family members of deceased, their close relatives and other members of the locality.” (Praduman Choubey) Daltonganj: The Tana Bhagat community, staunch followers of the Gandhian principle that abhors any invasive treatment, have agreed to take the Covid vaccine said sources. The Tana Bhagats have great distaste for medicines and rely mostly on the herb roots and tubers. DC Shashi Ranjan said, “We were too concerned about their vaccination. We were determined to give them their first dose.” The vaccination site was set up at the state upgraded middle school at Pokharia. A final tally of Tana Bhagats vaccinated will be available past 7 on Friday evening. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
12-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Doorstep vaccination for Tana Bhagats||Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta on Thursday directed the additional chief secretary (health) Arun Kumar Singh to arrange for vaccination camp at the places of residence of Tana Bhagats across the state. Significantly, Tana Bhagats (over 21,000) are tribal and ardent followers of Gandhian philosophy and guided by their motto of simple living and gather around and worship the Indian Tricolour each Thursday. The Tana Bhagats are strictly vegetarians and teetotallers and eat only home-cooked food. “It is fortunate that not a single Tana Bhagats has been infected with Covid both during the first and second wave and it may be due to their high standards of cleanliness and hygiene. The health department will identify the Tana Bhagats and arrange for their vaccination on camp mode either by establishing vaccination camp near to their places of residence or through mobile vans,” said Banna Gupta. Significantly, on Wednesday, Jharkhand added three more deaths due to Covid taking the total mortality figure to 5076 and added 302 more positive cases taking the active caseload to 4,783. Acting on the directive of the Supreme Court order, state health department has directed all Covid hospitals to have fire safety audits. “All district civil surgeons have been asked to ensure that all Covid hospitals have one nodal officer for fire safety, conduct of monthly fire safety audit and obtain no objection certificate from competent fire safety authorities. “All the district civil surgeons will have to provide details about fire safety measures in place at Covid hospitals on June 12 during a review meeting to be held at Ranchi,” said state health department nodal officer Siddharth Tripathy. Meanwhile, state surveillance officer Dr Rakesh Dayal was appointed nodal officer for monitoring of oxygen concentrators provided under PM Care fund for installation at health centres in Jharkhand. Nodal officers were also appointed for biomedical equipment management and maintenance program. The state health department also issued a circular citing the Union health ministry directive on rate fixation of vaccines for private hospitals. “Private hospitals can charge a maximum of Rs 780 for Covishield vaccines and Rs 1410 for Covaxin vaccines as per the directive of Union health ministry,” said Siddharth Tripathy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
