13-06-2021||Jharkhand||Four electrocuted while bathing at Pipla village  ||One woman and three children were electrocuted as an 11 KV power line fell on a check-dam at Pipla village under MGM thana area about 20km away from here on Sunday afternoon. The incident occurred at about 1.30 pm when the victims were taking a bath in the water body over which the high-tension line passed. Villagers rushed the four of them to MGM Medical College Hospital where they were declared brought dead at the medical college hospital. The four victims were identified as Phulon Devi Mahto (45), Vimal Mahto (8), Kamal Mahto (10) and Rohit Mahto (12), all residents of Pipla village. Vimal and Kamal were brothers. Soon after the incident, agitated villagers set up a blockade on the adjoining NH-33 in protest against the callousness of Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Ltd (JBVNL), the discom that supplies electricity in that area. A police party from the MGM thana area reached the spot followed by City SP, Subhash Chandra Jat and Jamshedpur MP Bidyut Baran Mahto for inspection of the scene of mishap. Those setting up the blockade were demanding the administration to produce senior officials of the JBVNL so as to take them to task. The protestors were also demanding Rs 10 lakhs to the members of each of the bereaved families. "I had urged the JBVNL officials concerned to mend the worn out power line at Pipla village, but nothing was done by the discom. Ultimately the tragedy took place, "said the Jamshedpur MP to The Telegraph Online. The blockade was lifted in an hour after the city SP convinced the protestors that the administration would initiate a probe and also assured of compensation. "A case of unnatural death will be registered in connection with the four electrocution deaths, but an internal probe should also be carried out so as to find out whether the electricity department was at fault or not, " said the city SP while talking to The Telegraph Online. He said the internal probe can be done following the decision of the deputy commissioner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
13-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to conduct survey of Covid victim families to plan welfare schemes  ||The Jharkhand government will conduct a survey of social and economic conditions of families of those who died due to Covid-19 during the second wave of the pandemic in a bid to plan welfare schemes, officials said on Sunday. In a letter addressed to  deputy commissioners of all  24 districts in the state, health secretary Arun Kumar Singh directed them to prepare a special team for surveying  families of 3,983 residents who died of Covid-19 from March 15 to June 9. During the survey, the teams will interact with the kin of Covid victims and seek details about the members in the family of the diseased, their source of income, health condition of the family members and other information that will help the government extend support to the needy, many of whom have lost their sole bread-earners, health officials said. “Since the people who are going to be surveyed have lost their near and dear ones, it is expected that the surveyors maintain sensitivity during the process,” the letter from the health secretary stated. The districts have been asked to complete the survey and submit  findings to the health department by June 25. The health secretary’s letter stated that the districts may take help of District Level Surveillance Officers of the World Health Organisation (WHO) in conducting the survey. The second wave of Covid-19 claimed at least twice as many lives in Jharkhand as the first wave. According to officials spearheading Jharkhand’s fight against the pandemic, several people belonging to  marginalized sections of society lost family members during the second wave. During the survey,  district level teams will also find out if the families of those who died of the lethal infection have ration cards, ayushman cards, Aadhar cards and other documents that would help the government identify such families which have lost their bread earners but do not have access to welfare schemes of the government, officials said. “The survey findings will help the government plan welfare schemes for the rehabilitation and uplift of the families that have lost their members to Covid-19,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing. As per the recently concluded Integrated Public Health Survey (IPHS) conducted by the state government, over 2,500 rural residents died in Jharkhand from April 1 to May 31. The figure included Covid victims as well as those who died of other causes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
13-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city observes total lockdown along with rest of the state ||Streets wore a deserted look as all shops, including those selling fruits, vegetables, grocery items, sweets and other eatables,  remained closed and public transport was unavailable in the steel city that observed a  complete lockdown along with the rest of the state on Sunday. The shutdown,  which was implemented from 4 pm of Saturday,  will remain in force till 6 am, Monday. Lockdown restrictions were not  applicable for medical emergencies and those going to vaccination centres. Check-points were activated in Sakchi, Bistupur and other places. Cops were deployed at strategic locations and in all important thoroughfares to prevent movement of people. Several auto-rickshaw drivers and owners of private vehicles had to end up paying fines of Rs 500 in Sakchi, Bistupur, Mango, Sonari and other places for defying lockdown orders. Those possessing e-passes for inter- district travel were allowed to go. A team of East Singhbhum district officials also went around rural blocks of Baharagora and Chakulia to enforce the lockdown. "The complete lockdown was a success both in the rural and urban areas of the district,"said N.K Lal, ADM (law and order). Notably, the state government has extended Covid-related lockdown- restrictions till June 17. E-passes will be mandatory for inter-state and inter-district movement in private vehicles but for movement within the district, no e-passes will be required||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
13-06-2021||Jharkhand||Virtual hygiene classes for coal town students||As the nation is gearing up to wage a fight against an anticipated third wave of Covid-19 , a total of 45 students of classes II to VII of Indian School of Learning, Jharia, was given an online class on hygiene and cleanliness with special focus on the correct of washing of hands on Sunday . The hour-long programme was conducted from 11 am to 12 noon in association with Japan International Cooperation Agency India as part of its Achhi Aadat was also aimed at generating awareness about other aspects of health and hygiene like use of nail clippers for nail hygiene, innovative way of water usage. During the interactive session, the participating students were shown a Japanese animation film translated to Hindi and English. Tapas Kumar, one of the two teachers present during the session said,“The children took keen interest in the session and asked questions to the JICA representative Vini Sharma.” “The significance of the drive is more at a time when the focus is on children's safety in view of their vulnerability during phase III of pandemic,” said Kumar. Birendra Kumar Rawani, Physical Education teacher of the school who was also present during the session said, “Though, we generally inculcate a lot of good habits among the students as part of the regular training in the school but during the session the specificities of general activities were so lucidly explained that it aroused the interest of the students.” Roshani Keshri, a student of Class VII who took part in session, said, “When we were informed by the school authorities about the online session on health and hygiene we presumed that it might be a general session or may be a bit boring but after attending the hour long session, we felt quite exhilarated as we learnt a lot of new things about the common activities like handwashing in very interesting manner.” Vini Sharma during her online interaction with the students said, “In the time of Covid-19, providing attention to personal hygiene is critical to keep good health.” “Hygiene practices will reduce the likelihood of other viral infections, not only Covid 19,” said Sharma. “We believe that good hygiene practices becomes a lifelong habit not only to protect oneself but also protect the loved ones, ”further said Sharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
13-06-2021||Jharkhand||Railways take preventive measures for monsoon||The South Eastern Railway has adopted various measures with a view to ensure safety of passengers and maintain disruption free services during the monsoon season. All the four divisions of South Eastern Railway including Chakradharpur and Ranchi have undertaken different safety related maintenance works to minimise the effects of heavy rainfall on train service during the monsoon months of June to September. Officials at SER's Calcutta-based headquarters said railway engineers and other staff are taking necessary measures to tackle any flood like situation near railway tracks for maintaining smooth train operation. "Track maintenance work is being given top most priority and special patrolling of railway track has been planned during the monsoon season for safe train operation. Close watch is being kept on railway bridges and points and signals are under constant monitoring to prevent flooding due to heavy rain, "said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. He went on to say that with a view to prevent water logging on tracks, obstructions like silt, vegetation etc. has been cleared from catch water and side drains. Patrolling and watchmen teams have been planned for deployment at vulnerable points to adopt remedial measures if there is accumulation of water on railway track. According to Ghosh, probable spots where water logging may take place have been identified for early action in case there is heavy rain. Pumps have been installed for prompt drainage of excess water. During the four monsoon months special patrolling will be arranged especially in vulnerable locations round the clock. "The bridges and tunnels are always kept on watch. To tackle any emergency situation in the event of heavy rain, sufficient quantities of reserve materials viz. boulders, sand, cinder, quarry dust, ballast etc. have been kept in stock. The engineering relief vans alongwith equipment have been kept ready at strategic points, "he explained. Apart from this South Eastern Railway is also in constant touch with IMD offices in Jharkhand and Bengal for weather updates and if any adverse weather condition is reported, preparations will be made accordingly for mobilising men and materials to tackle the situation. The IMD has declared the onset of monsoon in Jharkhand, Bengal and other neighbouring states. The Met department has also issued an alert of heavy rain in Jharkhand and Bihar in the next few days due to an active monsoon coupled with a low pressure originating from the Bay of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
13-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town residents demand reopening of road||More than 2 lakh residents of Jamadoba, Bhaga, Phusbunglow, Dungri, Bhowra, Sudamdih and Kalimela have demanded the immediate reopening of the Phusbunglow Jamadoba road, lying closed for three months due to the construction of railway over bridge. The traffic from Phusbunglow Jamadoba road is being diverted through Shashikant Pandey Chowk of Bhaga. The construction is part of a Rs 21.24crore project, which was to be completed in two years, however is suspended since April 10 due to delay in shifting of water supply pipeline of civic body JMADA, underneath the railway crossing. Kishore Kumar, a resident of Phusbunglow in Dhanbad said, “Large number of employees of BCCL and Tata Steel, besides daily wage earners, patients visiting to Tata Central Hospital of Jamadoba, students of schools and colleges are greatly affected due to suspension of work of the overbridge construction and resultant suspension of traffic on road.” “Though, ray of hope again generated for the resumption of over bridge construction work following a joint inspection by senior officers of JMADA and South Eastern Railway Authorities around April 12 during which JMADA, authorities assured to shift the 100 meter pipeline within two months but neither the shifting work could begin till date nor over bridge construction work resumed,” said Kumar who is also general secretary district unit of Congress. Bhola Singh, a BCCL employee and a resident of Bhusbunglow said,“Earlier, we used to reach our work site at Bhowra in less than half an hour through the Phusbunglow Jamadoba road but the now due to suspension of traffic on road it takes an hour.” Contacted, Indresh Shukla, Executive Engineer and Technical member of JMADA, said, “Earlier we were facing some difficulty in producing some pipeline parts required for shifting work but now the parts have arrived we will begin the shifting work of pipeline within a week after the completion of which the over bridge construction work may resume.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
13-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs zero Covid deaths for the first time since second wave||Jharkhand reported zero Covid casualties in a day for the first time on Saturday since the second wave of the pandemic hit the tribal state earlier this year, data compiled by the health department revealed. The active caseload also dropped below 4,000 as the state reported twice as many Covid recoveries as fresh cases of infection. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), 493 patients recovered from the viral infection on Saturday, while 239 people were found infected by novel coronavirus. By the end of Saturday, at least 3,966 Jharkhand residents were battling Covid-19. Barring East Singhbhum, all the districts reported less than 50 cases of infections on the day. At least 51 people were found infected in East Singhbhum while 91 patients recovered there, bringing the active caseload down to 722, the NHM stated in its bulletin. At least 78 recoveries against 27 cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 1,236 – the only district with more than 1,000 active cases of Covid-19. Among other districts, Dhanbad reported 12 cases against 17 recoveries, while Bokaro reported only six cases and 17 recoveries. At least 23 people were found infected in Hazaribag and 46 patients recovered there. The high mortality rate in the state was a cause for concern lately and zero fatalities reported on Saturday came as a major relief, health officials said. So far, as many as 5,082 Jharkhand residents have died of Covid-19 and 1,579 of them were from Ranchi alone. With 1,029 casualties, East Singhbhum accounts for the second highest number of deaths among the 24 districts in the state. The state on Saturday tested swab samples of 43,653 residents and the positivity rate on the day was less than 0.5 per cent. As per government data, over 3.43 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in the state so far and 97.36 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.48 per cent of them have died. The growth rate of Covid cases also dropped to 0.09 per cent in the state against the national average of 0.22 per cent on the day, while the doubling rate in Jharkhand further rose to 796.09 days against the national doubling rate of 314.44 days. The state on Saturday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to as many as 95,730 residents, including 2984 senior citizens and over 50,000 residents in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. As many as 13,113 residents received their second jab on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
13-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: 30 years imprisonment in minor rape case||Bokaro: A special POCSO Court on Friday awarded 30 years of rigorous imprisonment to 26-year-old Biswanath Bhuiya who raped a 12-year-old girl residing in his neighbourhood. The victim is a Class 6 student at a government school. The incident was reported in Women Police Station of Bermo Sub-Division of the district on December 18, 2020. In this case, the court passed the judgment within six months of the FIR registered. Special POCSO-cum-Additional district judge-1, Janardan Singh held the accused guilty under section 6 of POCSO Act (committing aggravated penetrative sexual assault) and awarded 30 years of RI and a fine of Rs 50,000. "The case in this connection was filed by the victim’s father, who is a private worker," said special public prosecutor of Bokaro, S.K. Jha. Jha said, the incident occurred at 2.30 pm in Dhori Forest where the victim had gone to collect firewood along with Bhuiya’s wife. They both were separately picking firewood when Bhuiya came and caught the victim. She resisted, but he overpowered and raped her there. He also threatened to kill her if she told anyone about the incident. SPP said the police acted promptly in the case as the medical test and victim’s statement before the court was completed within two days. “There are 10 witnesses in this case and all of them were examined within a month after the charges on February 22, 2021,” said the SPP. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: A 26-year-old who was going to get married on July 15, died on Saturday after being bitten by a poisonous snake when he was sleeping on the terrace of his house in Dharampur in Tatijharia block. Kameshwar Mahali was taken to a sorcerer but his condition deteriorated. He was later taken to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital but was declared brought dead. Police handed his body to his family after the post mortem. The bride’s relatives who came from Bokaro attended the last rites. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: The Bokaro Steel Plant has launched an extensive tree plantation drive on the vacant land of its township to protect it from encroachment. The two departments of BSL -Environment Control and Township Administration (Horticulture)- are jointly working on it. Inaugurating this campaign, a team of BSL officials led by Director In-charge, Amarendu Prakash planted saplings at 'Smriti Park' located next to the main number 1 gate of BSL Plant on Saturday. The chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, “Senior officers paid tribute to the BSL personnel who died due to Covid-19 by planting saplings at Smriti Park.” The director-in-charge has given a target of planting 2 lakh trees on BSL’s land during this monsoon. For this, both the departments of BSL will identify the land in township and plant saplings. The TA department will also do fencing of that land with barbed wire. Every land that is lying vacant in the township will be filled by saplings. If someone encroaches by removing trees at that place, the BSL management will take necessary legal action against the individual. Sources said that BSL management will also ensure the participation of the general public in this campaign. For this, many places are also being identified for tree plantation in the township and the area. The BSL owns about 34,000 acres of land. The township is spread across 15,000 acres with encroachment on about 2000 acres. Encroachment continues unabated in the BSL township even during the Corona period. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
