14-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city trio support blood donation drive ||Steel city residents Surendra K. Jha and Jayant Kumar Bhuyan on Monday visited Jamshedpur Blood Bank to encourage and congratulate their childhood friend for continuing with the noble gesture for the 94th time on World Blood Donor Day. Both centurion blood donors, they wanted to mark the special day by pumping up the spirit of Shashank Shekhar who too would join their century club in months to come. World Blood Donor Day, first celebrated in 2004, raises awareness to the need for blood donation and to thank blood donors for their voluntary service. While 59-year-old Jha, a resident of Sonari, has donated blood 158 times, Bhuyan, an international chess arbiter who resides in Bhuiyandih, has donated 109 times. Jha breached the 150 mark in May, 2019. "I could not donate blood on Monday since I had given the same months back. One can donate blood four times a year (in every three-month interval). But I feel happy my friend Shashank is continuing with this noble gesture and nearing the century mark. The visit to the blood back was just to be at his side and encourage him on this special day," Jha said. Echoing Jha, Bhuyan said both he and Jha had planned to be at Shashank's side on World Blood Donor Day. "I felt very happy and congratulated our friend. It would not be long before Shashank joins our century club," he added. All three blood donors appealed to the people to come forward and donate blood in Covid time. "There is a shortage of blood in pandemic and people shpuld come forward to donate blood. People should voluntarily donate blood,” they said in unison. Shashank, a resident of Sakchi and Tata Steel employee, thanked Jha and Bhuyan for being at his side. "I felt very happy with the presence of my friends. I promise to continue donating blood. Blood donation comes to me from within," he added. Jha, Bhuyan and Shashank are friends for decades. They love adventure and have trekked to Sandakphu, the highest point of Singalila Ridge in Darjeeling, Bengal, in December 2017. The three also often go trekking to Dalma hills and had undertaken a cleanliness drive inside the elephant abode some years back. They also distributed soaps by visiting a leprosy colony in city in March last year and also spread awareness about coronavirus. They have also planned a trip to a new destination (for adventure) once the Covid-related situation improves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
14-06-2021||Jharkhand||Education Minister Jagarnath Mahto returns to state after lung transplant||Jharkhand Education Minister Jagarnath Mahto, who underwent lung transplant at a Chennai-based hospital in November last year after battling Covid-19, returned home in a charter flight on Monday after eight months of treatment in the Tamil Nadu capital. Two doctors from the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, Dr. PK Bhattacharya and Dr. Ajit Dungdung, went to Chennai on Monday morning to review Mahto’s condition and returned along with him in the charter flight by evening. Mahto’s flight took off from the Chennai Airport at 5pm on Monday and landed in Ranchi at around 7.30pm. Chief Minister Hemant Soren and Agriculture Minister Badal gave a warm welcome to Mahto at the Birsa Munda Airport. Earlier in the day, Hemant visited Mahto’s Doranda-based residence in the state capital and checked all the arrangements made for the education minister. Hemant also inspected the medical equipment at the minister’s residence and directed the concerned staff members to take all possible precautions for Mahto’s safety. Dr. Suresh Rao, who was a part of the team that carried out Mahto’s lung transplant in Chennai, said that Mahto was fit to resume work and attend assembly sessions in Jharkhand. “He is fit to attend assembly sessions and do his work now. The infection that he developed in his lung is gone and he will be able to lead a healthy and active life now on,” said Dr. Rao, Co-Director, Institute of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support at MGM Chennai. Mahto, who tested positive for Covid-19 on September 28 last year, underwent treatment in different hospitals over a period of several months. Soon after testing positive, he was admitted to state-run RIMS in Ranchi. On October 1, 2020, he was shifted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in the state capital and put on non-invasive ventilation. However, his condition further deteriorated and he had to be flown to Chennai in an air ambulance on October 19. The 54-year-old MLA from Dumri was put on a life support system called Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) for around three weeks at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Healthcare in Chennai before he underwent a lung transplant surgery on November 10. However, Mahto’s problems did not seem to end there. He was discharged from the hospital on February 8, but he returned with complains of chest pain and congestion. He developed an infection on the wall of his chest and had to be on high dose antibiotics at the MGM Hospital for months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
14-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city youngsters excel in chess festival||Steel city youngsters Adhiraj Mitra and Navieka Jaiswal won the online state under-12 championship, part of the Jharkhand Chess Association’s chess festival. While Adhiraj, who earlier topped the under-18 event and secured the runner-up slot in the under-14 age group, bagged the title in the open category, Navieka stamped her authority in the girl's section. Adhiraj, the youngest Fide-rated player in Jharkhand, proved his supremacy by scoring 6 points (out of maximum 7) and finished with a full point ahead of a group of half a dozen players. Navieka and  Saara Jain (also from Jamshedpur), on the other hand, tied for the title in the girl's category. The former was declared winner on better tiebreak. The chess festival concluded with the under-12 event. It gave ample opportunity to players who remained in touch with the game in Covid times. "The chess festival is being conducted successfully. We congratulate the players who participated in the state championship," said AJCA secretary Neeraj Kumar Mishra. According to him, Jharkhand players participated in the virtual National Under-18 Open and Girl's Championship which concluded on Saturday. In the open category, Ishant Kumar (Dhanbad) secured the 89th spot with 6 points while Souryadipta Sarkar (East Singhbhum)   managed 144th place with 5 points. A total of 232 players took part in the open section. In the nationals for girls, Dyuti Chakraborty and Kriti Kumar (both from East Singhbhum) finished 104th and 107th, respectively with points each. In all, 128 players were part of the national meet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
14-06-2021||Jharkhand||Railways to run special train from Bengal via Tatanagar||The South Eastern Railway has decided to run a weekly superfast special train between Howrah and Sainagar Shirdi via Tatanagar railway station. The 02594 Howrah-Sainagar Shirdi Special will leave Howrah on June 17, Thursday at 2.35 pm. The train will reach Sainagar Shirdi at 7.10 pm, the next day. The train will run from Howrah every Thursday. In the opposite direction, 02593 Sainagar Shirdi-Howrah Special will leave Sainagar Shirdi on June 19, Saturday at 2.10 pm. The train will arrive at Howrah at 7.30 pm, the next day. The return train will run every Saturday. The train with one AC two-tier, two AC three-tier, eight sleeper class and five general second class (fully reserved) coaches will have stoppages at Kharagpur, Tatanagar, Chakradharpur, Rourkela, Jharsuguda, Bilaspur, Raipur, Durg, Gondia, Nagpur, Akola,  Bhusaval, Manmad, and  Kopargaon Stations  between the two destinations- Howrah and Sainagar Shirdi. This train will have fully reserved accommodation. Garden Reach, the headquarters of South Eastern Railway on Monday also notified restoration of Howrah Ranchi Shatabdi special. The train had stopped operation in April due to the spike in Covid-19 cases. "It has been decided that the 02019/02020 Howrah-Ranchi Shatabdi Special (except Sunday) will be restored to its original path with  timings and stoppages  remaining unchanged from June 17 till further advice, " said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. With declining cases of Covid-19, the South Eastern Railway has decided to run special trains between Santragachi - Anand Vihar and Hatia - Anand Vihar (via Barkakana and via Gomoh) The 02585 Santragachi-Anand Vihar Special resumed journey from Monday. The train left Santragachi  at 10 am and will reach Anand Vihar at 08.40 am on Tuesday. In the opposite direction, 02586 Anand Vihar-Santragachi Special  will leave Anand Vihar every Tuesday w.e.f June 15  at 1.25 pm and will arrive Santragachi at 4.15 pm, the next day ie. Wednesday. The train with one AC- two- tier, two AC- three tier, eight sleeper class and five general second class(Reserved) coaches will have stoppages at Kharagpur, Tatanagar, Purulia,  Gomoh, Gaya, Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyaya, Prayagraj, Kanpur and Aligarh between Santragachi and Anand Vihar. According to a schedule released by SER headquarters the 02583 Hatia-Anand Vihar Special will leave  Hatia every Monday, Tuesday and Thursday with effect from June 15  at 1.40 pm and  will reach Anand Vihar at 1.10 pm, the next day. In the opposite direction, 02584 Anand Vihar-Hatia Special will leave Anand Vihar every Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday with effect from June 16 at 8.45 pm. The special train will arrive at Hatia at 7.40 pm, the next day. The train with two AC-two tier, six AC-three tier, seven sleeper class and four general second class(Reserved) coaches will have stoppages at Ranchi, Muri, Ramgarh Cant., Barkakana, Patratu, Tori, Daltonganj, Garwa Road, Garhwa, Nagar Untari, Renukut, Chopan, Sonbhadra, Chunar, Prayagraj and Kanpur between Hatia and Anand Vihar. The 02579/02580 Hatia-Anand Vihar-Hatia Special will run via  Gomoh. The 02579 Hatia-Anand Vihar Special will leave Hatia every Wednesday, Friday and Sunday with effect from June 16 at 2.35 pm. The train  will reach Anand Vihar at 1.10 pm, the next day. In the opposite direction, 02580 Anand Vihar-Hatia Special will leave Anand Vihar every Thursday, Saturday and Monday with effect from June 17 at 8.45 pm . The train will reach Hatia at 4.45 pm,  the next day. The train with two AC- two tier, six AC-three tier, seven sleeper and four general second class(Reserved) coaches will have stoppages at Ranchi, Muri, Bokaro Steel City, Chandrapura, Gomoh, Koderma, Gaya, Guraru,  Rafiganj,  Anugraha Narayan Road, Dehri on Sone, Sasaram, Bhabua Road, Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyaya, Prayagraj and Kanpur between the two destinations- Hatia and Anand Vihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
14-06-2021||Jharkhand||Active monsoon triggers heavy rain across Jharkhand ||An active monsoon, coupled with a low-pressure currently hovering over southern Jharkhand, resulted in heavy rain at various places across the state during the last 24 hours. Weathermen at IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre said an associated cyclonic circulation was also extending upto the mid-tropospheric level  which was assisting in rainfall activity across various districts. The monsoon trough was on Monday running from west Rajasthan to northeast Bay of Bengal across eastern Rajasthan, north Madhya Pradesh, north Chattisgarh and southern Jharkhand extending upto 0.9 Km above mean sea level. Met statistics revealed that Kurdeg in Simdega district recorded the heaviest rainfall of around 70mm during the past 24 hours (8.30am of Sunday to 8.30am of Monday). This was followed by Hariharganj in Palamau which too experienced heavy showers of around 55 mm. Sikatia in Godda district and Kolebira in Simdega district recorded over 50 mm of rain. Daltonganj and Ramgarh recorded around 30 mm of rain while Latehar, Koderma , Jamtara, Giridih, Bokaro, Rajmahal and several other places in north eastern parts of Jharkhand recorded moderate rainfall between 20 and 25 mm. According to Met statistics, over a dozen IMD observatories recorded rainfall between 10mm and 20 mm during the past 24 hours. Met data further revealed that the state as a whole recorded a surplus rain of 57 per cent so far in the month of June. Against a normal of 57.8 mm, the state has so far actually received 90.7 mm of rain, which is a gain of about 57 per cent. The southwest monsoon reached Jharkhand on June 12, three days ahead schedule. Head of Ranchi Met Centre Abhishek Anand said the monsoon has covered the entire state and that most districts would continue to get a good spell of rain in the next 72 hours or so. "Heavy rainfall is also expected to take place  at a few isolated places especially in  north,  central and southern Jharkhand during the next two to three days, " he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
14-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia cave-in causes panic among residents||A 30 feet deep and 10 feet wide crater was spotted in a locked house in the underground fire affecting Lilori Pathra locality of Jharia about 11 km from Dhanbad district headquarters on Sunday night causing panic among around two thousand local residents. The residents protested against the crater filling operation launched by the BCCL on Monday morning. The crater developed at the house of Surendra Pandey, who had shifted to a newly constructed house at Dhanbad town around 20 km from Lilori Pathra last week. Pandey informed officials of Kujama Colliery area following which two staff members of the BCCL visited the site and took stock of the situation assuring the local residents against any immediate danger. Senior officials of BCCL and District Administration, led by Jharia Circle officer, Parmeshwar Kushwaha; Office in Charge of Jharia police station, Pankaj Jha; Additional General Manager of  Lodna Area o BCCL, Dhananjay Akhare; Area Planning officer , RK  Sharma and project officer of Kujama Colliery, AK Kundu who reached at the site somehow controlled the situation and convinced them of early rehabilitation. “Despite the fact that our area is subsidence prone and minor incidents of subsidence had taken place several times earlier, no serious effort has been initiated to shift us and only around 141 families out of around 440 living in area have been allotted quarters at Belgarhia area of Jharia,” said Triloki Prasad. “Majority of 141 families of Liloripathra and Ghanudih who have been allotted quarters in Belgaria have also not shifted there as some of family members at Liloripathra have not been allotted quarters in Belgarhia” said another local resident Narendra Mandal. A.K. Kundu, project officer of Kujama Colliery said, “We have launched the filling up operation of the crater today for which we had to dismantle two adjoining houses but all affected persons have been provided houses at other places.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
14-06-2021||Jharkhand||Angry 22-year-old slaughters family before killing himself||Four persons of a family were killed on Monday morning in connection with a family dispute in Gandhi Nagar locality under Dhansar Police station less than five km away from Dhanbad district headquarters. The incident came to light when Sudhir Kumar Raj, a neighbour of the deceased Munna Yadav, woke up in the middle of the night and found blood coming out of Yadav’s room. He then went over to the house and found Munna Yadav and his step son, Rahul  Yadav (22); his wife, Mina Devi (43) and his son Rohit Yadav (14) lying in a pool of blood. Raj informed other neighbours, including the General Secretary of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Ajay Narayan Lal and they reached the site with a Dhansar police team. The police team broke open the door and found all four persons lying in a pool of blood. The police team also recovered a dagger lying under the body of Rahul Yadav suggesting that he killed his mother, step father and step brother before dying by suicide. Police collected some samples from the site with the help of forensic experts and sent all the four bodies for post mortem at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital. Officer-in-charge Jairam Prasad said, “Prima facie it seems that Rahul Yadav has killed the other three members of the family with the dagger before committing suicide but more investigation in this regard is pending.” “Rahul seems to be unhappy with the second marriage of his mother Mina Devi with Munna Yadav and used to stay away and arrived at the Gandhi road resident of his mother about a month ago and probably killed his mother and step father and step son before dying by suicide,” said Prasad. Sudhir Kumar Raj,who first spotted the blood coming out of the house of Mahendra Yadav said, “Everything was normal in the family till last night and we also never  came to know about any dispute among the family members especially between Mahendra Yadav and his wife, Mina Devi.” General Secretary of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Ajay Narayan Lal said, “We in the locality are stunned after coming to know about the incident of death of four family members in our neighborhood as Munna Yadav had no animosity with anyone as per our knowledge.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
14-06-2021||Jharkhand||On World Blood Donors' Day, Jharkhand launches digital donation certificates||On the occasion of World Blood Donors' Day on Monday, chief minister Hemant Soren announced the setting up of blood component separation units in six districts and launched an online system of issuing digital blood donation certificates. Promising similar facilities in all other districts in future, the chief minister also unveiled an annual donation calendar prepared by Jharkhand State Aids Control Society (JSACS) which also started a YouTube channel. Hemant appealed to all, especially the youth, to take up blood donation on mission mode to serve humanity. “Blood donation is considered to be a noble gesture as it can save lives. However, there are instances when the needy find it difficult to get the right amount of blood or its allied products on time due to lack of stock. We have, therefore, decided to strengthen blood related facilities in all districts but will also push donations,” he said. Officials of JSACS, who were also part of the online function along with the chief minister and state health minister Banna Gupta, said that in the first phase, blood component separation units were being set up at sadar hospitals of Ranchi, Hazaribagh, Giridih, Gumla, Palamau and East Singbhum (Jamshedpur). Gupta said the new facilities would boost blood related services acorss the state. “Blood component separation units will play a crucial role in treating  patients of dengue or those struggling with blood related ailments. These units can easily churn out platelets, white blood cells, plasma among others as per patients' requirements. This will help prevent wastage too," he explained. Currently, only Rajendra Institute of Medica Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi and Jamshedpur blood bank have blood separator units. Critical patients frpm across the state have to come to either Ranchi or Jamshedpur to avail blood components like platelets, WBC etc. Jharkhand has 59 blood banks out of which 39 are supported by the National AIDS Control Organization (NACO). The rest are privately owned. As per  figures available with JSACS, Jharkhand requires around 3.5 lakh units of blood per year but it often falls short by about a lakh units. To tackle the shortage, JSACS has now worked out an annual donation calendar to be followed round the year in all 24 districts. “We have decided to run mega donation camps on Shaheed Divas in memory of martyrs of the state,” said an official, adding that their  new YouTube channel would upload programmes and related content to encourage voluntary blood donation. The state government will also issue digital blood donation certificates from now onwards. “Earlier, donation certificates weren’t given but from now onwards, the moment anyone donates blood, a digital certificate will be sent on their registered mobile number and email id,” said the JSAC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
14-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand's active Covid caseload drops below 3.5k||At least 713 Covid patients recovered on Sunday against 154 fresh cases of infection, bringing the active caseload in Jharkhand down to 3395, while two more patients died on the day, taking the Covid toll to 5084, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. At least two districts – Pakur and Godda – did not report fresh cases of infection on the day, a bulletin released by NHM stated. As per the bulletin, East Singhbhum reported 32 cases of Covid-19, the highest among Jharkhand districts. The district, however, reported 342 recoveries on the day, which brought the active caseload there down to 412, the NHM bulletin further stated. Ranchi and Ramgarh reported on Covid casualty each, which took the toll in Ranchi to 1580 and that in Ramgarh to 196. As per NHM data, at least 59 recoveries against 17 cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 1194 – the highest among all the districts in the state. At least 20 districts reported a single-digit-spike in Covid cases on Sunday. Hazaribag reported 19 cases against 41 recoveries on the day while seven people were found infected in Bokaro and six patients recovered there. Simedga reported 12 cases against 38 recoveries on Sunday. The state on Sunday tested swab samples of 35,472 residents and less than 0.5 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. The daily Covid positivity rate in Jharkhand has been less than 1 per cent for almost a week now, government data highlights. The growth rate of infection in the state also dropped to 0.08 per cent on Sunday against the national average of 0.22 per cent while the doubling rate jumped to 883.4 days in Jharkhand against the national doubling rate of 319.98 days. The vaccination drive against Covid-19 has also gained momentum in Jharkhand since Friday. The state on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine to 1,06,586 residents and the second dose to 14,335 beneficiaries, a separate report from NHM stated. Jharkhand has vaccinated more than 1 lakh residents daily since Friday on an average. As per government data, over 3.43 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in the state so far and 97.53 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.48 per cent have died. The national Covid recovery rate was 95.30 per cent and fatality rate was 1.20 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
14-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: NDRF team recovers body of teenager||Jamshedpur: An 18-year-old youth drowned in Satnala dam on Saturday evening and a middle-aged woman was rescued from Kharkai River along Bagbera locality of the steel city on Sunday morning. The woman identified as Priya Sharma of Bagbera Colony had jumped into the swollen river at Kushum ghaat along Bagbera around 6 am on Sunday. As she plunged into the river, another woman who was taking a bath, alerted others, present there. Two fishermen present at the river side swung into action and saved the woman from drowning. OC of Bagbera thana, Rajesh Kumar Singh, confirmed the incident. "From a statement from the woman, we learnt that the woman wanted to die by suicide due to a family dispute," said Singh to The Telegraph Online. In another incident, five youths from Azadnagar area of Mango went to Satnala dam situated at Dobo village in the adjoining Chandil thana area on Saturday late afternoon. The youth, in the age group of 18-19 years, wanted to take a bath in the dam, but as there was a police party posted there, the latter thwarted them away. Eventually, after the police party returned from their post at 4 pm, the youths returned to the dam. The OC of Chandil thana, Sanoj Chaudhury said the four youths who knew swimming had jumped into the dam for a bath. "The fifth one, identified as Aftab Hussain, too took a plunge into the water body though he did know how to swim. Soon Aftab drowned and none of the remaining four could save him, "Chaudhury said to The Telegraph Online. The OC of Chandil thana said an NDRF team present at Jamshedpur was pressed into service on Sunday morning and the body was finally recovered. A resident of Old Purulia Road in Azadnagar, Aftab was a student of Karimcity College. (Kumud Jenamani) Ramgarh: The culvert on the Potamdaga Kulhi road of Dulmi block under the district was submerged in Bhairavi Dam water after incessant rainfall on Sunday. The construction work of the bridge has been halted midway for several months. Local villagers are disconnected from capital Ranchi. They have to undertake 10km journey to reach Ranchi. Congress leader and social worker Sudhir Mangalesh, said,"The river water is flowing from 1 feet above the culvert. Dozens of villages of Dulmi block, including Gola Sikidiri and Gola have to reach Ranchi by joining Charupath, but after the culvert was filled with water, the arrival here completely stopped." Congress leader Sudhir Mangesh said that the bridge construction work started here on 2018 and work had to be completed by 2019, but due to the negligence of the contractor and the department, the work has not been completed till date. The problem will be borne by the villagers of Dulmi block area. Sudhir Mangesh said,"Legal action should be taken against the contractor. He should be blacklisted.” "We have met the local MLA Mamta Devi and demanded the dismissal of the contractor," said villagers. Daltonganj: The state health department has notified Palamau district of a civil surgeon instated within forty days. The notification read that Anil Kumar will be in-charge civil surgeon in addition to his existing role as district reproductive child health officer. The outgoing civil surgeon Dr John F Kennedy was infected with coronavirus in the second week of April following which his family members rushed him to a super speciality hospital in Bihar's Patna where Kennedy remained on life support system for weeks. DC Palamau Shashi Ranjan said as the chair of the civil surgeon had to be filled following the acute sickness of the then civil surgeon, Anil Kumar Srivastava was brought in as an acting civil surgeon. The newly-appointed Anil Kumar took charge after Srivastava served for 40 days. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
