15-06-2021||Jharkhand||JMM founding member A.K. Roy’s bust unveiled at Dhanbad||Politicians cutting across the party line and other people from different walks of life congregated at Nunudih in Dhanbad on Tuesday to pay rich tribute to the most respected people’s representative of Dhanbad -- Late AK Roy -- on his 86th birth anniversary when his bust was unveiled. The occasion also witnessed the felicitation of around 30 tribal Hadams of the nearby Chandankiyari area, sanitation workers, policemen and doctors by AK Roy Memorial Committee led by local social worker Subur Gorai. Notably, Roy spent the last 15 years of his life at the house of Gorai, which was later converted into AK Roy Memorial Smriti Bhavan from where a host of social activities are conducted. He founded the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha in 1973 along with Shibu Soren and Binod Bihari Mahto. An M.Sc degree holder of Surendranath College of Calcutta (1959) batch, Roy worked as a senior research engineer at Fertilizer Corporation of India and later left his job, peeved over the corruption prevalent in the public sector units. He fought and won the election from Sindri Assembly Constituency as a CPI(M) candidate in 1967. Roy again won Assembly elections from Sindri in 1969 for the second time as a CPI(M) candidate and won the same seat as an independent candidate in 1972 Assembly elections for the third time. Following differences with Shibu Soren in 1977 he left JMM and established Marxist Coordination Committee to win Parliamentary Elections from Dhanbad three times in 1977, 1980 and 1989. Former Nirsa MLA Arup Chatterjee was present during the function at Nunudih along with Tundi MLA of JMM, Mathura Prasad Mahto, former Dhanbad Mayor of BJP Chandrashekhar Agarwal, Chandankiyari MLA, Amar Bauri and former Sindri MLA Anand Mahto. Speaking on the occasion, Chatterjee said, “We don’t know any politician with no bank account, no savings and no personal family life -- who devoted his entire life for the service of the common man” “We help in the treatment of old and lonely persons, bear the marriage expense of daughters of poor parents, carry out blood donation for needy persons, help the physically challenged, widow and other people in getting the pensions as per different welfare schemes of the government and further have plans to expand our activity,” said Gorai, adding that they are working to register their organization under the societies act. “We planned to establish the bust of Roy Da about three months back so that the generation can learn from the life, works and life of simplicity of one of the most honest politicians,” said Gorai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
15-06-2021||Jharkhand||Elephant creates ruckus near Chandil forest, destroys houses||An elephant, which has pulled down homes in different villages and also wiped out foodstock, is giving sleepless nights to foresters of Chandil range of the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district. The tusker is part of a herd but stays aloof from it. The herd is presently stationed around the Chandil dam. However, the tusker is in the jungles near Chowka village of the Chandil sub-division. Chandil foresters are patrolling the area to drive away the elephant. A QRT (Quick Response Team) from Chakulia forest range has been called to keep the tusker at bay from villages and hamlets. Chandil range officer Ashok Kumar said serious efforts were being made to drive away the elephant from the past two days. “Some of our forest workers were down  with Covid and have now recovered. They have become weak to patrol the area. It is not easy to chase and drive away elephants. But we are trying our best and have called a QRT from the Chakulia forest range,” he added. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, the  range officer blamed the villagers for the elephant menace. “We have distributed crackers and specifically asked the villagers to burst them only if the tusker nears their home. But the villagers are not listening and burst the crackers whenever they spot the tusker. This irritates the elephant and forces him to attack homes and wipe out foodstock,” Kumar added. According to him, they have told villagers that the elephant would go on its own and teasing it would not solve the problem. “The tusker doesn’t stay with a herd. It remains aloof. The herd has come from Tamar  jungles,” Kumar informed. According to a forester, it has pulled down homes of fishermen residing at Chowka and Adardih villages under the Kukru block. “Besides the elephant, the herd has also attacked homes and wiped out foodstock. A woman who was injured when her thatched hut was attacked has been accommodated at a government school. Some children and men have also been injured,” he added. The elephant has damaged around a dozen homes. The foresters are keeping a watch over the movement of the herd stationed near Chandil dam. Efforts are being  to keep them at bay from paddy farms The Chandil forest range is the favourite for elephants from Tamar, Seraikela-Kharsawan and neighbouring Bengal. The herds often slip into the range and damage standing paddy, destroy homes and wipe out food.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
15-06-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI to host leadership talk with K. V. Subramanian||The placement committee of the Executive-Post Graduate Diploma in Management (Ex-PGDM) will organise an interactive session with  Krishnamurthy Subramanian, the Union government's chief economic advisor on economic reforms on Friday, as a part of XLRI's Leadership Talk Series-2021. The event will be organised on a virtual mode.
 
XLRI Talk Series is designed to appreciate and learn from leaders' experiences from all walks of life. It was launched in 2017. It is an initiative to develop different perspectives while addressing challenges in a highly dynamic environment. Since then, many eminent personalities from different domains and parts of the country have provided invaluable knowledge, experiences, and insights, which have enhanced the learning curve for all the students.
 
The audience would be a mix of MBA students across various fields, like IT, manufacturing, banking, marketing, engineering, aviation, shipping, oil and gas, Education, etc. 
 
The XLRI Ex-PGDM batch of 2021-2022 is a diverse group of people with exemplary skills. The students of the batch have a minimum of five years experience in various roles in different industries and sectors. The batch is very active and keen and has taken several initiatives to further develop its expertise in various fields. Subramanian is a leading expert on economic policy, banking, and corporate governance. He is an alumnus of IIT Kanpur, IIM- Calcutta, and the University of Chicago.
He has been conferred the Distinguished Alumnus Award by his alma mater IIT-Kanpur. Apart from being the youngest chief economic advisor to the government, Subramanian, is among the youngest to receive this honor from his alma mater.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
15-06-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccination drive for students and others going abroad begins||The East Singhbhum district administration started a special vaccination drive for students and others going abroad for work on Tuesday. The  vaccination drive, organised at the district collectorate building at Sakchi, saw as many as 18 people getting their Covid-19 vaccine in the presence of deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar and other officials. In all, 88 students and others who are all going abroad, have registered themselves for the service. Health department officials said only Covishield would be administered during the special drive and that the time interval between two doses had been reduced from 12-16 weeks to four weeks for their convenience. "Those seeking vaccination during the special drive will have to carry their passport, Aadhaar card and visa to get the shot at the vaccination centre. A vaccination certificate would be issued from the vaccination centre," said an official of health department. The health official explained that those who had already taken the first dose of the vaccine and needed to travel abroad, either for work or studies, would also benefit from this drive. The vaccination drive which will begin at 9am and continue till 5pm everyday will offer both the first and second doses of Covishield. Notably, every year, several students from the steel city fly to the USA and other countries for pursuing higher studies. “The special vaccination drive would benefit such students going abroad for further studies or have secured jobs outside the country. We started the special vaccination drive for all those who are leaving for abroad as they need to get vaccinated at the earliest, without any hassles,” said Dinesh Ranjan, an official at the district collectorate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
15-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand extends partial shutdown till June 24 ||Jharkhand extended the ongoing partial lockdown to June 24 along with a slew of fresh relaxations on Tuesday, but there will be a total lockdon across the state during the coming weekend from 4am, Saturday, June 19 to 6am, Monday, June 21. Under the new rules, malls and departmental stores will be allowed to reopen and private & public offices can function with 50 per cent attendance. All other existing curbs, announced earlier, will continue to be in force, according to a statement issued by the state IPRD department. These decisions were announced after a meeting of the state disaster management authority under the aegis of chief minister Hemant Soren in the afternoon. On the weekend lockdown, the official communiqué read, “It will be in force from Saturday 4pm (June 19) to Monday 6am (June 21) during which all kinds of business entities, including vegetables and fruit shops, will remain closed. Only medicine and milk shops will be allowed to run.” The ongoing phase of the partial lockdown, called health safety week, was to end at 6am on Thursday, June 17. State health minister Banna Gupta told reporters after the meeting that the government was treading cautiously whie plnning to "unlock" considering the current Covid situation. “Cases are dipping but the key is to ensure they don’t peak again. We are also evaluating the situation amid fears of a third wave. All attempts are being made to streamline life and livelihood with great caution,” he said. All shops will be able to function till 4pm. As per the state government's earlier announcement, shops were allowed to reopen everywhere except in East Singbhum (Jamshedpur) where garment, footwear and jewellery outlets were asked to stay shut due to Covid cases. “However, even in East Singhbhum, all kinds of shops can function till 4pm now from June 17,” said Gupta. Similarly, offices can also function till 4pm with 50 per cent attendance. Bus services will continue to remain closed. Educational institutions, cinema halls, parks, clubs, banquets, stadiums and gymnasiums will remain out of bounds for the public. Gathering of more than five persons at public places is banned, and driving within districts in private vehicles will require e-passes. All incoming travelers to the state will need to be in seven-day home quarantine except in certain cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
15-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid-19 hits routine immunisation in Jharkhand ||Owing to Covid-19 and lockdown restrictions, Jharkhand achieved only 53 per cent of its routine immunisation target for children in April, officials of the health department said on Tuesday, claiming that civil surgeons of all districts in the state have been directed to conduct "catch-up" rounds of immunisation in the state's hinterland. “Routine immunisation programmes have been running well in the state for years, but we could achieve only 53 per cent of our target in April as the focus shifted to Covid vaccination and precautionary measures to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing. Officials at the district level have been asked to identify  “left out” and "drop out"  children and vaccinate them. 'Left out' children are those who did not receive any dose of vaccines since birth, while 'drop out' children are those who got a couple of vaccine doses but did not complete their full course of immunisation, officials said. Routine immunisation plays an important role in preventing cases of measles, influenza, Japanese Encephalitis, polio, tuberculosis, diphtheria, hepatitis and rotavirus. As per data with the health department, around 8.5 lakh babies are born every year in Jharkhand and their immunisation process begins at the age of 1.5 months. Catch-up rounds for immunising children who missed out will be run at the panchayat and block levels by Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs), health officials said. However, they clarified that routine immunisation will be held along with vaccination campaigns against Covid-19 across the state. As per the latest National Family Health Survey (NFHS), at least 30 of 1,000 infants die in rural Jharkhand. Around 165 mothers die per 1 lakh deliveries in the state every year. The government also launched a vaccination campaign against pneumonia this month in Jharkhand. Around 77,000 infants are scheduled to get doses of Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine (PCV) by the end of June. Talking about Covid the ongoing vaccination, NHM officials claimed that vaccine wastage in Jharkhand dropped to 1.7 per cent on Tuesday. Officials from the National Health Mission (NHM) said that a total of 58,17,250 vaccine doses were made available to the state by the Centre so far, and around 1,00,844 doses have been wasted since the launch of the immunisation programme against Covid-19 on January 16. On June 10, the Centre claimed that vaccine wastage in Jharkhand was 33.95 per cent, the highest among states in India. But that was due to a lag in updating vaccination numbers in the Co-WIN portal,  the state has clarified.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
15-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs 151 fresh Covid cases against 483 recoveries in a day||The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped close to 3000 in Jharkhand on Monday as at least 483 patients recovered in the state against 151 fresh cases of Coronavirus infection, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. The state also reported one Covid casualty on the day, which took the toll to 5085 in Jharkhand and 1030 in East Singhbhum, the district which accounted for the death, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. All the 24 districts reported a spike of less than 50 cases on Monday with East Singhbhum reporting 27 cases, the highest among the districts. However, the district also reported 172 Covid recoveries on the day, which brought the active caseload there down to 267, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Ranchi, which reported 12 Covid cases against 32 recoveries on Monday, continued to be the only Jharkhand district with more than 1000 active cases. As per NHM data, as many as 1,173 residents of Ranchi were battling the viral infection by the end of Monday. At least three districts – Dumka, Pakur and Sahebganj – did not report fresh Covid cases on the day, while 15 districts reported a single-digit-spike, government data highlighted. Bokaro, Saraikela and Simdega reported four cases each, while Dhanbad reported 23 cases against 17 recoveries. The state on Monday tested swab samples of 38,711 residents and less than 0.5 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. The positivity rate in the state has been less than 1 per cent in the past one month, indicating that lockdown measures have put a check on the spread of the virus, health officials said. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand also dropped to 0.06 per cent against the national average of 0.21 per cent on Monday, while the doubling rate in the state jumped to 1163.44 days against the national doubling rate of 337.40 days. So far, over 3.43 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in Jharkhand and 97.62 per cent of them have recovered, highlights NHM data. However, about 1.47 per cent of the patients have died in the state so far. The national Covid mortality rate was lower at 1.20 per cent. The state on Monday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 64,523 residents and almost 45,000 of the beneficiaries were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab was administered to 16,586 residents, stated a separate NHM report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
15-06-2021||Jharkhand||Loan boost for water projects in Jharkhand   ||The work on the first phase of the “Jharkhand urban water supply improvement project” will start by the end of June in four urban local bodies, including Ranchi, after the finalisation of a three-tier loan negotiation between the Asian Development Bank (ADB), Union government and the Jharkhand government on Friday evening. “Under the first phase of the Jharkhand urban water supply improvement project, the scheme for water supply through taps in every house of Ranchi, Medininagar (Daltonganj), Jhumritilaiya and Hussainabad city will commence shortly by the end of this June. “The work is estimated to be completed by the end of 2024 and would benefit nearly 5 lakh beneficiaries,” said Utkarsh Mishra, deputy project director of the Jharkhand Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation (Juidco), a wing of the state urban development department. The loan-negotiation meeting was held between the secretary of the urban development department, Vinay Kumar Choubey, director of the State Urban Development Authority (SUDA), Amit Kumar, Union finance ministry economic affairs department director Juhi Mukherjee and Asian Development Bank’s mission leader Sanjay Joshi and co-mission leader Vivek Vishal. “Through these schemes, the resolve of the state government to supply piped water to every household will be fulfilled. With the joint cooperation of the state government and the Asian Development Bank, projects worth $654 million (Rs 4,700), are to be completed in the cities of the state. Under this all types of urban infrastructure have to be developed,” said the urban development spokesperson. The first phase of the Jharkhand urban water supply improvement project will have a total cost of around Rs 1,200 crore. “The work of preparing this project was going on by the state government for the last one and a half years. Around 70 per cent of the total cost of the project will be spent by the Asian Development Bank and 30 per cent from the state government’s share which means ADB will spend a total of Rs 840 crore, while the state government will spend Rs 360 crore,” the spokesperson added. Though the first phase will benefit four urban local bodies, the amount from the loan will also be used in reforms in all 50 municipal bodies of Jharkhand, especially in training the personnel for the strengthening of operation and the maintenance of the water schemes of the government through a proper revenue generation model.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
