16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Tenughat Dam releases water into Damodar||Bokaro: The Tenughat Dam authourities on Wednesday opened the two sluice gates to discharge water in the Damodar River, due to incessant rain in the last two days that increased the water level. Tenughat Dam is one of the largest dams in Asia with 18 gates including 10 radial and 8 sluice ones. The water of this dam is supplied to the Bokaro Steel Plant and the residential township of the entire Bokaro Steel City. About 3500 cusecs per second water is being discharged in the river. Damodar enters West Bengal after travelling through various parts of the district and Dhanbad. Executive engineer, Shyam Kishore, said the water level of Tenughat Dam has increased due to continuous rains, due to which two gates were opened while one gate was already open. The water level of Damodar River has risen as three gates were opened. Locals living on the banks of the river have been restricted from going to the river. The water holding capacity of Tenughat Dam is 852 feet whereas at present it has 844.35 feet of water. (Our correspondent) Bokaro: The district police on Tuesday lodged an FIR against three private hospitals after finding discrepancies in the usage of government allotted life-saving drug Remdesivir and violations of other guidelines issued by the health department in providing treatment to Covid-19 patients. The executive magistrate, Rohit Pravin Kujur on direction of sub-divisional officer of Chas, Shashi Prakash Singh, lodged a complaint against Devansh Hospital situated near ITI Moad with Pindrajoda police station, Wellmark Hospital at Nayamoad under City Police Station and City Care Hospital in Chas police station. “There were discrepancies found in the usage of life-saving drug Remdesivir in these three hospitals. These hospitals were asked to produce empty vails of the Remdesivir allotted to them for treatment of the Covid patients by government, but they failed,” said an administrative officer. He added that, in the inquiry it was also found that one of these hospitals has written Remdesivir repeatedly in the name of a single person. The record related to administration of Remdesivir to Covid patients was also found to not be properly maintained, etc. The inquiry was conducted on direction of the state government in May. Deputy Commissioner, Bokaro, Rajesh Singh acted on the direction ordered by Civil Surgeon Dr A.K. Pathak to take necessary legal action in this connection. DSP, Chas, Mukesh Kumar said the FIR has been lodged under various sections in Clinical Establishment, Disaster Management Act, Essential Commodities Act, Drugs and Cosmetics Act and Indian Penal Code (IPC). Sources said that in month of April and May, the allotment of Remdesivir was done by state government to private hospitals for treatment of corona patients. To stop misuse and black marketing of the drug, state government had ordered drug inspectors of each district to check all the private hospitals which were allotted Remdesivir and report whether they have genuinely utilised it or not. Drug Inspector Vikas Kumar found discrepancies in Devansh Hospital situated at ITI Moad, Chas and City Care Hospital at Checkpost, Chas. The record of Remdesivir in these hospitals was found much less than the number of allotments. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: Villagers caught and beat up three youths who were trying to commit theft at a government school on Tuesday night in Chatra district. The villagers thrashed them before handing to Mayurhund police. Sources said the incident took place in Puraini Utkramit Madhya Vidyalaya in Husiya panchayat under Mayurhund block. They said the school managing committee had orgnanised an online meeting due to which many members came here. After the meeting, all returned in the evening. But villagers saw three youths roaming around the school building. A villager said robberies have taken place in schools across many districts including Chatra during the lockdown. The trio were taken into custody and taken to Mayurhund police station. Sources said the police came to know that the trio had done the recce of this school before, to commit the theft. They thought that due to lockdown, it was easy for them to go ahead with this plan. But due to alertness of the villagers, their plan got foiled. Officer--in-charge Kaushal Kumar Singh said they were interrogating the trio to get details about their crime. Trio were identified as Shrawan Paswan, Randhir Paswan and Dileep Thakur from neighbouring villages. An FIR has been registered against them. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Janardan Prasad, a resident of Sandh village in Barkagaon charged police for allegedly beating him mercilessly. He said he was called in the Barkagaon police station for a compromise. Prasad said he was having a dispute with a villager for which Barkagaon police station assistant sub inspector Amit Kumar Sonu and Shahzad Ansari beat him up mercilessly. “Duo asked me to sign a compromise and for that I was tortured mercilessly. My body has the marks of beating,” he added. Subdivisional police officer Mohammad Nehaluddin said probe has started with Ansari suspended and show caused sent to Sonu. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: A Rendezvous Series was organised by The Society for the Promotion of Indian Classical Music And Culture Amongst Youth with an aim to induce the element of sensitivity, idea and spirituality among children, who are currently confined at home, for the students of Delhi Public School, Bokaro. The series covered a variety of programs such as film screenings, performances by great artists, yoga, vocal music and talks by gurus. The series of events that were organised in the virtual platform commenced from the first week of June 2021. Extensive workshops on yoga, fine arts, and vocal music with dances and mudras were conducted as part of this program. Over hundreds of DPS students attended the workshop for effective learning.  The movie 'Gandhi' directed by Sir Richard Attenborough was also screened for the students, which was followed by a discussion with Kumar Prashant Chairman, Gandhi Peace Foundation. The movie received overwhelming response from the students. Principal of DPS Bokaro, A.S. Gangwar said, “The Rendezvous Series was a great initiative by SPICMACAY. It gave the students the opportunity to be enlightened by exceptional artists. Through the talk show, classical music and dance performances, students got a chance to learn from the maestro.” (Our correspondent) Deoghar: A total of 25 people have been arrested in Deoghar district for cyber crime, loot and theft, police said on Wednesday. "Thirteen of them were held in connection with cases of cyber crime," Deoghar Superintendent of Police Ashwini Kumar Sinha said. Altogether, 14 motorcycles were impounded and 30 mobile phones and eight passbooks recovered from their possession, he added. (Agencies)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town vaccine camp for juvenile delinquents||The district health department, as part of a series of special camps, organised a Covid vaccination for juvenile offenders of Child Reformatory Centre of Bhuda. On June 9, a similar special vaccination camp was organised for the differently abled persons of Pehla Kadam, a Centre for special students, during which a total of 60 students and some others of the district were vaccinated. The camp began on Wednesday morning at Child Reformatory Centre at Bhuda at around 10 am under the supervision of District Social Welfare officer, Sneh Kashypap and District Reproductive and Child Health Officer, Dr Vikash Kumar Rana during which a total of 50 were vaccinated. This was followed by another vaccination held at Dhanbad divisional jail during which altogether 70 inmates including prisoners and undertrials were vaccinated. Talking to The Telegraph Online, District Reproductive and Child Health Officer, Dr Vikash Rana who is also the nodal officer for Covid vaccination in the district said, “All the persons were provided Covishield first dose at the centre and only such inmates who are above 18 years of age have been administered vaccines today.” “We will be organising a similar camp at Dhanbad Divisional Jail tomorrow during which the inmates of the jail including prisoners and undertrials would be vaccinated,” said Rana. “We have plans to organise similar special camps for other vulnerable sections including newspaper delivery persons, milk vendors, street vendors, staff working in pharmacies, auto driver, taxi drivers, bus drivers and conductors, electricity board staff, local body employees, workers in e-commerce and essential industries, construction workers and other state labourers; all government staff etc and we be holding camps and as and when we get sufficient doses for vaccination,” said Rana. When asked about the second dose for the 18 and above age category who took the first dose of Covaxin on May 14 in Dhanbad, he said, “We have written to the authorities concerned and are waiting for more doses soon and will arrange for a second dose as soon as we get the supply.” A total of 50 persons of 45 and above age group were also vaccinated on Wednesday during a vaccination camp organised at Sant Nirankari Mission of Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Congress to conduct statewide survey on Covid spread ||Congress, which is part of the ruling alliance in Jharkhand, will undertake a month-long door-to-door outreach programme across the state to study the impact of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and ascertain the extent of infections and fatalities at a time when several national and international media reports have accused India of under reporting Covid deaths. State party spokesperson Alok Dubey said a blueprint of the exercise was ready and workers would hit the streets by the end of this week. “We are involving 5,440 party workers comprising MLAs, MPs and others for the exercise, setting a target to reach out to 10 lakh households. The survey will be for one month. In terms of population, we are aiming to reach out to 40 lakh people,” he said. In Jharkhand, 5,089 people have succumbed to Covid-19 since its outbreak in March last year, but more than 70 per cent of the fatalities occurred during the second wave that began in April this year. Of the 3.43 lakh total infections so far, more than 2 lakh cases pertain to the second wave. Even though Covid cases are on the decline since early June, prompting the Hemant Soren government to gradually allow resumption of business activities,the state machinery is on guard against the apprehended third wave. As per the state health department’s intensive public health survey (IPHS), conducted from May 25 to June 5, covering 2.63 crore rural residents, the second wave of infections did not have a major impact on Jharkhand’s hinterlands. Barely 1,000 people among those surveyed tested positive. The Congress has, therefore, decided to conduct its own independent survey across  260 blocks of all 24 districts to evaluate the impact of the virus  and submit a report to the state government. The move, sources said, was a part of a nationwide survey which the party had decided to conduct. Dubey said, “The idea is to ascertain the number of those who were infected by the virus, deaths, current status of households that have lost an earning member, financial status, etc. The report will be tabled before the government with recommendations.” Dubey said the purpose of the survey was to help the state government get a correct picture of the extent of the spread of the pandemic and plan welfare measures accordingly. State Congress president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon had gone to Delhi on Tuesday to meet the party high command to discuss the modalities of the survey. He is expected to return by Friday after which the survey will be initiated. Oraon, who tested Covid positive last year, will also undergo a health check-up during his stay in the national capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Four arrested in shelter home abuse case||Four persons, including two women, who were absconding after being charged with molestation by Telco police on June 6, have been arrested from Singroli district of Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday. The four identified as 46-year-old Harpal Singh Thapper, his wife Pushpa Rani Turkey, 45, Geeta Kaur, 45, and Aditya Singh, 20, have been brought from Singroli to the steel city on transit remand. All the four accused are residents of Samsher Tower at Kharangajhar in Telco. Superintendent of police (City) Subhash Chandra Jat said that Thapper and his wife Pushpa were running an NGO, Mother Teresa Welfare Trust, at Kharangajhar where minor homeless girls were being given shelter. "On June 6, two of the minors, about 16-year-old each, had alleged that Thapper had been molesting them. Later during investigation, the involvement of three others had come to fore. The police had registered a case of molestation and also POCSO Act against the four on the basis of an FIR. But as soon as the case was registered, all the four accused had gone underground, "said the SP (City). As a follow-up action, a team was set up led by additional SP, Kumar Gaurav. The team succeeded in tracing the accused at a location in Singlori district where they were hiding. According to police, two victims had fled the Kharangajhar shelter home on the night of June 5, following which the conductors of the home reported the matter to the Telco police. But when the missing duo were traced the next day, they refused to return to the home and had made the allegations against Thapper and others. According to the victims, Thapper and Aditya would molest them while Pushpa and Geeta would make them do the toilsome domestic work and would often assault them. The police forwarded all the four accused to the Ghaghidih Central Jail after producing them before a judicial magistrate late in the afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||NCLT appoints new resolutional professional for ailing Incab Industries||The Calcutta-bench of National Company Law Tribunal ( NCLT ) appointed a new resolutional professional (RP) of Incab Industries on Wednesday setting in motion a renewed effort at reviving the ailing steel city-based cable manufacturing company. The new RP, Pankaj Kumar Tibrewal, replaces Shashi Agarwal, the erstwhile RP- cum- liquidator who was removed by an order of National Company Law Appellate Tribunal ( NCLAT), New Delhi early this month. Wednesday's virtual NCLT proceedings were attended by Kumar Anurag Singh, who  appeared on behalf of the liquidator (Shashi Agarwal) and informed NCLT judges that it shouldn't pass any orders as they had filed a special leave petition (SLP) before the Supreme Court challenging the NCLAT order. But, the NCLT bench declined to entertain their prayers. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Akash Sharma, the advocate on record who appeared on behalf of Jamshedpur workers, said NCLT passed the order appointing Tibrewal as the new RP in the absence of any stay from Supreme Court. "With this, fresh efforts will be made by the resolution professional through an impartial and fair manner to revive the company," said Sharma. Rishav Banerjee, a senior advocate representing Jayanta Banerjee, the main appellant in the case and an employee of Incab's Calcutta-based headquarters, also appeared in the virtual proceeding. Notably,  NCLAT- New Delhi , while pronouncing its verdict on June 4, had quashed the liquidation order of Incab Industries earlier passed by NCLT-Calcutta and directed the latter to appoint a new RP and verify claims of creditors, excluding Kamla Mills and Fasqua Investments and to carry on with the resolution process  under the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code (IBC) and find a new buyer for the ailing company. NCLAT had also sought action against the  erstwhile resolution professional and referred the matter to The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India ( IBBI) Incab was referred to the erstwhile Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction ( BIFR ) in 1999. It was admitted for corporate insolvency resolution on August 7, 2019. In the intervening years, attempts were made to revive Incab, which used to make cables for power transmission. A number of companies, including Tata Steel, were interested in its takeover. In the mid-1990s, Malaysian promoter Leader Universal Berhad Cables took over the company. But, the company started suffering losses and slid deeper in the red and had to be referred to the erstwhile BIFR. Since then, Incab employees have been deprived of their monthly salary and other benefits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to notify black fungus disease as epidemic ||Mucormycosis, a fungal infection which has claimed at least 25 lives in Jharkhand, is likely to get notified as an epidemic by the state cabinet which is scheduled to meet on Friday, health officials said on Wednesday. Chief minister Hemant Soren took to microblogging website Twitter on Tuesday to share that his government has started working on the process of notifying mucormycosis or black fungus as an epidemic. “The process of notifying mucormycosis as an epidemic has certainly been expedited after the CM’s directive. Usually, such decisions are made by the Cabinet, so we are expecting the notification to be out after the next cabinet meeting,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer for health department Information, education and communication (IEC) wing. As per latest data with the health department, as many as 79 confirmed cases and 52 suspected cases of mucormycosis have been reported in Jharkhand so far. Of the 79 patients, 25 have died and 37 have recovered, indicating that the fatality rate among patients was quite high in the state. On May 20, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare directed all states and Union territories in India to declare mucormycosis an epidemic, stating that the infection is leading to mortalities and morbidities amongst Covid patients. Several states including Gujarat, Rajasthan, Telangana and Tamil Nadu have already notified black fungus as an epidemic. New Delhi also notified mucormycosis as an epidemic on May 27. In May, the Jharkhand government asked the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) to maintain records related to the lethal fungal infection. The civil surgeons of all the districts were asked to report fresh confirmed and suspected cases of mucormycosis to the IDSP every day. Mucormycosis is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. cormycosis patients. Several thousand cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis were reported in India in the past one month and doctors claimed that use of high dosage steroids for treatment of severely-ill Covid patients was one of the reasons for the spike. In Jharkhand, all the 79 mucormycosis patients found so far were Covid survivors, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Special athletes get vaccinated at steel city camp||Thirteen special athletes took vaccination for Covid-19 at a camp organised by the East Singhbhum district administration on Wednesday. Jeevika, a special school in Sonari locality, had requested the deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar to organise the camp. A team, including three nurses, completed the formalities in around two hours. “The vaccination camp was organised very peacefully and without hassles. We thank the district administration for the same. We had requested the deputy commissioner to facilitate vaccination of our students via a letter on May 31,” said Singh, a former international cyclist. According to him, they decided to get their students vaccinated from a safety point of view. “It was our responsibility to help our students. They took the first dose of Covishield vaccine. District authorities have asked us to contact them after three months for the second dose,” he added. Besides the 13 students of Jeevika, four ex-special athletes of the school also took the vaccine. “Some of the students, including Ashutosh Thakur and Tushar Gope, were very afraid of taking the vaccine. They refused to leave their place and were also not allowing us to roll up their sleeves. They co-operated only when we showed them chocolates and later gave them the same after vaccination,” said Jeevika secretary Sukhdeep Kaur. Kaur said some students who were left out on Wednesday, will get vaccinated during the second camp. Some students of Jeevika have completed painting and varnishing Diwali diyas. “The students have so far painted and varnished around 6,000 diyas. We would be ordering some 2,000 more diyas to a potter in Asanboni in East Singhbhum. The students will once again get engaged in work they love the most,” said Jeevika founder Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Former coal town councilor turns drain into protest site||The former councilor of Coal town’s ward 15, Ranjit Singh, carried out a unique protest on Wednesday by sleeping in a muddy unconstructed drain to draw attention towards the problem of inundation due to drain water overflow faced by over 50 thousand residents of Shivpuri locality in Bhuli. “The drain water of several localities, including Kasiatand, Aambagan , Bhuli D block, C Block, E block enters several houses of Shivpuri locality due to overflow caused by lack of concretisation and embankment of drains,” said Singh from the protest site, accompanied by several other residents of Shivpuri. “Yesterday itself the boundary wall of the house of one Lakshman Paswan of Shivpuri collapsed due to his house being inundated due to drain water overflowing under the impact of monsoon,” charged Singh and added that not just houses but several shops in the main market of Bhuli and Shakti market also gets inundated due to drain water. “We have been demanding the construction of drains for the last five years and former Dhanbad Mayor Chandreshekhar Agarwal also visited Bhuli to inspect the site two years ago and following which an estimate for construction of 4000 meters of drain was prepared but the project is yet to start and as a result we are compelled to live in a virtual hell,” said Singh. “I don’t know that what is the problem of the Municipal Commissioner Satyendra Kumar with Bhuli that he claims that the drain construction work is the responsibility of BCCL as colony belongs to BCCL but the fact remains that all of us at Shivpuri in Bhuli regularly pay holding tax, property tax and other taxes collected by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation regularly,” said Singh. “If our day-long protest elicits no response from the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation authorities, then we will be compelled to block the bridge near A block,” said Singh. Extending support to the protest carried out by the former councillor, Ashok Singh, a local resident of Shivpuri locality of Bhuli said, “Everyone in our locality is compelled to live amidst stink, foul smell and continuous threat of outbreak of disease due to overflowing drains as no initiative has been taken by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation to solve the problem of drain water in our area.” Efforts to contact city manager of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation Md Anis in this regard failed as he didn’t respond to any calls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town blind school adopts Braille mobile app to reopen on July 1||The Blind School at Murlingar, operated by the Dhanbad Blind Relief Society, is all set to resume operations within a fortnight from July 1 with the help of Braille script installed on android mobile phones. All educational activities and training has been suspended for the last 19 months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Cleanliness of the entire school campus of eight rooms, kitchen, caretaker's quarter and ground is also likely to begin within a day or two as per the instruction of Deputy Development Commissioner Dasrath Chandra Das. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Vivek Upadhayay, Joint secretary of Dhanbad Blind Relief Society said, “We had a meeting yesterday under the Chairmanship of DDC, Dasarth Chandra Das during which senior officials of district administration including , District Social Welfare Officer, Sneh Kashyap, District Child Protection Officer, Sadhna Kumari, District  Superintendent of Education, Indu Bhushan Singh and others were present during which we were asked reopen the centre from July 1 by making all necessary arrangements.” “We are happy with the decision as the school which also has residential arrangements for 17 blind students from class IV to X is very close to our heart,” said Upadhyay and added that the school established in mid 60s at Nunudih near De Nobili School Digwadih at the initiative of then principal of School, Father Hess was the example of social service mission of De Nobili School. “Each student of our school used to contribute 25paise per month from his pocket for the blind school and an evening school which were launched at the initiative of Father Hess,” said Upadhyay, an alumni of De Nobili School, Digwadih. At present, the school, with a staff of four persons including two teachers, is operating from a community centre of Bharat Coking Coal Limited at Murli Nagar. “Some of the students of the school are very good at singing and playing musical instruments and we have several musical instruments like harmonium, piano etc through which regular training in music is imparted by our teachers,” said Upadhyay. DDC Dasrath Chandra Das said that since the blind school comes under the category of Child Care Institutions and all other Child Care institutions are operational, the centre is being reopened. “For launching the education process immediately in conformity with the Covid protocols we have decided to provide Android phones to all the students and teachers so the Braille Software can be installed to launch education,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Bijender Goel nominated as founder president of Indian Delphic Council||Bijender Goel, former special representative to Jharkhand government, has been nominated as the Founding President of the Indian Delphic Council to head the Indian movement. Goel was also the chairman of the National Council on Disaster management, member of governing council of Bir Tikendrajit University, Manipur and known for introducing earthquake onsite early warning technology in South Asia. He is also an advisor of the South Asian Affairs of the International Delphic Council (IDC), informed a statement from IDC, which is a voluntary, not-for-profit, nonpolitical, nonreligious global organization that works to foster harmony amongst people through engagements in the various arts forms and the cultural identities that manifest them, through the Delphic Games. Goel in a statement said that he plans to take this movement to every artist, art lover, various stakeholders and government bodies in India by promoting all category of arts. “Apart from Delphic Games at the international level, the INDC will organise many festivals, events, platforms in India,” it added. The ancient history of the Delphic Games traces its roots back to Delphi in Greece 2500 years ago as the twin-sister of the Olympic Games. The Delphic Games are to Arts & Cultures what Olympic Games are to physical sports. While the Delphic Games of the Modern Era were revived in 1994, the Olympic Games were revived in 1894. Since revival, the Delphic Games have been hosted in Georgia, Russia, Malaysia, South Korea, Philippines, Germany and South Africa while Delphic Summits, Delphic Art Wall initiatives and other festivals of cultural significance have been organised elsewhere in the world. International Institutions like UNESCO, Council of Europe, ASEAN among others have endorsed the various editions of the Delphic Games in the past. World leaders including Nelson Mandela (South Africa), Mikhail Gorbachev (erstwhile USSR), Helmut Kohl (Germany), Eduard Shevardnadze (Georgia) as well as celebrated musicians, painters, academicians, historians, arts & culture revivalists and the likes have supported the Delphic Games. India has participated in three editions of the Delphic Games in various countries and even won gold and silver medals in South Korea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi's active Covid caseload drops below 1k||The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped below the 1000-mark in Ranchi – the worst affected district in Jharkhand in terms of caseload – on Tuesday as at least 248 patients recovered from the infection here while only nine people were found infected by Coronavirus on the day, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. However, the capital still accounted for more than 35 per cent of the total active cases in Jharkhand. As per data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 934 Ranchi residents were battling Covid-19 by the end of Tuesday. The active caseload in the state also dropped to 2646 on the day as it reported 596 Covid recoveries against 184 fresh cases of Coronavirus infection. As per NHM data, at least four more Covid patients died in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 5089. Ranchi, Lohardaga, East Singhbhum and Khunti reported one Covid casualty each on the day. At least three districts – Chatra, Deoghar and Pakur – did not report fresh Covid cases on Tuesday, while seven districts reported a double-digit-spike. At least 25 people were found infected in Hazaribag and 21 patients recovered there. Dhanbad reported 14 cases against seven recoveries, while 10 people were found infected in Bokaro and seven patients recovered there. None of the 24 districts in Jharkhand reported a spike of more than 50 cases on Tuesday. As many as 31 people were found infected in East Singhbhum, the highest among the districts. However, at least 50 patients recovered there, bringing the active caseload down to 247, NHM data highlighted. So far, over 3.43 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in Jharkhand and 97.75 per cent of them have recovered. However, about 1.48 per cent of the patients could not survive, highlights government data. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of 34,684 residents and less than 0.5 per cent of them were found to be Covid positive. As per NHM data, the growth rate of Covid-19 dropped to 0.05 per cent in Jharkhand on the day against the national average of 0.19 per cent. The doubling rate in the state also reached 1268.98 days against the national doubling rate of 367.58 days. Jharkhand on Tuesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 50,856 residents and more than 30,000 of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. As per government data, the second jab was administered to 14808 residents, including 3375 beneficiaries younger than 45 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand health department releases helpline for post-Covid problems  ||The Jharkhand health department released a helpline number to address problems of post-Covid complications of patients. The Nistha Swasthya Sampark post Covid helpline 07314821385 was launched by state health minister Banna Gupta on Monday. “The helpline number would provide free post-Covid care for recovered patients in four intervention districts of Jharkhand, Ranchi, East Singhbhum (Jamshedpur), Dhanbad and Bokaro and help set up teleconsultation platform with specialists and super specialists to address their problems. “It will also provide continuity of care and support for patients with chronic conditions, rural residents, elderly and those with disabilities,” Gupta said. The state health department has directed the deputy commissioners of all the 24 districts on Sunday to start a survey based on social and economic aspects of families of families who have lost earning members due to the second wave of Covid-19. The districts have to complete the survey and submit it to the health department by June 25. The survey findings will help the government plan welfare schemes for the rehabilitation and uplift of the families that have lost their members to Covid-19. Additional chief secretary (health) Arun Kumar Singh has also directed all deputy commissioners that all Covid-19 positive patients should be compulsorily brought to the Covid hospitals and no home isolation shall be granted. The letter also states that all possible contacts of positive patients must be tested within 24 hours. “In view of the steep decline in number of Covid cases across states and with easing of restrictions in other states there can be an influx of passengers from other states with higher positivity rates which might lead to an increase in the Covid infection in Jharkhand. Earlier, we had shortage of beds but now with enough beds we do not want to take risk on new cases and they would have to be hospitalised for treatment,” said state health nodal officer Siddharth Tripathy. Meanwhile, the state on Sunday witnessed only two deaths due to Covid taking the total mortality figure to 5,084. The day also witnessed 154 new cases taking the active load 3,395.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
16-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: 25% ventilators given to Jharkhand by the Centre ‘defunct’||One-fourth of the ventilators given to Jharkhand by the Centre is not functional and requires repair or replacement of missing parts. The state government has written to the manufacturers of those ventilators, bought from the PM-Cares funds, requesting them to send teams so that such ventilators could be made operational. Jharkhand received 663 ventilators and the health department distributed those among the districts for using at various heath facilities. At the time of their installation at different facilities, it was found that 164 ventilators that accounted for 24.73 per cent of the total 663 could not be used as they had either some mechanical defects or some parts missing. Ravi Shankar Shukla, mission director of National Health Mission, Jharkhand, wrote two separate letters on Saturday to the manufacturers of those ventilators,  Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) headquartered in Bangalore and AgVa Healthcare in New Delhi,  requesting them “to send additional teams for urgent installation and to replace the dysfunctional ventilators”. Of the total 663 ventilators received by the state, AgVa Healthcare made 438 and 225 by BEL while those two lots had 139 and 25 dysfunctional ventilators respectively. Meanwhile, the Jharkhand government has decided to replace home isolation of Covid patients by facility isolation with recoveries outnumbering new positive cases and the number of deaths coming down remarkably, the Covid situation seems to be under control in the state. The active caseload was further reduced to 3,062 and just one death was recorded in the state on Monday while the recovery rate went up to 97.62 per cent. Still, the Jharkhand government has decided that all Covid-19 positive patients would be compulsory sent to hospitals or Covid care centres and are not allowed to remain at home unless the authorities consider on case-to-case basis and feel otherwise. “Though the state is on the declining path of the second phase of Covid-19 pandemic…with easing of restrictions, this is the time to be extremely vigilant for any possible resurgence of Covid-19 cases,” state’s additional chief secretary (health) Arun Kumar Singh said in a letter to the deputy commissioners (DCs) of all the districts last week, advising them to send positive patients to hospitals and not grant any home isolation. “Not a bad idea,” said a government doctor on the condition of anonymity. He said the hospitals, unlike earlier, had empty beds now and can accommodate more patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
