17-06-2021||Jharkhand||Hazaribagh court encounter shooter in police net||Hazaribagh police on Thursday arrested the prime accused in the 2015 court killing of gangster Sushil Srivastava and his two aides. The shooter was identified as Avtar Singh, a resident of Jammu and Kashmir’s Udhampur district. He was hired by a rival Bhola Pandey to carry out the killing. Police officials confirmed bringing Avtar to Hazaribagh and said he received Rs.40lakh for eliminating Srivastava. Sources said a four member team of three assistant sub-inspectors and inspector brought him to Hazaribagh where he will now have to face a murder trial. Avtar was caught on June 8 by Jammu police. He admitted using an AK-47 for the work and was given Rs.40 lakh by Vikas Tiwary, leader of the Bhola Pandey gang. He said after the shooting, he took voluntary retirement from the army. Hazaribagh police officials said Avtar was nabbed from R S Pura area on the outskirts of Jammu on June 8. After seeing a bullet mark on one of his legs, Jammu police interrogated him following which he admitted to his involvement in the 2015 shootout at Hazaribagh court. He said he was the main shooter and killed Srivastava while he was being brought to the Hazaribagh civil court. He said policemen on duty also opened fire and he was hit by one on his leg while fleeing. Officials said Avtar was brought to Hazaribagh on transit remand. “We are interrogating him to get details of this conspiracy and about his own involvement as a shooter,” they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
17-06-2021||Jharkhand||Placement boom for NIT-Adityapur ||Amid lockdowns and Covid-19 pandemic, the Adityapur-based National Institute of Technology in Jamshedpur cradle is heading for another impressive placement year with 461 of 506 students getting jobs in ongoing campus recruitments. Software firm DE Shaw's Rs 37.5 lakh annual package stood out as the best offer so far for the batch of 2017-21. According to officials of the training and placement cell, the tech cradle has so far achieved 91.11 per cent placement, with one month left for the completion of the placement season. So far about 150 companies took part in the placement process which kicked off in July last year. Another 20 companies are expected to turn up in the next one month for head hunting the rest students of the placement batch. The online recruitment process for the current batch which began in July 2020 gained momentum in October. Professor-in-charge of NIT's Training and Placement cell, Prahlad Prasad said the computer science engineering stream recorded 100 percent placement. "All the 88 students of the stream who were eligible for the placement process bagged plum jobs. Piyush Rai, a student of that stream bagged the highest salary of Rs 37.50 lakh offered by DE Shaw. The IT companies offered an average salary package of Rs 15.50 lakh per annum, "he said adding that e-commerce major Amazon offered the second best salary of Rs 30 lakh per annum. The electronics and communication engineering stream recorded 96.15 per cent placement so far. The mechanical engineering stream so far achieved 93.98 per cent placement while electrical engineering stream recorded 92.60 placement. According to the data, the civil engineering stream recorded 75.76 per cent placements while the production and industrial engineering stream achieved 86.11 per cent placements. The metallurgical and materials engineering stream recorded 84.21 per cent placements. "All credits to the training and placement cell team who have worked selflessly and made it a great success . At present we are looking forward to hosting the other companies who would recruit the  rest students of the current placement batch, " said Prasad, the professor-in-charge of Training and Placement Cell. Some of the other recruiters included Meesho, Goldman Sachs, Nokia, Deloitte, Tata Power, Flipcart, Infosys, Comviva, TCS Innovator, Paytm, Genpact, Lowe's India, One Plus, Cargil, Tekion, Tata Steel, Mentor Graphics, Publicis Sapient, Info Edge, Samsung (R&D), Bajaj, DMI Finance, Axeela, ZS Associates, Amdocs , One Plus and Capgemini.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
17-06-2021||Jharkhand||State apex body to celebrate Olympic Day||The Jharkhand Olympic Association will be celebrating Olympic Day with a theme to support Indian athletes for next month’s sporting extravaganza in Tokyo, Japan. Physical sports events are not possible during the pandemic and the JOA wants to celebrate the occasion by adopting other means. Olympic Day was first celebrated in 1948 to commemorate the birth of the modern Olympic Games on June 23 at the Sorbonne in Paris. The goal was to promote participation in sports across the globe regardless of age, gender or athletic ability. The state’s apex sports body has lined up three programmes to mark the Olympic Day on June 23. From quiz competitions, selfie points to essays, the citizens of Jharkhand will have ample opportunity to support Indian athletes in the run-up to the Olympic Games. The quiz and essay competition is open for all age groups. “We want everyone to celebrate Olympic Day and rejoice the occasion,” said JOA secretary Madhukant Pathak. According to Pathak, the quiz competition from June 20 to 23 on Radio Dhoom will have questions on the Tokyo Olympic Games. Five questions will be asked every day. Winners will be declared once JOA receives the answers forwarded by Radio Dhoom. The JOA secretary added that selfie points will be set up in all the 24 districts. “We are working on a design to be put up on flex. The message on the flex will carry the message `We Support Team India in the Olympics’. The design should be ready in a day or two. The district Olympic associations will be earmarking selfie points in their respective cities, which, among others, will include Jamshedpur, Dhanbad and Ranchi,” Pathak said. “We are also organising an essay competition `Olympic movement in India’ which will stretch till July 10. “We have requested two lecturers of Ranchi College to go through the essays and choose the top three,” Pathak, who is also treasurer of Athletics Federation of India, informed. Essays can be sent to on jharkhandolympic@gmail.com and Whatsapp 9431105669) till July 10 and the results will be announced and prizes distributed before the start of Olympic Games on July 23. “The participants can send essays (in Hindi and English) not exceeding 100 lines,” Pathak said. Moreover, a signature campaign will also be one of the events to mark Olympic Day.  “Signatures supporting the Indian team in the Olympics will be on a 5 m canvas which will be put in all the districts. The district Olympic outfits will be arranging the canvas once we send them the design,” a JOA functionary said. The signatures will be sent to Indian Olympic Association (IOA) before the departure of Indian team to Tokyo starting July 17. Barring the selfie point, winners of quiz and essay competition will receive prizes in the form of T-shirts. “We have ordered 500 T-shirts with'' We support Team India written on the front,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
17-06-2021||Jharkhand||Two hockey stars from Jharkhand in India's Olympic squad ||Jharkhand’s sports fraternity was ecstatic after Hockey India announced on Thursday that two players from the state, Nikki Pradhan and Salima Tete, were part of the India women's squad for the Tokyo Olympics scheduled to begin next month. The news is a great morale booster for the state’s hockey fraternity amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. While Nikki becomes the first woman hockey player of Jharkhand to represent India in the Olympics twice, it is also the first time in the history of Jharkhand that two players from the state will be in the same Olympic team (hockey). Twenty-six year old Nikki is from Khunti and had represented the country in the Rio Olympics in 2016. For 22-year-old Salima from Simdega, it will be her first mega outing. Both are defenders in the squad. And bBoth are currently at the Sports Authority of India (SAI) centre in Bangalore undergoing training. “I am happy to have made it to the squad,  but equally elated that two of us from Jharkhand will be playing alongside in the same team for India in the Olympic games,” Nikki told The Telegraph Online over phone from Bangalore. While big-ticket tournaments and sporting activities have gradually resumed in other countries in the recent months, it is yet to do so in India, which is passing through a brutal second wave of Covid-19. Although, cases of new infection across the country is currently on a downward trend, full-fledged sporting activities are yet to be allowed with several states continuing with restrictions to cut transmission of the virus. In Jharkhand too, stadiums are still to be thrown open and sporting events have largely remained restricted since March. “For players, the pandemic posed lots of unforeseen challenges. But I tried to stay focussed on my goal. In terms of safety, I maintain high standards of hygiene and follow Covid appropriate behavior,” Nikki said, adding that she has been lucky to have been unaffected by the virus so far. Nikki and her team mates have already received both doses of the vaccine. India probables have been training at the Sports Authority of India campus in Bangalore for a year now. “We rarely stepped out of the campus in the last one year, except when we were allowed to go to our hometowns. On campus, we have a gym, play grounds and other facilities which helped us practise and maintain our fitness,” she said. The only challenge for most of the team members will be the lack of enough match practice in foreign conditions. “Due to the pandemic, we couldn’t play enough matches both in India and outside in the run up to the Olympics. Although we did practise within ourselves but experience of matches is different,” she said. Hockey Jharkhand president Bholanath Singh was in a celebratory mood. “Our girls have made us proud. We hope they make the country proud too,” he said. Hockey Simdega president Manoj Konbegi said  Nikki and Salima have created history. “Two players from our state in the same team is a first," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
17-06-2021||Jharkhand||Vigorous monsoon triggers heavy rain across Jharkhand||The monsoon, currently in a vigorous state in Jharkhand, triggered heavy rain across the state in the last 24 hours, and the weather office predicts similar weather in the next two to three days. IMD officials said the vigorous state of monsoon, coupled with two cyclonic circulations and a trough, led to incessant rains across several districts. While Ranchi and Hazaribagh recorded over 30mm rainfall, Jamshedpur logged 10mm rain. A cyclonic circulation was existing over eastern Uttar Pradesh extending upto 3.1km above mean sea level. Another cyclonic circulation was persisting over Gangetic West Bengal  and extending upto 7.6 km above mean sea level. The trough  was running from western Rajasthan to northeast Bay of Bengal across Bihar, Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal and extending upto 0.9km above mean sea level. Met data suggested that heavy to very heavy rain was experienced by several districts since past 24 hours. The highest amount of rainfall -- 141.6mm -- was recorded by the IMD station at  Koderma. That was followed by Giridih, which recorded 134mm of rain. Several places in north eastern Jharkhand - Barkisuraiya, Sargaon and Sikatia -- recorded over 100 mm of rain. Several places in Hazaribagh, Pakur, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Jamtara, Ramgarh and Ranchi districts recorded rainfall between 30 and 40 mm. Jamshedpur recorded 10 mm of rain during the past 24 hours. The intensity of rain in Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas increased from Thursday afternoon. The rain resulted in water logging in several thoroughfares. The water level of two rivers- Subernarekha and Kharkai- witnessed a sudden rise due to the incessant rains and the opening of  two sluice gates of Bankabal dam  in Mayurbhanj district of neighbouring Odisha. There was a fear of flash floods in several low-lying areas of Kolhan due to the rising water levels of both the rivers. The  East Dinghbhum district administration has issued an alert . Announcements were made through public address systems on Thursday morning, asking people residing in low-lying areas to shift to higher grounds. In its forecast, IMD's Ranchi Met Centre predicted light thunderstorms, accompanied by lightning, at isolated places over Jharkhand during the next 48 hours. Heavy rainfall was also expected  at a few  isolated places over south-west, central and northern Jharkhand during the next two days. “The monsoon is in vigorous condition over Jharkhand and will continue to result  in widespread rain in the next two to three days, ” said a duty officer at IMD's Patna Met Centre. The widespread and heavy rain after the onset of monsoon took Jharkand's rain surplus figure to 93 per cent. So far in June, Jharkhand has recorded 149.8mm of rain against a normal of 77.8 mm, a surplus of 93 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
17-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city residents flout Covid norms with impunity ||The fear factor seems to have disappeared from most of the people's minds about Covid-19 after more shops were opened following Unlock - 3 in the steel city. During the first half of Thursday, after more shops like clothes, cosmetics, jewellery and shoes were opened, marketplaces started bustling with shoppers. A common sight at the markets in Sakchi and Bistupur was a large number of people either without masks or wearing them just below their nose and even chin. At most shops, the customers were seen evading social distancing norms, especially by the women at the jewellery and cosmetics stores. "About two months have passed since the lockdown was imposed. I was looking forward eagerly when the cosmetic shops will be opened again. As the shops are permitted to remain open till 4 pm only, I came out for the shopping in the morning, "said Anita Shrivastav, a resident of South Park in Bistupur, to The Telegraph Online. Like Anita, several women and girls were found to be on a buying spree at ladies garment shops, jewellery shops and cosmetic shops at Bistupur market despite drizzling continued in the city throughout the day. Significantly, till Wednesday when limited shops, including medical stores, grocery shops besides motor garage as well as hardware stores were operating, the marketplaces were much less crowded and people were also wearing masks. Additional district magistrate (law and order), Nand Kishore Lal said if the people evade wearing masks at the marketplace and on the streets after Unlock - 3, then, it is a very dangerous thing to happen. "Let the administration take stock of the situation. We will start carrying out surprise inspections at the markets from tomorrow and slap penalty on those who will be found flouting the Covid norms, "said Lal to The Telegraph Online. The additional district magistrate said allowing some more shops to reopen does not mean that the pandemic has disappeared from the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
17-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city boy becomes a chess sensation in state||Steel city youngster Adhiraj Mitra loves to beat rivals of higher age groups across the chess board, after starting the game two-and-a-half-years back. The 9-year-old belies his age with intelligent moves and looks set to take big strides in future. "I feel happy and satisfied defeating players of higher age groups. And I have done so, mostly recently in the state under-18 chess festival," Adhiraj, a class IV student of Loyola School said. Besides claiming the under-18 title, Adhiraj also topped the competition for under-12 and under-10 section of the chess festival, besides finishing runner-up in the under-14 age category. The young player, who works 10-12 hours on the chess board under his maternal uncles Dushyant and Abhishek Das, both international players, had also emerged champion in the district under-18 online chess event conducted earlier this year. "I dream of someday becoming a world champion. I will do everything to realise this dream," said Adhiraj, who also loves roller skates and is fond of watching cartoons. Adhiraj, who idolises Norwegian Grandmaster Magnus Carlsen and is a big fan of Viswanathan Anand, did not compete in the recently concluded online national under-18 meet as he wanted to participate and win the under-14, 12 and 10 age groups at the chess festival organised earlier this month by All Jharkhand Chess Association. Adhiraj is a trainee of Tata Chess Centre and is currently getting online lessons from chief coach Jayant Kumar Bhuyan. He is getting the required support from his parents Uttam and Runa Mitra of Sonari. "We are aware of our son's talent. He is making impressive progress in chess and we support him to the hilt. We want him to someday become the world's youngest Grandmaster," said Uttam, a businessman. Homemaker Runa added Adhiraj is addicted to chess and spends 10-12 hours on the board. "We want him (Adhiraj) to pursue the game. We know he is going to make steady progress in the game. We want him to someday make it big in chess," she said. Adhiraj had met Viswanathan Anand when the Grandmaster was in Jamshedpur to promote his book Mind Master in February last year. He had always wanted to play with the five-time world champion. The dream came true when Adhiraj went up to Anand at the JRD Tata Sports Complex where Vishy was meeting 200 chess enthusiasts and requested the Grandmaster for a game. To the boy’s utter delight, Anand said yes. “I cannot forget that moment. Though I played for just five minutes with the great Viswanathan Anand, it was an unforgettable experience,” Adhiraj recalled. “Adhiraj is extremely talented and a quick learner. He is the boy to look out for in future,” said Tata chess cradle chief coach Bhuyan. State chess association secretary Neeraj Kumar Mishra, an International Master, also heaped praise on the skills of the kid. “Adhiraj is set to make more improvements in his game. He is an intelligent player,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
17-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand launches maiden pneumococcal immunisation drive||State Health Minister Banna Gupta launched Jharkhand’s maiden pneumococcal vaccination drive on Thursday and said the immunisation programme for infants will work as a protective shield against Covid-19, a third wave of whihc scientists do not rule out. “The vaccination drive against pneumonia will prove to be a milestone in Jharkhand’s fight against Covid-19. By administering PCV (Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine) to our infants, we will not only protect them from pneumonia but also provide them a safety net against Covid-19,” Gupta said while launching the immunisation programme online. The health minister claimed that patients of pneumonia and Covid-19 showed similar symptoms, and in some cases, Covid patients developed pneumonia, which proved fatal. The vaccination, he added, would boost immunity of children and protect them from several bacteria-borne diseases as well. Gupta also urged Jharkhand residents not to panic if their infants had mild fever or body pain after immunisation. “Mild fever or body ache are common side effects of any vaccine. Please do not panic if your child has mild fever after the dose. Remember that the vaccine will protect them from many severe diseases,” he said. The government will provide PCV doses to children free of cost under its Universal Immunisation Programme in Jharkhand. So far, beneficiaries had to pay Rs 1,600 for each dose of the Pfizer-made vaccine available in the market, which mounted financial pressure on the people from rural Jharkhand. “At least 8 lakh people die of pneumonia every year globally and the toll is 1.27 lakh in India. This immunisation programme will certainly prove to be a major step towards protecting our children and ensuring a healthy life for them,” said state health secretary Arun Kumar Singh. Singh said that pneumonia was transmitted from one person to another through coughing and sneezing. Breathing trouble, coughing, fever and body ache were some of the common symptoms of pneumonia, which were also common in Covid patients, he added. At least 77,200 doses of PCV have been distributed among the 24 districts to run the immunisation programme, health officials said. The three doses of the vaccine will be administered to infants at the age of six weeks, 14 weeks and nine months. The vaccine doses will be administered at all government hospitals, Primary Health Centres (PHCs), Community Health Centres (CHCs) and other vaccination camps set up by the government. Parents of the beneficiaries will have to carry their Mother Child Protection (MCP) cards to the vaccination centres and get the jabs free of cost. Jharkhand will be the seventh Indian state to launch this immunisation programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
17-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Active caseload drops below 2,300 in the state||Jharkhand on Wednesday reported 190 Covid-19 cases against 587 recoveries, which brought the active caseload in the state down to 2246, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. While the active caseload continued to drop, at least three more Covid patients died during treatment on Wednesday, keeping the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand higher than the national average. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 1.48 per cent against the national average of 1.30 per cent, a bulletin released by the NHM stated Ranchi, Godda and Deoghar reported one Covid casualty each on the day, taking the Covid toll in the state to 5092. However, none of the 24 districts in the state reported a spike of more than 50 cases on Wednesday. With 35 fresh cases of infection, East Singhbhum reported the highest spike among the districts. However, at least 39 Covid patients recovered there, bringing the active caseload in the district down to 242. Ranchi accounted for almost half of the Covid recoveries on Wednesday. As per NHM data, the district reported 20 cases and 245 Covid recoveries, which brought the active caseload here down to 708. The one casualty on the day took the toll in the district to 1582, the highest among Jharkhand districts. As per the NHM bulletin, Hazaribag reported 18 cases against 23 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 16 cases against 15 recoveries. At least two districts – Khunti and Dumka – did not report fresh cases of Coronavirus infection on the day. At least 10 people were found infected in Gumla and 12 in Chatra. So far, over 3.43 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in Jharkhand and 97.86 per cent of them have recovered, highlights government data. The national recovery rate, as per government data, was 95.80 per cent. The state on Wednesday tested swab samples of 41,065 residents on the day and the positivity rate was less than 0.5 per cent. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 was 0.05 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.17 per cent. The doubling rate in Jharkhand was 1378.06 days against the national average of 398.87 days. Jharkhand on Wednesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 60,017 residents and more than half of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab, as per NHM records, was administered to 13,799 residents on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
17-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Incentives allay vaccine doubt in rural Jharkhand ||The district administrations in Jharkhand are offering lucrative incentives to the rural populace to overcome their vaccine hesitancy as more and more villages are inching towards 100 per cent vaccination coverage. “Incentives are helping us increase the rate of vaccination as people are now turning up at (vaccination centres) at a faster rate. This is further dispelling their fear of vaccination and bridge the gap created by misinformation spread by some elements,” said West Singhbhum deputy commissioner Ananya Mittal. West Singhbhum has some of the most remote villages located in dense forest terrain bordering Sundergarh and Keonjhar (both in Odisha). In one initiative in West Singhbhum, a petrol pump in Chakradharpur sub-division has started giving one litre petrol/diesel free to customers on producing the vaccination certificate. “We have also managed to motivate traders through chambers of commerce to give a five to 10 per cent discount to people above 45 years for a specified period if they get vaccinated,” said Mittal. The authorities are also trying to disburse seeds to farmers and distribute tricycles to the physically challenged at a few vaccination centres to attract more people. “We also train two teachers per block who in turn train three teachers per panchayat regarding the importance of vaccination. Now they are conducting village meetings to make people aware about the facts,” added Mittal. The efforts are bearing fruit with West Singhbhum placed in third position in terms of total number of eligible people vaccinated (4,170) on June 15 behind East Singhbhum (7,108) and Ranchi (5,401). Banmara under Kullukera panchayat in Simdega district, one of the farthest villages located along the Jharkhand-Chhattisgarh border, got all its eligible beneficiaries vaccinated on June 11. Even residents of Jinsjarakani village in Kurdeg block of Simdega district, along the Jharkhand-Odisha border, have shown the same resolve to attain 100 per cent vaccination against Covid-19. “These villages, some of which are the remotest and farthest, have become a role model for others. The people of these villages actively participated in the inoculation drive and achieved 100 per cent vaccination coverage. “After a few awareness drives by the administration, people of these villages realised the importance of vaccination for their safety. Ranga panchayat of Masaliya block in Dumka is also heading towards 100 per cent vaccination. Panchayats like Shikaripara and Gandrakpur, which are situated at the farthest point of the districts have also achieved more than 80 per cent vaccination,” said health department nodal officer (information, education and communication), Siddharth Tripathy. Several other villages are moving towards 100 per cent vaccination. Garu block of Latehar district is a Maoist-affected area with a population of nearly 36,000. Almost 50 per cent of the 18-plus population of this block have received the vaccine. The district administration is running intensive awareness campaigns across the block. Every day, a rise in vaccination coverage is being recorded. Awareness campaigns run by the government in native and regional languages are helping people understand the benefits of the vaccine. Myths and fallacies related to the Covid-19 vaccine are being brought to light among the rural population of the state. The Dumka district administration in Santhal Pargana region, having multiple panchayats with more than 75 per cent to 80 per cent vaccination coverage, is running an intensive awareness drive. In addition to weekend vaccination mass drives being organised across the state, the Dumka administration is also organising awareness camps. Officials and local people are taking part in the awareness camps and encouraging more beneficiaries to come to vaccination centres to get their shots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
17-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Ratri Pathshala for children in villages ||The children of over three dozen villages of Chotanagpur, unlike most of their counterparts elsewhere, attended ‘special’ classes regularly during the pandemic. That was possible because the Akhil Bharatiya Adivasi Vikash Parishad, a social organisation founded a few decades ago by popular tribal leader and former Union minister Kartik Oraon, held such classes regularly, that too in a Covid-appropriate manner. “Classes were held regularly, barring those days when everything came to a standstill during the peak period of the lockdown last year,” informed Arun Oraon, a former senior IPS officer who tried to rejuvenate the organisation by spreading education among rural children. They have been organising Ratri Pathshala or special evening classes, for such children of 39 villages spread in Ranchi, Lohardaga and Gumla districts since 2014. These children are all enrolled as students of Classes I to X in government schools in their respective areas and attend these special classes in the evening. “We found these children were very weak in Mathematics, Science and English and their continuing higher studies would be really difficult unless they improve in those subjects,” Oraon informed when asked why they had to organise those classes for school going children. Most of the primary or middle schools have only two teachers one of whom is always busy supervising mid-day meals for the children while the other is often drafted by government for such non-teaching duty such as revising voter list or conducting census, he added to explain the reason behind the sorry state of government-run schools. “There are about 200 volunteers, mostly college and university students, who conduct these evening classes without expecting any remuneration,” Oraon further informed, adding they could give only an emergency light, a blackboard and two durees (mats) to each of those pathshalas. “Those classes are organised at anganwadi centres or panchayat bhavans with consent from the controlling authorities at normal time,” he said, adding the lockdown changed everything. The classes had to be suspended during the peak period of the lockdown but they were also worried that prolonged disconnection with books would be harmful for children. “So, depending on weather condition, our volunteers shifted Ratri Pathshala to day time and held classes in an open field or a mango grove where children would study while maintaining social distancing,” Oraon said. They also divided the children in groups according to the classes they studied and taught them in a deferred manner so that a child had to attend classes only twice a week, he added. “To assess the progress made by those children, we also conducted a test for them that continued for 5 days, beginning June 6, at open spaces,” Oraon informed. “Those taking classes are good students who care for their community and try to give their best,” he further said, adding they were hopeful that children would be benefitted by attending those classes. They also had plans to extend the pathshala to other districts of the state and many have already expressed their desire get involved for carrying it on, Oraon further informed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
