18-06-2021||Jharkhand||Seraikela karateka nominated joint secretary of state Delphic council ||Amit Modak, a karate practitioner and resident of Gamharia in Seraikela-Kharsawan district, has been nominated as the joint secretary of Jharkhand Delphic Council. The 23-year-old was nominated to the post during a recent online meeting of the South Asian Delphic Council. Expressing happiness, Modak thanked Indian Delphic Council founding president and advisor (South Asian Affairs) of International Delphic Council (IDC) Bijender Goel for his nomination. "There is no dearth of talented artists in Jharkhand and I would try my best to help them get international recognition," Modak, who also excels in taekwondo, said. Modak is the world record holder for the fastest punches in a second. He achieved the feat (10 punches in one second) in January, 2019. The High Range Book of World Records, a Hyderabad-based organisation established to explore talented, creative, outstanding, innovative or philanthropic people and honour them by certificates, recognised the skills of the youngster. Modak heads the Youngistan Warriors of Martial Art, an NGO formed last year. He trains school students under his NGO’s banner for free. The NGO also works in Seraikela-Kharsawan Ranchi, Simdega and Hazaribagh. The training has been discontinued due to the pandemic but will resume once the situation improves. He has won medals in national and international competitions. IDC is a voluntary, not-for-profit, non-political, non-religious global organization that works to foster harmony amongst people through engagements in the various arts forms and the cultural identities that manifest them, through the Delphic Games. The ancient history of the Delphic Games traces its roots back to Delphi in Greece 2500 years ago as the twin-sister of the Olympic Games. The Delphic Games are to Arts & Cultures what Olympic Games are to physical sports. While the Delphic Games of the modern era were revived in 1994, the Olympic Games were revived in 1894. Since revival, the Delphic Games have been hosted in Georgia, Russia, Malaysia, South Korea, Philippines, Germany and South Africa while Delphic Summits, Delphic Art Wall initiatives and other festivals of cultural significance have been organised elsewhere in the world. International Institutions like UNESCO, Council of Europe, ASEAN among others have endorsed the various editions of the Delphic Games in the past. World leaders, including Nelson Mandela (South Africa), Mikhail Gorbachev (erstwhile USSR), Helmut Kohl (Germany), Eduard Shevardnadze (Georgia) as well as celebrated musicians, painters, academicians, historians, arts & culture revivalists and the likes have supported the Delphic Games. India has participated in three editions of the Delphic Games in various countries and even won gold and silver medals in South Korea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
18-06-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rain disrupts Jharia water supply for three days ||More than five lakh residents of Jharia are facing disruptions in water supply for the last three days due to increase in water level of river Damodar and consequent submerging of the motors of the intake well at Jamadoba based water treatment plant of Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority. The power supply disruption caused due to heavy rains has also complicated the issue to some extent as a continuous eight hour of electricity supply is required for regular water supply from Jamadoba based water treatment plant. Expressing outrage over the situation, Pinaki Roy a private tutor of Jharia said, “Regular water supply which was a USP of basic amenities of Jharia has almost eluded the town since the five years due to various reasons, including water supply pipeline rupture, technical snag in motors of JMADA at Jamadoba and lack of regular electricity supply to the water treatment plant.” “Why can’t the arrangement of direct electricity supply connection to the water treatment plant be made through the DVC to avoid the power failure affecting the water supply?,”questioned Roy and added that instead of early morning water supply at around 6am to 8 am, water supply now a days is carried out at the odd times of 11 am to afternoon at around 3 pm and even during the night in some localities Echoing his sentiments former councillor of Ward Number 37 of Jharia, Anup Sao said “Besides the irregular water supply several areas of Jharia like, Fatehpur Lane, Hanuman Gadhi, Niche Rajbari, Dumariyatand, Hetli Bandh, Koiri Bandh, Mishra Para and Poddar Pada  are also affected through low pressure of water supply as a result of which water doesn’t reach in several of the houses of these locality” “We have also carried out an inspection of the water treatment plant (WTP) at Jamadoba as part of a delegation of Jharia resident two years ago during which we were apprised about the constraints being faced by the employees deputed at the Water Treatment plant in carrying out regular water supply including the constraints faced in lifting the motors from near the river bed during the time of rise in water level,” said Sao. “At a time When JMADA is investing more than Rs 317 crore in laying new pipelines and water treatment why can’t it invest a little on beefing up its existing water supply infrastructure at Jamadoba” said Sao Sub Divisional Officer of Water Supply Division of JMADA, Pankaj Kumar Jha said, “Rise in water level of the river Damodar to  around 467 feet from the safe level of 457 feet is the main cause of  water supply disruption as it led to dipping of motors of the intake well of Jamadoba based WTP. “Though, the problem has been fixed but not irregular power supply in affecting water supply,” further said Jha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
18-06-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rain damages houses, traps families in Bokaro||Two families residing on the top floor of Sector-12/A in Bokaro Steel Township are trapped after the only staircase in that block subsided due to heavy rain. They have to depend on other residents to get their essential things. Neighbours are sending them milk and other essential commodities through a rope dropped by them. The BSL township houses employees and retired employees in majority. There are 10 different Sectors in the township in which more than three lakh people reside in residential blocks. Many of these residential buildings in each of the Sectors required immediate repairing and maintenance. During monsoon or rainfall, the subsidence of roofs or staircases is common in BSL township. In the past two months, about a dozen incidents took place in the quarters and blocks in Bokaro Steel Township when the residents had a close shave with subsidence of plasters, staircase and railings. The Sector-12/A area is most vulnerable to such incidents with poor quality construction. BSL employees have expressed fear for their lives who stay in such quarters. Residents blamed the Town and Administration department of BSL for turning a deaf ear to their complaints. Subroto Kumar Mallick, a BSL employee and a resident of the second floor who was trapped, said, “We heard a huge sound and the entire staircase collapsed to the ground. Unfortunately, a car parked under it got badly damaged. We have made complaint to Town and Administration department narrating the dilapidated condition of the building and requested them to repair it soon, but still nothing was done. We are now trapped in our houses.” On May 29, the district administration had also raised concern over deteriorating condition of residential blocks and quarters in the Bokaro Steel Plant township. Deputy Commissioner cum chairman of District Disaster Management Authourity, Rajesh Singh had sent a letter to director in-charge, Amarendu Prakash asking to take up repairing and other necessary tasks to prevent loss of life and property during monsoon. But the request seems to have gone unattended. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said survey of buildings requiring critical maintenance work in sector 12 has been done. More than 100 such buildings in sector 12 have been identified for comprehensive repair. Work had started in some buildings but due to ravaging pandemic situation, not much progress could be made during the last two months. "A committee has also been made to explore the possibility of shifting the occupants of these buildings to other quarters till repair work is completed. Again, implementation of this step got hindered due to the pandemic situation and lockdown. In due course of time, action in respect of the above will be taken to address the issue at the earliest possible," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
18-06-2021||Jharkhand||Private hospitals want state to buy vaccines for them||Private hospitals in Jharkhand are hesitant to pay upfront and procure Covid-19 vaccines and have, therefore, asked the state government to buy vaccines on their behalf so that these could be administered at prescribed costs from June 21 as per the new vaccine policy. A government official said, “During a meeting with all private hospitals on June 14, this issue cropped up and everyone asked the state government to procure vaccines on their behalf. For example, one has to invest Rs 19 lakh for 3,000 doses (minimum prescribed quantity) of Covishield. Not many are keen on doing so fearing supply issues.” As per Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on June 7, the Centre will provide vaccines for all adults to state governments free of cost from June 21. Under the new rule, the Centre will procure 75 per cent of the stocks from manufacturers directly and allocate to states. The remainng 25 per cent can be bought by private hospitals to administer on their own. Private hospitals have directed to impose a maximum of Rs 150 as service charge in addition to the price of the vaccine while administering jabs. While the per dose price for Covaxin and Covishield has been fixed at Rs 1,410 and Rs 780 respectively, the Russian vaccine, Sputnik V, will cost Rs 1,145 per dose in private hospitals. Many private hospitals are, however, reluctant to pay high advances apprehending a slow response from residents, especially in rural areas, owing to the high price of vaccines, said officials in the state health department. State director of National Health Mission Ravi Shankar Shukla has asked all civil surgeons to coordinate with private hospitals to know their requirements at the earliest. “A letter in this regard has gone to all civil surgeons two days ago. Based on their inputs and demands from private hospitals, the health department will communicate with the Centre,” he said. Jogesh Gambhir, state president of Association of Healthcare Providers India (APHI), conceded that they would like the state to procure vaccines for them. “Everyone is of the view that it would be better if the state government procures (vaccines) on our behalf and gives us on a day-to-day basis against daily advance payment. This will increase confidence of private hospitals as no money will be blocked and there will be zero apprehension of facing dead stock and expiry,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
18-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand records surplus rainfall in June ||Jharkhand has already surpassed its average rainfall for June this year by over 100 per cent, thanks to a vigorous monsoon that has ensured widespread showers acroos the state for the last few days. Met statistics revealed that against a June normal  of 85.6 mm rainfall, the state has so far received 173.3 per cent rainfall, which woks out to an excess of 102 per cent. Except for Gumla all the other districts of the state have so far received rain in excess of their espective monthly average. Against a normal of 94.4 per cent, Gumla district has so far received 93.1 per cent, a deficit of one per cent. In Met parlance a deficit of up to 19 per cent is considered normal. Lohardaga district reaped the maximum benefit. Data suggested that against a normal of 74.7mm Lohardaga so far recorded 274.4 mm rain, a surplus of 267 per cent. Dhanbad recorded 200 per cent surplus rain while Simdega and Garhwa recorded 186 and 185 per cent surplus rain. Southwest monsoon was in vigorous state over Jharkhand on Friday too. Statistics revealed that in last 24 hours Maithon in Dhanbad recorded the highest rainfall of 178.2 mm. Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Dumka and several other places experienced moderate rains. IMD's Ranchi Met Cente has forecast moderate thunderstorms accompanied by lightning in isolated places of the state during the next 48 hours. The Met office also extended the heavy rain alert in isolated areas till Monday. The widespread rain during the past few days resulted in an abrupt fall in day's reading. Most places on Friday recorded maximum temperature between 24 and 28 degree Celsius _ about six to eight notches below normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
18-06-2021||Jharkhand||BJP takes on Hemant govt on farm loan waivers, Congress hits back||Opposition BJP staged three-hour protests at farmlands across the state from 8am on Friday, denouncing the Hemant Soren government for not  honouring its promises and duping farmers. The saffron camp alleged that despite a record harvest of paddy crops amid the Covid-19 pandemic last year, hundreds of farmers were forced to sell their produce at throw away prices and those who sold stocks at government run procurement centres were still to be paid. State party president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash along with Kanke MLA Samri Lal and other party workers staged a protest in Sukurhuttu. Other MLAs, MPs and party workers did so in various parts of the state with banners and posters decrying the Hemant government's policies. "The state’s annadata (farmer) is at the rossroads today because of sustained apathy and false promises of the Hemant government. They toiled hard  to produce a record output during the last kharif season but several of them are battling a crisis of money because of government apathy. For  crops sold at minimum support centres, farmers are yet to receive payments," he said. The party also questioned the state government on loan waivers. “What happened to the state government’s loan waiver scheme which it prmised to implement soon after coming to power? A majority of farmers are are still to be benefitted,” he said, boasting how the "pro-farmer" Central government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was transferring money four times a year under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. The Congress, which is part of the ruling JMM-led coalition government in Jharkhand, hit back at the BJP for using farmers as "political pawns". Citing the ongoing farmers' protests along Delhi borders against contentious farm laws, Congress’s national general secretary and Mahagama MLA Deepika Pandey said, “BJP MLAs and MPs of the state must stage protests outside the PM's office in Delhi if they are so serious about farmers. Several farmers have died in the last one year fighting for their existence ... but no one said anything about it. BJP has no moral right to talk about farmers.” State agriculture minister Badal Pratralekh cited figures to counter the BJP' allegations on loan waivers. “As on date, out of 9.02 lakh identified farmers eligible for waivers up to Rs 50,000, we have disbursed funds of Rs 980 crore to banks for writing off loans to 2,46,012 farmers. For theremaining, the process is underway,” he said. He also said that for the first time ever, the state government began distributing kharif seeds to farmers in May even before the arrival of the monsoon. “Out of a target of 44,000 quintal seeds, we have already distributed more than 68 per cent despite the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
18-06-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Motors launches country's largest solar carport in Pune||In line with Tata Group’s philosophy to promote green manufacturing, Tata Motors and Tata Power on Friday jointly inaugurated India’s largest grid-synchronised solar carport at the Tata Motors car plant at Chikhali in Pune. The 6.2 MWp (Megawatt peak) solar carport installed by Tata Power will generate 86.4 lakh kWh of electricity per year and is estimated to reduce 7,000 tons of carbon emission annually and 1.6 lakh tons over its lifecycle. Spanning over 30,000 square meters, the carport will not only generate green power, but will also provide covered parking for finished cars in the plant. Envisioned as part of its net zero carbon goal for 2039, Tata Motors had entered into a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) with Tata Power on August 31, 2020. Despite the challenges of Covid-19, both companies successfully managed to develop this massive carport infrastructure in a record time of around nine months. On the launch of the project Shailesh Chandra, president, Passenger Vehicle Business Unit, Tata Motors said, “At Tata Motors, we have consciously anchored sustainability in every aspect of our business by striving for more meaningful ways to reduce our impact on the planet, whilst providing exciting products and sustainable solutions to our customers. We have always been conscious of the need to conserve energy and are committed towards achieving 100 per cent renewable energy sources for all our operations. Our partnership with Tata Power to deploy India’s largest solar carport at our car plant in Pune is a step in that direction.” Praveer Sinha, CEO and managing director of Tata Power said, “As one Tata initiative, we are proud to partner with Tata Motors and inaugurate India’s largest solar carport. Our partnership is a testament to our collective efforts to lower the carbon footprint and provide innovative and future-focused green energy solutions. We will continue to explore new ways to harness clean resources and offer them to our partners and customers.” Being a signatory of the RE100 (a global corporate renewable energy initiative) Tata Motors uses 100 per cent renewable power and has taken several strides towards achieving this goal by progressively increasing the proportion of renewable energy used in its operations. In FY20, the company generated 88.71 million kWh of renewable electricity which is over 21 per cent of its total power consumption (up from 16% in FY19). This helped prevent the equivalent of 72,739 metric tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. The company further intends to source renewable energy more rigorously to meet its aspiration of sourcing 100 per cent renewable energy by 2030. Significantly, Tata Power comes with a successful background of executing multiple large solar solutions including the world’s largest rooftop (16MW) at a single location at Radhasoami Satsang Beas , Amritsar ; 2.67 MW at Cochin International Airport; world’s largest solar powered cricket stadium-Cricket Club of India (CCI) with 820.8 kWp capacity; unique installation of solar vertical farm (120kW) at Dell Technologies at Bangalore and 1.4MW floating solar at Tata Chemicals, Nellore. In addition, Tata Power is carrying out an extensive pan-India residential rooftop program to make people aware of the benefits of savings through solar energy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
18-06-2021||Jharkhand||Woman branded 'witch', villagers force her to do sit-ups ||A 33-year-old woman, branded as a witch, was beaten, dragged from her house and produced in a village mahapanchayat where she was forced to do sit-ups in front of a gathering. The incident came to light after a video of the punishment went viral, following which, Katkamsandi police in Hazaribagh lodged an FIR on Friday. The woman has been identified by police, but The Telegraph Online is not publishing her name to protect her identity. She has told police that she was not given the opportunity to speak and branded a witch before being forced to do the sit-ups. She said on Wednesday, she was taken out of the house forcefully and taken to an open field where villagers were present. She named her neighbours Shakil Akhtar, his wife Arzu Khatoon, Shakeela Khatoon, Sakeena Khatoon, Kanti Devi, Poonam Devi, Jasma Devi and few others for branding her a "dian(witch)". “They fined me Rs 10,000 and when I refused to pay, I was forced to do 100 sit-ups in front of all,” she said. Recalling the horror, she said perpetrators were shouting that she deserves punishment if she failed to pay the fine. Two youths, Naushad Alam and Taufiq Akhtar, recorded the entire incident and posted it on social media. The video went viral on Thursday evening. Police have filed an FIR against 15 people involved in the case. The FIR has been registered under sections three and four of the Prevention of Witch-hunting (Dayan Pratha) Act 2001, with a punishment of imprisonment of up to six months or a fine of Rs 2,000 or both. Officer-in-charge of Katkamdag police station Arun Kumar said, “What happened was against the law and those involved will not be spared. We have lodged an FIR against the persons involved and efforts are on to nab them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
18-06-2021||Jharkhand||War of words over iron ore auction in Jharkhand||The Opposition BJP on Wednesday urged the Jharkhand governor to scrap the tender process for auctioning iron ore leading to a strong rebuttal from the ruling alliance. State BJP chief and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash met governor Draupadi Murmu at the Raj Bhavan in Ranchi and handed over a letter requesting her to scrap the tender process for auctioning iron ore stock at Thakurani mine in West Singhbhum district. Prakash later told mediapersons at the state BJP headquarters that the auction would allegedly serve some vested interests and cause a financial loss of Rs 40 crore. He accused the ruling UPA government of giving “loot ki chhut (licence to plunder) of the state’s resources like sand, coal and iron”. The lease for mining at Thakurani mine was granted to one P.K. Jain, which was cancelled in 2019, and a fine of Rs 334.47 crore was imposed on the lessee for the violation of mining norms. The state government entrusted the Jharkhand State Mineral Development Corporation to auction the iron ore stock and realise the amount. Accordingly, the corporation floated a tender notice for the purpose and invited bids to be sent till June 23, which has been now extended to July 2. The BJP, in its letter to the governor, alleged that the testing of samples from the site was done hurriedly and the grade of iron ore was shown to be of inferior quality. The party claimed the ore was actually of better grade, which would come to light after perusing other documents. Prakash urged the governor to stall the auction process and to get the samples tested outside the state for ascertaining the actual iron ore grade. “Auctioning the ore stock, estimated to be about 1.02 lakh tonnes, by showing it is of an inferior grade would reduce its value by about Rs 40 crore,” Prakash told reporters. “The state exchequer was being forced to make a loss just to serve certain vested interests,” he alleged. The ruling JMM and the Congress both rejected Prakash’s allegations. “Illegal mining of all sorts was rampant during the rule of the BJP-led government in the state,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said. “Deepakji should remember that the then cabinet minister Saryu Roy (who later left the BJP and became an Independent MLA) had alleged irregularities by the Raghubar Das government in the case of Shah Brothers (the firm which was allowed to sell the iron ore stock leading to protests),” he said. “Actually, the present government has stopped illegal mining and started investigating some cases,” he further said, adding the BJP was trying to divert people’s attention from these probes. “The BJP should refrain from making the Raj Bhavan a political arena,” said state Congress spokesperson Alok Kumar Dubey. “Prakash has a habit of commenting on everything, be it the theft of a cycle or an incident in the US,” he added. “Let alone the Shah Brothers case, even the bridges constructed during the BJP rule are collapsing within five-six years. You can judge the level of corruption they indulged in from this situation,” said K.N. Shahdeo, another Congress leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
18-06-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro Xavier’s alumni’s water supply plan for tribals ||Alumni of St Xavier’s School in Bokaro, Jharkhand, have come forward to ensure that drinking water supply is not hindered for the 100 tribal families residing in Jaipal Nagar, around 7km from the district headquarter. The 1986 batch of the school under the aegis of its alumni association Bokaro Old Xavarians Association (Boxan) had started the water supply project in December 2020 at Jaipal Nagar contributing over Rs 1.75 lakh to install a submersible pump with 24 hours water supply through the solar power. However, a fortnight ago, the solar electric supply inverter had developed technical snag due to lightning following which poor residents of Jaipal Nagar were unable to get water from the pump. “The solar power inverter was damaged beyond repair due to the lightning and since the cost of repairs was more or less similar to a new one. We had no alternative but to arrange for contribution among Boxan after being informed by ADG rank IPS, Anil Palta (also a Boxan) about the plight of the residents,” said Boxan secretary Sajan Kapoor. “We managed to collect the necessary amount through major contributions from Saurabh Chandra (1986 batch), Sumedha Roy (2003 batch) and Jude Roy Chacko (1984 batch) and will get the new inverter installed on Sunday morning. Till that time we have hired an old inverter which was installed on Thursday evening,” he said. The Boxan secretary said they couldn’t wait till Sunday for starting the water supply. “After being informed about the defect in the inverter we did a recce and found that children have to go nearly 3km to fetch water. We couldn’t have waited till Sunday for installation of the new inverter (costing nearly Rs 55,000) and instead used our influence to hire an used inverter so that at least water supply is done a truncated manner,” Kapoor said. At the moment, the water supply project functions for an hour in the morning and an hour in the evening. “We have requested the tribal families to fetch water during the one-hour period during morning and evening till the new inverter is installed after which they can get water throughout the day,” Kapoor added. The new system, which will be installed on Sunday, will have an inverter along with a lightening conductor earthing system to safeguard the equipment from lightning in future.  “We do not want the water supply to be hindered again in future due to lightning and would have a lightening conductor/ earthing system along with the inverter,” Kapoor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
18-06-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI ranks at level 5 in second edition of Positive Impact Rating ||The XLRI-Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, has been ranked at level 5 (Pioneering Business Schools), the top ranking in the second edition of Positive Impact Rating, which was released at the World Economic Forum in Lucerne-Burgenstock, Switzerland, on Thursday. “XLRI is the only B-school in the world to have moved up from level 3 (progressing schools) to level 5 in a span of a year. Nearly 47 B-schools located in four continents and 21 countries participated in the rating,” said a communiqué issued by the XLRI on Thursday evening. Two other B-schools from India — Goa Institute of Management and SP Jain Institute of Management and Research, Mumbai — featured in level 5, along with the University of Business and Technology (Kosovo). Positive Impact Rating (PIR) is a global student-led rating of business schools on how they contribute to solving societal challenges by energising the school and its culture. It addresses their positive impact beyond their contribution to business and the economy. It contributes as a lever of change for transformation in business schools. “We are delighted to note that XLRI has attained the topmost level 5 in the second edition of Positive Impact Rating, 2021. Positive Impact Rating guides business schools from being the best in the world to striving to be the best for the world. For over seven decades, XLRI has steadfastly held on to its mission of offering world-class education and ethics-driven teaching while nurturing responsible global leaders for the greater common good and a sustainable future. The PIR ranking inspires us to work more diligently towards attaining our vision and mission,” said Father Paul Fernandes, director of XLRI. He added: “The millennial B-school students across the world have got a unique opportunity to evaluate their own institutions on how they are solving societal and sustainable challenges, and how they perceive their institution’s positive impact on the community and society at large. This marks a paradigm shift towards fostering a collaborative ecosystem and making the process of management education more meaningful and serve as a tool for continually improving the business schools, especially in a world that is still suffering as a consequence of the Covid-19 pandemic.” “While traditional business school rankings in India and abroad have not shown significant engagement in integrating sustainability and social impact, the PIR has a clear focus on the social impact of business schools. The Covid-19 pandemic is an inflection point for B-schools. Business schools have to reorient and reinvent themselves to the new reality and step up their role as positive change agents in addition to their traditional role of supporting business and the economy,” said Sunil Varughese, chief brand and sustainability officer, XLRI. In 2020, IIM Bangalore (level 4 — transforming schools) and XLRI had featured in the first edition of PIR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
18-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Antibiotics for Bokaro zoo inmates||Bokaro: The arrival of monsoon has raised concern of zoo authorities to safeguard animals and birds from various diseases. The authorities of Jawaharlal Nehru Biological Park have given antibiotic and de worming medicines to zoo inmates. JNB, popularly known as Bokaro Zoo, is owned and maintained by Bokaro Steel Plant. “Medicines for de-worming were given to the JNB Park inmates,” said Manikant Dhan, chief of communication (COC), BSL. Though JNB Park has shelters to protect animals from rain, zoo authorities found that many of the inmates get wet during rain and need extra care. “Spotted deer and black buck are more exposed to rain. They are being administered antibiotic. We served antibiotic medicine mixing it with their food. This would protect them from falling sick,” said an officer. Apart from 40 spotted deer and black buck, the zoo has several other animals and birds including tiger, leopard, Himalayan bear, deer and others. Spread across 127 acres, the natural greenery and trees has transformed the park as a natural abode to the zoo inmates. Zoo staff said,“Animals deal and cope with the rain in their own way”. There are 26 separate enclosures with separate cells for animals and birds. “The rainy season is prone to parasitic disease, to protect inmates from it, an appropriate de-worming protocol is being followed,” said the zoo officer. As per guideline of Central Zoo Authourity, the grasses were cut regularly and cleanliness is maintained in animal cell and enclosures during the monsoon. (Our correspondent) Dhanbad: Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Thursday instructed the officials of Dhanbad division of East Central Railway to prepare a detailed project for the broadening of the railway underpass near the Rangatand Chowk of coal town to ensure the launch of the work at the earliest. Singh held a meeting in this regard with officials of Railways, Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, Road Construction department etc said that broadening work of the underpass would be carried out through the District Mineral Foundation Trust fund. (Praduman Choubey) Daltonganj: The Rotary Club of Daltonganj is the first NGO in Palamau to come forward to offer free education up-to class 12 to the children orphaned by Covid-19. Assistant district governor of Rotary based in Daltonganj, Anugrah Narain Sharma said, “We have handed down a written pledge of free education to children up-to class 12 orphaned by the coronavirus to the divisional commissioner Palamu Jata Shanker Chowdhury.” Sharma said a small delegation met the Commissioner on Wednesday and submitted the letter of assurance. Sharma said, “We run our school in buildings set up at Daltonganj and at Chainpur and our orphaned children will have a choice as to where they want to be enrolled.” Sources said the two school buildings are nearly four and a half kilometers apart from each other. The schools have a fleet of buses. Sharma promised the buses will pick the orphaned children from their respective dwellings. Palamau civil surgeon in-charge Dr Anil Kumar said the second surge of Covid claimed 86 lives. During the first wave last year, 25 lives were lost in the district. Deputy Commissioner Palamu Shashi Ranjan said, “In our raw household survey completed and compiled recently we have found a total of 1,408 deaths in the months of April and May alone.” “Now we are finding out deaths caused by Covid and this may take some more time as finer points like symptoms of patients, duration of treatment, name and address of the attending doctor, any history of comorbodity, way of disposal of the body etc,” said the DC. (Our Correspondent )||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
