21-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad theatre artists lose livelihood, demand government support||Over 300 coal town theatre artists are facing extreme penury due to the lack of permission for drama festivals, shows and functions during lockdown and are demanding honorarium from the government to sustain life. Many of them, deprived of ration cards, are facing difficulty to procure food while others suffering from ailments are facing difficulty in treatment for themselves and their family members. Talking to The Telegraph Online, 58-year-old Basistha Prasad Sinha, founder of Bhuli based theatre organisation, Kalniketan, said, “Most of the 30 members of our organisation as well as other artists of over  29 other organisations, 13 of which are empanelled with the district public relation department for performance in government functions and awareness drives are passing through difficult times since March last year.” “A Bhuli based senior artist of our organisation, Ranjit Mishra,52, is suffering from a serious lung infection since April 11 and had to spend his entire savings and was even compelled to take debts for his treatment due to lack of any support from government for artists,” said Sinha. “Dhanbad MLA, Raj  Sinha, visited our centre at Bhuli earlier this month and provided food grains to around  18 artists suffering from the crisis but food is daily necessity and unless we get opportunity to work and earn it will be difficult to sustain with the limited help provided by one or other individual organisations,” said Sinha. Sinha, a native resident of Jehanabad in Bihar who migrated to Dhanbad in 1981 and after completing his graduation and post graduation from RSP College and from Ranchi university respectively established Kalaniketan in Bhuli in 1983, has won over 200 awards all across the country as part of drama competitions. “My entire family including wife Nutan Sinha, and four children including three daughters Divya Sahay (27), Shaivya Sahay (25), Nitya Sahay (22) and son Akash (19) also perform along with me as part of our organisations  and have no other source of income,” said Sinha. “We have sent letters to the Chief Minister Hemant Soren and also wrote to other officials seeking government support in the form of honorarium but there is no response till date,” Sharda Giri, 25, president of Black Pearls, comprising of youth artists and recent college pass outs and students. “In many of the other states, governments have fixed honorarium for registered artists so while Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh government are providing honorarium of Rs 5 thousand per month the government of neighbouring Bihar is also providing honorarium worth Rs 3000 but artist in our state who are suffering are depending on the  occasional social and voluntary organisation’s support,” said Giri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
21-06-2021||Jharkhand||East Singhbhum starts two-day Covid testing drive ||The East Singhbhum district administration has launched a two- day special drive for detection of Coronavirus positive cases across the district from Monday, in view of the third wave of the pandemic tipped to hit the country shortly. Though the cases have waned considerably in both the urban areas of the steel city as well as in the rural areas of the district, the special drive has been launched as a precautionary move. District civil surgeon, A.K. Lal said that they have targeted to carry out 14,000 Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) during these two days across the district. "Health workers across the district have been given the task to carry out 7,000 RATs during these two days beginning from Monday. 7,000 tests have to be carried out in Jamshedpur and as many tests have to be done in the rural areas, "said the civil surgeon to The Telegraph Online. Lal said 22 teams of health officials were set up for the special drive. "While 11 teams have been engaged in the steel city for carrying out the drive, the same number of teams will cover the rural areas, "the civil surgeon informed. Lal pointed out that the pace of RAT had slowed down following the decline in cases in the district, but the administration decided to carry out such a special drive on a regular basis in view of the pandemic's third wave. On Sunday, seven positive cases were detected following 3,986 samples subjected to RAT and RT-PCR tests in the district. Following these seven positive cases, the total number of Covid cases in the district has risen to 51,412. Presently, there are 185 active Covid cases undergoing treatment at various hospitals here whereas 50,181 people have already been cured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
21-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand BJP chief whip says Hemant govt anti-Dalit||State BJP chief whip  Biranchi Narayan on Monday accused the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD government of being anti-Dalit, alleging that incidents of harassment of Dalits had increased. Narayan, who is MLA from Bokaro,  came out in support  of Amar Bauri, the Chandankyari MLA of his neighbouring Assembly constituency, who Congress leader Irfan Ansari had said  resembled a “South Indian Goon”. Narayan said, “MLA Irfan Ansari always acts childish. He should be a little conscious while speaking. Otherwise we are ready to give befitting reply to him anywhere he wants. Ansari being a public representative should to know how to respect other public figures.” MLA Bauri is the president of the scheduled cast unit of Jharkhand Pradesh BJP. "Incidents of harassment against Dalits are happening continuously at various places in the state under this government," said Narayan. The BJP has demanded that Ansari apologise to Bauri immediately. Or else, its leaders have threatened to hit the streets, despite the lockdown. The party has asked the state government to pull up  Ansari for his insensitive remark. BJP district president Bharat Yadav said it was not only Bauri who was "victimised" by the  JMM-Congress government. He said that on  May 21, Dalit families were assaulted for not cleaning toilets at Caravan Basti of Hatma Gora village of West Singhbhum. In another incident, he said, Bhukhal Ghasi, a resident of Karma panchayat under Kasmar block of Bokaro district, died on March 6,  2020 due to hunger. In Sahebganj, a Dalit woman, Rita Paswan, had alleged that a luxurious bungalow was being built on her ancestral land of  16 bighas after it was illegally taken over.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
21-06-2021||Jharkhand||Chanchala creates wrestling history for Jharkhand ||A tribal athlete from Ranchi created history on Monday by becoming the first woman wrestler from Jharkhand to have qualified for the world wrestling championship. Fourteen-year-old Chanchala Kumar of Hotwar village in Ranchi achieved the feat by clinching gold in the trials held in Delhi earlier in the day to book her berth in the sub-junior category (40 kg). The world championship will be held in Budapest, Hungary, between July 19 and 25. Chanchala belongs to Jharkhand State Sports Promotion Society (JSSPS), a joint venture between Central Coalfields Limited (CCL) and the state sports department, which runs various academies at the mega sports complex in Hotwar to hone skills of budding players. JSSPS officials said that Chanchala belongs to the first batch of JSSPS which stared training in 2016. Jharkhand State Wrestling Association president Bholanath Singh said, “It’s a momentous occasion for the entire wrestling fraternity of the state as Chanchala has become the first ever wrestler to have qualified for the world championship.” Singh said Chanchala had the potential to scale heights and since the start of her career, she has been gradually taking high strides. “She has already won a few medals at national meets. For example, she won silver in SGFI games in 2017 and went on to clinch two successive golds in these meets which were held over the next two years,” he said. She inducted to the India camp about a year back to hone her skills. “She was picked up by Sports Authority of India (SAI)-Lucknow where she was training for about a year now,” he said. Chanchala was ecstatic after her qualification. “I am hoping to do better for my country in the upcoming meet. The last one year was a challenging period in terms of training due to Covid-19 as we resorted to online training on technique more than physical action. But I kept practicing on my own even when I was at home for many months during lockdown. Fortunately, my parents never discouraged me to leave the game even though there were times when there was huge strain on my father's earnings due to the lockdown,” she said. Chanchala's father, Narendra Pahan, is a small time farmer, while her mother is a home maker. She has three siblings—an elder brother and two sisters, one younger to her.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
21-06-2021||Jharkhand||CCTV vigil soon on key steel city thoroughfare to curb rash driving||Kadma police on Sunday recommended setting up speed-breakers and installing CCTV cameras on the marine drive due to frequent road mishaps taking place on the stretch. The recommendation has been made to the senior superintendent of police, M.Tamil Vanan. An accident killing a 10-year-old boy on Saturday prompted the police to make such a suggestion. An unidentified SUV had hit the boy while he was crossing the marine drive from his house at a slum adjoining it. The SUV had sped away as soon as the mishap took place. Following the boy's death during treatment of a head injury at the Tata Main Hospital, family members and the sympathisers had set up a blockade on the marine drive which continued for over three hours. The protesters were demanding compensation and measures to curb the frequent fatal mishaps on the marine drive. Fatal mishaps on the marine drive that connects Subernarekha Road in Sakchi linking Jai Prakash Setu inango in Mango to Toll-bridge in Kadma linking Adityapur, are taking place frequently, in most of the incidents the slum dwellers along Kadma and Sonari fall victim. On an average one person is killed on the marine drive a month. Significantly, after every fatal mishap in which a slum-dweller is killed, local residents resort to setting up blockade on the marine drive. The OC of Kadma thana, Manoj Thakur said, “As there remains very negligible traffic on the marine drive, riders of both two-wheelers and four-wheelers tend to drive at a breakneck speed, thus causing the mishaps.” "As there is no speed-breaker on this nine-km-long stretch, the vehicle riders feel free to ride at their wishful speed. We have, therefore, recommended for setting up speed-breakers which should be set in the gap of every 300 metres, " said Thakur to The Telegraph Online. The OC said as most of the vehicle riders tend to flee the spot after a mishap takes place, leaving no evidence of them to be traced by the police, an adequate number of CCTV cameras should also be installed at strategic points along the marine drive. The OC said while recommending for the speed-breakers and CCTV cameras, they have also requested for setting up foot overbridge and drawing zebra crossing lines at the strategic points.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
21-06-2021||Jharkhand||Delta variant most prevalent in worst-hit Jharkhand districts||The Delta variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus – a mutated variant of concern with high transmissibility and severe effect on the human body – was found to be the most prevalent mutant strain in five most-affected districts of Jharkhand during random sampling done from April 1 to June 9, health officials said on Monday. The state health department sent 364 samples of Covid-19 patients from Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Hazaribagh and Palamau for Whole Genome Sequencing to the Institute of Life Sciences (ILS) in Bhubaneswar and the results showed that at least 204 of the samples were infected by the Delta variant of the coronavirus, which is said to be the reason behind the unprecedented spike in Covid cases during the second wave in India and many other countries. The genome sequencing results showed that as many as 63 samples were infected by the Kappa variant of the virus, while 29 were infected by the Alpha variant, which was first reported in the United Kingdom. The Delta variant, which is said to be 40 per cent more transmissible than the Alpha variant, was first detected in India in late 2020. Of the 364 samples sent for genome sequencing, at least 328 were found to be variants of concern. According to World Health Organisation (WHO), a variant of coronavirus which causes more deaths and triggers severe symptoms in patients is categorized as a variant of concern. Of the 204 Delta variants detected in the state, 86 were from Jamshedpur, 26 from Ranchi, 32 from Dhanbad, 39 from Hazaribagh and 21 from Palamau. Of the 63 Kappa variants, 43 were from Jamshedpur, eight from Ranchi, four from Dhanbad, five from Hazaribagh and three from Palamau. As many as 29 samples were found infected by the Alpha variant and 18 of them were from Ranchi, seven from Hazaribagh and two from Palamau. While the Delta variant of the  coronavirus was found to be most prevalent among the five districts, the new Delta plus variant, reported in Maharashtra, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu were not detected in Jharkhand during the recent genome sequencing, health officials said. “As the virus passes from one body to another, it mutates for its survival. This is how new mutant strains are formed. The Delta variant, which is a variant of concern, was found to be most prevalent in our state. However, the new Delta plus variant was not found in any of the samples sent for genome sequencing,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of the health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
21-06-2021||Jharkhand||Railways to make journeys safer with new signal system||The South Eastern Railway will implement a massive modernisation plan of the signalling system, making movement of trains safer. Keeping in view the advantages of the modern signalling system, South Eastern Railway last week completed the commissioning work of the new interlocking system in 26 stations in Chakradharpur and Ranchi railway divisions. The old relay interlocking system was replaced by a new upgraded interlocking system at nine railway stations including Ghatshila on Howrah-Mumbai main route and Bano under Ranchi division. Work is underway for replacing the traditional mechanical lever frame interlocking system with that of electronic interlocking systems at 12 stations including Bokaro Steel City, Talgoria and Lodhma - borh in Ranchi railway division. South Eastern Railway has also earmarked funds for setting-up electronic interlocking systems at Bondamunda and Birarajpur - both in Chakradharpur division and several other stations in Ranchi and Adra divisions. Talking to The Telegraph Online chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway, Sanjay Ghosh said, "Upgradation of the signalling system would help to facilitate train operations at higher speed and even during bad weather." He went on to say that a modernised signalling system will not only ensure safety but will also help in providing seamless train operation. The CPRO said a centralised traffic control system for better monitoring and faster movement of trains have also been planned in Howrah-Kharagpur - Tatanagar section. "All such modernisation work will make the railway zone future ready for train operation," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
21-06-2021||Jharkhand||Active Covid caseload drops below 500 in Ranchi||The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped below 500 in Ranchi on Sunday for the first time in 2021 as the district reported only eight fresh cases of Coronavirus infection against 25 Covid recoveries on the day, figures released by the health department highlighted. At least four districts – Saraikela, Pakur, Godda and Latehar – did not report fresh cases of infection on the day, while at least 18 of 24 districts reported a single-digit-spike in Covid cases, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Jharkhand reported zero Covid deaths from 9pm on Saturday to 9pm on Sunday and the Covid toll in the state remained 5099, the NHM highlighted in its bulletin. The state on Sunday reported 138 Covid cases against 181 recoveries and the active caseload dropped to 1596. Health officials have attributed the dip in active caseload to strict lockdown restrictions enforced by the state government. As per NHM data, as many as 489 Ranchi residents were battling Covid-19 by the end of Sunday – the highest among the 24 districts in the tribal state. West Singhbhum reported the highest spike of 32 cases on the day, which took the active caseload in the district to 57. At least 12 Covid patients recovered from the disease in the district on Sunday. Dhanbad reported 27 cases against 14 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported seven cases against 17 recoveries. As per figures compiled by the health department, no Jharkhand district reported a spike of more than 50 cases on the day. The state on Sunday tested swab samples of 42,443 residents and less than 0.5 per cent of them were found infected by the deadly virus. So far, over 3.44 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in the state and 98.05 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of infection in Jharkhand was 0.04 per cent on Sunday against the national average of 0.15 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state reached 1787.43 days against the national doubling rate of 463.64 days, the NHM stated in its bulletin. As per data shared by NHM, the state on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 1,08,030 residents and almost 80,000 of the beneficiaries fell in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab was administered to as many as 17794 beneficiaries and at least 2658 of them were in the aforementioned age bracket.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
21-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand health worker crosses river with her baby and box of vaccines to reach work||A few days every month, a woman in her mid-20s can be seen crossing a nearly waist-deep hilly stream in a Jharkhand forest on foot, her baby tied to her back. Manti Devi wades the fast-flowing waters of the Burra river with a heavy box of vaccines and a bag full of baby food and other essentials hung over her shoulders, while she holds her chappals in her hand. It’s hard work for meagre pay that Manti does six days a week, travelling nearly 40km every day through thick jungles, to feed her child and jobless husband. But her work ensures that other families and their children stay safe in the remote forest villages of Latehar district, where medical treatment is hard to access and prevention is key. Manti, a contractual auxiliary nurse midwife, carries out the government’s regular immunisation programme for young children in the Aksi panchayat, and the Covid vaccination drive at some centres in the Sohar panchayat. So, she has to travel about 25km every day from her home in Mahuadanr block to the Chetma health centre, to which she is attached, before setting off for forest villages 10-12 km away. Husband Sunil Oraon, unemployed at the moment, takes her to the health centre and a part of the way to the villages on his scooty “since public transport is difficult to find these days”, Manti said. The rest of the distance — at least 4-5km each way on most days — has to be covered on foot across difficult jungle terrain. Does she have to carry her year-and-a-half-old baby all the way every day? “I can’t leave her alone back home for such a long time, almost the entire day,” Manti said over the phone. Manti has to cross the Burra to reach only a few villages like Tisiya, Goyra and Sugabandh, but this poses a problem when the river is in spate after heavy rain upstream — a threat that will only increase over the next few months. “I have to visit each of these villages at least once every month. Most of the other villages can be reached by walking through the forests,” Manti, who got the job in January last year, said. Under the regular immunisation programme, children are protected from diseases like measles, influenza, hepatitis and tuberculosis, for which multiple jabs have to be administered at regular intervals. Manti also has to regularly distribute certain medicines such as iron and folic acid tablets for anaemic children and anti-worm drugs. Last week, the Jharkhand government introduced an anti-pneumonia programme under which pneumococcal conjugate vaccines are also being administered to the children. It’s likely to begin soon in Manti’s area of operations. The state health department recently asked all the district civil surgeons to undertake catch-up rounds to boost the regular immunisation programme and cover all the children who may been left out or dropped out halfway through the vaccination regime. Jharkhand’s regular immunisation programme had always run smoothly before the pandemic posed a challenge. One which a young mother, baby tied to her back, is trying her best to negotiate on behalf of her state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
