22-06-2021||Jharkhand||Driving licence renewals from Wednesday in Dhanbad||Dhanbad’s district transport department, on orders from Jharkhand Transport Commissioner Kiran Pasi, has from Tuesday begun preparations to restart work on issuing and renewing driving licenses after a gap of more than two months. The work was suspended all across the state, including Dhanbad, from April 16 due to aggravated Covid conditions. Around 2,500 applications are pending with the Dhanbad District Transport Office due the suspension. Majority of these applications belonged to driving license renewal work. Confirming the development, District Transport officer of Dhanbad Om Prakash Yadav said, “We will restart the licence work from tomorrow (Wednesday) and necessary preparations in this regard have already been launched from today (Tuesday).” “As we are already short-staffed at the district transport office, all staff will work as we can easily follow the social distancing norms with the limited staff presence,” said Yadav. All necessary Covid protocols, including adhering to social distance norms, regular sanitisation of hands and driving license trial grounds have to be carried out. As per the detailed instructions issued by Pasi,slot booking for the license seekers is to be carried out daily, based on the capacity of the driving license trail ground. Triveni Sao, an applicant for driving license, said, “I had applied for my driving license four months ago but due to the suspension I faced a lot of problem” “I went to the district transport office today to come to know that the issuance work will resume from tomorrow and I am happy I will be able to drive my car without any fear of being caught by the police,” he added. Echoing sentiments Gopal Singh, a resident of Hirapur, seeking renewal of his license since the last three months, said, “I am waiting for the renewal of license which is set to expire by the end of July and was worried due to suspension. Now, I am feeling a bit relaxed after coming to know that license renewal work will resume from tomorrow.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-14
22-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand cabinet nod to declaring black fungus as epidemic||Jharkhand joined the list of states that have declared mucormycosis, or black fungus, as an epidemic with the Hemant Soren cabinet putting its seal of approval on the decision considering the rising number of cases occurring among Covid patients. As per the health department, till Tuesday, Jharkhand has recorded 136 cases of black fungus of which 82 are confirmed and the rest suspected. As many as 26 people have died due to the deadly disease while 52 have been cured. At least seven out of 24 districts are currently classified in the red category considering the prevalence of black fungus. Cabinet coordination secretary Vandana Dadel said, “Today (Tuesday), the state cabinet has officially given its nod to declare black fungus as an epidemic which means it will now be part of the disease notified under the Epidemic Act. All public and private hospitals are mandated to provide daily reports of new cases to the state government and stick to the prescribed treatment protocols and other regulations.” Amid the brutal second wave of Covid-19 in April and May, India began witnessing a rare fungal infection among Covid-19 patients, which experts dubbed as a side effect of prolonged use of steroids. In Jharkhand, the first few cases began surfacing at the end of April, and since then, there has been a steady rise in numbers. As many as 15 decisions were taken at Tuesday's cabinet meeting headed by Hemant. Among them are the state government's nod to direct recruitment of eight sportspersons, a one-time extension of government health workers who were due to retire in March next year by six months, formation of statutes on minimum qualification for appointment of teachers and other academic staff in colleges and universities, allotment of 200 acresof land to Patratu Vidyut Urja Nigam Limited (PVUNL), a joint venture of NTPC and the state government, for setting up a 4,000 mega watt power plant at Patratu in Ramgarh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-14
22-06-2021||Jharkhand||British-era office demolished to make way for vending zone in Jamshedpur ||Local civic authorities used an earthmover to demolish an old, dilapidated British-era tehsil office on Dimna Road in Mango on Tuesday to make space for a vending zone. The vending zone will be meant for hawkers who would be displaced soon from the central verge of Dimna Road, the gateway to the steel city, as a part of beautification drive, sources in the Mango Notified Area Committee (MNAC) said.    Civic body officials came to the spot close to Munshi Mohalla along with the earthmover and started the demolition work which continued for half an hour. The work had to be stopped mid-way as some shopkeepers who used to use the dilapidated Tehsil office building called in a few local leaders of BJP for stopping the demolition drive. Civic officials on the spot said construction of a dedicated vendor's zone has become necessary to prevent frequent mishaps on the busy Dimna Road primarily caused by vendors. MNAC special officer Deepak Sahay said, with Tata Steel subsidiaryJusco, the civic authority has plans to beautify the 3.5km central verge connecting Mango Chowk to Dimna Chowk on NH-33.  "Currently, the central verge (or median) is encroached by vendors and  unauthorised persons. We have started an eviction drive. Some stretches of the median have been already been freed of encroachers while the encroachment on the remaining portion of the median would be cleared soon," he said. All vendors would be accommodated at the new vending zone that will come up at the tehsil office, Sahay said. The civic body has sought funds from the state urban development department for barricading Dimna Road's central verge, which is currently encroached upon by vegetable and other vendors, to plant bougainvillea and other flowering plants. The civic body has plans to create a joggers' track on the central verge. Notably, the water pipelines of Jusco from the Dimna reservoir pass through the Dimna Road which witnesses heavy traffic - more than 50,000 two-wheelers, autos, cars, trucks and trailers - every day. Plans are afoot for proper illumination and installation of a couple of fountains on the median of the nearly 3.5km road which also hosts several schools, departmental stores, hotels, restaurants, banks and other business establishments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-14
22-06-2021||Jharkhand||Two of family in Dhanbad die due to electrocution||Two persons of a family at Pasidhaura slum in the Gopalichak area under Putki police station died due to electrocution on Tuesday morning while switching on a television set. The incident took place at around 10 am when 34-year-old Gudiya Devi switched on the television set lying over an iron box and suffered electrocution. Her father-in-law Chamar Pasi (70) also faced the same fate when he rushed to save her but came in contact with electricity. Local residents and neighbours came to know about the incident when Guriya Devi’s six-year-old daughter Pari Kumari came out of the house and informed them that her mother and grandfather were lying unconscious on the floor. Vinod Pasi, a nephew of Chamar Pasi, said that Guriya Devi’s husband Prakash Pasi, was away at Chennai to work as a migrant labourer. “We were ourselves afraid of the incident and first informed the electricity department. We entered the house after the power supply was snapped and then informed police, who recovered the bodies and sent them for post-mortem,” said Pasi. He further informed that the mudhouse of Chamar Pasi was affected due to damp conditions caused due to continuous rains of the last five days. The iron box on which the TV set was kept was lying close to one of the affected walls, causing the current to flow into the television set. Sanjeev Tiwari, officer-in-charge of Putki Police station said, “Prima facie it seems that both persons died due to electrocution but we sent the dead bodies for post-mortem, which will throw light on the cause of the death.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-14
22-06-2021||Jharkhand|| Jharkhand to get 38 PSA oxygen plants under PM-Cares fund||At least 38 pressure swing absorption (PSA) oxygen plants will be set up across the 24 districts of Jharkhand under the PM-Cares fund in a bid to ensure sufficient supply of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) to patients in need of breathing support either due to Covid-19 or any other ailment, health officials said on Tuesday. This time around, the Centre has categorically mentioned in its communique to the state that the Jharkhand government will have to appoint at least two technical persons for each PSA plant and one nodal officer for the each of the hospitals benefitting from them in a bid to avert technical glitches, which earlier marred the Centre's efforts of providing free ventilators to states under the PM-Cares fund. Several states, including Jharkhand, had complained about defunct ventilators and lack of assistance from the Centre in troubleshooting during the second wave of Covid-19 earlier this year. “Each of the 24 districts will get at least one PSA plant under the PM-Cares fund in Jharkhand. We have received the final list from the Centre and the work for setting up the plants will begin soon,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer for Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing of the health department. The Centre, under its PM-Cares fund initiative, will be providing 1,215 PSA oxygen plants to states and Union territories across India and Jharkhand has been assured 38 plants under this scheme. As per details shared by the health department, at least three PSA plants each will be set up in Ranchi, East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Bokaro. Two each will come up in Dhanbad, Deoghar, Dumka, Giridih, Latehar and Hazaribagh, while one PSA plant will be set up in each of the remaining 14 districts in the state. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) will ensure the site preparation and installation of at least 29 of the 38 PSA plants, while the Central Medical Services Society (CMSS) and HLL Infra Services Limited (HITES) will work for the site preparation and installation of four and five PSA plants respectively. Nodal officers and technical staff appointed for the PSA plants will undergo special training conducted by the Centre and work as point persons for the PSA monitoring system of the Centre, officials said. The plants will only start functioning after a clearance from nodal officers and technical persons appointed for the task, officials said, adding that this practice would help in troubleshooting. The PSA monitoring team of the Centre will directly be in touch with the point persons for the different PSA plants. Several states, including Jharkhand, faced an acute crisis of medical oxygen during the second wave of Covid-19, which wreaked havoc across India. Lack of logistics emerged as one of the greatest challenges for the country for movement of oxygen from one state to another, and the delay in the process led to several deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-14
22-06-2021||Jharkhand||High alert in Chandil over entry of elephants from Bengal ||The Chandil forests of Seraikela-Kharsawan district is on high alert over the entry of elephants from neighbouring Bengal after three of them slipped into the range late on Monday night with some more following suit. With paddy farming in Chandil sub-division round the corner, foresters are aware that elephants from Bengal would soon make their presence felt and put life of people and at risk. “Farmers have started preparing for paddy farming. This would provide enough fodder to the jumbos from Bengal who amble to our forest pockets every year. We need to be alert to prevent any untoward incidents,” said Chandil forest range officer Ashok Kumar. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, he confirmed three elephants from Bengal had already arrived. “We have a team of 75 people who are engaged in driving away the elephants. We engage village youths on daily wages for the job. The youths accompany us by carrying mashals (torches) and drums. Besides a forest patrol vehicle, we also hire four-wheelers for this risky job,” the range officer added. According to him, they would also avail of the services of elephant driving teams from Bankura in Bengal. “Depending on the situation, we would like to call experts from Bankura. Two separate teams from Bengal successfully shepherded the elephants last year,”Kumar said. The Chandil range office has already distributed crackers among villagers with instructions to only burst them when elephants are spotted near their homes. “Unnecessary bursting of crackers irrirates elephants and leads them to attack humans and homes. We are seriously working to minimise man-elephant conflict in our forest range,” he added. The range officer said the tusker which had been destroying homes from some days had moved towards the Chandil dam. “The jumbo, who remains aloof from the herd, is enjoying his bath at the dam. The elephant is no longer targeting homes and would leave the forest range once dam water recedes,” Kumar said. According to him, a herd of about 15 elephants that was stationed at the Chandil forest range had moved to Tamar (near Ranchi). “The herd had come from Tamar and has now left our forest range,” he added. The Chandil forest range is the favourite of elephants from Tamar, Seraikela-Kharsawan and neighbouring Bengal. The herds often slip into the range to damage standing paddy, destroy homes and wipe out food. Kumar said elephants were roving animals. “At the best, we can make preparations to minimise their entry into villages and farmland. However, it is a tough and risky task,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-14
22-06-2021||Jharkhand||Vacant coal town shelter home becomes dump yard ||A three-storey shelter home for rescued children, including child labourers and victims of trafficking, constructed more than three years ago on the campus of the regional employment office of Dhanbad has turned into a garbage dump yard after lying vacant for years. Lack of coordination between different government departments including the labour, employment & training department; building division and social welfare department is said to be the primary reason for the present pitiable state of affairs of the department. Government security agencies like the railway protection force, state police and also labour department officials are facing problems in providing temporary accommodation to rescued children. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, Shankar Rawani, a well-known child right activist of Dhanbad who is also the president of NGO Jharkhand Gramin Vikash Trust said, “We have written to the district administration and government several times demanding handing over of the shelter home several times earlier but no response is in sight.” Rawani while highlighting the problem being faced in providing shelter to rescued children said, “Due to lack of shelter homes in the district, altogether 25 child labourers of Jamatara, Deoghar, Madhupur, Narayanpur and Tundi rescued on December 21 and 22 from two different bakery units were kept in a government residential school of Hirapur for two to three days until their parents arrived from the respective places to take them back.” Echoing his sentiments, Kumar Madhurendra Singh, former president of Bartand Chamber of Commerce and a member of Child Line said, “As per the laid norms, any child recovered by the police or other law enforcement agency whose address or family members are not known can’t be kept at childline office for more than 24 hours and thus are usually referred to Bokaro based shelter home.” The construction work for the shelter home in Dhanbad began six years ago as per a proposal of former deputy commissioner of Dhanbad, Prashant Kumar. As per the original plan, the shelter home meant for primary rehabilitation consisted of a study room, computer room, individual care room, vocational training room and a health care centre among other amenities. Contacted, Rakesh Sinha, Assistant Labour Commissioner, said, “We have written to the district social welfare department for taking charge of the centre several times and are awaiting their response as the shelter homes are usually operated by the social welfare department.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-14
22-06-2021||Jharkhand||Train to Punjab resumes journey from steel city after 15 months||The Tatanagar -Amritsar Jallianwala Bagh Special Express train  resumed journey after 15 months, when it left the Tatanagar railway station on Monday night. The bi-weekly special train was flagged off at 9.10 pm by Jamshedpur MP Bidyut Baran Mahato in presence of senior railway officials of Tatanagar. The train had stopped operation in March last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic and resumed its journey with 340 passengers, while around  70 per cent of berths remained empty. Members of Sikh community were happy over the restoration of the bi-weekly train. "The restoration of the train will immensely benefit those travelling to Amritsar and other parts of Punjab. We are thankful to the railways for the restoration of the train," said Satnam Singh Gambhir, a senior functionary of All India Sikh Students Federation. Addressing the flagging off ceremony Jamshedpur MP Bidyut Baran Mahato thanked the authorities of South Eastern Railway. "We are making efforts to ensure restoration of trains , which had stopped operation due to the pandemic, for various other destinations. Talks are on with the Railway Board and South Eastern Railway authorities for resuming the train service between Tatanagar and Buxar (in Bihar)  soon," he said. The 08103 / 08104  Tatanagar-Amritsar  Jallianwala Bagh Special  train will leave Tatanagar every Monday and Wednesday at 9.10 pm. The train will reach Amritsar at 6.30 am on the third day. The train leaving Tatanagar on Monday will reach Amritsar on Wednesday while the train leaving Tatanagar on Wednesday will reach Amritsar on Friday. In the opposite direction, 08104 Amritsar-Tatanagar Jallianwala Bagh Special will leave  Amritsar every Wednesday and Friday w.e.f June 23 at 12.45 pm. The train will arrive at Tatanagar at 9.10 pm, the next day after a journey of about 32 hours. The train with four AC-3 Tier, 11 sleeper class and four general second class (Reserved) coaches, will have stoppages at Purulia, Bokaro Steel City, Gomoh, Koderma, Gaya, Rafiganj, Anugraha Narayan Road, Dehri on Sone, Sasaram, Bhabua Road, Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyaya, Varanasi, Shahganj, Faizabad, Lucknow, Bareilly, Moradabad, Laksar, Roorkee, Saharanpur, Yamunanagar Jagadhri, Ambala Cant, Ludhiana, Jalandhar City and Beas stations between the two destinations - Tatanagar and Amritsar. Chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway, Sanjay Ghosh said the bi-weekly train will have fully reserved accommodation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-14
22-06-2021||Jharkhand||State's active Covid caseload falls below 1,500||About twice as many Covid recoveries as fresh cases of infection brought the active caseload of Covid-19 in Jharkhand below 1500 on Monday, while one patient, a resident of Hazaribag, died in the state, taking the Covid toll to 5100, figures released by the state health department highlighted. Jharkhand on Monday reported 122 fresh cases of Coronavirus infection against 228 Covid recoveries which brought the active caseload to 1489, a bulletin from the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. At least three districts – Lohardaga, Pakur and Koderma – did not report fresh Covid cases on the day, while the active caseload in Ranchi, the worst-affected district in Jharkhand, dropped to 475 as at least 20 patients recovered here against six fresh cases of Covid-19. None of the 24 districts in the state reported a spike of more than 20 cases. East Singhbhum reporting a spike of 16 cases, the highest among the districts, the NHM stated in its bulletin. At least 24 recoveries against the 16 fresh cases brought the active caseload in East Singhbhum down to 167, the second highest among Jharkhand districts. As per NHM data, at least 14 districts, including Dhanbad, Bokaro and Dhanbad, reported a single-digit-spike in Covid cases on the day. The state on Monday tested swab samples of 50,725 residents and around 0.3 per cent of them were found infected by coronavirus. As per government data, over 3.44 lakh people have contracted Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far and 98.08 per cent of them have recovered from the disease. However, 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. The growth rate of infection in Jharkhand, as per NHM data, was 0.04 per cent against the national average of 0.15 per cent. The doubling rate of cases in the state jumped to 1915.37 days against the national doubling rate of 478.33 days. The state also reported one fresh case of Covid-induced Mucormycosis in the past 48 hours, which took the total number of Mucormycosis cases in Jharkhand to 135. As per government data, as many as 82 of these cases were confirmed and 53 were suspected. The state, however, did not report casualties due to black fungus on the day, keeping the toll in the state to 26. So far, 53 Mucormycosis patients have recovered from the fungal infection in Jharkhand. Jharkhand administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 79,308 residents, while the second jab was administered to 17,624 beneficiaries, a separate report from NHM stated. Over 60,000 of the residents who received their first jab on Monday were younger than 45 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-14
22-06-2021||Jharkhand||Cyclone Yaas-hit families in Jharkhand stare at starvation ||A survey by Khadya Suraksha Jan Adhikar Manch in Jharkhand’s West Singhbhum district has painted a grim picture of tribals battling starvation after being battered by Cyclone Yaas on May 27. The survey done in June among 104 affected families in nine blocks (out of a total of 18 blocks) of West Singhbhum has found several families forced to stay under tree shed in rainy season after houses were completely damaged in the thunderstorm and they do not have finances to repair the houses themselves, some have their food grains damaged while some took loans to repair their houses. “It is nearly a month since the Cyclone Yaas affected us but the state government is yet to take any step for immediate assistance of the affected families. “The situation has been further worsened as even social security schemes like green ration cards have not reached several families. We presented our survey findings to the West Singhbhum deputy commissioner (Ananya Mittal) on Friday and were assured of remedial measures at the earliest,” said Sanjeev Pradhan, a member of the Manch (a coalition of organisations espousing cause of food and social security). The survey points out that 10 per cent of the total 104 families do not have green ration cards while several of them are yet to get benefits of social security pensions. Nearly 10 per cent of the families do not have bank accounts, around 19 per cent of the families do not have proper food grains to last for two weeks. None of the affected families claim to have received any assistance from the district administration as part of compensation after the cyclone. “We have only surveyed a handful of families in a few blocks of the district. There will be thousands of families affected by the cyclone and we have asked the deputy commissioner to provide dry rations and food items and adequate compensation. The deceased family should at least get Rs 4 lakh while those whose houses have been completely damaged should get Rs 50,000 and those whose houses have been partially damaged should immediately get Rs 20,000 and all the affected families should be linked to social security schemes. “The administration should survey and assess the damage and make the compensation amounts public,” said Siraj Dutta, a Ranchi-based food rights activist and member of the Manch. State disaster management department secretary Amitabh Kaushal said that an assessment report has been sought from all the 24 districts. “Assessment of damages due to the cyclone has already been sought from all the districts and we have received the reports from nearly 19 districts and will be getting the remaining districts report in a day or two. Soon after getting the report we would be allocating compensation to the affected families in various districts,” said Kaushal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
22-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Offline vaccination begins in Dhanbad||Dhanbad: The offline registration and vaccination for the 18 to 45 age group began in Dhanbad from Monday at 52 centres. The special drive to vaccinate 10 thousand persons a day is being carried out across 11 centres of Dhanbad block, eight each of Jharia and Nirsa, seven of Baghmara, six each at Govindpur and Baliapur; four of Tundi and two of Topchanchi block. Though, chaotic situation was witnessed at some of the centres due to large of number of prospective beneficiaries reaching the centres, the district health department has reserved 5 thousand vaccines for onsite registration while rest 5 thousand were meant for those who came through on-line booking. District Reproductive and Child Health Officer of Dhanbad, Dr Vikash Rana said, “We began the onsite (offline) vaccination drive of 18 to 45 years of age group today in ditrict with a total target of vaccination of  10 thousand  persons (five thousand each for online and offline vaccination) today and will be carrying out three thousand (1500 onsite and 1500 online) vaccinations tomorrow”. “All the beneficiaries were provided Covishield today and tomorrow also we will be providing same vaccines,” said Rana. “Those who took Covaxin on the first two days of launching of online vaccination drive of 18 to 45 years of age on May 14 and May 15 and were waiting for the second dose can also take the second dose on June 22, 23 by visiting such centre where they took the first dose,” further said Rana. “It took less than one hour during the morning to complete the entire process and though there was bit chaotic situation outside the centre with large number of people reaching at the centre but overall the arrangement were good” said Saket Kumar (30), an interior designer of Babudih area who took the vaccine today through the onsite registration and vaccination process at Zila School Babudih Centre along with his wife Neha Gupta (28) said. (Praduman Choubey) Hazaribagh: The rare Himalayan flower Brahma Kamal has bloomed at the house of a retired metals and minerals trading corporation of India surprising botanists and local residents at Koderma. Resident of ward-23, Ramdayal Singh and his wife Asha Devi are the happiest to see the flowers which blooms at night. In Himalayas, they grow at an height of 4500m. It is also the state flower of Uttrakhand. Sources said its a rare plant and not only famous for beautiful flowers but also for their significant importance in traditional medicine. Asha said her husband was posted in Bangalore and saw the brahma kamal plant for the first time there in a rented house. After retirement, when he left the place, he brought a leaf of this plant in 2013 to his Telaiya home where they grew the plant giving the best care. In 2017, the first flower bloomed which made them happier and feel lucky to have it. Botany teacher at Vinoba Bhave University, Avinash Kumar termed this as a rare phenomena. "I haven't heard about this flower in the state before. This flower blooms at an altitude but due to lockdown, pollution level came down with nature showing something wonderful in this way," he added. Kumar said through such wonders, nature want to give message to take care of greenery and to save the earth from pollution. The Brahma Kamal botanical name is Saussurea Obvallata (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
