23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Five IIT-ISM students win third prize at international competition||A group of five B Tech third year mining engineering students of IIT- ISM have earned laurels for the institute and country by securing third position in Student Design Competition (SDC)-2021 of American Rock Mechanics Association (ARMA), the results of which were declared on Wednesday. The first prize of the event went to the team of National University of Engineering of Lima (Peru) while the second prize was won by Universite Laval of Quebec, Canada. The IIT-ISM team titled, Team Stabilizers, of Madhav Singhal, Amara Venkata Sai Srujan, Battula Sreeshma, Anjali Atreyi and Nimmangada Sravani, made the design of a metal mine as part of the competition competed with 167 participants across the globe at the initial webinar for the competition held on April 9. Only 40 teams of 29 universities from 17 countries could register for the competition of which 21 teams could submit their entries. Out of these 21 teams, six were selected after the first round for the presentation of their design and finally IIT-ISM team secured the third prize. Though, the official result is yet to be published on the website but  Gang Han, Incoming President of American Rock Mechanics Association (ARMA)  has posted the result of his Linkedin account https://www.linkedin.com/posts/gang-han-b6596a5_rockmechanics-geomechanics-activity-6813269031076843520-M1Rm/. S.K. Sinha, a faculty member of Mining Engineering department of IIT-ISM, who mentored the participating students for the competition said, “All the participants were given the same problem of making the design of slope of mine or metallic ore deposit  suffering from the problem of water seepage.” “The challenge before the team was to develope the deepest and safest mine by developing stable slope to extract ore in most economical manner and we are happy that our team won the third prize,” said Sinha. “It is a great achievement of IIT-ISM as for the first time the students of university won the prize at such an international level competition,” said A.K. Mishra, Head of the Department of Mining Engineering of IIT-ISM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-12
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand extends Covid-imposed restrictions till July 1||The Jharkhand government notified the extension of the ongoing partial lockdown by another week on Wednesday, stating that all restrictions and relaxations mentioned in its earlier order would continue to remain in force. Following the extension, the partial shutdown, or health safety week, that was to end on June 24, will be in force till 6 am of July 1. This also means that the state will observe the third edition of the a complete weekend lockdown between the evening of June 26 (Saturday) and early morning on June 28 (Monday). The order signed by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh read, “The provisions of order number 207 dated June 16 related to observance of Swasthya Suraksha Saptah in the context of Covid-19 shall stand extended from 6am on June 24 till 6am on July 1.” Chief minister Hemant Soren, while speaking to reporters outside Project Building on Wednesday evening, said the state government was  evaluating the situation cautiously before allowing more relaxations. “Cases are coming down but there are apprehensions of another wave. We don’t know if it will come or not, but we are making our own preparations. It is important to not allow any opportunity for the virus to rear its head again. Hence, we all have to be cautious and follow covid appropriate behavior," he said. While all major markets and business establishments have been allowed to function till 4 pm, inter and intra-state buses are still not allowed to ply. Restaurants can offer take-away only and cinema halls are still closed. Bus operators, who have been demanding that they be allowed to offer services, appeled to the state government last week, citing heavy losses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-12
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi tops in health & nutrition reforms under Niti Aayog project||Ranchi has emerged as the best performing district in terms of health and nutrition and bagged the third position in overall performance under the Aspirational District Programme (ADS) of Niti Aayog, which aims to improve the ease of living in 112 most underdeveloped districts of India. According to the latest annual report 2020-21 released by Niti Aayog recently, Simdega, another Jharkhand district, bagged the fourth position in overall performance and eight in health and nutrition under the ADS programme. Simdega also bagged the fourth position in Financial Inclusion & Skill Development. Palamau bagged the fourth position among the 112 aspirational districts in terms of agriculture & water resources. However, no Jharkhand district managed to make it to the list of top 10 best performing districts in terms of education under the programme. According to the official website of Niti Ayog, Health & Nutrition, Education, Agriculture & Water Resources, Financial Inclusion & Skill Development, and Basic Infrastructure are the programme’s core areas of focus. After several rounds of consultations with various stakeholders, 49 key performance indicators have been chosen to measure progress of the districts. “Districts are prodded and encouraged to first catch-up with the best district within their state, and subsequently aspire to become one of the best in the country, by competing with, and learning from, other districts,” Niti Aayog’s website states. The Niti Aayog, as per its annual report, sanctioned comprehensive projects to reduce anaemia and malnutrition in five Jharkhand districts and equip schools with smart classrooms in 19 districts of the tribal state. Launched in January 2018 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the ADP has been lauded by several foreign organisations, including the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), which recently stated that the ADP should serve as “best practice” for other countries where regional disparities in development status persist for many reasons. At least 19 of 24 districts in Jharkhand – all affected by Left Wing Extremism (LWE) – are among the 112 districts selected for the programme. As per a report submitted by the Niti Aayog to UNDP, most of the 112 districts selected for the ADP were underdeveloped and some affected by LWE. In the past one year, the Jharkhand government launched several programmes to combat malnutrition in the state. The government launched the mobile malnutrition treatment van project to address the nutritional needs of children and also increased the number of institutional deliveries, a step towards better health of pregnant women and newborns, officials said. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), if the prevalence of anaemia in a population is 40 per cent or higher it is categorized as a severe public health problem. National Family Health Survey (NFHS) highlights that around 70 per cent of children in the age bracket of 6-59 months, 62.6 per cent of pregnant women and 65.2 per cent of women in the reproductive age are anaemic in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-12
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||National award winning Seraikela archer mulls quitting sport||Promising young archer from Seraikela-Kharsawan, Anil Lohar, is mulling to quit the game which has earned him laurels in the state and national circuit. A tattered bow, insufficient arrows and lack of support from the state government are reasons enough to make him disillusioned and think of quitting archery. The 24-year-old finds no scope to progress without a compound bow. He was very optimistic that competing in the globally-accepted compound division of archery would help him progress and someday land a job. Former chief minister and Archery Association of India president ,Arjun Munda, had made a recommendation to the state government to provide a compound bow to Lohar last year, However, the government is yet to act on the recommendation. "I was very optimistic when Mundaji recommended my name for the bow. But it has been almost a year and nothing has moved forward. I am very disappointed and am thinking of quitting archery. What is the use of continuing when there is no support from the government. I am jobless and have a family to feed," Lohar, a resident of Pinderabera village in Gamharia block, 35 km from Jamshedpur, said. Lohar told The Telegraph Online that he seldom goes for practice nowadays and was concentrating on selling chicken. "Condition of my Indian round bow (traditional bamboo bow) is in  poor condition. and arrows are also insufficient. I cannot afford to buy a sophisticated compound bow on my own. I am somehow keeping my wife and two infants afloat," he added. A compound bow costs around Rs 2.5 lakh. Lohar is selling chickens in areas surrounding his village. However, the income is not enough to sustain his family. “I have no other option than to sell chickens even though I am facing problems in sustaining my family. The state government should help out sportspersons who have won medals in national and international competitions. It should encourage sportspersons," Lohar, who claimed gold in the Indian round section (shooting with traditional bows and arrows) in the senior national archery championship in Cuttack in March 2019, said. He received a cash award of Rs 75,000 for this feat but that money has since exhausted. Though union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda could not be contacted, Seraikela-Kharsawan District  Archery Association secretary Sumant Mohanty said the government was least concerned about the plight of sportspersons. “We are aware of the problems faced by Lohar. He (Lohar) is a promising archer and has the ability to make progress in compound division. A compound bow would do a world of good to him. Lohar is facing monetary problems. We would ask him not to quit archery. We need a promising archer like him,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-12
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Tokyo Olympics 2020: Dhanbad players show support for Team India||As the world celebrated International Olympics day on Wednesday, more than 100 coal town players associated with the 32 sports association affiliated to Dhanbad district Olympic association, extended support to team India for the upcoming Tokyo Olympics. The players participated in a signature campaign launched as part of a week- long drive at a prominent market complex, Ozone Galleria of Dhanbad. The sportsmen belonging to different district level  sports association including  athletics, rugby, football, basketball, lawn tennis, gymnastics, ludo, tug of war, netball, softball, kabaddi, kho Kho, thang ta, muay thai, shooting and archery put their signatures in a standi bearing photographs of the Indian team, took a selfie with it and uploaded it on social media. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Ranjit Keshri, general  secretary of Dhanbad District Olympic Association, said, “Owing to Covid protocols of social distancing, we have called sportsmen affiliated to different association in batch wise manner but the enthusiasm among them was palpable as they were very excited ever since we informed them about the signature campaign, a couple of days ago.” “The signature campaign will continue till June 30,” said Keshri and added that the signature campaign is open for all besides the players. “We are also organising an online essay writing competition on the topic ‘Olympic Movement in India’ in which the participants are required to write a 100 line essay and we have already received 130 entries from different sports association members so far,” he said. “The essay competition will continue till June 30 and we will felicitate the winners during the first week of July” said Keshri. Julie Kumari , an 18-year-old Lawn Bowls player of Dhanbad, who represented the bronze medal winning Jharkhand team in the triple event along with Unnati Priya and Chhoti Kumar in the Khelo India Youth Games held in Guwahati, also took part in the signature campaign. “We wished great success for Team India in Tokyo Olympics by participating in the signature campaign today and at the same time also pray to god to normalise the Covid situation so that the sporting activities which are lying suspended can resume as early as possible,” said Julie. Unnati Priya, another Lawn Bowls player who also participated in the signature campaign said, “The Indian team representing us in the Tokyo Olympics has great potential and we are hopeful that they will bring laurels for the country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-13
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town bus operators on the verge of ruin ||More than one thousand staff members of around 250 buses operating from Dhanbad are on the brink of starvation due to continuation of lockdown for more than two months and resultant lack of salaries for them due to non operation of buses. The cleaners and conductors are being compelled to work at construction sites and others are forced to take debts from moneylenders to make arrangements for food grains. Talking to the Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Ranjit Malakar, a conductor of Jai Maa Gauri travels, said,“I used to earn around Rs 12,000 per month and somehow managed the expenses of five family members, including me, my wife and three college-going sons and had no savings at all and the sudden lockdown has deprived us our sole source of sustenance.” “We had faced the worst days during the nine months of closure of last year from March 20, 2020 to November 7, 2020 and even after the reopening the passenger flow was very thin affecting our income so majority of drivers, conductors and cleaners are mired into debts,” said Malakar and questioned the logic of lack of permission for buses when trains for the same destinations have already been launched. “We make rounds of the bus depot of Dhanbad at Bartand every day hoping for the resumption of permission of buses but return with despair on our faces,” said Malakar. Shailendra Kumar Pathak, a driver of Shiv Ganga Travels said, “Having taken too much loans during the last year of lockdown we have just started paying back our debts when the second lockdown came and now we are facing difficulty in even getting  food grains from the grocers due to non payment of earlier dues.”
“Majority of us, including me, have not paid the school fee of the children and repeated reminders are coming from the school to strike off the name of our children,” said Pathak. A native resident of Bhojpur district of Bihar, Pathak who lives at a rented house in Dhanbad has not paid his house rent for the last three months. Anjani Singh, a conductor of another bus travel agency said, “The bus operators are also not in a position to pay the salaries of the staff as the burden of the permit charges, road tax and fitness charges continue to be levied by the government even during the closure period.” Sunil Singh, Joint secretary of Dhanbad Bus owner’s Association who is also the owner of Sunil Delux Transport which operates 20 buses between Dhanbad and different neighbouring areas of Bengal including Purulia, Asasol, Burnpur etc said,“We ourselves are in huge debt of payment of permit charges, road tax etc despite lack of any income as even before the lockdown of Jharkhand our bus operation to Bengal is lying suspended and thus we are not in position to pay our staff.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-13
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand CII wing donates Covid equipment to East Singhbhum ||The Jharkhand State Council of the Confederation of Indian Industry on Wednesday donated five oxygen concentrators of 10 litres each and 25 pulse oximeters to the East Singhbhum district administration. An oxygen concentrator is a medical device that concentrates oxygen from ambient air. It helps in the treatment of Covid-19 patients while pulse oximeter helps in measuring the oxygen saturation level of the blood. The medical equipment was handed over by Vijay Bhuller, state head, CII Jharkhand to deputy commissioner of East Singhbhum, Suraj Kumar. "We need to be very cautious and follow Covid appropriate behaviour strictly as well as get vaccinated to carry on with our livelihoods and put growth back on track. Also there is an urgent need to augment the healthcare infrastructure in the state and this was the best time for CII to step in and help, "said Bhuller, the senior CII functionary. A number of initiatives have been undertaken by CII, CII Foundation, and Young Indians (Yi), the youth wing of CII to provide relief to those impacted by the second wave of Covid-19. It included procurement and deployment of medical equipment such as oxygen cylinders, O2 concentrators, ventilators, etc. in hospitals. Healthcare infrastructure support by setting up additional Covid-care centres, expanding Covid-ICUs, setting up Tele-ICUs, operationalising vaccination centres and installing oxygen pipelines. Apart from this CII also undertook distribution of relief material such as food and ration kits, hygiene kits such as masks, sanitisers etc. According to Bhuller, CII has also been supporting and assisting industry members to address issues arising out of various measures at the state and district level that impact their operations. Notably, the second wave of Covid -19 has put tremendous strain on healthcare infrastructure as the number of patients rose rapidly. Hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, ventilators and other necessary medical equipment and facilities were in short supply and people were often travelling great distances in the hope of getting medical support. While the Centre and the state government was taking several steps to increase and strengthen existing healthcare infrastructure, CII, CII Foundation, and its affiliates stepped in to augment existing Covid-care facilities. The industry body has been proactively engaging to catalyze the private sector and industry initiative to complement and supplement the government in combating the second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-13
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Youth shoots man, lynched by angry villagers||A 30-year-old youth was lynched by a group of villagers shortly after he had shot dead a 40-year-old man in West Singhbhum district about 90 km away from here on Tuesday evening. The incident took place at Gara Rajbasa village under Pandrasali thana outpost in Chaibasa muffasil thana area. The man who was shot dead was identified as Sideu Banra, younger brother of Sangi Banra, the Khuntpani panchayat samity member and the man who was lynched was identified as Sangi Das also known as Lambu, both residents of Gara Rajbasa village. West Singhbhum SP, Ajay Limit, said the incident took place while Sideu was playing cards along with five others at a place near the village market. "As Sideu was busy playing cards along with five other villagers, Lambu arrived there and sat there for a while. Incidentally, an altercation broke out between Lambu and Sideu. In the spur of the moment, Lambu fished out a country-pistol from his waist and fired a shot at Sideu from close range, causing the latter to fall down instantly. Having shot Sideu, Lambu tried to flee the spot, but those present there caught him up and thrashed him to death, "said the West Singhbhum SP to The Telegraph Online. Linda said as the Pandrasali thana outpost was about four km away from the spot, a police party reached the scene in about half-an-hour and rushed both the victims to Chaibasa Sadar Hospital, about 30 kms away from Gara Rajbasa. The doctors on emergency duty declared both the victims dead. The senior police officer said that they are yet to ascertain the content that led Lambu to open fire on Sideu. "Those who were playing cards with Sideu are tight-lipped about what had gone wrong between the two that prompted Lambu to open fire, "said Linda. He stated that they are trying to identify those involved in the lynching. The police have recovered the pistol that was used in Sideu's murder. According to sources in the Gara Rajbasa village, Lambu had a sketchy background and worked in Madhya Pradesh but had returned to his village after lockdown was imposed there in April. Sideu was a civil contractor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-13
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Cyclonic circulation over Bihar triggers showers across Jharkhand||Formation of a fresh cyclonic circulation over neighbouring Bihar triggered light to moderate rain in several parts of Jharkhand since Tuesday night. According to weathermen, the cyclonic circulation formed over southwest Bihar and adjoining southeast Uttar Pradesh. It extended upto 5.8km above the  mean sea level.  A trough was also stretched from the cyclonic circulation to south Chhattisgarh across Jharkhand between 3.1km and 5.8km above the mean sea level. The cyclonic circulation resulted in light to moderate showers in several places including Jamshedpur, Bokaro, Ranchi, Deoghar and Garhwa on Wednesday. There was heavy rain in Simdega, Ramgarh and Palamau districts. Kurdeg in Simdega district recorded the highest rainfall of 73.2mm while Ramgarh recorded heavy rain of 63.4 mm. Manatu and several other places in Palamau region recorded rainfall of over 55 mm last night. Met data revealed that Ranchi recorded around 30 mm of rain while the Met observatory at Jamtara recorded 25 mm of rain. Hazaribagh, Bokaro, Giridih, Gumla and several other places in the Kolhan region recorded light rains. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre has forecast a generally cloudy sky with light to moderate rain and thunder at several places in the state during the next 24 hours. It also predicted heavy rainfall at isolated places over north-east and western Jharkhand during the next 24 hours. There will be no significant change in maximum temperatures during the next four to five days. For the second consecutive day on Wednesday most places in the state recorded maximum temperatures between 30 and 34 degree Celsius. As of Wednesday, the surplus rain of Jharkhand stood at 89 per cent. Against a normal of 127.9 mm, the state has so far received 241.3 mm, an excess of 89 per cent. All 24 districts of Jharkhand have so far received more rain the usual.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-13
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||4 Jharkhand Congress MLAs take their grievances to Delhi||A group of four disgruntled Congress MLAs from Jharkhand is camping in Delhi to meet the central leadership and air their grievances, primarily about the delay in constituting the working committee of the state party. On Wednesday morning, MLAs  Irfan Ansari (Jamtara), Rajesh Kachchap (Khijri), Mamta Devi (Ramgarh) and Umashankar Akela (Barhi) met Congress national general secretary K.C. Venugopal to discuss various issues for about 45 minutes. They also met Jharkhand affair’s in-charge R.P.N. Singh on Tuesday night with a host of demands. Ansari and Co. have have made their grievances public at a time when the  Congress, which is a part of the JMM-led ruling alliance government in Jharkhand, is also grappling with organisational issues in other states where it is in power. Ansari, who is a co-working president of the state Congress, said, “We are here to meet our central leaders to discuss ways to strengthen our party in the state. Honestly, things aren’t good with the party at the state level and the majority of workers feel neglected. Something has to be done to address these glaring issues.” Another MLA, on the condition of anonymity, cited their issues. “The Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee, kind of apex working committee, is still to be constituted for at least four years now. 20-point programme committee for smooth coordination with alliance partners and the government at district and state levels aren’t fully constituted and functional. There is no proper democracy left within the party leading to different kinds of factionalism. In the long run, it will dent the party,” said an MLA. The MLA added, “Before the assembly election, party announced one man- one post policy. However, it is still to be applied as the state president (Rameshwar Oraon) is also occupying ministerial berth in the state cabinet. What about other deserving people?.” Notably, one of the ministerial berths out of the 12 member cabinet is still empty, for which many are lobbying hard. But the alliance partners are still to reach to any consensus as both JMM and Congress have been staking claims on it. Congress sources in Ranchi maintained that MLAs are also trying several pressure tactics to grab positions in government owned boards and corporations. Of the four MLAs, Ansari is known to be the most critical voice against the state leadership and is trying to forge a coalition of dissenters within the party. It is because during 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Ansari and his father Furkan Ansari, a veteran Congressman was upset after the latter was denied ticket to contest from Godda parliamentary seat. The seat went to now-defunct JVM-P as part of the deal with the alliance partners. But JVM-P’s Pradeep Yadav, who fought from Godda ultimately lost to BJP giving more strength to Ansaris to criticize state Congress leadership. Later, former president Ajoy Kumar resigned from the post after LS polls owing to increasing bickering within the party. After Congress came to power in alliance with JMM and RJD post 2019 assembly polls, Irfan reportedly lobbied hard for ministerial berth but met with raw deal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-13
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs 110 fresh Covid cases, two casualties in a day||At least four Jharkhand districts – Saraikela, Khunti, Dumka and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, while none of the remaining 20 districts reported a spike of more than 20 cases on the day, figures released by the health department highlighted. The active caseload in the state dropped to 1417 on the day as at least 180 Covid patients recovered from the infection while 110 fresh cases of Coronavirus surfaced in the state, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. However, two more Jharkhand residents, one each from East Singhbhum and Gumla, died of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the Covid toll in the state to 5102, the NHM further stated in its daily Covid bulletin. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of 1,30,310 residents as a part of a special Covid testing drive and less than 0.1 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. As per government data, over 3.44 lakh people have been affected by Covid-19 in the state so far and 98.10 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. On Tuesday, Dhanbad reported the highest spike of 17 cases against 15 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported a spike of 14 cases against 26 recoveries. At least 13 people were found infected by the lethal virus in Ranchi and 26 Covid patients recovered here, bringing the active caseload in the capital down to 462. By the end of Tuesday, only two districts – Ranchi and East Singhbhum – had an active caseload of more than 100. At least 14 recoveries against 10 fresh cases of infection brought the active caseload in Hazaribag below the 100-mark on Tuesday. As per NHM data, as many as 98 people were battling Covid-19 in Hazaribag. The active caseload in East Singhbhum was 155. The growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand also dropped to 0.03 per cent on Tuesday against the national average of 0.13 per cent. The doubling rate of cases, on the other hand, crossed the 2000-day-mark in the state on Tuesday against the national doubling rate of 530 days, the NHM bulletin stated. Meanwhile, one more suspected case of Covid-induced Mucormycosis surfaced in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the total count of suspected cases in the state to 54. So far, 82 confirmed cases of black fungus have been reported in the state and at least 26 patients have died while 52 have recovered, highlights government data. The state on Tuesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 93,393 residents and more than 74,000 of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years, a separate report from NHM stated. The second jab of the vaccine was administered to 18823 beneficiaries on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-13
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand extends services of 60 doctors to tide over immediate crisis ||The Jharkhand government has decided to extend the services of 60 doctors for another six months in view of the acute shortage of healthcare personnel at a time when the country is battling a pandemic. At a Cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday evening, it was decided that 60 doctors, who are set to retire by March 2022, would continue to be on government rolls for six months more. The one-time extension order applies to both teaching and non-teaching cadres. Sources in the government specified that those retiring between May 2021 and September 2021 can now work till March 2022. Similarly, those retiring between October 2021 and March 2022, will also get an extension of six months from the date of their retirement. As per health department records, of the 2,316 sanctioned posts of doctors in the non-teaching cadre, only 1,597 posts are filled.  Of these, 44 doctors were set to retiring by March next year. In the teaching cadre, only 285 of 591 sanctioned posts are filled. Of these, doctors occupying 15 of these posts were due to retire at various points of time till March 2022. Most of these doctors are posted at various medical colleges of the state. A senior professor of the medicine department of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) welcomed the Jharkhand Cabinet decision. "I am due to retire in December. But now, I can serve for an additional six months. It is a prudent decision of the government as paucity of manpower is difficult to address overnight, especially during a pandemic,” he said. The doctor also highlighted a problem that everyone knows of but is seldom addressed seriously. Few doctors are willing to serve in areas aware from towns and cities. As a result, despite several recruitment drives, Jharkhand is unable to hire enough doctors. "As a result, the state is facing issues in the delivery of healthcare in remote districts," he added. As many as 15 decisions were taken at Tuesday's cabinet meeting headed by Hemant. Among them are the state government's nod to the direct recruitment of eight sportspersons, formation of statutes on minimum qualification for appointment of teachers and other academic staff in colleges and universities, allotment of 200 acres of land to Patratu Vidyut Urja Nigam Limited (PVUNL), a joint venture of NTPC and the state government, for setting up a 4,000 MW power plant at Patratu in Ramgarh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-13
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Ranchi Rath Yatra unlikely to be held this time too||The over three-century old Rath Yatra (chariot festival) of Jagannathpur in Ranchi is unlikely to be held this time too, like last year. Though no official announcements have been made till now and the ongoing partial lockdown may be relaxed further, if not totally withdrawn, by July 12 when the festival is scheduled to be held, people feel that the administration, considering the present situation, may not allow taking out a procession with the deities on the chariot, let alone organising the fair that had become a part of the festivity for the past 300 years. “We have requested for a meeting with chief minister Hemant Soren for discussing the matter and expecting to hear from his office soon,” Chandrakant Raipat, the secretary of the temple management committee, said on Monday, adding the final decision would be taken after that. The presiding deities — Lord Jagannath and his siblings, brother Balabhadra or Balaram and sister Subhadra — are placed on the chariot and taken to their Mausi Bari about half a kilometre away every year and a large fair, along the route and beyond, is also held that draws a huge number of devotees. But the 330-year old tradition was broken last year when the administration did not allow the festivities due to the Covid situation prevailing then and instead asked the temple authorities to perform the rituals with limited people inside the temple complex. As such, the rath did not move and no fair was organised last year and only the rituals were performed by a limited number of priests in the presence of a few committee members within the closed complex. Many wonder if it will be the same this time too as even the Jagannath temple in Puri will also organise the Rath Yatra without devotees this year. “I think performing the rituals will be allowed as it was done last year but we are in favour of taking out the deities to Mausi Bari,” said someone close to the temple authorities who did not want to be identified. They were also in favour of taking preventive measures for arresting the spread of Covid-19 and would arrange an alternative vehicle for the deities, he further said, adding that taking the deities to Mausi Bari was a part of both the ritual and tradition. The Jagannathpur Temple  was built by local ruler Aini Nath Shahdeo. According to legend, Shahdeo was about to set out for Puri but could not make it as he faced certain obstructions. When the king became depressed, the Lord, it is believed, himself instructed him, in a dream, to build a temple in Ranchi and worship him there. Thus, the ruler completed the temple construction on a hillock at the present Jagannathpur area. Rath Yatra and a fair started there in 1691 and continued uninterrupted since then. The temple later developed a crack and was renovated about 25 years ago. “We are not aware if Rath Yatra was ever interrupted here,” Raipat said, adding the situation was different these two years when even the Puri event had to be cancelled last year. The tribals, who were in a majority in the area that time, patronised the event. Though Ranchi grew enormously with passage of time and the mela started looking more like an urban affair, the tribals still visit it in large number as do others from the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-13
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Cop clears waterlogged road in Dumka||A young police officer in Dumka district of Jharkhand has gone the extra mile in resolving a civic problem beyond his mandated responsibilities. Shyamal Mandal, 26, officer-in-charge of Kathitund police station, around 25km from the district headquarters, used a shovel to create a passage to drain out ankle-deep water on the main road in the local market on Wednesday morning. “It was nothing great. I usually go for patrolling in civvies in the morning. A particular stretch of the Kathitund Main Road was waterlogged after overnight rain creating problem for the traders and masses. I discussed with the traders and arranged for a shovel to cut a small passage so that the water could flow into the nearby drain. Though it was not in my line of duty but I had this urge to help,” said Mandal, who graduated in history honours in 2015 and is from the 2018 cadre of the Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission (JSSC). The traders were happy and pleasantly surprised by the officer’s work. “The act has created a change in our mindset about the men in uniform. We usually looked down upon Kathitund cops for being hand-in-glove with illegal stone-crushing unit operators and other negative activities. But this was a nice surprise to see the head of the police station trying to sort out a civic problem on his own. The police official also arranged for a JCB (excavator) and stone chips to fill the potholes on the road caused by the waterlogging,” said Suvidya Kumar, a grocery shop owner in Kathitund market. The act also earned praise from seven-time Shikaripara MLA and senior JMM leader Nalin Soren. “Usually police officials advise residents to approach the road construction department or civic authorities (the mukhiya since the area falls under a panchayat) to sort out the issue or they themselves ask the civic authorities to repair the roads. It is a rare thing to see an officer-in-charge of a police station carry out road work. I would certainly write to the Dumka superintendent of police Amber Lakra to felicitate the young officer. I will also write to the road construction department to arrange for repair of the road at the earliest,” said Soren. Several attempts to contact the Dumka SP failed to elicit a response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-13
23-06-2021||Jharkhand||Infant with rare birth defect cured in Jamshedpur||A paediatric surgery team of a private hospital in Jamshedpur gave a new lease of life to an infant detected with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH), a rare birth defect. “Usually CDH is detected immediately after birth but here the child had history of multiple hospital admissions since birth and has been treated for repeated pneumonia episodes. The disease is very rare to for a seven-month-old,” said Dr Soumyo Ghosh, the paediatric and neo-natal surgeon, who led the surgery at Dr Abhishek Child Care and Maternity Hospital. “The occurrence of the disease is around 3 per 10,000 live births,” Dr Ghosh said. CDH is a defect in an unborn baby’s diaphragm, the muscle that divides the chest cavity and abdominal cavity. CDH occurs when the diaphragm does not close the right way during the baby’s development and abdominal organs push through the defect into the chest cavity. This can occur on the left or right side, but left is more common. The organs that come up into the chest can press on the lungs and can result in a condition in which the lungs remain small and underdeveloped, also called pulmonary hypoplasia. Some babies with CDH also develop conditions affecting their heart, liver, intestines and nervous system development. CDH is not usually inherited, and its cause is not known. It is seen during a routine prenatal ultrasound in the first or second trimester.  In Jharkhand, the case rate of CDH is around two cases in one year. “Father Neel Mohan Pradhan from Gamharia in Seraikela-Kharsawan district was not from an affluent background. The baby was admitted on June 8 with complaints of vomiting and not tolerating feed. After proper examination and investigation, the baby was detected to have CHD, which is a life threatening condition needing surgical treatment,” said Dr Ghosh. The paediatric team led by Dr Ghosh along with general surgeon Dr Abhijit Kundu, paediatric critical care expert Dr P.L. Rath, paediatrician Dr Abhishek Kumar and paediatric cardiologist Dr Pankaj Gupta did the surgery on June 10. Following the surgery, the baby was placed to paediatric ICU for 72 hours. “After the surgery the baby recovered well and was discharged on June 17 and is under regular follow-up,” said Dr Ghosh. According to sources, the cost of similar surgeries in private hospitals in Metro cities would have cost anywhere between Rs 3 to Rs 4 lakh. But it was done at the hospital for around Rs 1 lakh out of which nearly Rs 30,000 was waived off due to financial condition of the parents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-14
