24-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma sanctuary elephants pose threat to humans and crops||Elephants are positioned perilously close to human habitation at the foothills of the Dalma wildlife sanctuary, posing a danger to crops and villagers. Foresters and rural youths are patrolling the foothills to keep around 40 elephants at bay. The jumbos, most of whom were earlier stationed at the hilltop, have come down to the foothills. Foresters said danger to human life was less as unlike other forest areas, including Chandil and Kandra in Seraikela-Kharsawan, people living at villages inside the 192 sq km sanctuary, don’t tease elephants. The Chandil forest range often witnesses the presence of elephants from Bengal, Tamar (near Ranchi). Incidents of jumbos destroying homes, and wiping out standing crops are a common sight. Sometimes, elephants, when teased, also kill humans. Same is the case with Kandra. “However, it is not possible to stop elephants from entering farmlands and damaging crops. Elephants destroying crops is not a new thing in Dalma but there are very few human casualties as villagers don’t tease jumbos by throwing stones at them and bursting crackers close to them. Villagers have now learnt to live with elephants,” a forester said. He, however, added it is very difficult to predict the mood of elephants. “Though we have been taking all necessary precautions to prevent man-animal conflict, it is very difficult to predict the mood swings of wild jumbos,” the forester pointed out, requesting not to be quoted. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra confirmed the presence of elephants on the foothills. “We don’t think there is any danger to human life on the foothills. But the elephants may destroy crops as they have been doing in the past,” he added. Some of the elephants are still stationed uphill. Around a dozen jumbos, including calves, were spotted by foresters near Chhotka Bandh on Thursday morning. “Elephants are enjoying their time without the presence of tourists. Villagers have become accustomed to living with the jumbos,” a tracker (village youths recruited as daily wagers to keep a tab on movement of elephants and other animals), said. The scenic Dalma sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur, is presently close in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Dalma elephants will migrate to the jungles of Bankura and West Midnapore in neighbouring Bengal in August-September and return in February-March next year. Depending upon their mood, jumbos may migrate to Bengal earlier than their usual schedule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-11
24-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand vests power on panchayat chiefs to issue marriage certificates||The Jharkhand government has vested power on panchayat chiefs across the state under the compulsory Marriage Registration Act, Palamau marriage registrar Dharmender Kumar Upadhaya said, terming it as a big move. A lot of relief and comfort has come with this announcement, Upadhaya told The Telegraph Online. At the panchayat level, he said, the fee for compulsory marriage registration comes for little less than Rs 100 compared to that of a marriage registrar who operates from a district town. “Let’s not forget that it is the panchayat sachiv who gives birth and death certificates in the panchayat. So it is no problem for them to issue a marriage certificate,” Upadhaya said. On Wednesday a National Informatics Centre team held a virtual session with the panchayat chiefs sensitising them about the finesse of community marriage registration. Upadhaya said the age of the boy and girl matters most for marriage registration, and one of the two has to be from the same panchayat from where the registration is done. In case of court marriage registration is to be done at the marriage registrar's desk and nowhere else, he informed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-11
24-06-2021||Jharkhand||South Eastern Railway restores Ispat Express from Friday||South Eastern Railway has decided to restore the Howrah-Titlagarh Ispat Superfast Express, which runs via Tatanagar, from from Friday, over a year after it was suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The superfast express, which will run as a special train (02517 / 02518 ), will leave Howrah daily at 6.35 am. The train will reach Tatanagar at 10.18am. It will be at the station for five minutes before  will move ahead on its onward journey. The train will reach Titlagarh at 7.35 pm the same day. On its return journey,  the superfast train will leave Titlagarh daily with effect from June 26 at 5.15am and reach Howrah, the originating station, at 6.15pm the same day. The return train will arrive at Tatanagar railway station at 1.45 pm. Apart from Tatanagar, the train will also stop at Santragachi, Kharagpur, Jhargram, Chakulia,Ghatshila, Rakhamines, Sini,  Rajkharsawan, Chakradharpur,  Manoharpur, Bondamunda,  Rourkela, Rajganjpur , Jharsuguda, Sambalpur, Hirakud, Barpali, Loisingha,  Bolangir and  Saintala between the two destinations - Howrah and Titlagarh. The train will have 10 general chair car coaches, two AC chair car coaches and two third AC coaches. Both, Chhotanagpur Passenger Association and Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry ( SCCI ) welcomed the decision of the South Eastern Railway . Kamakhya-Ranchi-Special to run from June 29 The 05662 Kamakhya-Ranchi Special will leave  Kamakhya w.e.f June 26 every Tuesday at 12 noon and arrive Ranchi at 2.25 pm, the next day. On its return, the 05661 Ranchi-Kamakhya Special will leave Ranchi w.e.f June 30 every Wednesday at 8.30 pm and reach Kamakhya at 11.30 pm, the next day. The train, with one AC 2-Tier, five AC 3-Tier, 10 sleeper class and four general second class (fully reserved) coaches, will stop at New Bongaigaon, Kokrajhar, Alipurduar, Hasimara, Binnaguri, New Mal, Siliguri, New Jalpaiguri, Kishanganj, Barsoi, Malda Town, New Farakka, Pakur, Rampurhat, Sainthia, Siuri, Andal Durgapur, Asansol, Dhanbad, Chandrapura, Bokaro Steel City and Muri stations.  The train will also stop at Raniganj on way to Ranchi from Kamakhya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-11
24-06-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi man ‘buys’ his mother a plot of land on the moon||He loves his mother to the moon and back. And just so she knows Sumit means it, he has gone ahead and gifted her a plot of land on, well, the moon. Meet Sumit Sinha (33), a wedding planner who is now the only Jharkhand resident to have “purchased” an acre of land at Mare Moscoviense or the Sea of Muscovy on the moon, where late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput also “owned” a plot of land. Such land deals are executed courtesy, Luna Society International that is authorised by the International Lunar Lands Authority (ILLA) to offer to the public a limited number of properties on the moon in compliance with international treaties in order to finance a privatised exploration and development project, its website says. There are many other websites that claim to do the same. But “owning” a piece of land on the moon, however, does not come with any ownership rights. The ownership package includes an embossed deed, a satellite photograph of the property and an information sheet detailing the geography of the moon's Moscoviense Region. The owners of land on the moon also get complimentary lifetime membership of Luna Society International. “I wanted to give something memorable to my mother to express how much I love her. After a lot of thinking, I realised that gifting her property on the moon would be a great way of showing her how much she means to me,” said Sumit. His mother Rita, now the proud owner of the property, is on cloud nine ever since Sumit handed over the ownership package on Wednesday. “I used to tease Sumit that he never gave me anything as a gift, not even a pair of earrings. Yesterday, he came to my room and handed over some papers to me. Initially, I did not understand what it was, but when I read the documents, I realised that he has bought land on the moon for me. I am short of words. This is an emotional moment for me,” said the 52-year-old homemaker. As per the registered claim and deed, this “purchase” of land on the moon will help finance a variety of programmes administered by the Luna Society, including the first non-governmental manned mission to the moon, as well as funding scholarships and educational initiatives for students. A resident of Bariatu Housing Colony in Ranchi, Sumit lost his father when he was 12, and has been living with his mother since then. Handed over the responsibility of running a family at a young age, Sumit worked in New Delhi for 15 years and currently owns an event management company in Ranchi. Sumit won the award for best wedding planner in Ranchi in 2018 and 2019. In 2018, Bollywood actor Soha Ali Khan handed over the award to him at a show in Bangalore. And in 2019, Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut conferred the award to Sumit at an event in Thailand. After Bollywood actors Shahrukh Khan and Sushant Singh Rajput purchased lands on the moon, several Indians were quick to follow the trend. Last year, a Rajasthan man gifted a plot on the moon to his wife on their wedding anniversary. In 2020, a man from Bodh Gaya in Bihar had also purchased a plot of land on the moon. Purchasing land on the moon, as of now, is largely symbolic. In 1967, the Soviet Union, the United States, and the United Kingdom came up with the Outer Space Treaty that debars any country or individual from owning any part of outer space. At least 109 more countries, including India, signed the treaty later.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-11
24-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town hospitality sector senses revival ||The hospitality sector is slowly gaining momentum with the gradual restoration of train services, improvement in the Covid situation and revival of trade and commerce. Several hotels of Dhanbad which were lying closed or had temporarily suspended the room service have re-launched their operations recently. The hotel operators however, are demanding permission for the opening of banquet halls and resumption of dining services in their restaurants since active Covid cases have dropped to double digit figures in the district. Skylark Hotel, one of the oldest three star hotels of Dhanbad, which opened up after a brief closure of around 20 days on June 11 is receiving around five bookings per day out of its 37 rooms. Sonotel Hotel which had also closed bookings for a brief period has re-launched the service since last week and presently seeing 50 to 60 per cent occupancy. The occupancy in another prominent hotel of the district, 17 Degrees, has also increased to five to seven rooms from two to three rooms about a week ago. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Senior General Manager of Skylark Hotel, Anutosh Bagchi said, “We have opened up the hotel from June 11 on the request of our corporate guests which are our main customer base.” “During the week days from Monday to Friday the occupancy is around 7 rooms but during the weekend lockdown the occupancy falls to zero and thus the average occupancy is around five rooms,” said Bagchi. “The main business of hotels depends on banquets and restaurants and since there is restriction on these, we are still incurring losses and once these facilities are allowed we will be in position to earn some profit,” said Bagchi. Arka Ghosh, General Manager of Sonotel Hotel said, “Though there is some improvement in terms of room occupancy as during the weekdays we get almost 60 per cent occupancy of 56 rooms which falls down to 50% during weekends due to lockdown but our major concern is unoperational banquet halls.” “Since majority of banquet bookings for July have been carried out for marriages in anticipation of improvement of situation during July but with restriction continuing we will soon have pressure for refund of booking amount also,” said Ghosh. Sandeep Narang, proprietor of 17 Degree Hotel of Dhanbad said,“We can’t understand the reason for the continuation of restrictions on in-house dining service at restaurants and at least the dining should be restored with half of seating capacity.” “Look at the market places and there is so much rush everywhere then what is the logic of continuation or dining service in restaurants which can be properly operated as per the Covid protocols,” said Narang.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-11
24-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town children deprived of disability grants||More than 50 physically and mentally challenged students belonging to economically weaker sections of society enrolled at different special education centres are deprived of their disability pension for several months at a time when the Covid pandemic has affected the income of one and all. The applications of several students for pensions are also lying for approval at the respective circle office for several months. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Akhlaque Ahmad, a speech therapist cum special educator at Jharia based government resource centre for the physically challenged persons said, “More than 20 students of our centres who were getting pension regularly are not receiving the same since the last four months.” “Since majority of around 170 students enrolled at our centre belong to the below poverty line families, including the children of daily wage earners, the pension amount  was a major source of income for them which helped them to survive the onslaught of the lockdown” said Ahmad. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Champa Devi, mother of a hearing impaired 14 year old girl, Rani Kumari, said, “Me and my husband Kailash Sao used to sell jhalmuri at a nearby school to eke out the living of five persons including our three children, Rani Kumari (14), Puja Kumari and a 19 year old son.” “As the school has been closed since last year, we have lost our sole source of income and somehow depend on the pensions of Rani for procuring our daily needs to some extent but the discontinuation of pension has forced us toward the brink of starvation,” said Devi. Nikhat Parveen, mother of another hearing impaired student of Resource center, said, “My husband used to earn little working a tailoring shop in Jharia and the pension provided through the social welfare department helped us a lot during the difficult times but this time the pension is also suspended for three months.” Ranjit Kumar, speech therapist and special educator of Jeevan Jyoti School School, a school for physically and mentally challenged children operated by inner wheel club of Dhanbad said, “Several of our students are also deprived of disability pensions complicating the difficulties of their parents during the time of pandemic.” Contacted, Anuj Bando, Additional Director, Social Security, said, “Though allotments are coming regularly from the government and pensions are also being disbursed but if there is any discontinuation in pension in some specific cases, we will look into it seriously.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-11
24-06-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel brings in new workplace strategy for continuous improvement ||Tata Steel on Wednesday introduced the ‘5S and Visual Workplace Management Assessments’ under the aegis of Apex Safety Management System & Audit Safety Subcommittee, across all its locations, with an objective to make the shop floor safe and vibrant. The initiative was launched jointly by T.V. Narendran, CEO and managing director of Tata Steel and Sanjeev K. Choudhary, president, Tata Workers' Union on a digital platform in the presence of employees across all locations of Tata Steel. 5S refers to five Japanese terms used to describe the steps of the 5S system of visual management. The 5S stands for Sort, Set in Order, Shine, Standardise and Sustain. Speaking on the occasion, Narendran stressed upon the importance of basics in the organisation. He said that a strong 5S visual workplace process is the foundation for any continuous improvement strategy. "This kind of an initiative will help the organisation to demonstrate the same level of excellence all across its locations," he said. TWU president Choudhary highlighted the importance of 5S in professional and personal life. The context of the programme was set by Neeraj Kumar Sinha, chief (Safety), Tata Steel who gave the background of initiating the latest initiative. "Tata Steel is committed to the safety and well-being of its stakeholders and has taken several steps in the past as well to ensure zero harm to people," he said. Notably, Tata Steel group is among the top global steel companies with an annual crude steel capacity of 34 million tonnes per annum. It is one of the world's most geographically-diversified steel producers, with operations and commercial presence across the world. Tata Motors announces changes to its Board of Directors Tata Motors on Wednesday evening announced that Guenter Butschek who had informed his desire to relocate to Germany at the end of the contract for personal reasons, will therefore be stepping down from his role as CEO and  managing director from June 30, 2021. He will continue as a consultant to the company till the end of this fiscal year. In a statement issued by the company N Chandrasekaran, chairman of Tata Sons said, “I would like to thank Guenter for leading Tata Motors successfully over the last five years and creating a strong foundation for the future. I look forward to his continued inputs as a consultant to the company.” Girish Wagh will be appointed as the executive director to the Board of Tata Motors Ltd from July 1, 2021. Wagh is currently the president of commercial vehicles division. He alongwith  Shailesh Chandra, president – passenger vehicles division and  Thierry Bollore, CEO – Jaguar Land Rover will continue to work closely with the chairman,  N Chandrasekaran, said the company statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-12
24-06-2021||Jharkhand||East Singhbhum wins virtual karate championship||East Singhbhum claimed 13 medals -- eight gold, four silver and one bronze -- to emerge champions in the second Jharkhand State E-Kata Karate Championship held virtually as part of Olympic Day celebrations on June 22 and 23. Ranchi finished runner-up with 9 medals -- 2 gold, 3 silver and 4 bronze while West Singhbhum claimed the third position by winning 7 medals -- 2 gold, as many silver and 3 bronze. Bokaro, on the other hand, had to be satisfied with the fourth spot with 5 medals -- 2 silver and 3 bronze -- in the event organised by Jharkhand State Karate Do Association (JSKA), an affiliated unit of Karate Association of India (KAI), in association with Tata Steel sports wing. Trainees of Tata Steel Karate Training Centre also performed well during the championship. "A total of 275 karatekas from 18 districts participated in the championship which concluded late Wednesday evening. The event played in kata style was officiated by 20 referees," said JSKA general secretary L. Nageshwar Rao. According to him, they wanted to put karatekas of different districts into action as they remained indoors owing to Covid-19 pandemic. "The championship was conducted successfully. We thank the dignitaries for their support and blessings," Rao, chief coach of the Tata Steel karate cradle said. The tournament was inaugurated by chief guest Farzan Heerjee, chief, (protocol and sports), Tata Steel in the presence of R. Ravi Prasad, president of JSKA, Mukul Vinayak Choudhari, chief (sports excellence centre), Tata Steel, Ashish Kumar, head (sports), Tata Steel and Anand Menezes, Olympian and senior manager (sports) of the company. Nitin Kulkarni, IAS and Ashu Shukla, DIG, CRPF, Jamshedpur, were the guests of honour at the closing ceremony on Wednesday evening. The dignitaries appreciated the championship and thanked all the participants who took part from their homes in a disciplined manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-12
24-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 2 Covid deaths as active cases drop ||Jharkhand on Wednesday reported two Covid casualties, one each in Simdega and Dumka, taking the Covid toll to 5104, while the active caseload in the state dropped to 1364 as at least 190 Covid patients recovered in the state against 139 people found infected by SARS-CoV-2 virus on the day, figures released by the health department highlighted. At least four Jharkhand districts – Pakur, Dumka Khunti and Godda – did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, while none of the 24 districts reported a spike of more than 30 cases. East Singhbhum, as per NHM data, reported the highest spike of 25 cases on the day, while Ranchi reported 10 cases of Covid-19. The state on Wednesday tested swab samples of 63,944 residents and around 0.2 per cent of them were found infected by the deadly virus. So far, over 3.44 lakh people have been affected by Covid-19 in the state and 98.12 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of them could not survive, reveals government data. “The trajectory of Covid cases has seen a downward trend in the state, but we cannot afford to be complacent. The current restrictions will continue and the government will take necessary steps as per the situation in the coming days,” Chief Minister Hemant Soren said after the government on Wednesday extended the ongoing lockdown-like restrictions, referred to as ‘Swastya Suraksha Saptah’, till July 1. The active caseload in Ranchi dropped to 444 on the day, while that in East SInghbhum rose to 156. Among other districts, Dhanbad reported a spike of 14 cases against 16 recoveries, while Latehar reported a spike of 12 cases against 11 recoveries. At least 16 districts reported a single-digit-spike in cases on Wednesday. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 was 0.03 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.13 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was 2129.46 days against the national average of 545.48 days. The state on Wednesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 111816 residents and close to 90,000 of the beneficiaries were in the age group of 18 years to 44 years, a separate report from NHM stated. The second jab of vaccine was administered to 19013 residents on the day. Meanwhile, two more patients of Mucormycosis recovered on Wednesday, taking the count of Jharkhand residents who have overcome the fungal infection to 54. The state did not report fresh cases of black fungus on the day. The total confirmed cases stood at 84, while 54 suspected patients were undergoing treatment in the state by Wednesday. So far, Mucormycosis has claimed 26 lives in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-12
24-06-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren receives another threating email||In the fourth such instance after becoming the Jharkhand chief minister, Hemant Soren has received an anonymous email threatening him. Police sources said the sender has been identified. The email was sent to the official address of the secretary to the chief minister (secretarytocmjharkhand@gmail.com) on May 25 at 3.19pm. The email written in English hurls expletives at Soren and warns: “I will bear your death ceremony cost from my personal pocket. Third class…. Die as soon as possible.” A case was lodged by the chief minister’s office at Gonda police station in Ranchi on the same day. Gonda police sub-inspector Dipak Kumar investigated the case and submitted his probe report on June 1. The investigating team with the help of cyber cell of Ranchi police found the sender’s email (vikram.mouneshwar@gmail.com) and zeroed in on the IP address and other details of the accused Vikram Ghodgari Mouneshwar, who is a resident of Bangalore, Karnataka, and also traced his mobile number. “We have lodged a case under Sections 385 and 387 (putting a person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion) of the IPC,” said a source in the Ranchi police who refused to be named. Ranchi city superintendent of police Sourav Kumar confirmed the incident but said that they are not in position to comment further. “We have received a complaint and are investigating it. We cannot disclose much about the case at the moment,” he said. However, sources in Ranchi police said they had managed to nab the accused a few days after submission of the probe report. The police found that the accused did not have any criminal antecedents and was actually suffering from depression due to the Covid-19 pandemic and had written the email not in a fit state of mind. The police also found that the youth hailed from a good family. “The matter was discussed with the chief minister’s office a few days earlier and the youth who had been detained was released on bail bond by the police on the directive of Ranchi SSP (senior superintendent of police) Surendra Kumar Jha,” a source said. On July 8 and July 17 last year and again on January 5 this year, Soren had received anonymous threat emails. But the police failed to make much headway in any of these cases as the IP address of the servers were found to be in Germany and Switzerland and the cyber cell has not been able to identify the sender of the emails. Sources in the chief minister’s office refused to comment on the fresh email threat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-12
24-06-2021||Jharkhand||Bramhadev was shot at by the security forces, say activists||Human rights activists have concluded after an enquiry that innocent villagers carrying a single shot country-made gun and participating in an annual hunting festival were shot at by the security forces earlier this month. The activists were probing the killing of a tribal accused of being a Maoist by security forces in Jharkhand’s Latehar district on June 12. The probe team of human rights activists under the aegis of Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (a coalition of progressive human rights organisations) had visited Piri village of Garu block in Latehar district, 170km from Jharkhand capital Ranchi, which witnessed the killing. “The security forces took Bramhadev Singh (24) to the edge of the forest and fired three shots at him, which led to his death,” the report which was submitted to the Latehar deputy commissioner Abu Imran on Wednesday afternoon. “The team found that the incident of 12 June was not an ‘exchange of fire’. The security forces fired upon innocent villagers. The six adivasis associated with the incident (including Bramhadev) were out on a traditional hunting ritual, as every year for the Sarhul festival. They all carried a Bhartua gun, which has been in their families from generations. This single fire gun is used to hunt small animals and birds like rabbits, pigs and chickens and to protect crops from animals,” the report points out. “Suddenly, the security forces started firing without any warning. The villagers, however, did not fire any shots from the Bhartua gun they were carrying. They instead raised their hands, shouted that they are common people, not Maoists and requested the police to not shoot. But the security personnel kept firing. One of the bullets fired by them hit one of the villagers Dinenath in the hand. Another bullet hit Bramhadev in the body,” the report adds. The firing continued for about half an hour. Fearing being shot at, the five men ran away from the forest. Thereafter, the security forces took Bramhadev to the edge of the forest and fired three shots at him, which led to his death. The villagers also told the fact-finding team that none of the six victims were associated with the Maoist organisation. “The FIR does not mention Bramhadev’s death by the police firing. According to the FIR, this incident was an exchange of fire in which the first shot was fired by the group of armed villagers and some people fled into the forest. The FIR also mentions that Brahmadev’s body was found at the edge of the forest. These statements are contrary to the facts,” the report points out. The report also states that police have filed a case against the six adivasis, including Bramhadev, under various sections (including the Arms Act). This too exposes the true intention of the police — it  wants to maintain pressure on the villagers to prevent them from questioning the police firing and the murder. In the police station, all the five victims were made to sign (or put their thumb impression) on many pages (some blank and some written) without informing them about the content of these pages. “We want the government and administration to make the truth public that this was not an exchange of fire with the Maoists. Nor was it a retaliatory action by the security forces. The adivasis were going for their traditional hunting festival and did not fire at the security forces. The security forces fired at innocent adivasis and shot dead Bramhadev. Then an attempt was made to cover up the matter,” said Siraj Dutta, one of the members of the team. The team has also in its demand before the deputy commission want an FIR to be lodged against the security force personnel and officials responsible for the killing of Bramhadev and firing on the villagers. The FIR registered by the police on six Adivasis including Bramhadev should be quashed. Administrative action should be taken against the local police and senior officials for filing wrong statements and FIRs. “Wife of deceased Bramhadev Singh should be given a compensation of at least Rs 10 lakh. The government should take full responsibility of their son’s upbringing, education and employment. Also, the remaining five victims should be compensated for harassment by the police,” the member said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-12
24-06-2021||Jharkhand||BSL serves notices to illegal occupants in township||In the last seven days the Bokaro Steel City’s Estate Court has served notices to 30 illegal occupants who have encroached BSL quarters during the Covid-19 pandemic taking advantage of the lockdown. There have been as many as 180 quarters encroached by squatters in the township. Estate Court is a quasi-judicial body established under Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971 by BSL. “There are 180 such illegal occupied quarters existing in the list of Estate Court at present,” said a BSL officer. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, “In the last one week, notice has been issued by Estate Court in around 30 cases of lock breaking. They have been told to file their replies online before order is passed by Estate Court. Besides, there are around 150 cases of lock breaking of quarters against which Eviction Order has already been passed by Estate Court.” He added the decision on eviction drive against these will be taken depending on the Covid situation and permission of the administration. Sources said that whenever any lock-breaking incident comes to notice of the BSL management, a case used to be filed by the department concerned with the Estate Court. The Court later serves notices to occupants and with cooperation from the administration conducts an eviction drive. In the past nine months, the Estate court along with administrative officials has conducted three eviction drives in September, December of 2020 and in February in 2021. They have managed to evacuate about 120 illegally occupied quarters. But other quarters get illegally occupied by the squatters. Residing of squatters in a block caused worry to legal residents who are mostly BSL employees or retired employees. Local leaders said that illegal occupants have created an insecure environment in the township as earlier police had arrested Maoists, robbers, cyber criminals, and even rackets running prostitution in the unlawfully occupied quarters. There is also a gang working in these unlawful activities which break the lock of empty BSL quarters and provide it to squatters on rent. After occupying BSL quarter illegally the occupier gets a chance to live for about two years in the illegally occupied quarters. They take advantage of the lengthy process as BSL management which first identify illegally occupied quarters, lodge a case in Estate Court, then after several notices of eviction, a drive is conducted. This usually takes about two years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-12
