25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Sindri woman given Covishield first, Covaxin as second dose||Family members of a Sindri resident created ruckus at a vaccination centre after she was administered Covaxin as second dose instead of Covishield given to her as the first dose. The family of 50-year-old Sarita Devi charged the medical staff at Saraswati Vidya Mandir of gross negligence and demanded a probe into the case. A team of Sindri police who reached the site controlled the situation and asked the medical staff to talk to higher officials including doctors involved in the vaccination process. Computer Operator Amar Kumar, deputed at the centre charged Sarita for the mistake and said, “There was a huge rush at the centre and she herself went before the nurse without verifying her previous certificate due which the error took place.” Vaccination for 45 and above age group was scheduled at the Saraswati Vidya Mandir based centre which witnessed a huge rush from the time of its commencement. Chhavi Kumari, the nurse deputed at the centre who administered the Covaxin as second dose to Sarita also attributed her for the mistake and said, “The undue haste shown by the woman in taking the vaccine led to the mistake as she put pressure for early vaccination.” “We have talked to the doctors and they have assured us that the woman can contact the doctors at any time if there is any discomfort,” Chhavi Kumari said. District Reproductive and Child Health Officer, Dr Vikash Rana who is also the nodal officer for Covid Vaccination said, “We have asked the Medical Office in Charge of Jharia to put the women under observation and at the same time also initiate action against the staff responsible for the error.” He however appealed to all beneficiaries to remain cautious as after the first dose they get the proper certificate so they must make proper enquiry at the centre before taking the second dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-10
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town provides financial security to Covid orphans||Sri Ram Sharma, Principal District and Session Judge of Dhanbad cum Chairman of District Legal Service Authority, on Thursday provided cheques worth Rs 2,000 each to eight children who lost both their parents due to Covid and turned orphan during the pandemic. The financial help was provided as part of the project Shishu of Jharkhand Legal Service Authority (JHALSA) launched earlier this month across the state. Sharma said that financial help was provided as part of the project to bring such orphan children into the mainstream as per direction of acting Chairman of JHALSA, Apresh Kumar Singh. He further said that such orphan children are being provided sponsorship by the district social welfare department and district child protection unit. Altogether 60 such children have been identified and verified in the district by the para legal volunteers of DLSA out of which eight have been provided Rs 2000 cheque each today. Arvind Kachchhap Additional District and Session Judge of Dhanbad who is also secretary of District Legal Services Authority said that DLSA has been assigned by JHALSA to extend help to such children. “After identification of such children through para legal volunteers by visiting their places they have been provided financial help and would be further provided all government schemes as per their eligibility” said Kachchhap. Dasrath Chandra Das Deputy Development Commissioner of Dhanbad; Sneh Kashyap, District Social Welfare Officer; others were also present during the cheque handing over. Dhanbad district administration during the last month under the Sambal Saathi Scheme has provided help kits to altogether such 150 families who have lost their bread winners. Each kit contains 10 kg rice and wheat each; two kg each of pulses and chura (rice flakes); two kg each of sattu (parched gram powder), salt, chickpea, gram, washing powder; five kg each of potato, onion, sugar; two litres mustard oil; one kg each of spices and soyabean; five packets of biscuits; 10 pieces of bathing soap as well as detergent cakes; 200 grams of toothpaste; three toothbrush; two fruit juice packets, two bottles of sanitizers and 10 pieces of masks. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh on June 16 also held meetings with different corporate organizations including BCCL, MPL, DVC, ACC, Tata Steel, Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited seeking their support for making arrangements for the education and skill oriented training of such children. All the participants of the meeting have also assured all support to the district administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-10
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Team India wrestler meets Hemant, asks for good coaches ||Guess what 14-year-old wrestler Chanchala Kumari of Ranchi, who is the first wrestler from Jharkhand to qualify for the world championship, asked for when she met chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday? No, not funds, wrestling kits or a job. She requested him to ensure that good coaches were assigned to the state sports academy for better training of sportspersons like her. Impressed by her dedication to sports, Hemant assured her all help. On June 21, Chanchala, who hails from a humble family in Ranchi’s Hotwar village, scripted history by clinching a berth in the national squad for the upcoming world wrestling championships. She will be the lone athlete to represent India in the  under-40 kg (sub junior) category at the tournament which is scheduled to be held in Budapest, Hungary, between July 19 and July 25. Her success also paved way for her mentor Babloo Kumar’s escalation as Team India coach (female). It was to congratulate them both that Hemant met them at his  Project Building office in the evening. Hemant is learnt to have asked Chanchala about her family, financial condition and other details. He also asked her about her expectations from the government, especially with regard to her sporting discipline. But Chanchala only asked for good coaches. Speaking over phone, Babloo, said, “CM sir repeatedly asked her if she wanted anything. All that she kept saying was  the need for  good coaches at her academy. She stressed that earlier, coaches at her academy groomed many like her from scratch. She wished to avail their services again. CM immediately asked  sports secretary Pooja Singhal to look into the issue.” Chanchala’s father, Narendra Pahan, is a small time farmer while her mother is a housewife. She has three other siblings — an elder brother and two sisters, one younger to her. She is a cadet of Jharkhand State Sports Promotion Society (JSSPS), a joint venture between the state sports department and Central Coalfields Limited (CCL), that runs special academies at the mega sports complex in Khelgaon. Chanchala got enrolled in 2016 and in four years time, she became the first wrestler from Jharkhand to make it to the world championship. Sources said that the wrestling academy at JSSPS has been without coaches for the last one year after their contracts expired. Among them are Bholanath Singh, who is also  president of the Jharkhand State Wrestling Association, and Babloo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-10
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Railways extends special train services till September||Jamshedpur: The South Eastern Railway has decided to extend the running of several long distance special trains till September this year. A circular issued by Garden Reach, the Calcutta based headquarters of South Eastern Railway on Friday said the trains which have been extended till September will continue to run on the existing route and same stoppages. There will be no changes in the composition of the trains, as well. The daily Tatanagar- Danapur Special will now run till September 29. Earlier, the train was notified to run till June 29. The bi-weekly Hatia- Yesvantpur Special will now run till September 28. Earlier, it was notified to run till July 1. Running of Hatia-LTT Special has been extended for another two months till September 27. The weekly Santragachi- Pune Special which runs via Tatanagar railway station will ply till September 27 against the earlier notified June 26. The Tatanagar- Thawe (Bihar) special which runs four days a week will continue to run till September 29. Earlier, the train was supposed to run till June 28. The running of Hatia- Purnia Court Special, a daily train, has been extended till september 29. The train was earlier supposed to run till June end. Running of the daily Ranchi- Howrah Special train was also extended till September 29. The train was earlier notified to run till June 30. The Hatia- Islampur Special was also extended till September 29. The train was earlier supposed to run till June end. It has also been decided to continue the running of Hatia-Gorakhpur Special on its existing path and stoppages till further advice. SER stops running of Oxygen Express trains The South Eastern Railway has stopped running of Oxygen Express trains due to drop in Covid-19 cases and subsequent fall in demand of liquid medical oxygen (LMO). South Eastern Railway has been continuously transporting liquid medical oxygen to different parts of the country for treatment of Covid affected patients since the peak of the second wave in April this year. Data available from the railways revealed that in  all the railway zone has run 219 Oxygen Express trains delivering a total of  16054 MT of liquid medical oxygen to various parts of the country. From its three loading points viz. Tatanagar, Rourkela and Bokaro the zone has dispatched 6927 MT, 7037 MT and 2090 MT of liquid medical oxygen respectively to bring relief to the Covid affected patients. The Oxygen Express trains from SER jurisdiction carried liquid oxygen to various states - Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Karnataka, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Kelara, Assam and Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-10
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Lease signed for Bokaro international cricket stadium ||The Jharkhand State Cricket Association, affiliated with the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), has signed a lease agreement with Bokaro Steel Plant on Friday for the construction of an international cricket stadium. BSL is a unit of Steel Authority of India Limited, and the first city of Maharatna to house an international cricket stadium. The JSCA claimed Jharkhand will become the first state in the country to have three world-class stadiums. The proposed land is located in the erstwhile Mouza-Narkara in the south of National Highway (NH)-23 and south-west of the existing Vishthapit College in Balidih area. The spot is on the route between Bokaro-Ramgarh and Ranchi. It is near neighbouring Giridih, Dhanbad and Purulia (West Bengal) districts. “The agreement entails transfer of 20.17 acres of land by SAIL-BSL to JSCA at Bokaro on long term lease initially for a period of 33 years, with the provision of further renewals as per SAIL Board approved Guidelines and other necessary approvals,” said Manikant Dhan, BSL, spokesperson . The lease agreement between SAIL-BSL and JSCA was signed in the presence of Director In-charge BSL, Amarendu Prakash, former secretary of BCCI and former director of ICC Shri Amitabh Choudhary, president of JSCA, Dr Nafis Akhtar, secretary of JSCA, Sanjay Sahay and others. Bokaro MLA Biranchi Narayan, who had played an important role in negotiating the project, was also present at the occasion organised at Bokaro Niwas, along with executive directors of SAIL-BSL and officials of JSCA. BSL management has received the request for allotment of land to JSCA for the construction of an International Cricket Stadium in Bokaro in January 2018. Dhan said, “The proposal was put up for approval by the SAIL Board and the Ministry of Steel. After obtaining necessary approvals and clearances, all other formalities prior to signing of lease agreement were completed by both parties.” Director in-charge termed it as a proud moment for all. Prakash said, “The proposed international cricket stadium at Bokaro will facilitate grooming of local cricketing talents.” Responding to questions, Choudhary said, “Proposed international cricket stadium at Bokaro will be state of the art in terms of facilities and will have a seating capacity of around 25,000 people. Further activities for the construction of the stadium at Bokaro will now be taken up by JSCA”. The proposed cricket stadium in terms of size will be lesser than Ranchi, which has a 40,000 seating capacity. Chaudhary said, “But the stadium to be constructed in Bokaro will be larger than other international cricket stadiums in the nation and abroad. It will be larger than Lords and Rajkot international cricket stadium.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-10
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro player wins state chess tournament||Ankit Kumar Singh of Bokaro won the state level all Jharkhand online open blitz tournament organised to mark the Olympic Day. The event, organised by Ranchi Chess Club under the aegis of All Jharkhand Chess Association (AJCA), attracted 136 participants from 14 districts of the state. Ankit emerged champion with 8.5 points out of 9 rounds, a full point ahead of Ishant Kumar of Dhanbad and top seed Vatsal Singhania (Fide Master) of East Singhbhum, who finished second and third, respectively. There was no entry fee for the event and Rs 20,000 was distributed amongst the 36 cash prize winners. According to AJCA secretary Neeraj Kumar Mishra, the tournament was held successfully and the participants showed enthusiasm to take part. "It was a successful event and the participants showed great zeal to be part of this virtual tournament," Jamshedour-based Mishra, an International Master (IM), added. The state chess outfit has been helping chess enthusiasts remain busy during the pandemic by organising tournaments at periodical intervals. It recently conducted a virtual Chess Festival for different age groups. The event served as a platform for winners to participate in the online national championship. At a time when Covid-related situation was normal earlier this year, AJCA organised an offline senior state championship in Ranchi. “We are planning to organise more online chess events to help players get prepared for national tournaments. The dates would be announced in due course of time,” an AJCA official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-10
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Breaking stereotypes, Dhanbad village youth becomes YouTube sensation||From TikTok, Instagram to a YouTube sensation,  the journey of the brother sister dancer duo Sanatan Mahto and Savitri Mahto continues from non descript Kusmtand village in Baliapur block, garnering one million viewership on YouTube and 1.86 lakh following on Instagram. Sanatan, 26, a post graduate in Political Science from P.K. Roy Memorial College in Dhanbad was unemployed in 2019 before he started shooting his dance, lifestyle and comic videos through which he has earned around Rs 12 lakh in the last year of the pandemic. “Yes indeed life has changed for me and my family over two years as we have carried out renovation of our house and also constructed a room, put a gate on village house, procured advance version camera for shooting videos and procured a bike, laptop etc,” said Sanatan and added despite success they are keeping their foot on the ground and most of their videos are related to their rural life. Sanatan received formal dance training at a private institute in Dhanbad from 2012 to 2018. “Though initially I started uploading my solo videos but the viewership was dismal and later on I started making duet dance videos along with my elder sister Savitri after giving some training to her and shot from my mobile phone.” “Our dance video on the bollywood number Pyar hamara amar rahega had 9.5 million views and 1.2 million likes while a comedy video titled Ek din had 2.7 million views and 1.9 million likes,” said Sanatan. “Though initially the response was not good but the popularity drastically increased during the lockdown since people were spending more time on mobile phones watching social media sites etc,” said Sanatan. “I am more happy about another aspect of our venture as people of remote areas like ours where dance was treated as a taboo, are now accepting dance and allowing even the girls to pursue dance,” further said Mahto. Sanatan’s father is a small time father and part time daily wage earner who was the sole bread earner of the family till lockdown hit and the family was in dire straits. His brother suffers from chronic diabetes and the family could not afford medical expenses for him. “Elder sister Savitri Kumari who is also my dance partner used to support the family income working as a teacher in a local private school of Baliapur but that school also closed down during lockdown aggravating our financial difficulties,” said Sanatan “My message for the youth is very simple, don’t waste time pursuing such careers for which you don’t have any aptitude and instead concentrate on your passion,” said Sanatan who used to provide dance training to his village youth before switching to YouTube. “Regularity is the second most important requirement for success as we have continued our video streak ever since February 2019 when I uploaded my first dance video on youtube,” signed off Sanatan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-10
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand doubles vaccination targets across districts||The Jharkhand government is looking to vaccinate 2.5 lakh people every day from now on, doubling the present number in an effort to speed up its immunisation drive against Covid-19 in apprehension of a third wave anytime soon. Additional chief secretary of the state health department Arun Kumar Singh has written to all deputy commissioners, reviewing their present targets and asking them to ensure that the new numbers are achieved. “Fresh targets have been fixed following a review. It was realised that there is a need to speed up the vaccination drive as Jharkhand is falling behind many other states. Only through acceleration of vaccination through different strategies will we be able to fight the virus,” said Singh, adding that it has been decided to allot vaccine doses to districts based on their consumption to prevent wastage. Statistics available on the Union health ministry’s portal till June 25 suggest that Jharkhand has vaccinated 62,40,166 people so far. On an average it is vaccinating about 80,000 to 1 lakh people a day and on some days the number goes up to 1.30 lakh. On June 21 and 22, the state vaccinated approximately 1,03,016 people with East Singhbhum accounting for 13,021, Ranchi 8,329 and Dhanbad 7,360.  But some districts like Garhwa, Khunti, Jamtara achieved dismal figures of 2,768, 1,381 and 1,872 respectively. To boost statewide coverage, the health department has provided fresh daily targets to every district. For instance, Ranchi has been given a target of 25,911 jabs, East Singhbhum 13,510, Dhanbad 18,528 and Bokaro 14,250. A health department official added that compared to earlier times, vaccine hesitancy had lessened to large extent, but in certain rural areas, misconceptions and fears still exist. “Awareness drives apart, the government has also rolled out several initiatives like mobile vax vans, on-spot registration by holding special camps , etc.  But as states are unlocking and migration of people is happening once again, there is a fear of resurgence of the virus. Only by effective vaccination, will we be able to contain the intensity of infection,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-10
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi's wrestling mentor becomes national team coach||In yet another good news for the sports fraternity of the state, Ranchi based certified trainer Babloo Kumar was on Thursday named as the coach for Indian wrestling team (female) for upcoming world championship to be held in Budapest, Hungary from July 19 to 25. Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) officially sent a letter to Jharkhand State Wrestling Federation president Bholanath Singh in the evening after appointing Babloo as coach for team India. The letter to state wrestling outfit read, “Bablu Kumar of your state has been selected as coach of Indian cadet women wrestling team for participation in the 2021 world cadet free style, Greco roman style, and women wrestling championship being held at Budapest in July.” On June 21, a tribal girl from Ranchi Chanchala Kumari scripted history by becoming the first wrestler from the state by qualifying for the world championship. 14-year-old Chanchala, who hails from from Hotwar village in Ranchi’s Ormanjhi block booked her berth in the sub-junior category (40 kg). She will be the lone player to represent country in this category. She was coached by Bablu. Her success paved way for his escalation to coach India’s women team for the upcoming prestigious tournament. However, this will be Bablu’s fourth stint as team India coach in international circuit after getting NIS certification on 2016-17. “I was the coach for Indian boys team during u-17 world championship held in Athens in 2017. Next year, I coached women team in u-15 Asian meet in Iran and in 2019, I was again given the opportunity to coach boys team during u-15 meet in China,” he said, adding that he will put his best to ensure that Indian players excel in the forthcoming world championship. Bablu and her protégé returned from Delhi on Wednesday. State wrestling outfit officials accorded them warm welcome at the airport. Central Coalfields Limited (CCL), which jointly runs Jharkhand State Sports Promotion Society (JSSPS) felicitated its cadet Chanchala and Bablu. On Thursday, a delegation of BJP also visited Chanchala’s house to felicitate the athlete and her family members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-10
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||East Singhbhum registers another case of Mucormycosis ||Jharkhand reported one confirmed and four suspected cases of Covid-induced Mucormycosis in the past 48 hours, which took the total count of confirmed cases to 84 and suspected cases to 59 in the state, figures released by the health department on Thursday highlighted. As per government data, at least 26 people have died of the fungal infection and 54 patients have recovered from it in Jharkhand so far. The fresh confirmed case was reported in East Singhbhum, which has so far accounted for 20 confirmed cases of Mucormycosis. Ranchi has reported 30 cases of black fungus so far, the highest in the state. However, the recovery rate for black fungus was higher than 60 per cent, indicating that the state was coping well with the lethal infection, health officials said. Meanwhile, two more Covid casualties, one each in East Singhbhum and Dumka, took the Covid toll in the state to 5106 in the past 24 hours, a bulletin from National Health Mission (NHM) stated. At least four Jharkhand districts – Dumka, Godda, Pakur and Palamu – did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, the bulletin further stated. The state on Thursday tested swab samples of 50,454 residents and 114 of them, less than 0.3 per cent, tested positive for Covid-19, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As many as 252 Covid patients recovered from the infection on the day, bringing the active caseload in the state down to 1224, the bulletin further stated. While none of the 24 districts in Jharkhand reported a spike of more than 20 cases, Ranchi accounted for 15 fresh cases of infection – the highest among the districts. Ranchi also reported 99 Covid recoveries on the day, which brought the active caseload here down to 360. At least 20 recoveries against nine fresh cases of infection brought the active caseload in East Singhbhum down to 141, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Except Ranchi, all the districts in the state reported a single-digit-spike in cases, a trend that highlights the drop in Covid transmission across the state, health officials said. As per government data, over 3.45 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in Jharkhand so far and 98.16 per cent of them have recovered. However, 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive the viral infection, which claimed almost thrice as many lives in the second wave as in the first one last year. The growth rate of Covid-19 was 0.03 per cent in Jharkhand on Thursday against the national average of 0.12 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state jumped to 2206.13 days against the national doubling rate of 560.62 days, the NHM bulletin highlighted. The state on Thursday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to as many as 93,549 residents, including over 77,000 from the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. As per NHM data, the second jab was administered to 13,906 beneficiaries and almost 4000 of them were younger than 45 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-11
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Snana Yatra at Golmuri Iskcon Temple||Jamshedpur: The annual bathing rituals of Lord Jagannath and his siblings, brother Balabhadra or Balaram and sister Subhadra were held on Thursday at the Iskcon Temple at Cable Town in Golmuri amid Covid restrictions. A small gathering of devotees including Jamshedpur MP Bidyut Baran Mahato attended the bathing rituals referred to as Snana Yatra or Devasnana. Very few devotees turned up to witness the rituals performed by the priests of the Iskcon Temple, in the wake of the pandemic. The bathing rituals of the three deities are performed on the Purnima (full moon day) of the Hindu month of Jyeshtha, considered the auspicious birthday of Lord Jagannath ahead of Rath Yatra ( or the chariot festival ). The three deities are ceremonially bathed and decorated for a public audience with the devotees. The organisers later distributed prasad among the devotees. Similar bathing rituals of Lord Jagannath and his siblings were performed at the Naga Mandir near Beldih Golf Course, which holds the city's oldest Jagannath Rath Yatra (chariot festival),  Utkal Association in Sakchi and Gandhi Ashram in Baradwari. Jamshedpur will miss the grand Rath Yatra celebration organised by Iskcon in association with several local NGOs, for the second consecutive year due to the pandemic. This year the annual Rath Yatra falls on July 12. Members of Iskcon Temple said only the Rath Yatra rituals would be performed in a low profile manner because of the pandemic. "No Rath Yatra procession would be taken out wherein devotees pull the chariot during the festival. We will perform the necessary rituals in a symbolic manner," said an official. The tradition of the grand Rath Yatra wherein the three presiding deities -lord Jagannath and his siblings - brother Balaram and sister Subhadra — are placed on the chariot and taken to their Mausi Bari from Bistupur to Sakchi  covering a distance of about 5 Kms every year was broken last year when the local administration did not allow the festivities due to the Covid-induced pandemic The celebration ends nine days later with Bahuda Yatra or the return journey of the trio to their temple. (Pinaki Majumdar) Bokaro: A Bokaro police team rescued a peacock from the busiest Dundibagh vegetable market on Thursday. Acting on information, police rescued the peacock lying injured in the vegetable market. Peacock sustained injury on its leg following which it was lying and surrounded by people. Police later handed it to the forest department. The reason for the peacock’s presence at the vegetable market, situated in the heart of the town, is yet to be ascertained, said in-charge of City police station Santosh Kumar. Sources said that the Dundibagh vegetable market also houses bird sellers and it might be possible that someone may be intending to sell the peacock. The bird may have been deserted because a buyer did not buy it or refused to purchase it. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-11
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren focuses on fulfilling promise of providing employment to youth||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has decided to focus on fulfilling his promise of providing employment to youth at a time when Covid-19 cases are showing a declining trend in the state. In a meeting on Wednesday evening, Soren directed officials to remove all shortcomings and irregularities in recruitment rules within a month and publish advertisements of vacancies of different government jobs so that the recruitment process can be completed at the earliest. “With the Covid numbers decreasing in almost all the districts, the chief minister reminded the officials about his promise made to the people that 2021 would be the year of employment. Though the promise of providing nearly 15,000 government jobs by March could not be fulfilled due to the Covid pandemic, the chief minister is determined to fulfil his pledge at the earliest. This led to the directive for completing all processes within July,” said an official in the chief minister’s secretariat. The chief minister had called a meeting with chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, principal secretary (personnel) Vandana Dadel, Jharkhand Public Service Commission chairperson and retired IAS officer Sudhir Tripathi and advocate-general Rajiv Ranjan on Wednesday evening where the directive was issued for completing all formalities of identifying vacancies, removing loopholes in recruitment laws and publishing advertisements for recruitment within a month. “The aim is two-fold. On one hand we will provide jobs to our talented youths and on the other, we will fill up vacancies in government departments which is affecting their functioning,” said Soren. It was also decided to form a three-member committee to study the representation of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe candidates during promotion of government posts and submit the report to the personnel department. This report would form the basis for framing of regulations for jobs in various departments. The chief minister had announced in Dumka in December last year that 2021 would be the year of employment for youth and nearly 15,000 government jobs would be filled up by March. According to sources in the personnel department, there are nearly 25,000 teacher posts lying vacant in state-run schools along with over one lakh vacancies in several departments. “There are nearly 5.25 lakh government posts, out of which 1.95 lakh have been filled so far. The maximum number of vacancies are in the school education department (104,000) followed by home, jail and disaster management departments (nearly 74,000), 35,000 in the health department, 4,036 in the legal department, 3,500 in agriculture, 3,464 in drinking water, sanitation and water resources department and 2,000 posts vacant in the road construction department,” a source said. Youths in certain parts of the state had started a social media campaign “Jharkhand Yuva Mange Rojgar (Jharkhand youths demand employment)” from June 21 reminding the ruling dispensation about the promise of providing jobs in their manifesto for the 2019 Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-11
25-06-2021||Jharkhand||Simdega district plans to produce more sportspersons in Barki Chhapar village||The Simdega district administration in Jharkhand plans to develop Barki Chhapar village not only by providing livelihood options but also in producing more sportspersons after its resident Salima Tete was selected last week as a member of the national women’s hockey team for the Tokyo Olympics next month. Salima became the first woman from Simdega district and the second from Jharkhand to represent her country in Olympic hockey, the first being her teammate Nikki Pradhan. Simdega deputy commissioner Sushant Gaurav visited Barki Chhapar on Monday to speak to the villagers and directed officials to focus on the overall development of Salima’s village. Gaurav also visited Salima’s home where he met and felicitated her parents Subhani and Sulakshan Tete. Her youngest sister Mahima, who has also played junior national hockey, was present. “Some government schemes are already being implemented in the village. We just wanted to give an impetus to the development process of both sports and livelihood,” Gaurav told The Telegraph when asked about his visit. The administration would convert an existing ground in the village into a properly fenced area so that it helps in training budding players. “Four more such grounds would be developed in different villages of the district,” said Hockey Simdega president Manoj Konbegi, who was also present during Gaurav’s visit. Gaurav also went around the village and advised residents to opt for lift irrigation while also assuring them to provide a tractor for community use. “Sports can develop only when there is an assurance of nutritional security of sportspersons,” Gaurav further said, adding that he encouraged the villagers to grow maduwa (finger millet) and groundnut. “This district is known for successful lift irrigation schemes and the success can be repeated in Barki Chhapar also as there is a perennial source of water in the village that is required for the purpose,” he added. “The villagers who are mainly farmers adopt traditional practices but shifting to mechanised processes would help them get more yield,” Gaurav said when asked about why he wanted to gift a tractor to the village. “I’m hopeful more good players would emerge from the district who would also play at the international level in near future,” said Gaurav when pointed out that 19-year-old Salima was the only woman hockey player from the district who was selected for the Olympics. “We are glad that the deputy commissioner visited the village of a player with a positive attitude and wanted to help it develop, besides also promoting sporting activities,” Konbegi said, adding that they were hopeful of more players emerging from the district. “Simdega has produced many national and international players in the past. I’m hopeful more such players from the district would represent the country in near future,” he said when pointed out that no male player from Jharkhand has made it to Indian hockey teams for Olympics since Ajeet Lakra played in Barcelona in 1992.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-11
