26-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Wild bear kills 3 and injures 3 in Garhwa||Garhwa: A wild bear mauled three villagers including two brothers to death and injured three others on Friday night at Barkol village in Garhwa district. The injured including a woman are being treated at Sadar Hospital, Garhwa and are reported to be out of danger. The incident happened at around 8 pm when 38-year-old Anit Gidh came out of his house in Barkol Khurd village.  The village is situated at the foothills of Sonvarsha Mountains surrounded by forest.  After covering a distance of 200 meters from the house, a wild bear attacked him.  In an attempt to escape from the attack, he shouted for help.  Hearing his voice, his elder brother Sunit Gidh, 42, ran towards him.  On reaching the spot, the bear attacked him too.  A third villager, 40-year-old Raju Minj rushed to help the brothers when he was also attacked. All three were seriously injured in the bear attack and died on the spot. Later in the night, the bear attacked three more villagers who were rushed to the hospital for treatment. Civil Surgeon Dr Kamlesh Kumar said, "One of the villagers has suffered a serious injury on his left eye due to a wild bear attack.” “The injured being treated here, are out of danger,” Kumar added. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: Ambedkar Nagar police of Uttar Pradesh caught a woman who had eloped with her boyfriend in a Hazaribagh village. Rashmi Kumari, having an MBA degree, had run away with her daily wage wage earner partner, Haidar Hussain from Ambedkar Nagar. On Friday, police raided a house in Bherwa Dadi village under Barkagaon police station where the duo were caught. Rashmi stuck to her decision to live with Haidar. “We both got married four years ago and we are living together for the last four months,” she said. Haidar, a matriculate, said he and Rashmi are adults and free to take their own decision. Rashmi's father and other relatives were also present in Hazaribagh and officials said they will take a decision after getting directives from the court. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A life insurance agent duped nine individuals of Rs.80 lakh at SBI main branch of Hazaribagh town. Kahkasa Nisha was newly posted at the branch and was introduced to customers by bank employees after which she started taking money for fixed deposit in the bank for better returns. Three FIRs were registered against her at Sadar police station after she disappeared with Rs 80 lakh. However, bank employees who introduced her to customers are claiming they didn't know her. Subdivisional police officer Mahesh Prajapati said they were probing as how she was allowed to sit and work at the bank's main branch. SBI branch manager Vikas Kant said he had taken charge recently and was not in a position to comment. But he said insurance agents are allowed to continue their business at the bank. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-9
26-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city police launch drive to nab under-age bikers||The traffic police will intensify a drive against under-age riding in the steel city from Monday. If any under-age rider is caught at a checkpoint, they will be slapped with a penalty of as high as Rs 25,000. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Traffic) Babban Singh said in the event if any minor fails to pay the penalty amount, the vehicle will be seized and it can be released from the traffic police's custody only after submitting the penalty in court. "We have already started implementing the Motor Vehicle Act as framed by the Central government and approved by the Supreme Court. But from Monday onwards, our focus will be on the under-age driving, "said Singh to The Telegraph Online. The senior traffic cop claimed to have observed that a large number of minors indulged in riding scooters and bikes thus not only putting their lives at risk, but also the lives of other commuters. The traffic DSP said to make the drive against under-age riding effective, the check points will be set up at unusual places and time so that a sense of fear may be instilled in the mind of such minor riders. There are over five lakh two-wheelers in the city. Over five per cent of the two-wheeler riders are minors, most of them being school students. Significantly, the traffic police have started a helmet checking against the pillion-riders and charging a penalty of Rs 1,000 for not wearing one. In the event if the rider too is found without a helmet, the penalty amount is going up to Rs 2,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-9
26-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to prioritise vaccination for truckers plying goods to Bangladesh||Jharkhand will vaccinate truck drivers, helpers and labourers engaged in transportation of goods between India and Bangladesh by road on priority following a directive from the Ministry of External Affairs, officials said on Saturday. “In adherence to a directive from the Ministry of External Affairs, we will start vaccination of truck drivers and other individuals involved in transportation of goods to Bangladesh via road,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing. Truck drivers, Tripathi said, will be provided certificates post vaccination, which they can carry while transporting goods from India to Bangladesh. As per a letter from the Ministry of External Affairs, the Bangladesh government has already started vaccinating truck drivers who move to India for transporting goods and has sought similar initiatives from the government of India. Even though Jharkhand does not share its borders with Bangladesh, several truck drivers from the state are involved in transportation of goods to the neighbouring country, government sources said. The National Health Mission (NHM) has also directed all  districts to ensure vaccination of sportspersons, team members and other staff participating in the Tokyo Olympics and Paralympic games at the earliest. The Tokyo Olympics is scheduled to begin on July 23, and sportspersons from Jharkhand have made it to the national hockey team that would be participating in the Olympics. Besides vaccinating residents who travel overseas, the state government has started preparing for a possible third wave of Covid-19. The state will conduct gap assessment of private hospitals with paediatrics facilities in order to identify infrastructural shortcomings of the healthcare setups and provide oxygen concentrators on rent to the hospitals for tackling a possible third wave of Covid-19, officials said on Saturday. In a letter addressed to  civil surgeons of all 24 districts of Jharkhand, the NHM stated that all district administrations must hold meetings with the representatives of private hospitals within their jurisdiction and start the process of assessing the preparedness of private healthcare facilities in the eventuality of a third wave of the pandemic. The districts will have to prepare a detailed report on the number of hospitals providing paediatrics facilities, whether they have separate Covid wards or not and whether the hospitals have dedicated Paediatrics Intensive Care Units (PICUs). During the assessment,  districts will also have to review  availability of beds and oxygen concentrators in  private hospitals, officials said. “The state has decided to provide oxygen concentrators on rent to private healthcare facilities that have a paediatrics ward in case there is a demand during a possible third wave,” said Dr Tripathi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-9
26-06-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Main Hospital vaccine drive crosses the 1 lakh mark||In its fight against Covid -19, the Tata Main Hospital, a private health hub run by Tata Steel, achieved vaccination coverage of over one lakh on Friday. The hospital has so far administered 1,01,453 vaccines - both Covishield and Covaxin- of which 12,051 people have received both their doses. During a teleconference here on Friday evening, advisor to TMH Dr Rajan Choudhry confirmed that their vaccination figures had crossed one lakh mark. "Increasing the pace of vaccination is the only way to win the battle against Covid. The transmission of the virus was rapid and much higher in the second wave. The vaccination drive will help in developing immunity for fighting the virus," he said. TMH provides vaccines at Tata Auditorium in XLRI campus, Loyola School, at the campus of Kerala Samajam Model School in Sakchi and at its own hospital premises in Bistupur. He appealed to people that even after getting vaccinated one should continue to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour which includes wearing masks, frequent use of hand sanitisers, maintaining social distance and avoiding crowds. Meanwhile, the overall Covid-19 positivity rate continues to decline. TMH has reported a positivity rate of 2.45 per cent. The admissions have reduced to three per day this week while the recovery rate has improved to 84.21 per cent. TMH has also started taking preventive measures to combat the possible third wave. Apart from improving medical infrastructure the hospital has introduced training modules for medical staff to help them prepare to fight the possible next wave. With the onset of monsoon the hospital also sounded a general alert on diseases like dengue, Japanese Encephalitis and other water-borne diseases which is prevalent during this time of the season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-9
26-06-2021||Jharkhand||Ranji batsman Saurabh Tiwary to train in Mumbai ||Jharkhand batsman and Mumbai Indian’s southpaw Saurabh Tiwary will be off to Mumbai on Monday for the much-needed outdoor training ahead of the Indian Premier League (IPL), which resumes in the UAE on September 19. The BCCI has identified a 27-day window to complete the 31 remaining matches, after IPL 14 was suspended on May 4 as an intense second wave of the pandemic hit India. Tiwary had been into fitness drills at home due to the Covid-induced lockdown and was looking for an opportunity to bat. The 31-year-old has decided to fly to Mumbai to find rhythm and get back into the batting groove. "I've been in Jamshedpur since May 5 after the IPL was suspended. I was not able to bat and only did fitness drills at home. There was no other option than to do the workouts at home. I worked out at a gym set up at home. Weight training and cycling comprised most part of the daily indoor training schedule. It was not possible to bat and train outside. But I badly wanted to find my batting rhythm.  That's why I'm flying to Mumbai (from Ranchi) on Monday," Tiwary said. Speaking to the Telegraph Online, Tiwary, one of the batting mainstays of the Jharkhand Ranji Trophy side, said he would train with some local cricketers in Mumbai. "I have friends in Mumbai and will train with them inside the compound of a residential complex. The local cricketers have set up an indoor unit with an astroturf. I will feel motivated working with cricketers. I really need to get back into my batting groove before the IPL," he added. Tiwary said it would take him over a week to find his batting rhythm."I think I'll find my rhythm in over a week's time. After that it would take another week to find my batting peak. I want to be at my peak before the start of our remaining matches in the UAE," the big hitting Tiwary pointed out. Defending champions Mumbai Indian have played seven matches before the tournament was suspended. Tiwary is yet to get an opportunity in the playing XI. The left handed batter wants to make the most of the opportunity of outdoor training before he finds his batting peak. The highly experienced Tiwary, who has played three ODI's for Team India, would like to put himself on a strong batting pedestal in order to get a chance in the Mumbai playing XI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-9
26-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad, Bokaro MSMEs struggle to stay afloat||More than 250 MSME industries of Dhanbad and Bokaro operating from Industrial parks of Jharkhand Industrial Area Development Authority, are in deep crisis due to a sharp rise in raw materials like pig iron and raw plastic. The aggrieved industry owners in turn are demanding immediate intervention by the government in the form of tax relief and subsidy. Around 150 industries of Balidih in Bokaro dependent on supply of  spares like rubber etc, to Bokaro Steel Limited  are suffering huge losses for more than a year and some are on the verge of closure. The situation is similar for over 100 industries of Dhanbad including the plastic industry, electrical gadgets producing industries etc. Talking to the Telegraph Online, Mahesh Kejriwal, President of Jharkhand Industries Association  owner of a rubber roll industry at Balidih said, “We are procuring raw materials at almost double the rate of last year but our end product are static due to stiff competition as result of which we are incurring losses.” “While there is no competition in the raw material production, we in the spare production sector are huge in numbers including large corporate, medium scale industries, small and micro industries. “Due to the price war among us, the market of our spare products is slowly getting shifted towards corporate brands,” said Kejriwal. “The situation of MSME industries of Adityapur is slightly better as their contract with steel industry there has provision of price variation clause,” elaborated Kejriwal. “As per the provisions of price variation clause, the  contract is adjusted for both supplier and purchaser as per the increase or decrease in rates and price of labour, cement, steel, plant, machinery, spares, fuel and lubricants and other material inputs, in accordance with the principals and formulae specified,” said Kejriwal. Rajiv Sharma, General Secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association owner of an electrical gadget industry at Kandra Industrial area of Dhanbad said, “The prices of iron sheet which was around Rs 55 to Rs 60 per kg till last year have increased to around Rs 110 per kg and similarly the prices of plastic granules have also increased from Rs 40 per kg of last year to around Rs 75 to Rs 80 this year almost doubling production cost.” “The MSME industries have limited capital thus increase in production adversely affects our cash flow which ultimately affects production,” further said Sharma. “Government should come forward with a subsidy plan to save these MSME industries on the model of other advanced countries, otherwise the international players will come into the scene affecting our industries affecting employment opportunities too,” said Sharma. “Both the central and state governments should come forward with some steps that could be like, decrease in the GST rate for the raw material purchase for the MSME industries. “Last year the Central government had announced some relief in the form of loans but this year there is no such move forward,” said Sharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-9
26-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town real estate sector suffers 80% decline||The real estate sector of Dhanbad, which has been on an upswing for the last three decades, has suffered more than 80% decline since the beginning of the pandemic in  March last year. Out of around 700 ongoing projects of flats, duplex and market complexes, booking of only around 140 projects have taken place since last year while buyers are yet to show interest for 560 other projects. Over 250 property dealers and builders, who are facing extreme tough times, have blamed high registry charges of around 8% and state government new rules requiring registration of builders as dealers of construction materials adding to their difficulties. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Ritesh Sharma, Director of Alokik Group one of the prominent builders of Dhanbad, said “We had a brief period of respite from October, 2020 to February 2021 as we made some brisk sale after the relaxation in lockdown and 85% of projects were sold, but the situation is not good as only around 10-15% projects were sold.” “Two consecutive lockdowns affecting the financial condition of all investors of service class or business class is the primary reason for lack of interest for the downturn but no less is the high registry charges.” “The government could have earned higher revenue by lowering the registry charges and thereby propelling more investors to buy projects rather than increasing the rates and consequently deterring the buyers from investments,” said Sharma. Amresh Singh, a prominent builder and president of Dhanbad unit of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI) said, “Yes indeed the situation is very bad as even before we could recover from the losses suffered during the first phase of lockdown the second phase has knocked us down.” “We request the state government to provide incentives and subsidies to our sector which is one of the biggest employers after public sector that provides jobs to large number of migrant workers who had to return back to their place during lockdown, but instead the government is burdening us with lot of documentation of work and taxes,” said Singh. “What is the logic of enforcing the provision for mandatory registration of builders as dealers of construction materials when we are purchasers of these products rather than sellers,” said Singh and added all these provisions are only leading to officialdom and red tapism and forcing them to make rounds of government offices. He also demanded the restoration of the provision of registry of property at Re 1 for women buyers and added, “Many people who have purchased the houses and flats two to three years ago have still not carried out registration in hope that the government will again restore the old provision of Re 1 registry for women.” Vinay Singh, Director of Ramson Developers said, “Instead of 70-80 customer enquiry calls a day in the pre lockdown period, we are getting only 15-20 calls a day during lockdown which shows the sombre mood of investors due to financial insecurity during the Covid period.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-9
26-06-2021||Jharkhand||Latehar: Community health worker assaulted for alleged witchcraft ||A 40-year-old community health worker, who had been creating awareness against misinformation to get rid of vaccine hesitancy, was assaulted for allegedly practising witchcraft at a village in Latehar district of Jharkhand on Thursday. Sources in Balumath police station, under which Indua village falls, said Hira Devi was assaulted with sticks and rods by neighbours Umesh Yadav, Sanjay Yadav and a few others. Harinath Yadav, Hira’s husband and a small-time farmer, was also beaten up when he tried to rescue her. The injured couple were admitted to the Balumath community health centre on Thursday and were released on Friday afternoon. “I used to go to houses in my village informing people to take vaccines and not rely on superstitions and misinformation. However, some of our neighbours who are distant relatives of my husband had been accusing me of practising witchcraft and being responsible for the illnesses and deaths in their family. On Thursday, they stormed into our house and started hurling abuses at me. When I resisted, they assaulted me. My husband protested and he too was assaulted,” Hira said, adding that she has been actively engaged in administering vaccines to people with the health department team. She said she had lodged a complaint at the Balumath police station and also with the Latehar superintendent of police against the accused persons who had been threatening her for several days, but no action was taken. “Police inaction boosted the morale of the accused and they entered my house and beat us up,” Hira said. Balumath police station officer-in-charge Dharmendra Kumar Mahato termed the incident as a family dispute. “The complainant and the accused persons are related to each other and have been accusing each other of practising witchcraft. On Thursday, both sides got into a fight and both have lodged cases at the police station. We are investigating the incident,” Mahato said. The officer, however, said no arrests had been made as the village was nearly 20km from the police station and was located in a dense forest having Maoist presence. “We will have to go to the village with a large force to arrest the accused persons as it is located far away in a rebel-hit area,” Mahato said. Latehar superintendent of police Prashant Anand said an FIR had been registered. “An FIR has been registered and the matter is being investigated,” he added. Latehar deputy commissioner Abu Imran has ordered Bariatu block development officer-cum-circle officer Pradeep Das to meet Hira and submit a report. He has also directed the Latehar sub-divisional police officer to probe the incident. Latehar civil surgeon Dr S.K. Srivastava said there was no vaccination at Indua village on Friday. “There has been no vaccination in the village. But the health officer has informed that they have formed groups of villages where vaccination drives are being held on a particular day. Indua was not in the list of villages where jabs were administered on Friday,” Dr Srivastava said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-9
26-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: 4 garment shops robbed at Sakchi market||Jamshedpur: Unidentified criminals fled with cash over Rs 10 lakh from four garment shops at Sakchi market in the intervening night of Friday. The shop owners discovered the robberies as they opened their shops in the morning. In all the four places, the thief had entered the shops from the rear side of the shops either by removing window air conditioner or exhaust fans. The garment shops where the serial burglaries took place are Fashion World, Kurti House, M Mart and Abhinandan, all located at Jhanda Chowk considered to be the heart of the Sakchi market. The criminals have taken away amounts starting from Rs 5,000 to Rs 7 lakh by breaking open cash-box of the shops but did not touch stocks of garments. OC of Sakchi thana, Kunal Kumar reached the spot after getting complaint of the burglaries. Soon after, superintendent of police (City), Subhash Chandra Jat also reached the spot and inspected the burgled shops. "Burglaries have taken place at four garment shops in Sakchi market in the night. The criminals used rooftop and rear side I the shops for committing the serial crime. We are trying to detect the case, "Jat said to The Telegraph Online The City SP said forensic experts have been pressed into service for taking finger prints at the scene of crime. He pointed out CCTV camera footage is also being collected for the detection of the crime. (Kumud Jenamani) Hazaribagh: Pratappur police arrested the father of a deceased 15-year-old girl while he was performing the last rites on Friday, after murder allegations were made against him. Police sent the body of Sushma Kumari for post mortem to Chatra sadar hospital. Sushma’s maternal uncle Amod Kumar told the officer-in-charge of Pratappur police station, Naim Ansari that his sister Manju Devi, who was married to Pramod Saw, died in 2008. They had a daughter, Sushma and a son. After his wife’s death, Saw remarried in 2010. Sushma’s stepmother would allegedly torture the children, said Kumar. He said Sushma was poisoned which needed probe followed by action. "Allegation against Saw and his wife is of serious nature. As this case related to death of a minor girl, I sent the dead body for post mortem to know the actual reason behind her death,” said Ansari. Ansari said investigation has started and he interrogated Saw about his daughter’s death. “Our investigation has started and if allegation is found to be true, we will not leave the culprits,” he added. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: Unidentified armed criminals attacked labourers on the coal extraction site of private miner, Dhansar Engineering Company Limited working on behalf of BCCL in Chaitudih Colliery area under Katras Police station on Friday at around 2 am. The 15 masked criminals wielding pistols and lathi sticks arrived at the site and first attacked the coal transporting vehicles including the tipper trucks and then attacked the workers due to which around half a dozen workers received minor injury and somehow saved themselves after fleeing from the site. A team of Katras Police station led by officer in charge, Ras Bihari Lal which reached the site took details from the workers of the company. The agitated workers of the coal company expressed their inability to work in such a situation of fear. Baghmara DSP, Nisha Murmu, who also reached the site this morning inspected the site and held a meeting with the officials of Katras Police station during which she instructed the Katras police station officer in-charge to lodge FIR against 15 persons. Officer in-charge of Katras Police station Ras Bihari Lal said, “We have lodged FIR against 15 unidentified persons and at the same time trying to identify them and some local persons who might be involved in the incident.” (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-10
