27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Record blood collection during pandemic in steel city||State Health minister Banna Gupta on Sunday donated blood at a camp organised by Arpan, a city-based philanthropic outfit at the Red Cross Bhavan in Sakchi. Gupta who was the chief guest, donated blood soon after inaugurating the camp which had set a target of collecting over 1,000 units of blood. Chief patron of the outfit Amarpreet Singh Kale, Jamshedpur MP Bidyut Baran Mahato and several social workers were present at the camp to inspire and motivate people to donate blood for a noble cause. Despite the lockdown the blood donation camp witnessed a large turnout of donors. The organisers confirmed that 905 units of blood were collected at the camp which is a record collection by any outfit in the state during the last one-and-half years of the pandemic. Even those getting Covid-19 vaccination a fortnight ago were eligible for donating blood at the camp which was assisted by volunteers and staff of Jamshedpur Blood Bank and Voluntary Blood Donor's Association. "The purpose of organising such a mega blood donation camp was to overcome the crisis of blood usually seen during this time of the season. Our objective is to provide blood timely to the poor and needy patients both in private and government hospitals. Because of the lockdown several other donors could not turn up,” said Amarpreet Singh, who is also the founder of the six-year old outfit. The outfit has been organising such a blood camp for the sixth year in a row. Last year too, the outfit has organised a blood camp during the pandemic. In his brief address the health minister thanked the outfit for organising the camp and the donors for donating their blood for a noble cause. "The rate of blood donation is very high in Jamshedpur as compared to other cities, thanks to the enthusiasm of the blood donors who despite a lockdown had turned up in such large numbers," said the minister. The philanthropic outfit also distributed 2,100 saplings on the occasion. The blood camp which kicked off at 9 am continued till 5 in the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-7
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC sign Australian striker for upcoming ISL||Jamshedpur FC has bolstered its forward line by signing Australian striker Jordan Murray on a two-year deal. The Tata Steel-owned club was in talks with the 25-year-old player last month and the deal materialised after Murray's nod. He will stay with the JFC till the end of the Indian Super League 2022-23. An official in the JFC management revealed that Murray has come in for Australian winger Nick Fitgerald. With Jordan on board, JFC has fulfilled the league's criteria for an AFC (Asian Football Confederation) Asian player among foreigners. Murray began his football career with the youth team of New South Wales-based Bulli FC. Later, he joined Wollongong Wolves, who feature in the National Premier League (NPL), the second division league in Australia. He began his stint there as part of their youth setup, before getting promoted to the senior team in 2014. That year, Murray found the back of the net on 10 different occasions, leading to him signing with Sydney outfit APIA Leichhardt. At Leichhardt, the striker scored 43 goals across 64 appearances and also won the NPL Golden Boot for the 2017-18 season. A-League side Central Coast Mariners came calling for the 25-year-old later that year. He ended up making 43 appearances for them in the top flight across two seasons, registering seven goals and four assists. Murray also shared the pitch with Usain Bolt at the Mariners, when the latter joined the club for trials during pre-season in 2018. Earlier last year, Kerala Blasters roped in Murray for ISL 2020-21, in what was his first-ever stint outside his home country. He ended up performing well in terms of numbers, scoring seven times and registering an assist in 19 matches. He was the club’s top scorer of the season and is only the second KBFC player to score seven or more goals in a single league campaign. Jamshedpur have already signed young Sikkimese winger Komal Thatal. Among domestic players, most have multiple-year contracts. Jamshedpur, who stitched out a crack unit in the last ISL by signing top players, including goal machine Nerijus Valskis, managed an ordinary show  by finishing sixth in the cash-rich tournament held in Goa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-8
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand archery troika win Gold in World Cup ||Jharkhand troika of Deepika Kumari, Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat made the country proud by clinching  gold in the World Cup Stage 3 in Paris on Sunday. The Indian women's recurve team aced with a comfortable win over Mexico. In a repeat of the World Cup Stage 1 final, the troika of world No. 3  Deepika, Ankita and Komalika, who failed to qualify for Tokyo following a shock loss to minnows Colombia, defeated fancied Mexico 5-1 without dropping a set. This was their second successive gold medal in the World Cup this year, and sixth overall (Shanghai-2011, Medellin-2013, Wroclaw-2013, Wroclaw-2014, Guatemala City-2O21). The Indian team,  which had stuttered to win the gold against the same opponents in Guatemala City two months back, was at its best, shooting four 10s with one X (closest to the centre) for a 57-57 score in the first set. The Indians’ flawless shooting put pressure back on the Mexican team of London 2012 silver-medallist Aida Roman, Alejandra Valencia and Ana Vazquez. They shot a poor 52 to lose the second set by three points. Leading 3-1, the Indians had another round of consistent shooting with a 55 but the Mexicans failed to equalise and lost the third set by a slender one point to suffer a second successive defeat this year. Olympian and Padma Shri Deepika, who hails from Ratu Chhati near Ranchi and is a former cadet of Tata Archery Academy in Jamshedpur, has moved to Pune after her marriage to archer Atanu Das. Komalika is a cadet of the elite Tata cradle while Ankita has joined Tata Steel on contract. Deepika, along with her husband and ex-Tata archery cradle cadet Atanu Das, also claimed gold in the  mix recurve event at the World Cup in Paris. She has already qualified for the Tokyo Olympics in the individual round. The ace archer clinched three gold medals, winning every recurve event she was a part of at the World Cup Stage 3 tournament. Deepika also won her second individual women’s recurve World Cup gold of 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-8
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||In Jharkhand, 400 children have lost one or both parents in the pandemic ||At least 400 children of Jharkhand  have been orphaned or have lost one of their parents due to the Covid-19 pandemic, figures compiled by the state legal service authority and the child development department indicate. At a webinar organised on Sunday, Jharkhand Legal Services Authority (Jhalsa) said it had, with the help of  district administrations, helped rehabilitate 208 children, while the state women and child development department said it had identifed 234 of these 400 children and that the process to reach out to them was still on. Sunday's webinar was held to launch Jhalsa's Project Sushi under the aegis of which it had extended rehabilitation benefits to 208 children by way of scholarships and school enrolments. Chief minister Hemant Soren, in his address, said  that while the pandemic had indeed turned many children into orphans, but unfortunately, many children have ended up losing their parents  at a tender age even at other times. Recalling his own experience before the pandemic, he said, “I met an eight-year-old  in Barhet block in my constituency two years back. He had lost both his parents. For a few months, he was being taken care of by his brother and sister-in-law but unfortunately they too died. The child had vast swathes of land, a good house but no one to take care of him, making him highly vulnerable. Eventuality,  I managed to trace his nani (grandmother) with whom he is living now.” Hemant said the state government was working out modalities to provide incentives to those who can  raise orphans properly in their own village and panchayats. “My aim is to completely phase out the orphanage concept. Rather, my dream is to identify widows with, say, one child who can  raise another child (orphan)  of the same village. This will ensure that the child lives in his own native environment. We will provide financial incentives to such foster parents. I have directed the social welfare department to prepare an action plan,” he said. He said the state government was also planning  to constitute women SPOs ( special police officers) to curb trafficking, an inherent risk with such vulnerable children. Project Sishu,  a special campaign initiated by the Jharkhand State Legal Services Authority (Jhalsa), was started at the end of May to trace Covid orphans and work towards their comprehensive rehabilitation in coordination with the state government. It was formally launched on Sunday in the presence of the chief minister and Jharkhand High Court Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan and other dignitaries from the judiciary and state administration. The seminar also discussed a roadmap for the comprehensive care for such children. As a symbolic gesture, four children of Ranchi district — three in Sohanatu and one in Bero _  were linked with various  welfare schemes and provided sponsorships for a period of three years while they live with foster parents. Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh, who is executive chairman of Jhalsa, said so far Jhalsa has managed to provide help to about 208 beneficiaries and that the process for the rest was  underway. “Personally, it was a humbling experience to visit and interact with such children in Gumla and Ranchi... they are eager to study and make a mark for themselves. While the pandemic has rattled the world, it is everyone’s responsibility to work towards such children who are the most vulnerable today,” he said. Hailing the efforts of Jhalsa and the state government, Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan asked the  authorities to be humble while dealing with such children. “I urge officials and all those who are involved in this project to think that they are not extending any help to such children. In fact, work with the feeling that you are giving these children their  due rights. We all have to work for them by being humble towards them,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-8
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand radar on passengers from states that have reported Delta plus variant||RT-PCR test samples of passengers travelling to Jharkhand from states that have reported the Delta plus variant of SARS-CoV-2 virus will be sent for whole genome sequencing within 24 hours if they test positive, the health department has decided in a bid to keep the more infectious strain of the virus at bay. The Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus, which has affected people in at least 12 states, including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, is said to have 60 per cent more transmissibility than the Delta variant and the potential to reduce monoclonal antibody response, which compromises the patient’s ability to respond to some of the medications, health officials said on Sunday. “Such passengers, who come to Jharkhand from the 12 states that have reported prevalence of the Delta plus variant and test positive for Covid-19, will have to mandatorily be hospitalised,” said Dr. Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing. Ranchi has direct air connectivity with cities in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Gujarat – all affected by the Delta plus variant. The new mutated variant of coronavirus was particularly dangerous as it has stronger binding capacity to receptors of cells in the lungs, which may lead to fibrosis and premature deaths even in young and healthy people, officials said. Besides strengthening the screening process for passengers coming to the state from Delta plus-affected states, the Jharkhand government has also intensified the process of sending samples of Covid patients for whole genome sequencing to Institute of Life Sciences (ILS) in Bhubaneswar. The health department recently asked the civil surgeons of all the 24 districts to ensure at least 300 swab samples were sent to Bhubaneswar for genome sequencing every month. As per the directive, each of the 10 sentinel sites for collection of Covid samples will have to send 15 samples every fortnight to Bhubaneswar for genome sequencing – a practice that is likely to help in identification of mutated strains of coronavirus. Genome sequencing of samples collected from April 1 to June 9 showed that the Delta variant of coronavirus was most prevalent in five districts of Jharkhand – Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Hazaribag, Palamu and Dhanbad. At least 204 of the 364 samples sent for genome sequencing were found to be affected by the Delta variant. The only way to prevent the entry of the Delta plus variant in the state was to follow Covid appropriate behaviour and speed up the process of genome sequencing, health officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-8
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Monsoon weakens over Jharkhand||The southwest monsoon has become weak over Jharkhand and this will result in subdued rainfall activity across Jharkhand in the next five days at least, said IMD officials on Sunday. Statistics revealed that only a few IMD observatories recorded rainfall during the past 24 hours. Only a few places in Palamau and Ranchi districts including Manatu and Mandar recorded moderate rain while as many as half-a-dozen IMD observatories recorded light rain below 10 mm during the last 24 hours. Head of Ranchi Met Centre  Abhishek Anand said, "Monsoon currents have become weak. Jharkhand would witness reduced rainfall activity in the next five days." The Ranchi Met Centre, however, issued an alert of lightning and thundershowers in isolated pockets of the state during the next 72 hours due to formation of local cumulonimbus clouds. Sunday's satellite pictures suggested a trough at mean sea level from northwest Uttar Pradesh to northwest Bay of Bengal across East Uttar Pradesh, southern Jharkhand and northern Odisha. A cyclonic circulation was also hovering over neighbouring north Chhattisgarh extending upto 3.1 Km above mean sea level. The Met office forecast says that heavy showers are expected again from July 3 because of the revival of monsoon trough. Meanwhile, so far Jharkhand has actually received 266 mm of rain against a normal of 167.6mm, a surplus of 59 per cent. Weathermen said the rain surplus figure would witness a fall due to reduced rainfall activity in the next few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-8
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Twin ponds of Tata Steel township to undergo extensive desiltation after decades||The two ponds C1 and C2 at the township of Indian Steel and Wire Products (ISWP), a Tata Steel subsidiary near Telco will undergo massive desiltation work supposedly being carried out after about five decades. The desiltation work has already begun at the two ponds - C1 pond covering an area of 18,300 sq mt  (square meter) and C2 pond covering an area of 29, 300 sq mt. ISWP, a leading steel and wire products manufacturer of the country, has roped in a Chennai based firm for executing the desiltation as well as beautification work of the twin ponds. Officials of the company supervising the project said the desiltation -cum-beautification work is expected to take two months time. "About 14,000 tonnes of silt have been taken out from the C2 pond," said an official deputed at the project site to oversee the desiltation work adding that the process of clearing silt from the C1 pond, located close to the newly built Naval Tata Hockey Academy will begin soon. Regarding the beautification work, the official said a children’s park with swings and other facilities of entertainment would come up at one corner of the C2 pond, which is bigger in area. Moreover, they have plans of installing sprinklers and fountains at the C2 pond. As part of the beautification of both ponds, they will have sitting arrangements for visitors, landscaping and proper barricading for safety. The silt taken out from the ponds would be used for gardening and other related activities. Local residents used the ponds to dump garbage and other waste apart from immersion of idols. Several cases of suicides have also been reported in the past in both the ponds, the maximum being at the C2 pond. "We appeal to the local people of the township not to dirty the ponds once the desiltation work gets completed. We need their co-operation in proper upkeep of the twin ponds, "said a company official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-8
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dhaba owner shot dead by assailants in Steel city||Unidentified criminals shot dead a 40-year-old dhaba owner at Hasadungri under Kapali thana out post area about five kms away from the heart of the steel city on Saturday night. The victim, Shamim Ahmed, used to run a dhaba at Kamargora was returning home in Kapali after closing the eatery around 10 pm when the incident took place. An auto-rickshaw driver, Mohammed Tanvir, found him lying in a pool of blood. Soon along with some other local residents he rushed the victim to Bramhanand Narayan Super Speciality Hospital in Tamulia. But as the condition of the victim was extremely critical, the doctors of the hospital referred him to Tata Main Hospital, about a 20 minutes drive. At the Tata Main Hospital emergency, he was declared dead. Ahmed was also a key functionary of Jharkhand Pool Cars Association who had been shot in his temple from close range. OC, Kapali TOP, Binod Singh had rushed to the scene and subsequently to Tata Main Hospital in the night for investigation of the murder. Singh had gone to the spot and to the victim's house on Sunday morning to know if the victim had enmity with anyone. Family members have told the police that Ahmed had no enmity with anyone, but recently he had scolded a local youth, Chhotelal, after an inverter went missing from the dhaba. "As of now, we have got no clue why the criminals shot him. We are trying to detect the case by interrogating the suspects," said the Kapali TOP OC to The Telegraph Online. The police are also looking into the loot angle behind the murder as Hasadungri located on Dobo-Kanderbera Road connecting Sonari through the Domuhani Bridge is a crime-prone area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-8
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town rifle shooter sees hope, thanks to friends and actor Sonu Sood ||Dhanbad based award winning woman rifle shooter Konika Layak has procured a German made 10 meter rifle with financial support of the local community and actor Sonu Sood. Konika, 26, daughter of a small time trader and house maker, while expressing happiness after receiving the rifle said, “I received help of around Rs 1.8 lakh through the local community of Dhanbad at the initiative of some social organisations last year itself out of which Rs 51,000 each was provided by Jharia based trader Sumeet Khaitan and an NRI Prakash Kumar.” “A shortage of around Rs 45,000 was still there after the local community helped and I am thankful to Sonu Sood sir who provided this remaining amount which helped me procure the rifle for starting my practice,” said Konika. Dhanbad based social worker Ankit Rajgarhia who tweeted to Sonu during during March this year highlighting problems faced by Konika said, “I am happy because Sonu Sood sir has also assured me to bear the cost of her training at Joydeep Karmakar Shooting academy at Calcutta after the improvement in Covid situation.” Giving details of her shooting journey, Layak said, “I was always inclined towards the defence service since my school days and joined NCC team of BSS Women’s College in 2013 and during the stint with NCC team started learning rifle shooting. “I started participating in open rifle shooting competitions in 2014 and since 2016 started participating in national level events representing the Jharkhand team at senior level,” said Konika. “In 2017 national senior rifle shooting championship I won maximum points (404 points) among all players of Jharkhand and also took part for trials of senior national team twice during2018 but could not make into the team due to lack of practice owing to deficiency of rifle,” said Konika and added that they carry out practice at IIT-ISM on every Sunday but due to Covid constraint practice is lying suspended April thus carry out the practice at home itself. “Though mine is the 10 meter rifle, I also take the help of our coach, Rajendra Singh Vidhi who has a 50 meter rifle during the practice at IIT-ISM,” said Layak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-8
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports first single-day spike of less than 100 Covid cases in second wave||Jharkhand reported a single-day spike of less than 100 Covid cases on Saturday for the first time since the second wave of the pandemic hit the tribal state earlier this year, figures released by the state health department highlighted. However, the state reported three more Covid casualties on the day, which took the Covid toll to 5,110, a bulletin from the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per the NHM bulletin, as many as 98 fresh cases of Coronavirus infection surfaced in Jharkhand on Saturday, while at least 166 Covid patients recovered from the infection, bringing the active caseload in the state down to 1,113. East Singhbhum, Khunti and Bokaro reported one Covid casualty each on the day. While none of the 24 districts in the state reported a spike of more than 20 cases, at least six districts – Chatra, Godda, Pakur, Palamu, Saraikela and West Singhbhum – did not report fresh cases of Covid-18 on the day, the NHM highlighted in its daily Covid-19 bulletin. Ranchi reported the highest spike of 18 cases on Saturday, and the active caseload in the district rose slightly as only nine Covid patients recovered. At least 352 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi by the end of Saturday. Simdega reported the second-highest spike of 12 cases, but 13 recoveries brought the active caseload there down to 88. As many as seven people were found infected in East Singhbhum, and 16 patients recovered there, bringing the active caseload down to 125. One casualty took the toll in the district to 1,036. Dhanbad reported seven cases against 11 recoveries, while eight people were found infected in Chatra and 12 patients recovered there. Deoghar also reported seven fresh cases against two recoveries on the day, while four people were found infected in Hazaribag and 15 patients recovered there. The state on Saturday tested swab samples of 52,645 residents and 0.18 per cent of them were found infected. As per government data, over 3.45 lakh people have been infected by coronavirus in the state and 98.19 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.48 per cent of the patients could not survive. The growth rate of cases in the state remained 0.03 per cent on the day against the national average of 0.12 per cent, while the doubling rate jumped to 2337.24 days against the national average of 588.27 days. The state on Saturday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 114343 residents and almost 94,000 of them were younger than 45 years, a separate report from the NHM stated. The second jab was administered to 16,970 beneficiaries on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-8
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Land pact for cricket stadium with Bokaro Steel Plant||The Jharkhand State Cricket Association has signed an agreement with Bokaro Steel Plant, a unit of Steel Authority of India Ltd, for transfer of land to construct an international cricket stadium on the outskirts of Bokaro. The JSCA, which is affiliated to the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), plans to construct the stadium in the next four years, in the process becoming the first cricket body in the eastern region to have three cricket stadiums. Jharkhand already has a 45,000-capacity international cricket stadium at Ranchi and the 19,000-capacity Keenan Stadium in Jamshedpur (owned by Tata Steel), which has also hosted one-day internationals. “The stadium will boast of international standards with a sitting capacity of 25,000. We hope to complete the construction work in three-four years,” said JSCA secretary Sanjay Sahay. On Friday, the JSCA entered into a lease agreement with SAIL-BSL for transfer of land to construct the stadium at Balidih, around 10km from Bokaro city near National Highway 23 and 5km from Bokaro railway station. “The agreement entails transfer of 20.17 acres of land by SAIL-BSL to the JSCA at Bokaro on long-term lease initially for 33 years, with the provision for further renewals as per the SAIL board-approved guidelines and other necessary approvals. The said land is located in the erstwhile mouza Narkara to the south of NH 23 and southwest of existing Visthapit College,” said a BSL spokesperson. The lease agreement was signed in the presence of SAIL-BSL director in-charge Amarendu Prakash, former BCCI secretary and former ICC director Amitabh Choudhary, JSCA president Dr Nafis Akhtar, Sahay and others. A request for allotment of land for construction of the cricket stadium in Bokaro was received by SAIL-BSL from the JSCA in January 2018. The proposal was put up for approval before the SAIL board and Union steel ministry. After obtaining necessary approvals and clearances, all other formalities prior to signing the lease agreement were completed by both parties. Prakash termed the signing of the agreement as a proud moment for all. “The proposed international cricket stadium at Bokaro will facilitate grooming of local cricketing talent,” he said. Choudhary told the media that the proposed stadium at Bokaro will be state-of-the-art in terms of facilities and will have a seating capacity of around 25,000. Further activities for construction of the stadium will now be taken up by the JSCA. “Construction of the stadium will start tentatively from July and will be completed in a record time of less than four years as it happened in the case of the JSCA International Stadium in Ranchi,” said Choudhary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-8
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Three mauled to death by bear in Jharkhand||Three persons, including two brothers, were killed in a bear attack at a forest in Jharkhand’s Garhwa district on Friday night. Three more persons, including a woman, were injured by the same bear at Sonbarsa forest near Barkol Khurd village under Tehri panchayat of Bargarh block. The deceased have been identified as Anit Giddh, 38, his brother Sunit, 42, and Raju Minj, 40. Kamlesh Giddh, 35, Chotte Giddh, 25, and Mariam Giddh, 24, are critically injured and undergoing treatment at the Garhwa Sadar Hospital. According to reports, Anit had gone to Barkol village for husking paddy but got stuck because of incessant rain. Around 7.30pm on Friday, he tried to return to his village located in the dense forest, after the rain stopped. However, he was attacked by the bear merely 200 metres from his house. Hearing his screams, brother Sunit ran to rescue him but was also attacked. When their neighbour Raju tried to drive away the animal, he too was attacked and died on the spot. Kamlesh, who was returning home with his wife Manita Lakra and their two kids, was also not spared. Tehri panchayat mukhiya Prabha Kujur expressed resentment at the delay by forest officials in reaching the spot. “We live in forest areas. Last month, a wild bear had injured a villager. On Friday, we had informed the forest officials at around 1am, but they did not arrive at the village till noon,” Kujur said. Garhwa deputy commissioner Rajesh Kumar Pathak said the forest officials had been directed to pay a compensation of Rs 1 lakh each to the families of the deceased according to the norms. Bargarh block development officer Bipin Kumar Bharati gave Rs 5,000 as ex-gratia to the families of the deceased and also assured pension to the families of the victims apart from houses under the Ambedkar Awas Yojana. The bodies were sent for post-mortem to the Sadar Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-9
27-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Sadar Hospital in Ranchi lauded after recovery||Purushottam Kumar from Bihar, a critical Covid-19 patient who was admitted to the Sadar Hospital in Ranchi, Jharkhand, for nearly two months, has been impressed by the facilities offered at the government-run facility after he recovered. “Had I not experienced it myself, I would never have believed that a government facility can offer such excellent treatment to a critical patient,” said 34-year-old Purushottam after being discharged from the hospital on Saturday where he was admitted in the ICU since May 2, a span of 56 days. Purushottam, a resident of Nawada in Bihar, had tested Covid-positive on April 22. “I got myself admitted to a local hospital on April 27 when my fever didn’t subside,” he said. “When my lungs were found to be infected badly and I needed oxygen support, the attending doctor advised me to shift to a better facility,” he said. “I got admitted to a private hospital in Ranchi on April 30 but my oxygen saturation level started dropping. My condition did not improve despite paying around Rs 25,000 per day,” he added. “My relatives then came to know about Dr Ajit Kumar of Sadar Hospital (in Ranchi) and approached him for help,” Purushottam further said. “He was in a bad condition with chest infection and poor oxygen saturation when he came here. He was admitted in the ICU on arrival,” said Dr Kumar, adding that all necessary medicines were provided immediately to the patient. “But still he didn’t improve much and his oxygen saturation level started dropping alarmingly when he was put on non-invasive ventilation,” the doctor further said. The patient was on ventilator for 25 days, often with deteriorating condition when the medical team had to stay beside him till small hours of the day, he added. “However, his condition started improving slowly. He was taken out of ventilator support after 25 days and put on high-flow oxygen support that was also gradually reduced and finally withdrawn,” Dr Kumar said. “I desperately wanted to remain alive as I have two small kids to look after,” Purushottam said, adding that his strong will and the care provided by the doctors and other hospital staff gave him a fresh lease of life. “I would never have believed that a critical patient could get such treatment at a government hospital and also return home after recovery until I experienced it personally,” he further said. “Words would short fall in praising and thanking the doctors and all others who gave me a second life,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-9
