28-06-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren encourages tribals to thrive in businesses||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday emphasised the need to change the mindset of the tribal population to encourage them to become entrepreneurs at the fourth edition of Tribal Development Meet organised by the Jharkhand State Council of the Confederation of Indian Industry. In his address, the chief minister congratulated CII for organising the meet for four years consecutively. According to Soren, since the majority of tribal populace are into agriculture business, there is a need for creating a market for them, eliminating middlemen in order to help them earn more profits. He went on to say that  Jharkhand government is taking special initiatives towards overall growth and development of  tribal community such as single window system for ease of doing business, special focus on agri farming, cage fish farming,  development of tourists spots and also trying to attract manufacturing companies (especially that of sports equipments as Jharkhand is endowed with talented sports personalities) to set up their industry in the state especially to generate employment opportunities. Addressing the virtual tribal meet, Chanakya Chaudhary, chairman, CII Jharkhand State Council and vice- president (Corporate Services), Tata Steel said tribal community in the Indian Constitution is known as scheduled tribe (ST) and it accounts for 8.6 percent of the total population of the country as per 2011 census. "Jharkhand holds the sixth position among all states in terms of Scheduled Tribe (ST) population. Tribes by nature are rich in culture and resources and they have strong community bonding. Youth of tribal communities are a pool of mixed talents which needs to be harnessed for creating a strong workforce. CII and industries of Jharkhand are committed to the development of the tribal community," he said. Sanjay Sabherwal, immediate past chairman, CII Jharkhand State Council and managing director, Metaldyne Industries Ltd during his address said that the tribal’s are facing several serious problems. "The major among these is their poor economic condition. As they have no regular source of earning, most tribals live below the poverty line. They do not have adequate finance to start their own small ventures. While development processes are making inroads in terms of localization of industries apart from mining and quarrying, agri and tourism sector should be the focus areas," he pointed out. The meet was also addressed by Baidyanath Mandi, state president, Tribal Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry,  N L Vhatte, CEO and whole time director, ESL Steel Limited,  Amarendu Prakash, director in - charge, SAIL- Bokaro Steel Plant,  Jiren Xavier Toppo, head - Tribal Culture, Tata Steel Limited and several other tribal experts. The Tribal Development Meet elaborately deliberated on challenges and opportunities for the economic development of the tribal society and their success stories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-7
28-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town traders asked to vacate shops for civic polls||More than 150 food grain wholesalers and fruit traders of Dhanbad operating from Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) market complex at Barwaddah are apprehending huge losses after the district administration served notices to 21 shop keepers to establish strong room to keep ballot boxes for the upcoming civic elections. The shopkeepers under the banner of Dhanbad Jila Khadyann Vyavasi Sangh are planning to meet Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh in a day or two apprising him about their concern of huge losses due to the sealing of the market complex as it happened during the last assembly election of 2019. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, Vinod Kumar Gupta, President of  Dhanbad Jila Khadyann Vyavasi Sangh said, “Though, the Government Polytechnic College campus at Babudih was used as strong room and counting centre till 2014 assembly and parliamentary elections but since 2019 elections, APMC Market was designated as strong room and counting centre aggravating our difficulties.” ‘Though, our trade was not greatly affected during the Lok Sabha elections of 2019 when the entire market complex was not sealed but only a few number of shops were used as strong room but the difficulties surmounted during the assembly elections of 2019 when the entire market complex remained sealed for more than 15 days completely affecting the trade and causing losses worth several hundred crores,” said Gupta. “As the 21 shop keepers who have been given notices last week have so far not been told by the administration whether the entire market complex will be sealed or only their shop will be used, it is difficult for other traders like us to make necessary preparations to avoid losses,” said another food grain trader Vikash Kandhway. “Last year, we faced double blow in the form of demurrage charges paid to transporters due to abrupt sealing of the market complex as the trucks carrying foodgrains who reached from other parts of country immediately after the sealing of market complex had been kept waiting for 15 days outside the market complex to unload” said another trader requesting anonymity. “We also faced rotting of good grains lying in the market complex due to sealing of the market on short notice during last assembly elections,” said another food grain trader. “We also want to cooperate with the administration and just wanted that the sealing of the entire market complex should be avoided and instead only required shops may be used as a strong room,'' said a wholesale fruit trader operating from APMC Market complex at Barwaddah. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner while interacting with media last week during an inspection of APMC market complex as part of preparations for upcoming civic body elections sympathized with the concerns of the traders but said the election is more important.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-7
28-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town archers highlight plight, seek government help||More than a dozen national and international archers of Dhanbad, who rejoiced at the achievement of state archers Deepaika Kumari, Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat in the world cup stage III at Paris, rued over the lack of facilities for training and equipments in the coal town. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, 23-year-old Sulekha Singh, an international level archer of Mahuda Bazar of Dhanad who represented India in 2013 Archery World Cadet Championship in China said,“We are happy at our state players achievement but at the same time want to draw the attention of the government to the plight of Dhanbad archers.” Sulekha helped the Indian team qualify for the 2014 Youth Olympic. “We don’t even have bows and arrows for practice and consequently I am compelled to carry out training at Dumka Archery Academy as a cadet which is closed since last year due to the pandemic and thus seating idle at home” said Singh whose father owns a road side tea shop in Mahuda. Sulekha also worked at Kasturba Gandhi Balika Mahvidyalaya Govindur as a coach to support the family income in 2016.
Sulekha started her archery career with selection at Tata Feeder Centre at Jamadoba and later got selected for Tata Archery Academy in 2011 where she practiced along with Deepika Kumari. “If I had the facility of any bow for our practice being there I would not have been required to stay at Dumka for training,” she said. Naziya Parween (21) a national level archer of Dhanbad who also represented the state in National archery championship in 2015 and won silver medal for the state said, “Belonging to an extremely poor family background I always struggled for recurve of compound bow for carrying practice and compelled to practice with a broken bow of my own.” Naziya who underwent training at Tata Feeder Centre of Digwadih and was attached with centre till the temporary suspension of training since March 2020 said, “As the centre is closed due covid constraint I am compelled to help my father at his road side show shop as all promises of job by several politicians and other proved hollow.” Md Shamshad, a Dhanbad based archery coach who himself is an award winning player, said, “I trained more than a dozen Dhanbad archers at Tata Feeder Centre at Digwadih stadium since 2009, many of whom represented the state and nation at national and international level competitions but all  of them are deprived of equipments and many talented players are still deprived of job.” “We can’t understand that why an archery academy cannot be set up in Dhanbad which has so many talented archers, while the same can be set up in places like Silli and Dumka besides Ranchi and Jamshedpur,” said Shamshad who is also joint secretary of Dhanbad Archery Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-7
28-06-2021||Jharkhand||To tackle third wave, experts suggest Jharkhand set up 1,000 ICU beds ||A team of experts and doctors formed by the Jharkhand government for advice on ways to tackle a third wave Covid infections has recommended that the state set up at least 1,000 ICU beds and ensure availability of medicines for treatment of flu in children in all medical stores across all 24 districts, officials said on Monday. Following the empowered committee’s recommendation, Dr Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh, who heads the Third Wave Covid Control Room in the state, addressed letters to the civil surgeons of all 24 districts of the state, directing them to hold meetings with hospital representatives and increase the number of ICU beds in private as well as government hospitals. As per the recommendation of the expert committee, 50 per cent of the ICU beds could be set up in private hospitals and the remaining half in government-run healthcare centres. The state is also setting up child-friendly ICUs with cartoons painted on the walls to prepare for the third wave, officials said. The Empowered Committee for Prevention of Third Wave, set up by the Hemant Soren government, comprises over a dozen clinical experts and health department officials. The committee also considered suggestions from Dr Roderico Ofrin, WHO representative to India; Dr Ashok Deorari, HOD Paediatrics, AIIMS Delhi; DR Neelam Mohan, Director of Paediatrics, Medanta and Dr Pardeep B S, HOD Epidemiology, NIMHANS while preparing the roadmap to tackle the pandemic. In accordance with the committee’s recommendations, district civil surgeons have been asked to hold meetings with chemists and druggist associations and ensure surplus availability of medicines that are used particularly for treating fever and viral infection in children. The list of medicines prepared by the expert committee includes paracetamol drops, vitamin C drops, Amoxycillin drops, ranitidine syrups, cough syrups, oral rehydration solution (ORS) and combinations of injections to be administered to patients who show severe symptoms of Covid-19. The expert committee has estimated that around 7 lakh of the 1.43 crore population in the age bracket of 0 to 18 years may get affected by Covid-19 in the third wave. While 2.86 lakh of the patients are estimated to be symptomatic, about 8,610 of them may show severe symptoms  needing intensive care, the committee has predicted on the basis of trends in India and across the world. Even though the Indian Academy of Pediatrics (IAP), a body representing over 32,000 pediatricians across India, has said that 90 per cent of Covid cases among children are asymptomatic, the rising fear of Delta plus variant of the coronavirus and its ability to dodge medicines and vaccines have led to widespread concern. However, Jharkhand may have more time in hand to make arrangements for a third wave, if at all it hits the state. According to experts from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a third wave may occur after six to eight months, giving all states the time to prepare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-7
28-06-2021||Jharkhand||Bike-ambulances for steel city govt health centres||Bike-ambulances will soon be introduced in at least three government-run health hubs in the steel city. The three bike-ambulances had been provided to the district health department by the then Jamshedpur West's legislator Saryu Roy in 2018, meant for carrying patients from a place having unmotorable roads. However, the ambulances were never used until the legislator himself wrote to the district civil surgeon recently. The ambulance has a covered bed and is fitted with a siren. Its most significant feature is it can move through narrow roads which a regular ambulance may face difficulty in maneuvering. Having received Roy's letter on Thursday, the civil surgeon A.K. Lal is getting the bike-ambulances ready and will shortlist the names of the health hubs that will receive them. "We had got three bike-ambulances from MLA fund of the Jamshedpur West legislator Saryu Roy. These vehicles were to get operational under National Urban Health Mission. As there was shortage of manpower, these vehicles lay unutilised. But now we have decided to put them into use at the earliest," said the district civil surgeon to The Telegraph Online. Lal admitted that they were prompted to utilise the bike-ambulances after getting a reminder letter from the legislator recently and have decided to hand one of the vehicles to the Jugsalai Primary Health Center. "We are looking into the options for using the remaining two bike-ambulances to other health hubs soon," said the civil surgeon. Roy, a former BJP leader and presently the Jamshedpur East assembly constituency legislator, said he had recommended the bike-ambulances as there are many congested localities in the steel city where a regular ambulance cannot pass through. "It would have been better if the district health department had started using the bike-ambulances a year ago when the city was reeling under the first wave of the pandemic, "observed the Jamshedpur East legislator while talking to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-7
28-06-2021||Jharkhand||IIT-ISM student launches a farm produce supply start-up ||A final year B. Tech Computer Science Engineering student of IIT-ISM, Sanjeet Kumar, has launched a start-up that provides fresh farm produce at his hometown in Arrah, Bihar. The start-up, Urban Reach, was launched on February 7, 2021 and has over 1500 mobile app downloads. “Difficulties faced by people for daily essentials, including milk, fruits and vegetables during the first lockdown in 2020 and pathetic conditions faced by farmers of spoiling their produce due to lack of outflow sparked off the idea for launching the supply chain,” said Sanjeet. “This apart, the problem faced by almost every family due to job losses during the pandemic also propelled us to launch the business model based on agriculture,” said the 22-year-old whose father K.K. Singh is a private company employee while mother, Indu Devi is an Anganbari sevika. “Our aim is not only serving customers fresh farm produce to earn money, rather empowering farmers with technology as the farmers are using our web portal to update information about their produce on a daily basis,” said Sanjeet who is being helped by his friend, Avinash Kumar, a MCA student of Veer Kunwar Singh University of Arrah, Bihar. “Our work model is based on forecasting, pricing, farmer harvesting and collection centres,” said Kumar. “Based on farmer’s information of their crop and harvesting date we provide weekly indent to them,” said Kumar explaining forecasting and added that farmers get reconfirmation messages about the quantity of produce to be brought a day before distribution. “We decide the sale and purchase price of products after analysing the price data of different markets and generally the farmers get more profit by selling products to us rather than in the open market,” explained Kumar. “After the arrival of goods at our collection centre which generally takes place from 10 am to 2 pm, these are quality checked and weighed in front of farmers to ensure transparency,” said Kumar and added that they have an e-rickshaw and three bikes to supply the produce to the customers. “While the web portal is used to update the information about farmer’s produce, the mobile app helps to get daily information about customer’s demand,” said Kumar. “As we are doing business in higher volume we have reached a break-even position within four months where there is neither loss nor much profit but we are aiming to develop India’s fastest supply chain for fresh produce and will soon move out to other towns of Bihar,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-7
28-06-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi shops offer discounts to those who are vaccinated||Unwilling or hestiant to take the vaccine? Think again, for several shops are offering discounts to those who take the jab in capital Ranchi and possibly,  in days to co come, elsewhere in Jharkhand. On Sunday, the Ranchi district administration tied up with various trade outfits in the capital to announce discounts on purchases made by those wo have taken their Covid-19 vaccine shot in an attempt  to bolster immunisation coverage. The health department has decided to double daily vaccinations by setting a target of 2.5 lakh jabs per day in the wake of fresh concerns centred around the spread of the Delta plus variant in a few states. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan released a list of about 26 shops across sectors to announce a range of discounts residensts can avail  depending on the status of their vaccination. Those who have taken both doses are eligible to for more discounts than those who have taken just one. The discounts for single dose recipients start from one per cent and goes up to 30 per cent across various shops. For second dose recipients, the discount window is between 5 per cent and 45 per cent. Some shops, however, are offering gifts in place of discounts. Shops offering discounts covers wide range of sectors, namely, books, electronic appliances, optical stores, parlours/saloons, garments, cosmetics, etc. Ranjan said, “We are starting it as a joint initiative of the district administration and Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) to encourage people to get vaccinated. It is one of the various measures that the administration is working on to achieve cent per cent coverage against the deadly virus.” Another district administration official added that more shops will be added to the list of those offering discounts in the coming days. “One can’t force shops to offer discounts as business is badly affected due to the pandemic. But we are persuading more shops to work out packages as part of their social responsibility, he said, adding that discounts could also help shops to boost sales. On Sunday, Jharkhand reported a spike of less than 100 Covid cases for the second day in a row, while recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection, bringing the active caseload in the state down to 1,030, according to the health department. As per a National Health Mission (NHM) bulleting, as many as 81 people were found infected by SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday and 163 Covid-19 patients recovered on the day. Only one Covid casualty was reported (Khunti) taking the Covid toll in the state to 5,111 and that in Khunti to 96.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-7
28-06-2021||Jharkhand||State's daily Covid caseload stays below 100 for second consecutive day ||Jharkhand on Sunday reported a spike of less than 100 Covid cases for the second day in a row, while recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection, bringing the active caseload in the state down to 1030, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 81 people were found infected by SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday in Jharkhand and 163 Covid-19 patients recovered on the day. Only one Covid casualty was reported from Khunti on the day, which took the Covid toll in the state to 5111 and that in Khunti to 96, the NHM bulletin further stated. At least three districts – Saraikela, Pakur and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, while none of the remaining 21 districts report a double-digit-spike, the NHM highlighted in its daily bulletin. Hazaribag reported nine cases of infection – the highest in the state. The active caseload in Ranchi, the worst-affected district in terms of caseload and casualties, dropped to 304 on Sunday as the district reported 55 Covid recoveries against seven cases of coronavirus infection. The number of active patients in East Singhbhum dropped to 110 as 22 patients recovered there while eight people were found infected on the day. The state on Sunday tested swab samples of 39,629 residents and 0.2 per cent of them were found infected by the lethal virus. As per government data, over 3.45 lakh people have been infected by coronavirus in the state so far and 98.22 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. The doubling rate of Covid cases in the state further increased to 2479.94 days against the national average of 562.36 days, the bulletin from NHM highlighted. The growth rate of cases in the state was 0.03 per cent against the national growth rate of 0.12 per cent on Sunday. Meanwhile, four fresh cases of suspected mucormycosis surfaced in the state in the past 48 hours, taking the total count of suspected cases to 63, figures with the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) highlighted. As per data with IDSP, the state has reported 84 confirmed cases of the fungal infection and 26 patients have died, while 58 have recovered. Jharkhand on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 98,214 residents, including more than 80,000 beneficiaries in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years, a separate report from NHM stated. The second jab was administered to 16,397 beneficiaries, mostly above the age of 45 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-7
28-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad special educator visits students' homes||Jharia based speech therapist and special educator Akhlaque Ahmad on Sunday visited the houses of four disabled children from his centre on the occasion of the 141st birth anniversary of renowned disability rights activist, Helen Keller and provided them educational kits. Ahmad distributed separate kits meant for differently-abled children and also kits for hearing impaired. He took stock of their health conditions. Ahmad also tipped their parents about the special care to be maintained during their training at home. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, “On the birth anniversary of Helen Keller, American author, political activist and lecturer besides being the disability rights activist, we decided to reach out to those for which she worked for her entire life.” “Her work has had an influence everywhere and in India it has inspired people with deaf blindness that we work with and pushed them to for the sky,” said Ahmad and added that the deaf community was widely impacted as she travelled to more than 25 countries giving motivational speeches. “I first reached the house of Nargis Parveen, 10, a visually challenged girl followed by the visit to the house of a hearing impaired girl Shahin Parveen, 11, and then reached the house of two mentally retarded Arpita Kumari, 16, and visually challenged Md Kaif, 12,” said Ahmad. “Though, we are already providing some periodic tips to our students through online sessions held through the video calling etc but since majority of around 170 students enrolled at our centre belong to extremely poor financial background, it is very difficult to carry out online session and many no not functional smart phones,” said Ahmad. “The kit provided to visually challenged students, Nargis Parveen and Md kaif comprised of Braille strip, Braille slate, some toys,” said Ahmad and added the kit for the mentally retarded children comprised Abacus and other things while the kits for hearing impaired comprised an Alphabet and number chart. Beli Khatoon, mother of Nargis Parween, said, “My husband deserted me a couple of years ago and I somehow eke out the living of my family by making paper packets and had the support of teacher like Ahmad been not there I would not have been able to educate her visually challenged daughter, Nargis Parveen.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-7
