29-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad archery association felicitates two promising archers||The Dhanbad District Archery Association (DDAA) on Tuesday felicitated two promising archers of the district, Mukesh Goswami (23) and Deepa Yadav (20) at the Gandhi Seva Sadan ground here to celebrate Jharkhand archer Deepika Kumari’s achievement in the Paris World Cup. The duo was presented with wristwatches by the association’s president Bijay Kumar Jha and was later treated to a cake-cutting ceremony in presence of senior officials. Deepa Yadav, the daughter of a daily wage earner, who won a bronze medal for the state in the 2019 National Games representing the state said, “The achievement of the Indian archery team comprising Deepika Kumari has boosted the confidence of every player of the state, including several players of Dhanbad. We request the government to develop facilities here like Ranchi and Jamshedpur” Echoing sentiments, Mukesh Kumar Goswami who remained the best archer of the state from 2016 to 2019 and emerged as the highest point securing archers for the state in the Khelo India games of 2020 said, “Despite all achievements we are facing difficulties in procuring essentials for leading a respectable life and I am still struggling for a job.” Talking to The Telegraph Online today after the felicitation, Jha said, “While we rejoiced the achievement of our state players in Paris we also expressed confidence that the Indian team will continue the streak at the Tokyo Olympics.” “The two players who were felicitated today are also in no way less talented than anyone and given the opportunity they can also win medals for the country in the Olympics,” said Jha. He however lamented that Dhanbad, despite the presence of such a large number of talented archers, is still deprived of an Archery Academy. General Secretary of the Dhanbad District  Archery Association, Jubair Alam, told The Telegraph Online,  “Many areas of the district including, Tundi, Topchanchi, Purbi, Tundi, Baliapur, Rajganj, Nirsa, Egarkund, Kaliasol, Pradhankhanta and Kalubathan are tribal areas and endowed with the huge sporting talent pool and given the opportunity they can excel in the sports.” “Unfortunately the sports infrastructure in the district has always been neglected as neither any day boarding centre nor any academy is situated here,” said Alam. He added, “I will soon meet sports minister Hazi Hafijul Ansari to demand the establishment of a full-fledged archery academy in Dhanbad so that the players  do not face any issues of space and equipment while training.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-6
29-06-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro Steel officer’s car vandalised by plant workers||An officer of the Bokaro Steel Plant was on Tuesday attacked by the workers of the plant, who also vandalised his car when he got into it in an attempt to escape. The officer, a deputy manager at the Water Treatment Plant in BSL, did not sustain injuries. The incident that occurred a day ahead of a workers’ strike at Gol Chakkar in front of the office of the executive director (works) has agitated the Bokaro Steel Officers Association. The workers have scheduled a protest on June 30 demanding pay revision and other benefits. Reacting over the incident, Bokaro Steel Officers Association president AK Sinha said, “The incident occurred when officers on duty were moving from one place to another to discharge their official duties. The workers staging demonstration tried to interrupt the movements of the officers. The victim was also stopped intentionally by workers near Gol Chakkar. They insulted him and vandalised his vehicle.” “The agitators became violent without any reason and attacked the officer. They were saying "officer hai isko maro" (he is an officer, beat him up). We really condemn this act and request the  management to inquire the matter and take strict action immediately,” he added. BSL spokesperson Manikant Dhan said, “Tt is an unfortunate incident and law will take its own course. Management on its part is also enquiring into the incident,” The matter has been informed to director in-charge at BSL, Amarendu Prakash, and other senior officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-6
29-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to hike NPS share to 14% effective July 1  ||Jharkhand has decided to increase its contribution to the National Pension System (saving) for its employees to 14 per cent from the existing 10 per cent of basic salary to make retirement income more attractive for its workforce. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who chaired a cabinet meeting on Tuesday, agreed to the plan to start the enhanced contributions with effect from July 1, 2021. The state government is estimated to incur an additional expense of Rs 322 crore on account of this move that will benefit around 5 lakh employees. In another significant decision, the state cabinet announced the setting up of a corpus titled, Jharkhand Rajya Fassal Chatipurti Yojana, earmarking  Rs 25 crore to begin with for distribution as compensation to farmers in the event of crop losses. A total of eight decisions were cleared by the cabinet at Tuesday's meeting. Vandana Dadel, cabinet coordination secretary who briefed reporters, said that the Union government had increased its share to 14 per cent in NPS accounts of its employees in July, 2019. “In the light of that, the state government has also decided to increase its share to 14 per cent, a hike of 4 per cent. The state exchequer will have to bear an additional fiscal burden of Rs 322 for this. Contributions will be hiked with effect from July 1, 2021,” she said. On the fund for crop damages, Dadel said the proposal was tabled by the state agriculture department to provide a financial cushion in the form of quick compensation to farmers in the event of crop losses. “The compensation will be paid from the interest accrued on the corpus (Rs 25 crore),” he said. The cabinet also passed rules and regulations for the conservation and uplift of religious places for tribals like sarna sthals, jaherthans among others. “Following proper rules in place, sites of religious importance of tribals can now be safeguarded, conserved and beautified in a planned manner with a maximum investment of up to Rs 5 crore per site. For works above Rs 25 lakh, tenders have to be floated,” she said. Among the other cabinet decisions were amendments in eligibility for getting jobs under compensatory grounds, compulsory voluntary retirement for a forest range officer of Pakur on disciplinary grounds and a nod for rules for e-filing of cases at courts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-6
29-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports zero Covid casualties  ||Jharkhand reported zero Covid casualties on Monday, while at least seven districts – Ramgarh, Pakur, Koderma, Khunti, Jamtara, Dumka and Deoghar – did not report fresh cases of the Coronavirus infection as less than 100 people were found Covid positive for the third day in a row in Jharkhand. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 90 people were found infected by the Coronavirus in the state on Monday, while 115 Covid patients recovered from the infection on the day, bringing the active caseload in Jharkhand down to 1,005. East Singhbhum reported 19 cases of Covid-19, the highest among the 24 districts in the state. At least 20 recoveries brought the active caseload in the district down to 109. Gumla reported 10 cases against 14 recoveries, while six people were found infected in Hazaribag and 10 patients recovered there. Ranchi, which accounts for the highest number of Covid cases in Jharkhand, reported only two cases against 12 Covid recoveries on the day, and the active caseload here dropped to 294, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Bokaro reported nine cases against seven recoveries, while Simdega reported seven cases against 14 recoveries. The state on Monday tested swab samples of 56,088 residents and around 0.16 per cent of them were found infected by the lethal virus. As per government data, more than 3.45 lakh people have been affected by Covid-19 in the state so far and 98.22 per cent of them have recovered. With 5111 casualties, the Covid mortality rate in the state was 1.47 per cent against the national average of 1.30 per cent. As per NHM data, the growth rate of Covid cases in the state was 0.03 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.12 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state reached 2556.40 days against the national doubling rate of 584.63 days. Jharkhand on Monday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 71,899 residents and more than 58,000 of the beneficiaries fell in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years, a separate report from NHM stated. The second dose was administered to 15,460 beneficiaries, including over 10,000 in the age bracket of 45 years to 60 years. No fresh case of Covid-induced mucormycosis surfaced in Jharkhand on Monday. As per data with the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), as many as 84 confirmed and 63 suspected cases of fungal infection have been reported in the state so far. At least 26 people have died of mucormycosis and 58 patients have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-6
29-06-2021||Jharkhand||Ex-mentor expects Deepika Kumari to win big in Tokyo Olympics||Deepika Kumari, who on Monday reclaimed the world number one archery ranking, may well win the elusive medal at the Olympic Games starting in Tokyo on July 23, feels her former mentor at the Tata Archery Academy. Her current form is what is making Dharmendra Tiwary optimistic about a silverware this time. “I think this is an opportunity she (Deepika) has to cash in. She is in peak form and I am sure the rhythm will continue in Tokyo. You can say it’s a now or never situation for Deepika when it comes to ending the Olympics medal drought,” Tiwary said. The 27-year-old Deepika’s hattrick of gold medals (individual, team and mixed event) in the recurve division at the just concluded World Cup Stage 3 in Paris, helped her reclaim the world number one ranking. She was the world number one too in 2012, the year London hosted the Summer Games. Padma Shri awardee Deepika lives with her husband and Olympian archer Atanu Das in Pune. She hails from Rattu Chatti near Ranchi. Tiwary, a Dronacharya awardee who has produced top-bracket archers for the country said that the ace archer will have to be mentally strong in pressure situations during the Games. "The pressure in Olympics is nothing like any other international archery competitions. Deepika will have to compete with top archers. So, mental strength holds the key in such situations,” Tiwary pointed out. Deepika is the only woman archer from India to have qualified for Olympics individual round. She has represented India in the 2012 and 2016 Olympic Games in London and Rio de Janeiro, respectively. Pravin Jadhav, Tarundeep Rai and Atanu Das will be representing India’s men’s team at the Tokyo Olympics. Tiwary is well aware about the importance of mental strength when it comes to Deepika. The seasoned coach had helped the gold-medalist overcome bouts of nervousness in run-up to the 2016 Rio Olympics. He put Deepika into swimming three days a week and an equal number of days at the gym. Running was a daily feature during early mornings. Moreover, Tiwary also asked her to do yoga regularly. Yoga can be beneficial because it helps one gain composure. "Deepika had lost the gold to Jharkhandmate Laxmi Rani Majhi at the National Ranking Archery Tournament finals in Shillong in 2016 because of her nervousness.  She did her exercises and her pulse rate came down to 57 per minute (from 66 per minute). It took some time for the recurve archer to overcome her bouts of nervousness," the veternan coach said. Tiwary, who was one of the coaches of the Indian team at the Rio Olympics, advised Deepika to shed hesitation during the competition. “She (Deepika) should first get an idea of the weather and wind condition in Tokyo, remain collected and composed and not hesitate during the competition,” he signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-6
29-06-2021||Jharkhand||Youth shot dead at Jamshedpur in broad daylight, accused absconding||A 22-year-old was shot dead by one of his acquaintances under Ulidih thana area in Mango on Tuesday morning following an altercation between the victim and the convict. The victim identified as Arpit Kashyap was talking to his acquaintance David over something and following the altercation, the latter fished out a pistol from his waist and fired at the former. Having shot at Arpit, the assailant fled the spot on foot. The bullet hit the victim's lower abdomen, causing him to fall down. A friend of Arpit who was around the place picked him up and rushed to the MGM Medical College Hospital where he  succumbed to the injuries within an hour. The incident took place at the turning of Road No 5 in Subhash Colony under Ulidih Police Station area at around 11.30 am. Getting the information about the gun-shot attack, Ulidih thana OC, Meghnath Mandal rushed to the spot and subsequently to the medical college hospital for probing the murder. "A youth was shot at and fatally injured by one of his acquaintances in Subhash Colony on Tuesday morning. From the preliminary investigation, it has been found that the assailant is David, who is a resident of Road No 5 in Subhash Colony, " said Mandal while talking to The Telegraph Online. The Ulidih thana OC said they had raided the house of David, but he had absconded. "We are grilling the victim's friend Vikash Kumar Singh who was present a little distance away from the spot where the shooting took place. It was Vikash who had rushed the victim to the hospital. But we are yet to find out the reason behind the murder, " said the OC. A resident of Kalika Nagar in Mango, Arpit used to work at an industrial unit in Dhanbad. But he was at home here after the lockdown was announced in April. According to sources familiar with the victim, both Arpit and Vikash were seen roaming around Kalika Nagar and adjoining Subhash Colony since 9.30 am today.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-6
29-06-2021||Jharkhand||BCCL notice to vacate market irks traders of Kendua-Karkend area||A public notice served by Goapalichak colliery management of BCCL to residents of localities of the underground fire-affected Kendua- Karkend area has irked over 125 wholesale garment traders there. The notice, directing to vacate the area in view of subsidence threat, was served to residents of Farm Dhura, Bauri Basti, Gopalichak Basti and especially the Karkend Bazar. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Tuesday, Umesh Heliwal, former president of Dhanbad Dhanbad Jila Thok Vastra Vikreta Sangh said, “The wholesale cloth market operating  from Karkend since over 150 years is the destination retail garment sellers of Dhanbad as well as adjoining districts like Giridih, Bokaro, Hazaribagh, Ramgarh etc.” “Such an abrupt action from the BCCL authorities at a time when the trading community is in deep crisis due to reduced sales reminds of the colonial mindset,” said Heliwal. “More than 125 wholesale garment traders who cater to the needs of retailers of 200 km radius generate huge revenue to the government in the form of GST and any shifting of the market will adversely affect the revenue itself,” said Heliwal, who is also the secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association. “While we are being given abrupt notices to vacate the area, the reckless mining being carried out by the company has on the other hand adversely affected the health of common people due to the pollution caused due to open cast mining,” further said Heliwal. “If areas like Karkend Bazar which are just situated on National Highway 32 are evacuated then what about other places. We don’t understand the dichotomy as on one hand the highway was broadened last year while the market situated in its vicinity has been declared unsafe,”  said another wholesale garment trader of Karkend Bazar requesting anonymity. Notably,  a similar public notice was issued by BCCL on August 12, 2020, during which the residents of Karkend Bazar, Pasidhaura, Bauri Tola, etc. were asked to vacate the area  due to increased subsidence threat during the monsoon. Contacted, General Manager (Safety) of BCCL, AK Singh said that the notices are often issued by different operational area management of the company as part of routine exercise to apprise the resident of risks of living in such areas but these are specific. “All areas of BCCL are also prepared for carrying out any temporary rehabilitation in view of any eventuality,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-6
29-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand asks Centre to lower vaccine quota for private hospitals to 5%||The Jharkhand government has requested the Centre to cut down on the quota of Covid-19 vaccines for private players from 25 per cent to 5 per cent, citing lack of private healthcare facilities in rural areas and a high BPL population in the state with limited purchasing power, health officials said on Tuesday. In a letter addressed to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, additional chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh stated that private hospitals were unable to utilise the 25 per cent quota of vaccines fixed for them and the government will be in a better position to use the vaccines if the quota of free vaccines provided to the state is increased to 95 per cent for Jharkhand. As per details shared by the health department, private hospitals have not even administered 2 per cent of the over 67 lakh jabs used in the state so far. In its request to the Centre, the Jharkhand government has stated that around 37 per cent of the 3.29 crore population in the state was BPL, while 13 districts were tribal districts and 19 districts were affected by Left Wing Extremism (LWE). Besides, more than 75 per cent of the state’s population live in the rural areas. These factors, according to the state government, made it difficult for private hospitals to utilise the 25 per cent share of vaccines given to them. “At least 95 per cent vaccines for the state of Jharkhand should be allocated from the government route to enable equitable distribution of vaccines. This would also ensure adherence to the constitutional mandate of equity, equality and reasonable opportunity for all citizens,” Singh’s letter to Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan stated. Before making this request to the Centre, health officials in the state met representatives of private hospitals to coonsult them on the response to the ongoing vaccination programme. Most private players did not show interest in purchasing Covid vaccines. Only three private hospitals have purchased Covid-19 vaccines in the state so far and found it challenging to utilise the doses, officials said. The Narendra Modi-led Centre started providing free vaccines for all adults from June 21 to states, but reserved 25 per cent of the total vaccine doses for purchase by private hospitals. As per the price set by the government, a Covishield dose in a private hospital is administered for Rs780, while beneficiaries have to shell out Rs 1,410 for a single jab of Covaxin. According to officials spearheading the immunisation programme in Jharkhand, a majority of the rural population, or people living in urban slums, cannot afford vaccination in private setups – one of the reasons for the poor vaccination rate in private healthcare facilities across the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-6
29-06-2021||Jharkhand||After revamp, Hemant promises a far better Tribal Advisory Council||Chief minister Hemant Soren chaired his government’s first meeting of the Tribal Advisory Council (TAC) on Monday amid a boycott by Opposition MLAs who called its composition "unconstitutional" as the state's governor wasn't a part of it. The council, mandated under the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution, is a significant step forward for Jharkhand in planning welfare and development schemes for adivasis. On June 22, the state government reconstituted the TAC with the chief minister as  honorary chairman and the state tribal affairs minister as the honorary deputy chairperson. Fifteen MLAs, including three from the Opposition BJP, are also a part of TAC, besides two nominated experts from the  ST and SC community. Addressing a virtual meeting in the evening, Hemant  said that for the first time since the formation of Jharkhand in 2000, proper rules and regulations had been framed while  reconstituting TAC. “Our government intends to strengthen TAC by using its recommendations and prescribed frameworks to chart out state’s development. About 27 per cent of the state's population is  tribal and our focus is on their social and economical inclusion in mainstream society,” he said, stressing  the need to provide special focus on education and health for tribals. “Adivasis need special push and assistance in these two sectors to tackle the concerns of diminishing population and to set them on the  road to development. Plans and schemes for tribals should be in sync with today’s time and needs to help them get the right education and livelihoods. Now that TAC is in place, the government will ensure that this body remains functional. From the next meeting, all members will collectively work towards devising plans and policies to push for growth in tribal areas,” he said. Vice-chairman of TAC Champai Soren maintained that although there are a host of laws and welfare schemes to safeguard tribals, but a lack of awareness and improper execution on  ground often lead to the failure of the measures intended for them. “Based on regular feedback from all the members, we will aim to make plans and policies intended for tribals work in their favour,” he said. All three BJP members of TAC _ MLAs Babulal Marandi (Dhanwar), Neelkant Singh Munda (Khunti) and Koche Munda (Torpa) _  boycotted Monday's meeting. Explaining the reasons behind thier move, Marandi, the state’s first tribal chief minister and BJP leader of its legislature party, said, “We  are calling it  unconstitutional because the  powers of the  governor have been bypassed and diluted in its (TAC) formation. This is unprecedented. The governor is the constitutional guardian of scheduled areas.” “Also, the head of the TAC should be from the ST community not the CM as it defeats the entire purpose of this body, which is solely for working out a roadmap for schemes and projects for tribal development. There is no representation of women and particularly vulnerable tribal groups (PVTGs). BJP will continue to boycott TAC till it is rectified," he said adding that the party had, earlier in July,  submitted a memorandum to the governor demanding changes in TAC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-6
29-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Inter-state vehicle lifting gang arrested by Hazaribagh-Koderma police||Hazaribagh/Medininagar: In a joint operation by the Hazaribagh and Koderma police, an inter-state vehicle lifting gang has been busted and 12 people have been arrested for their alleged involvement in the crime, police said on Monday. Ten four-wheelers have also been seized, they said. Hazaribagh Superintendent of Police Karthik S. said the district police carried out the joint action with their Koderma counterpart based on a tip-off that an inter-state vehicle lifting gang was operating on NH 2, NH 33, and NH 31. Rakesh Kumar Pandey alias Sourav Kumar Pandey of Koderma, the alleged mastermind of the racket, was among those arrested, the police officer said. Pandey allegedly used to sell the stolen vehicles outside Jharkhand either in Nepal or Bihar, the Hazaribagh SP said. During interrogation before the Koderma superintendent of police Ehtesham Waquarib, Pandey has confessed to his crime, the police officer said. In a separate incident in Palamu district, the police arrested four miscreants and recovered arms and ammunition from them. The law enforcers have also recovered an unidentified body from a barrage on the Koel River under the North Koel Reservoir project. (PTI) Dhanbad: Two six-year-old twin children, Lav and Kush, sons of Rohit Singh, a farmer of Shitalpur village of Maniadih locality of Tundi block about 40 km from Dhanbad district headquarter died due to drowning on Monday morning in a village pond. The incident came to light on Monday evening when Rohit Singh returned to his house after sowing seeds in the field and asked about the whereabouts of his sons but his wife on the other hand enquired about the duo from him and said that duo followed him while he was going to his farmland during the morning.  Rohit along with other villagers then started searching for the duo and one of villagers sighted the leg of one of the missing children in a nearby pond. The villagers then fished out the dead bodies of the duo from the pond. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: A video, of officer-in-charge of Alakdiha police station Ravindra Sharma, receiving money from a person went viral on the social media. The video seems to have purportedly been circulated to portray that Sharma was taking money as a bribe however the audio was not very clear and thus it remained unclear that for what purpose the money was taken. Ravindra Sharma on the other hand denied any bribe taking and said that he doesn't that how and when the video was made. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: Cash worth Rs 2 lakh was robbed from the cash counter of a petrol pump of Katras during the early hours of Monday at around 3am by six unidentified criminals who also damaged the CCTV camera of the petrol pump and took away the DBR. Staff members Anand Mahto and Dayanand Mahto told police that two persons arrived at around 3 am in a car and knocked at the door of office claiming that as their father is ill they need two litres of petrol to rush him to hospital through car. As soon as they opened the gate, the duo attacked them with a dagger and four more youths joined them. The criminals then took away Rs 2 lakh cash and fled the site. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-6
